The ICA Group ’s Annual Report 2010 appendix GRI Report GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 2 Standard Disclosures Table of content p. 3 Statement by CEO Kenneth p. 11 Corporate Responsibility p. 38 Social Performance (LA): Bengtsson Awards 2010 We develop with our employees p. 3 Organizational Profile (2.1–2.10): p. 12 Report Parameters (3.1–3.13): p. 42 Social Performance (HR): This is the ICA Group About the ICA Group’s CorpoGlobal trade and human rights rate Responsibility Report p. 4 Strategy and Analysis ( 1.1–1.2): p. 45 Social Performance (SO): The ICA Group’s corporate p. 15 Economic Performance (EC): The ICA Group – part of the responsibility goals Engagement and investments community – creating value in society p. 5 Governance, Commitments, p. 47 The GRI Index with and Engagement (4.1–4.17): p. 20 Environmental Performance (EN): Global Compact principles ICA’s Good Business Environment and climate change – critical to our future p. 49 Auditor’s review report p. 8 Cooperation partners and stakeholder dialogues p. 28 Social Performance (PR): How we take responsibility for a sustainable product range How we report our corporate We will continue to refine the report in line with the GRI’s guidelines, ICA’s Good Business philosophy and the UN’s Global Comresponsibility work pact. The ICA Group’s GRI Report 2010 has been speed checked The GRI Report follows the latest version of the Global Reporting and Confirmed by a third party and complies with level B+ accordInitiative’s (GRI) G3 guidelines, covers all significant principles in ing to GRI. the UN’s Global Compact and describes corporate responsibility Contact: Kerstin Lindvall, SVP Corporate Responsibility, issues of interest to our stakeholders. ICA Sweden AB Reading our GRI Report Which Global Compact prinResult indicator Reporting level ciple the content follows Each performance indicator begins with the following symbols, which describe what the indicator means, the level to which we report it and whether the content EC2 reported Global Compact 7 also follows one of the Global Compact principles. Fully reported Partially reported GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 3 Standard Disclosures ”Responsibility is central to everything we do” “Serving as a driving force in society’s sustainable development is a linchpin in our business model. This is why we have translated our values into seven position statements we call “ICA’s Good Business.” These position statements describe how we work, and everyone who works with ICA is expected to know and follow the guidelines. ICA’s Good Business also encompasses the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which ICA has signed. ICA also supports the Global Compact’s “Caring for ” Climate” initiative. For us, the equation is simple. If we do not take responsibility today, we will only hurt ourselves as a business tomorrow. Minimizing our environmental impact, primarily by reducing energy consumption in stores, has therefore been a high priority If we do not take for many years. An exciting example of how far we have come is ICA Kvantum Sannegården in Gothenburg, the first store we have built entirely based on our guideresponsibility today, lines on maximizing energy efficiency while not sacrificing customer experience. It is we will only hurt oura store of the future that will serve as a model for all new stores.” selves as a business Read the President’s statement in its entirety on page 2-5 in the ICA Group’s Annual Report. tomorrow. Kenneth Bengtsson This is the ICA Group • The ICA Group is one of Northern Eu• ICA AB’s head office is located in Solna, Today the following product lines are an rope’s leading retail companies, with Sweden. ICA AB is a joint venture 40 perimportant part of our CR work: around 2,200 of its own and retailercent owned by Hakon Invest AB of Swe• ICA Gott liv, our line of healthy alternaowned stores in Sweden, Norway, Esden and 60 percent by Royal Ahold N.V. tives tonia, Latvia and Lithuania. ICA also has of the Netherlands. offices in these countries and sourcing • ICA I love eco, our organic product line • The ICA Group offers a wide range of operations in China and Vietnam. products in its stores, including other • ICA Skona, our green product line for The Group includes ICA Sweden, ICA suppliers’ brand-name products as well cleaning products. Norway, Rimi Baltic, ICA Real Estate and as its own private labels. The first ICA priICA Bank, which offers financial services vate label was launched in 1922. to Swedish customers. Read more about the ICA Group in our Annual Report 2010. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 4 Standard Disclosures The ICA Group’s corp­orate responsibility goals Good profitability goes hand in hand with community engagement and conscientious corporate responsibility (CR) work. This is the very foundation of ICA’s business. With the help of strong shared values and an attitude that every link in the chain is important, from supplier to employee and customer, we have integrated CR work in every area of the Group’s operations. ICA is a sustainable company with a solid financial footing, a commitment to the environment and strong social engagement. The ICA Group’s CR strategy is focused on creating a more sustainable value chain, from primary production to customer, and guiding us in integrating the issues of climate change, food safety, quality in stores and corporate responsibility into day-today operations. We are continuously working to improve our CR work and to increase transparency through an active dialogue externally and internally. The CR strategy is based on our materiality analysis which is defined annually to identify current areas and issues that are of importance to our economic, environmental and social performance. ICA’s most important Group goals are shown below. They are complemented by more customer-oriented targets for each company to strengthen their local presence. ICA’s CR work is coordinated with our two owners, Royal Ahold and Hakon Invest. Ahold and ICA support similar philosophies in this work, report using the same guidelines and generally share the same approach to how this work is performed. Hakon Invest supports and actively monitors ICA’s sustainable development work, and encourages its portfolio companies to share their knowledge. ICA’s most important goals Economic Environment Social • Increase sales faster than the total mar• Reduce the Group’s direct greenhouse • 100 percent of ICA’s corporate brand ket in each sector. gas emissions by 20 percent by 2012 suppliers in high-risk countries will be • Reach an operating margin of 3.5–4 percompared to 2006. ­socially audited by 2011. cent. • Reduce the Group’s direct greenhouse • 80 percent of suppliers of ICA’s corpo• Reach a return on equity of at least 14–16 gas emissions by 30 percent by 2020 rate food brands will be GFSI certified percent over a business cycle. compared to 2006. by 2010. • Maintain an equity/assets ratio at 30–35 percent in the long term. Read more about the outcome 2010 in our Annual Report, page 10–11. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 5 Standard Disclosures ICA’s Good Business – the fundamental values in everything we do ICA’s Good Business is the seven position statements that serve as the foundation for ICA’s CR work and are based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Each position is backed by ICA’s policies and guidelines we use on a daily basis. The foundation of ICA’s corporate responsibility work The ten principles ICA’s Good Business ICA’s CR policies, with of the UN Global guidelines for daily Compact. operations ICA’s Good Business describes the Group’s stance on corpo• Business ethics policy (incl. competition law compliance). rate responsibility. Together ICA is a participant in the United Nations with ICA’s core values, they • New store policy. Global Compact and supports the followare essential to achieve the • Health policy. ing ten international principles. Group’s vision and mission. • Information policy Businesses should: ICA will: (incl. guidelines for financial information). 1. Support and respect the protection of • Be driven by profitability and internationally proclaimed human rights. high ethical standards. • Customer policy. 2. M ake sure that they are not complicit in • Listen to customers and al• Personnel policy. human rights abuses. ways base decisions on their • Quality, environmental and needs. social compliance policy. 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to • Nurture diversity and growth • Sponsorship policy. collective bargaining. among its employees. 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and com• Maintain an open dialogue pulsory labor. internally and with the community. 5. Effectively abolish child labor. • Ensure quality and safe 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of products. employment and occupation. • Promote a healthy lifestyle. 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Adopt sound environment practices to promote sus8. Undertake initiatives to promote greattainable development. er environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 6 Standard Disclosures ICA’s Good Business philosophy and policies are shared by the entire Group. Although this work rests on the same foundation, there are local variations in the markets where the ICA Group is active that affect conditions on a practical level. There are several reasons for these local variations: • Different markets: ICA Sweden is the leader in a mature market. In Norway, on the other hand, ICA Norway is in an upstart working hard to turn around a negative long-term trend. In Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, Rimi Baltic operates in a potentially expansive, but uncertain market. • Differences in customer behavior: Customer preferences tend to vary. In the Baltic countries, which has been hard hit by the financial crisis and recession, food prices are a critical issue. In Sweden, the recession and financial crisis have not affected spending patterns as much, and consumers have the freedom to buy less price-focused alternatives such as organic and Fairtrade products. Norwegian customers have felt the recession to an even lesser extent. They remain interested in healthy meal solutions. • Different opinions: Different topics garner different responses depending on local opinions in the country. In Sweden, food shrinkage, additives and greenhouse gas emissions are major concerns. Norwegians feel strongly about healthy living and nutrition. Interest in not throwing food away unnecessarily has also grown in Norway. Due to the financial crisis, the Baltic countries have been forced to focus on economic issues, although the public is also concerned about GMO’s and littering. • Similarities: The common denominator is an interest in local foods. Country-oforigin labeling has grown in popularity in all our countries. Sweden has the Swedish Seal of Quality, and in Norway a new industry trademark, “Nyt Norge” (“Enjoy Norway”) has had a major impact. Latvia uses the same type of labels, “Green Spoon” and “Grown in Latvia with Pride”. How ICA manages its CR work The overall strategic direction of ICA’s CR work is set at the Group level and is managed through strategic planning and business planning processes. Overarching responsibility for CR issues rests with ICA’s CEO. The Business Ethics and Policy Committee of Group Management, which has been in place since 2005, is responsible for monitoring CR goals and strategies, ICA’s Good Business and related Group-wide policies. It also proposes CR priorities and monitors ethical dilemmas, risks and public opinion about the ICA Group. The cross-organizational team is led by the head of the Corporate Responsibility department. The line organization can direct questions to each policy owner, who informs and involves the Business Ethics and Policy Committee when needed. Every employee is responsible for complying with ICA’s Good Business, and everyone is encouraged to report irregularities based on ICA’s Good Business and related policies. If they are noticed early enough, we have a better chance of preventing risks and taking action. This benefits not only us but also our employees and other stakeholders. A whistleblower possibility is included in ICA’s business ethics policy, to ensure that any employee or manager who becomes aware of an irregularity and does not want to report it through the normal chain of command can do so anonymously. Read more in the ICA Group’s Annual Report, page 40–41. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 7 Standard Disclosures Risks and opportunities with our CR work ICA’s CR work entails both risks and opportunities. We must constantly adapt to demands for greater transparency, regulatory changes and increasing requirements placed on sustainability in every level of the supply chain. Unless we can satisfactorily meet the market’s expectations and our own goals, there is a risk that the brand and ICA’s position in the market will suffer. There is also a risk that cost efficiencies will be affected unless satisfactory measures are taken to conserve energy and reduce waste, among other things. On the other hand, our market position could improve if ICA can meet customer demand for environmentally friendly and healthy products better than the competition. We can also be more cost-effective by reducing consumption of energy and materials in our operations. Generally, we are best able to address sustainable development issues through our local presence in each market and by educating and informing customers. The model below shows ICA’s degree of influence and ability to affect every part of the value chain. Read more about; risks and opportunities with climate change on page 17, the ICA Groups’ financial risks in our Annual Report and its appendix and in our owner Royal Aholds’ Annual Report. ICA’s inﬂuence on its supply chain Lot of inﬂuence Little inﬂuence ICA’s own stores Purchased transports Suppliers Customers • Choice of products. • Choice of shippers. • Choice of suppliers. • Product offerings. • Choice of store locations. • Requirements on trans• Contracts and terms. • Loyalty programs. • Choice of energy sources. port roads, transport • Choice of products. • Dialogue and coopera• Waste management. modes, fuels and eco• Product quality and ention with suppliers and • Periodic self-assessments. driving. vironment audits. stakeholders. • Internal training and HR develop• Periodic inspections and • Social audits. • Information and lob• Activities that ICA can influence. ment. monitoring. • Dialogue and cooperabying. tion with suppliers and ICA’s own warehouses Franchisees stakeholders. & transports • To a large extent the • Information and lob• Choice of warehousing facilities. choice of products. bying. • Choice of energy sources. • Agreements and coop• Waste management. erations. Independent retailers • Choice of transport roads. • Information and lob• To some extent the • Choice of transport modes. bying. choice of products. • Eco-driving training. • Agreements and cooperations. ICA’s main product range • Information and lob• Product range strategy, e.g., selecbying. tion of value-added products like eco-labeled, organic, Fairtrade, keyhole-labeled. • Product quality aspects. • Choice of products. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 8 Standard Disclosures Cooperation partners and stakeholder dialogues ICA cooperates with a number of organizations and participates in several networks focused on corporate responsibility, the environment, public health and food safety. Maintaining a continuous dialogue with these groups is also an important part of ICA’s CR work. Among the most important dialogue partners are: • Global Compact: The UN initiative to promote corporate citizenship internationally. ICA has signed the Global Compact’s Caring for Climate action platform and is a member of a Swedish government initiative overseen by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to encourage Swedish companies to be ambassadors for human rights, fair labor practices, a better environment and anti-corruption practices, in accordance with the principles of the Global Compact. • Global Social Compliance Program (GSCP): International alliance seeking to build a consensus on best practices for labor standards in consumer goods supply chains. The program is run by the Consumer Goods Forum (formerly CIES), which is a principal partner of ICA. • Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI): Alliance between a number of the world’s leading experts on food safety from retailers, manufacturers, food service companies and service suppliers in the food industry. Coordinated by the Consumer Goods Forum. • Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI): ICA is a member of the Norwegian Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) since 2001 which is a forum for ethical trade and other challenges in global supply chains. • Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI): European platform for companies to improve work conditions at consumer goods suppliers in high-risk countries. ICA participates together with one of its owners Ahold, which is a member. • World Wide Fund of nature (WWF): ICA has worked with the environmental organization WWF on the issues of sustainable fishing, palm oil and free range meats. • World Childhood Foundation, Red Cross, the Scoutmovement, the Glada Huddik Theatre, The H.M. King Carl XVI Gustaf’s Foundation for Young Leadership and the Swedish Cancer Society/Pink Ribbon: ICA Sweden has longstanding cooperations with these organizations. • Swedish Society for Coeliacs and Swedish Asthma and Allergy Association: Annual campaigns at the Swedish ICA Maxi and ICA Kvantum-stores offering the local organisations a platform to highlight the allergy handicap. At the same time the consumers get hands-on assistance in food allergy issues in the stores. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 9 Standard Disclosures • Swedish National Institute of Public Health: ICA is cooperating on a project called “A healthier Sweden” to draw attention to the importance of a proper diet and exercise. • Federation of Swedish Farmers (LRF): ICA Sweden and LRF have cooperated for years and are now working together on various projects. The goal is to meet the increased demand for foods made from Swedish commodities. Dialogue with ICA’s stakeholders ICA has identified its stakeholders from the materiality analysis and the relevant CR issues. The most important stakeholder groups are customers, employees, owners, independent ICA retailers in Sweden, franchisees in Norway, suppliers, government authorities and a number of NGOs. These groups have different expectations and place different demands on the Group’s CR work. Maintaining a continuous dialogue is also an important part of ICA’s CR work. By cooperating with consumer and environmental organizations, trade organizations, sports clubs and other interest groups, ICA has the opportunity to compare and improve the way it works. The aim is to use different methods to structure the dialogue. Key interest stakeholders include: • Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil • Dagligvarehandelns Miljöforum (DMF) (through Ahold) • Dagligvareleverandørenes Forening (DLF), • Roundtable on Responsible Soy (through Ahold) • Employers’ Confederation of Latvia • Swedish Trade Federation • “Employers will fight against HIV” (Rimi Baltic is a member) • Svensk Dagligvaruhandel • EU Animal Welfare Platform • Swedish Food Federation • Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) • Swedish Institute for Food and Biotechnology (SIK) • Good Pharmacy Practice (GPP) • Swedish National Food Administration • Greenpeace • Swedish Society for Nature Conservation • Green Warriors of Norway • Swedish Association of Environmental • Handelsog Servicenæringens HovedorganManagers isasjon, (HSH) • Sweden Forest & Trade Network • International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) • Swedish Consumer Coalition • Investors Forum in Lithuania • Swedish Pharmacy Association • KRAV/Debio • The Association of Lithuanian Trade • Latvian Association of Food retailers Enterprises (ALTE) • Latvian Chamber of Commerce and • The Foreign Investors’ Council in Latvia Industry (LCCI) • The Swedish Trade Council in Lithuania • Livsmedelshandlarna (SSLF) • Ziedot Lv • Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) • Mattilsynet GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 10 Standard Disclosures Stakeholders’ key issues and dialogues in 2010 Stakeholder Key issues Dialogues/activities to manage these issues Employees • Opportunities for skills train• Annual employee survey. ing and professional devel• Performance reviews. opment. • ICA School and ICA’s Good Business. • Strong leadership. • Values-based leadership, i.e., the HR department supports leaders with coaching, • Good work environments. relationship building and employees’ career development. • Diversity. • Preventive wellness by giving leaders tools to work with their employees. Stores • Energy efficiency in stores. • Reduce energy consumption in stores by providing tools, solutions and ideas for • Food safety. new and existing stores. • Food waste. • Information and training activities with quality coaches, retail intranet, etc. • Continuous meetings and consultations with ICA retailers. • Daily contacts with ICA stores through ICA call centers and operations managers. • Quality coaches who visit and support stores by introducing the food quality standard. Owners • Integrated and strategic CR • Annual board review on governance, sustainability risks and opportunities. work. • Meetings and reports on shared sustainability issues. • Oversight of ethical issues • Respond to investors’ questionnaires. and responsible behavior in • Annual stakeholder dialogues on a current theme, in 2010 it was corporate value chain. responsibility and the environment in the cultivation of exotic fruits. • Continuous coordination of, for example, key performance indicators. Customers • Climate change. • Annual customer surveys. • Food safety. • Customer contacts in stores, social media and through ICA call centers. • Additives and chemicals in • Information in Buffé magazine and on ICA.se. products. • Display material in stores. • Green, Fairtrade and healthy • Product labels, e.g., organic, eco-labeled, Keyhole-labeled and Fairtrade. product range. • Descriptive product information, e.g., hangtags now used on ICA’s ethical • Local foods. labeled products. • Food prices. • Modernized, improved healthy product range through the relaunch of the ICA Gott liv line. • New pricing policy at Rimi Baltic providing price reductions at least for 2000 products. In Norway and Sweden ICA also worked hard reducing prices. Suppliers • Responsible sourcing and • Supplier audits on quality, environment and social responsibility. social responsibility. • Training in social engagement. • Local purchases. • Pilot project to reduce the climate impact of ICA I love eco suppliers. • Impact on climate change. • ICA Torget, ICA Swedens marketplace for local entrepreneurs and retailers. • Electronic invoices. • Supplier contacts through ICA call centers. • Annual stakeholder dialogues on a current theme, in 2010 it was corporate responsibility and the environment in the cultivation of exotic fruits. Authorities • Food safety in stores. • Meetings with authorities, researchers and politicians, e.g., the Almedal week. • Public health concerns. • Responses to public enquiries. • Environment and climate • Supervisory inspections. change. • Participation in the government’s consultative groups to promote sustainability • Fair pricing (euro’s introducand health work by Swedish companies. tion in Estonia). • Annual stakeholder dialogues on a current theme, in 2010 it was corporate responsibility and the environment in the cultivation of exotic fruits. • Participation in seminars and lectures. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 11 Standard Disclosures Important corporate responsibility awards in 2010 • ICA’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2009 was nominated for the Globe Awards in the category “Sustainability Reporting” and finished among the top three. It was also one of five nominated for the Swedish Publishing award for CR reports. • In the Universum Career Barometer survey, ICA was named the most popular employer in the retail food industry by young business graduates. In addition, ICA climbed from 57th to 20th among the most popular employer among young engineers. • In a survey of Sweden’s Greenest Brands 2010 by the branding consultancy Differ, ICA Skona, ICA’s green brand of detergent, dishwashing liquid, paper products and cleaning products came in fourth place out of a total of 97 brands. In the same survey, ICA came in fifth among green brands when customers were asked to choose from a list. • ICA To Go received first prize for user-friendly prepared food packaging in the category Consumer Packaging Award at the Packaging Industry Awards. • ICA To Go was named “Health Restaurant of the Year” by the trade publication Restauranger & Storkök, which honors innovators in the Swedish restaurant industry. • ICA’s commercial “The New Trainee,” with the character of Jerry in the leading role, took the silver medal in the category “Consumer Advertising 2010” in the advertising competition “100-wattaren”, arranged by the Association of Swedish Advertisers and the Swedish Association of Communication Agencies. • ICA Gott Liv’s new design received a silver medal at the Eurobest advertising awards. The competition received 4,339 submissions. • Rimi stores in Rogaland received the Invivo award in 2010 for their commitment to helping people return to work after long illnesses. • In the “Swedish Business Awards 2010,” Rimi Lithuania was honored for its corporate responsibility and its program to integrate employees with functional disabilities, which was established together with the Lithuanian Association of the Disabled in 2002. • Rimi Baltic was one of 19 Latvian companies that reached the silver level when the Free Trade Unions Confederation and Employers Confederation of Latvia for the first time produced a Sustainability Index in 2010. No company reached the higher levels of platinum and gold. • Rimi Baltic in Latvia received 8th place in Reputation top carried out by national newspaper Dienas un agency Nords Porter Novelli. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 12 Standard Disclosures About the ICA Group’s Corporate Responsibility Report The ICA Group’s sustainability report describes our work on economic development, the environment, ethical trading, quality work, health, employees and community engagements. The sustainability report comprises this GRI-report and the Annual Report, also available in printed form. We have published an annual environmental and corporate responsibility report since 1995. As of 2006, it is published together with ICA’s Annual Report. The report follows the ICA Group’s financial year. The 2010 edition covers the period January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010. The previous report was published in March 2009. Information and performance indicators in the report have been selected based on the CR aspects that are relevant to our operations. The opinions of our stakeholders are important to consider when defining the key issues in our CR work. These opinions are valuable in order to make continuous improvements. With the help of the GRI’s “Guidance on Defining Report Content,” we have conducted a materiality analysis, where the demands and expectations of our stakeholders, among other things, served as a basis. The materiality analysis was defined for the first time in 2008 and is revised each year. Boundaries The report mainly comprises operations that have a significant, direct impact from a CR perspective, i.e., the Group’s own operations. In Sweden, we collaborate with around 1,400 independent retailers through agreements. Information on them is presented when relevant to the overview of the ICA Group’s CR work, e.g.: • Electricity consumption • Waste collected from deliveries of goods to stores • Sales data from stores • The number of stores that are certified according to food standards and are Swan-labeled Operations outside ICA’s direct control, such as suppliers and customers, are not included in the report. Information on suppliers of ICA’s corporate brands is included in the report when applicable. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 13 Standard Disclosures Measurement and calculation methods ICA Sweden, ICA Norway and Rimi Baltic use a common IT system to collect data on CR issues. The system supports continuous reporting with the aim to ensure the long-term quality of the indicators included in ICA’s continuous monitoring and annual CR report. The company in each country reports data according to the Group’s definitions and routines for CR reporting. ICA’s calculation and reporting parameters are described in detail below. Charitable contributions Business travel • National laws and regional waste man• Include voluntary donations from ICA • Includes business travel by air booked agement systems define the types of Sweden as well as donations from custhrough ICA’s central travel agency for waste involved. tomers, employees and suppliers collectemployees of ICA Norway and ICA Swe• Information on waste management ed through ICA Sweden. The recipients den. As of 2008, we buy carbon offsets methods and amounts is obtained from are charitable organizations and NGOs. for air travel. waste contractors. • Includes business travel by rail made by • Waste volumes in ICA Norway and Rimi Energy employees within ICA Sweden booked Baltic stores are based on actual waste • Includes stores and warehouses as well through ICA’s central travel agency or diamounts collected during the year for a as offices belonging to logistics departrectly through travel providers with ICA’s significant part of the stores. Generated ments. The two ICA To Go stores are not customer number. waste is extrapolated using the number included. • Includes business travel by car made by of stores at year-end. • To calculate electricity consumption in employees in Sweden. • Rimi Baltic’s waste is based on actual Swedish and Norwegian stores, a samwaste data extrapolated by the number pling of stores in each format is used. Climate change of stores at year end. Waste from outTheir actual consumption is extrapolated The following factors are used to calculate sourced warehouse in Estonia are exbased on the total number of stores at CO2 emissions: cluded. the end of the report period. • Emissions factor for 2006 Nordic elec• Waste reported for Rimi Baltic also in• To calculate energy consumption per cludes packaging waste for products that tricity for conventional electricity in square meter in warehouses and stores, Rimi Baltic introduces on the market. Sweden and Norway. the area of the stores and warehouses in • Supplier-specific emissions factor for • Compostable waste comprises biodeoperation at year-end is used. units that have signed ICA’s central elecgradable organic waste, i.e., waste sorted • Rimi Lithuania reports average area in as compostable and 90 percent of organtricity agreement. connection with the transfer of wareic waste fractions with packaging. houses in mid 2010. • The International Energy Agency’s average for the years 2000–2005 for each • Combustible waste comprises combusBaltic country’s electricity production. tible waste fractions and 10 percent of Goods transports and climate impact organic fractions with packaging. In Nor• Include goods transports between stores • The Swedish Society for Nature Conway, 75 percent of unsorted production and ICA’s warehouses. Transports by supservation’s specific emissions factor for waste is included as well. pliers to warehouses are not included. Good Environmental Choice electricity. • Recycled/reused waste includes glass, • ICA Sweden and Rimi Baltic is calculated • Swedish average for district heating from metal, wood, plastics and other nonbased on distances driven and average the Swedish Energy Agency (according landfill waste. ICA Norway also includes fuel consumption. Diesel consumption to the recommendation of the GHG Pro10 percent of unsorted production waste for own goods transports in ICA Norway tocol). in recycled/reused fractions and 15 perand Rimi Baltic is obtained directly from • The emissions factor for Sweden’s eleccent in landfill waste fractions. the diesel supplier. Measurement does tricity mix is used to calculate CO2 savnot take into account the amount of reings from sales of low-energy light bulbs. Supplier-related data newable fuel used. A revised method is • Emissions factor for diesel from the Nät• GFSI-certified suppliers comprise ICA’s scheduled to be introduced in 2011. verket för Trafik och Miljö (NTM). corporate brand suppliers approved ac• Leased transports between warehouses cording to one of the quality standards • Global Warming Potential (GWP) for each and stores in Norway are estimated on approved by the Global Food Safety Initype of cooling agents according to the driven transport distance and average tiative (GFSI). Montreal Protocol and IPCC. diesel consumption for their own trans• CO2 emissions from air and rail travel are • Information on socially audited suppliportation. obtained from ICA’s carbon offset suppliers refers to active suppliers in high risk ers or the travel provider. countries and their production units Cooling agents which have been socially audited ac• Include cooling agents refills in all ware• The GHG Protocol’s emission factor for cording to ICA Social audit or any of the houses and Rimi Baltic’s stores. Stores in business travel by car. third party audit scheme that accepted Norway and Sweden are not included. by ICA. • Data on ICA Sweden’s warehouses are Waste • The definition of a high risk country is based on official coolant reports. • Includes all warehouses as well as ICA based on a combination of the UN DeNorway’s and Rimi Baltic’s stores. Soft velopment Programme (UNDP ) Human plastics from stores are not included for Development Index and Economic Seall countries, since this type of waste is curity Index. A country is considered a returned from stores to warehouses. high-risk country if it has <0.85 in the Human Development Index and <0:50 in GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 14 Standard Disclosures the Economic Security Index. Unless the Quality in stores • Sick-leave is calculated as the number of two index levels are consistent, the level • Certified stores in Sweden refer to stores hours of sick leave in relation to schedof the Human Development Index will approved and certified by a third party uled working hours. be crucial when a country’s level of risk according to the Swedish standard for • The share of men/women at the manis assessed. food quality. agement level refers to all management • Stores that have implemented the food levels within the Group and is based on Sales trends and number of products quality standard refer to Swedish ICA the number of full-time employees (FTE). • Includes sales from Swedish and Norstores that apply the standard, but are • Store robberies includes number of robwegian ICA/Rimi-stores. In Sweden, only not certified by a third party. beries or robbery attempts of products ICA Sweden’s central assortment of the • Hygiene inspections comprise the numor money from a store or store employproducts described below is included. ber of inspections performed by ICA ee including physical violence or threats • The number of products corresponds to Norway’s own employees at ICA/Rimi of physical violence. the total number of unique EAN codes stores in Norway. in ICA’s range of food intolerance prodMaterial changes since previous ucts or those labeled according to FairEmployees report period trade, Keyhole, organic (KRAV/Debio, EU • Include personnel employed by the Compared with previous years, the followorganic). Group, i.e., including workers in stores ing changes in the report parameters and • Keyhole-labeled products and products owned by ICA. calculation principles were made in 2010: for food intolerances are available in • The number of employees comprises Swedish and Norwegian ICA stores. • ICA Sweden’s sales of organic and Fairfull-time workers, workers hired on a tritrade-labeled products for 2009 have al basis and workers with temporary asbeen revised. A review of the system Quality work and product safety signments of longer than three months. showed that a number of products had • Recalls comprise all recalled products • The number of full-time employees not been included in the 2009 figures. from warehouses and/or stores. Re(FTE) comprises full-time workers, workThe system has been analyzed and corcalls that are considered a risk to human ers hired on a trial basis and temporary rected. health or the environment are public reworkers of longer than three months. calls, i.e., the public is informed through a • The number of Fairtrade and organically The average number of employees is press release, among other measures. labeled products is reported as the numbased on the Group’s measure of normal ber of units, i.e., unique EAN codes. • Tests comprise the number of internal working hours, i.e., 1,800 hours per year. and external product tests on ICA’s cor• The calculation method for diesel con• Employee turnover is calculated as the porate brands, both new and existing sumption for hired transport for ICA number of people who left during the products. Norge has changed during the year. year in relation to the average number of permanent workers and workers hired on a trial basis. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 15 Economic Performance EC Engagements and investments – creating value in society Our aim is to achieve profitable long-term growth based on a wellmanaged business that creates value for our owners and other stakeholders. The work includes serving as a positive force in society and making wise investments for the future. In 2010, the Group generated revenue of SEK 93 billion. Our cooperations with charitable organizations are also investments. These cooperations endorse important values. The ICA Group benefits in both the short-and longterm from a healthier, more humane and better-informed world. Popular, high-quality products, new control systems for distribution, improved energy and waste management, good work environments and employee training lead not only to a better environment and greater social benefit but also lower costs and better business over time. Value generated and distributed SEK million EC1 reported The ICA Group 2010 2009 2008 Value generated Revenue 93,860 94 651 90 963 Value distributed Cost of goods and services sold –82,922 –84 012 –81 323 Value-added (Revenue – cost of goods and services sold) 10,938 10 639 9 640 Salaries and other cash compensation –6,548 –6 494 –6 034 Taxes and social insurance costs –3,516 –2 154 –1 555 Net interest expenses –327 –404 –323 Dividend –1,566 –888 –1 084 Retained in operations –1,019 699 644 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 16 Economic Performance EC How we share our profit Through long-term cooperations with charitable organizations, the ICA Group can also help to build values. In 2010, we were involved in a number of well received campaigns and activities together with NGOs: • Since 2003, ICA Sweden has been the principal partner of the World Childhood Foundation, where we are working to help marginalized children. We contribute by collecting money for Childhood’s projects. The 2010 Christmas campaign and other activities generated SEK 8,3 million. ICA Sweden sold Måns Zelmerlöv’s Christmas album and donated one percent of total corporate brand sales in stores during a two-week period in December. • For the eighth consecutive year, ICA Sweden was the chief sponsor of the Pink Ribbon campaign, which collects money for Swedish cancer research with the goal of creating a greater understanding of the connection between food and breast cancer. In 2010, the Pink Ribbon and promotional products were sold in ICA’s stores through payment cards in the customer magazine Buffé, which raised SEK 7,1 million. During the year, ICA Sweden was also the chief sponsor of the mustache campaign against prostate cancer, which raised over SEK 3.5 million. • ICA Sweden arranged the “We can do more” lottery in cooperation with the Swedish National Association for Persons with Intellectual Disability (FUB), which collected a total of SEK 5 million. • ICA Sweden was the main sponsor of the Swedish road race series Blodomloppet for the eighth consecutive year. During that time, the number of runners has increased from 14,000 to over 76,000. Blodomloppet brings attention to the importance of blood donations, as well as food and health, and in 2010 races were run in 14 locations around Sweden. • In cooperation with the charity Algojimas, which supports disabled children, Rimi Baltic in arranged a charitable concert on Lithuanian TV. In connection with the concert, EUR 50,000 was donated by viewers. • Rimi Baltic in Latvia fundraised 342 711 EUR in 2010 and therefore giving a significant help for eight projects which helped to improve childerns health and even save their lifes • ICA Norway has now installed bottle recycling machines in 293 stores, where customers can choose to receive their refund or donate the money to the Red Cross. By donating the deposit, the customer is automatically entered into a lottery. In total, the lottery generated NOK 12.6 million in ICA Norway’s stores in 2010, of which NOK 4.2 million went to the Red Cross. Similar machines in Swedish ICA stores generated SEK 4.8 million for the Red Cross. Charitable donations SEK million ICA Sweden 2010 2009 2008 Donations from ICA Sweden 14 12 14 Donations from customers, suppliers and employees through ICA Sweden 20 20 13 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 17 Economic Performance EC Risks and opportunities with climate change EC2 reported Global Compact 7 The ICA Group must constantly adapt to the increased transparency of the company, that laws may change and a growing demand on account of sustainability aspects in all stages of the supply chain. Our overall risk analysis also includes the assessment and management of risks related to climate change. Change Risks Opportunities New laws Society’s growing awareness of climate change Challenges give rise to new ideas. The climate change is likely to result in new laws and regulations, debate is likely to lead to stricter limits on CO2 emiswhich in turn affect our operations financially sions from transports. This increases the need for enand physically. We continuously monitor these vironmentally friendly solutions such as more rail issues so that we are ready to quickly adapt. Imtransports. New technology is also being developed portant areas include emissions limits on goods for new demands, which provides opportunities for transports, taxes that lead to more expensive eco-friendly solutions. For example, a tax on synthetic fossil fuels and society’s transition to renewable cooling agents would steer development toward more energy sources. eco-friendly alternatives in everything from transports to refrigeration systems in stores. Physical changes The physical risks that climate change could As customer demand for products adapted to climate cause – temperature changes, drought, ﬂoods, change and environment safety increases, we can also etc. – affect everyone in society. For us, it means find new opportunities, e.g., by developing new prodthat access to various crops could change over ucts or ﬁnding locations within biking or walking distime due to new growing patterns. Goods transtance of residential areas. Moreover, the ability to betports could be affected if extreme weather conter manage wastes in society in general means that ditions were to limit our access. New store openour stores can also manage their wastes more safely. ings could also be affected. Flooding in certain The attention being given to the impact of food waste areas, for example, would be a risk that would on climate change is leading to a greater focus on rehave to be considered in such decisions. Reducing shrinkage. Through an early transition to reduced access to fossil fuels also represents a ponewable energy sources, we can ensure that our optential risk if ICA cannot handle the transition of erations will remain viable even if access to fossil fuels its operations to renewable fuels. were reduced. Reducing energy consumption is also a way to save money. Other changes New spending patterns due to a growing awareSatisfied customers are a competitive advantage. By ness of climate change could constitute a risk being open, inventive and ambitious, we can improve unless the ICA Group adapts quickly enough to customer relations. This can give us a business advanshifting customer demands. tage. Read more about risks and opportunities on page 7. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 18 Economic Performance EC Our local corporate responsibility EC6 reported One similarity in all of the ICA Group’s markets is customer interest in local foods. In addition to several initiatives to label local products in all our countries, we are doing several things to satisfy the growing interest from consumers. • Rimi Baltic in Lithuania has launched a concept it calls “Vikis,” a shop-in-shop that sells only local products. In a Vikis store, customers can find everything from dairy products, meat, vegetables and bread to jams, oils and honey. Lithuanian producers have their own ways of making the products and their own recipes. Today customers can find Vikis in four stores. Plans call for an eventual launch in all three Baltic markets. • A popular product launch in Sweden in 2010 was ICA Selection pork, locally produced by four selected farms in southeastern Sweden. The breeding pigs are raised on feed made only from Swedish commodities, i.e., without any imported soy. The sows farrow on thick straw. The farms are expected to run primarily renewable electricity from wind and hydropower. Production is certified according to IP Sigill (Swedish Seal of Quality), which guarantees that certain criteria are met in terms of animal welfare, environmental protection and food safety. • ICA Sweden has launched an intranet marketplace, ICA Torget, where local producers and retailers can meet. Local producers also have the opportunity to come in to contact with retailers and stores at network meetings and at the annual ICA convention, where a number of local producers market their products. Marketing templates have been produced in Sweden to help local producers get their products seen in stores. • Rimi Baltic’s promotions in Latvia for freshly harvested local products have received an enormous response. In Estonia, Rimi Baltic cooperate with the Association of Estonian Food Industry to label local products with the Estonian flag. Community development initiatives EC8–9 reported The ICA Group wants to be a positive force with a local presence in society. We therefore participate in debates and various initiatives, in addition to sponsoring and supporting projects in local communities. In connection with new store openings, we work with municipalities, regions and authorities to support local development. • In rural Swedish communities, ICA stores serve as an agent for Apoteket and Systembolaget, the state-run pharmacy and alcohol monopolies, as well as for the postal service. • In cooperation with Kuponginlösen, ICA Bank has been handling payment services since 2008 for rural communities that were dropped when Svensk Kassaservice went out of business. • Through local mail carriers and services of the ICA Bank, residents in about 70 rural routes can pay bills and cash checks. • ICA Bank has an agreement with the Swedish Migration Board to pay out assistance to asylum seekers, who receive a debit card from ICA Bank where the money is deposited. The cardholder can then withdraw cash or make purchases at any ICA store. • ICA Bank has joined together with ECPAT, 12 other Swedish banks and the police to stop online purchases of child pornography. ECPAT is a global network of organizations working to eliminate child prostitution, pornography and trafficking. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 19 Economic Performance EC • ICA is also an active partner in “Arena for Growth,” a public-private partnership to promote local and regional growth through collaboration and growth-promoting processes. • We support projects like “Jobbsjansen” in Oslo, ICA’s trainees in the Göteborg suburb of Bergsjön, and Merit.nu in Stockholm. Besides that Rimi Baltic has an inititive to integrate employees with functional disabilities in the stores. ICA Sweden in collaboration with the ICA retailers association and local ICA retailers also employ people with functional disabilities through Samhall and municipal day care facilities. • Rimi Baltic’s hypermarkets in Lithuania and Estonia have set up boxes where customers can donate products to families in need. In 2010 in 14 Rimi Lithuania stores were collected 91 188 food products, which total value is approximately EUR 83,500. Rimi Baltic in Estonia are donating food for the Red Cross, Food Bank and Shalom charity. During one promotion in November four Rimi stores in Estonia collected 7,800 food items. • In Latvia, Rimi Baltic sponsored the Nordea Riga Marathon providning 10,000 runners with meal and an environmental friendly shopping bag. • In 14 locations in Latvia, Rimi has donated food to soup kitchens, which feed around 15,000 people a month. • ICA Norway helped to renovate Fattighuset in 2010 and contributed the food distributed to needy families twice a week. At Christmas, all employees have the opportunity to donate to Fattighuset. • Rimi Baltic in Lithuania and the Vilnius employment office launched a bicycle parking project, Veloparkas, in the capital. In 2010, 200 sheltered bike parking facilities were installed around the city. • Rimi Lithuania works closely with Eco dot (recycling system improvement and future education campaigns are planned) • Rimi Lithuania together with Lithuanian Public Health Offices are initiating an education project “Superkids” which concerns healthy nutrition. • For the third year in succession, Rimi Latvia supports the Large Joint Cleaning in which in more than 300 000 persons have participated . In Rimi and Supernetto stores any consumer wanting to go cleaning could receive bags for waste. Also, Rimi office employees took part in the preliminary cleaning by gathering waste and facilitating improvements in the yard and surroundings of some multi-apartment houses. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 20 Environmental Performance EN Environment and climate change – critical to our future Every part of the ICA Group impacts the environment. This is why we work with environmental issues throughout our operations. We think sustainably in our sourcing and distribution and develop climate smart stores and warehouses. We are working in several ways to preserve biological diversity and to further increase the number of organic and eco-labeled products we offer. Reducing energy consumption and waste is an important part of our internal environmental work. In addition, we encourage consumers to reduce their own impacts in various ways. We have a climate goal to reduce the Group’s known greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent by 2020 compared to 2006. Initiatives to preserve oceans, forests, meadows and species EN12–15 reported Global Compact 8 Every day the ICA Group sells large amounts of food in five different countries. In the process, our operations use the Earth’s resources. But we are careful to do so cautiously. If the oceans are overfished and the rainforests are plundered, it will affect us not only as people but also as a retail company. This is why we constantly look for new ways to preserve biological diversity. One of the key partners in our work with biological diversity is World Wide Fund of nature (WWF). We are continuously expanding our range of organic products with the goal of offering organic alternatives in every product group. Free range beef and open landscapes Since we started working with WWF in Sweden in the 1990s, more than 90,000 acres of pastureland have been restored. Grazing cattle keep the landscape open and ensure a rich diversity of flora and fauna. Their grazing and waste are important to the species richness in the pastureland. In 2010, the cooperation entered a new phase when WWF transitioned from primarily restoring overgrown pasture to ensuring that the results achieved to date are maintained in the long term as well as spreading the concept to new landowners and other stakeholders. To avoid seeing restored pasture abandoned once again requires owners who remain committed to their preservation. The strongest driver is the demand for free range beef. In 2010, ICA launched one new product in its line of free range beef, which now consists of a total of 13 products. Sales in 2010 correspond to around 1,800 head of free range cattle, while about 13,300 acres of Swedish pastureland have been preserved. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 21 Environmental Performance EN Healthy oceans have enough fish The ICA Group has taken a stand in several ways to protect endangered species of fish. We utilize WWF’s guide with a red, yellow and green listed fish in Norway and Sweden. As far as possible, we try to avoid red listed fish in the main assortment sold to the stores. WWF’s fish guide was updated in October 2010, and we are working to adapt our product range to it as far as possible. We are also expanding our range of MSC-certified fish such as frozen haddock and cod fillets. Consumers can trace the cod, haddock and alaska pollock sold under ICA’s brands on the Group’s Swedish website, where they can follow its journey from the Baltic Sea outside Norway to ICA’s warehouses and stores and find out what is being done to protect the species. ICA Sweden’s website also shows how our seafood products are classified according to WWF’s fish guide. In 2010, farmed salmon was a hot-button issue in seafood-crazed Norway. The debate has been whether it is healthy to eat farmed salmon and whether its production harms the environment. Despite contradictory opinions, we have tightened our requirements on the fishing industry and require suppliers to provide us with adequate information on farmed salmon and its origins, and to take measures to produce the fish sustainably. Soy and palm oil from preserved forests The manufacture of ICA’s corporate food brands in the Swedish market annually requires around 2,000 tons of palm oil. We have decided that all palm oil used in ICA’s private labels must be certified by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) by 2015. This is part of an effort to encourage palm oil plantations to meet environmental, social and economic criteria and preserve the rainforests. The volumes are limited, however. We are therefore buying Green Palm certifications to support more palm oil plantations in their efforts to meet RSPO criteria. We are also involved in the issue of soy, whose cultivation can have a major longterm impact on tropical forests and savannas, including in Brazil. During the year, we held discussions with the Federation of Swedish Farmers (LRF) among others, the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation and feed producers on how the world can transition to more sustainably produced soy and how we can reduce its use. Through the ICA Group’s owner, Ahold, we are a member of the Roundtable for Sustainable Soy and are carefully monitored developments in this area. ICA Sweden has decided to sell only FSC-certified private-label charcoal and that all products made of tropical woods, such as outdoor furniture, must be FSC-certified. The stores in Sweden annually sell around 10,000 tons of certified charcoal. ICA also offers FSC-labeled disposable grills, notebooks and copy paper. Read more about our value-added products on page 30-34. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 22 Environmental Performance EN Measures to reduce energy consumption EN5, 7 reported Global Compact 8, 9 The operation of stores and warehouses accounts for a large part of the ICA Group’s total energy consumption. In 2010 the focus has been on concrete actions and efforts have paid off. 2010 was a year of unusually long and cold winter and a very hot summer, which had an impact on energy consumption. Despite this, energy efficiency in our warehouses in Norway increased due to energy conservation measures and increased warhouse surface during the year. Total energy increased in our Baltic warehoueses since they during the year opened new, larger storage units, and during a period had double warehouses in operation. The refill of refrigerants increased by approximately 3.7 tonnes during the year. This is mainly due to the very hot summer that were demanding for the cooling systems in stores and warehouses. The objective of the Swedish ICA stores energy usage to decrease by ten percent in 2010 compared with 2007 was achieved. The total energy savings amounted to 14 percent compared to 2007. The Baltic stores’ energy consumption increased during the year mainly due to the unusual weather conditions, because a number of stores opened during the year. For many stores there is a much larger potential for energy saving than ten percent. Energy consumption Distribution of ICA Group’s energy EN3–4 reported Global Compact 8 sources 2010 (electricity consumption in warehouses and stores), % Renewable energy 72 Total energy consumption in ware­ Fossil fuels 15 houses and stores, ICA Group, MWh Nuclear power 13 08 1,680,693 09 1,527,359 10 1,542,976 Energy consumption in warehouses, MWh Energy consumption in stores, MWh Cooling agent consumption, tons Sweden 08 90,608 Sverige 08 996,712 Sweden1) 08 0.1 09 84,023 09 875,478 09 0.3 10 83,920 10 877,311 10 0.1 Norway 08 24,453 Norway 08 368,763 Norway1) 08 0.1 09 24,246 09 333,501 09 0.2 10 24,609 10 328,736 10 0.3 Baltic 08 16,6331) Baltic 08 183,524 Baltic 08 11 countries 09 13,418 countries 09 196,694 countries 09 10 10 15,504 10 212,897 10 14 1) Also includes electricity use for offices and similar 1) Comprises only warehouses. premises. Average energy consumption Average energy consumption in warehouses, kWh/m2 in stores, kWh/m2 Sweden 08 281 Sweden 08 466 09 270 09 406 10 270 10 401 Norway 08 222 Norway 08 587 09 220 09 547 10 193 10 548 Baltic 08 217 Baltic 08 441 countries 09 176 countries 09 425 10 185 10 470 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 23 Environmental Performance EN The following activities are under way in all markets: • A growing number of stores in the ICA Group are putting lids on freezer cases and doors or curtains on refrigerators and freezers. This applies on a widespread basis in Sweden and Norway. In the Baltic countries, stores are upgrading their refrigerators and freezers in connection with Rimi’s rebranding. • The stores are gradually replacing their lighting with more modern, energy efficient alternatives. A number of Rimi Baltic’s Lithuanian stores have automated lighting. Savings are estimated at up to 50 percent, and for the whole store it can generate energy savings of 10–15 percent. • The CoolICA system, which is used in Norway to monitor energy consumption and temperatures, has been installed in 393 stores. • Rimi Baltic uses an Automatic Monitoring System to control temperatures in refrigerators and freezers. Several stores have hired energy consultants and conduct energy audits. • Opened in 2010, ICA Kvantum Sannegården in Göteborg has put ICA Sweden’s energy-efficiency strategy into practice. Among other things, the store has solar panels on its roof, automatic lighting and ventilation, and lids and doors on all refrigerated cases and freezers. In total, energy consumption has been reduced by about 35 percent compared to a conventional store of the same size. ICA Kvantum Sannegården is therefore seen as a store of the future. • Rimi Baltic in Latvia encourages store employees to share their knowledge of energy savings. • In Sweden, 377 ICA stores were certified according to the Nordic Swan eco-label at year-end 2010, compared to 382 a year earlier. One of the reasons why the number has decreased while the share has remained constant is that the total number of ICA stores in Sweden was reduced by ten. The requirements to have a store Swan certified were tightened in 2010 in terms of waste sorting and energy efficiency, among other things. The ICA Maxi Hypermarket, ICA Kvantum and ICA Supermarket formats are all trying to meet the Nordic Swan criteria. Number and share of Swan-labeled ICA stores 2010 2009 2008 Sweden, number (share) 377 (28%) 382 (28%) 326 (24%) Energy efficient products and services EN6 reported Global Compact 8, 9 • During the year, ICA Sweden began installing charging stations for customers with electric cars in the parking lots outside ICA stores. The goal is to have stations at about 20 ICA stores around the country within five years. By year-end, there were charging stations at ICA stores in Östersund, Västerås and Göteborg. • In 2010, ICA Sweden ran a campaign offering regular customers discounted prices on energy-saving light bulbs. If customers use the bulbs sold during the year instead of conventional incandescent bulbs, CO2 emissions will be reduced by an estimated 26,600 tons, compared to 18,300 tons in the 2009 campaign. • Rimi stores in all three Baltic markets offer bags made from 33 percent recycled material as well as cotton and paper bags. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 24 Environmental Performance EN • Rimi Baltic in Estonia participated in “Killerkott tapab,” a major campaign to increase awareness about the environmental dangers of plastic bags and to show customers the alternatives. For example, it offers recyclable bags as well as cloth bags at an inexpensive price. • Rimi Baltic in Latvia participated in a project called 10/10/10, Worldwide Green Works Day for the first time in 2010 and offered to exchange a cloth bag for every four plastic bags customers brought in. In a single day, Rimi stores distributed 30,000 cloth bags. Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives EN18 reported Global Compact 7, 8, 9 Since 2006, the ICA Group’s direct emissions of greenhouse gas emissions has decreased by around eight percent. In 2010 the Group’s direct emissions of greenhouse gases slightly increased compared to last year. This is mainly because the refrigerant consumption in the Baltic stores and stocks rose because of the unusually hot summer and long and cold winter that has been demanding on systems. Climate impact of the Norwegian stores decreased drastically when a large percentage of the stores in 2010 switched to renewable electricity. Emissions EN16 reported Global Compact 8 EN17 reported Global Compact 8 Distribution of ICA Group’s carbon dioxide emissions3), 2010, % Business travel  1 Total carbon dioxide emissions 3), Cooling agents  18 ICA Group, tons Energy in warehouses  2 Energy in stores  45 08 317,145 Goods transports  34 09 276,529 10 282,723 3) Excluding offset air travel emissions. Carbon dioxide emissions from Carbon dioxide emissions from cooling agent consumption in Carbon dioxide emissions from energy energy in warehouses, tons warehouses and stores, tons in stores, tons Sweden 08 984 Sweden2) 08 141 09 1,106 Sweden 08 97,328 09 717 10 1,270 09 48,857 10 229 10 48,810 Norway 08 2,445 Norway2) 08 369 09 301) Norway 08 36,876 09 654 10 31 09 33,350 10 900 10 9,5471) Baltic 08 5,243 Baltic 08 34,238 countries 09 3,690 Baltic 08 52,958 countries 09 38,902 10 5,535 countries 09 54,369 10 50,341 1) Since 2009 all warehouses in Norway use renewable 10 69,951 2) Comprises only warehouses. electricity. 1) Since 2010 a large share of the Norwegian stores have renewable electricity. Carbon dioxide emissions from goods Carbon dioxide emissions from business transports between warehouses and travel4) by air, train and car, tons stores, tons Sweden 08 5,049 Sweden 08 57,671 09 4,310 09 67,780 10 4,975 10 69,736 Norway 08 954 Norway 08 15,009 09 707 09 14,584 10 866 10 13,0191) Baltic 08 n.d. Baltic 08 12,542 countries 09 n.d. countries 09 11,048 10 n.d. 10 11,875 1) Calculation method is updated for outsourced transports. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 25 Environmental Performance EN Work for greenhouse gas emission reductions is under way in several areas, including: • ICA Sweden offers renewable electricity to all ICA retailers. A decision has been made that all Maxi ICA Hypermarkets will use it. About 40 percent of Swedish ICA stores were using renewable electricity at year-end 2010. All warehouses in Sweden and Norway have been doing so for a number of years. • ICA Sweden has around 20 stores that use 100 percent natural coolants, and the number is growing. Coolant levels in refrigeration and freezer systems have been greatly reduced. Large stores primarily use glycol, which circulates in the system and cuts the amount of cooling agents. Glycol is used in the refrigeration systems and carbon dioxide is used for freezers at ICA Maxi, Kvantum and Supermarket. ICA Sweden is well-positioned in this area relative to the competition. • In 2010, ICA Sweden completed a project together with five selected ICA I love Eco suppliers that has provided an important understanding of climate impacts from products as well as of future sourcing requirements. • In 2010, ICA Sweden decided to participate in the project “One Tonne Life,” which began in January 2011. The goal is to reduce annual carbon dioxide emissions per person from seven to one ton by living and eating sustainably. The results are being followed through a test family that lives in a specially built, sustainably equipped home. We will contribute our knowledge of how choosing the right foods can help the family to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. • To draw attention to the issue of climate change, we participate in WWF’s “Earth Hour” campaign in all our markets. We turned off the lighting in the number of warehouses, offices and stores and encourage our customers to turn off their lights for an hour for the sake of the environment. • All warehouses in Sweden have fossil free electricity, reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 85 percent compared to normal electricity. Initiatives for greener transports EN29 reported Global Compact 8 To reduce the total mileage our vehicles drive, we continue to raise efficiencies in our infrastructure and distribution network, including by ensuring that trucks are well-filled and have carefully planned routes. The ICA Group currently does not own any trucks, with the exception of Norway, where we use our own and lease others. Modern engine technology and alternative fuels reduce emissions, which we require our trucking companies to verify. In Sweden, alternative fuels are blended with diesel and the trucks are equipped with tires with low rolling resistance to reduce fuel consumption and environmental impacts. ICA Sweden has been a member since 2009 of KNEG – Climate-Neutral Goods Transport – and has therefore been committed to promoting future fossil-free distribution in Stockholm. Since April 2010, three of our trucks are powered by ethanol and have less climate impact than traditional diesel. Since December, another vehicle also runs on ethanol. We are open to testing other alternative fuels and are carefully following developments in the belief that a mix of alternative fuels will be the best future solution. Biogas is one alternative, although it is sometimes in short supply. Using alternative fuels on a large scale requires both reliability and access. Diesel consumption for goods transport between stores and warehouses rose slightly during the year. This is mainly because ICA in Sweden gradually takes over the goods transports from suppliers to not run with empty trucks back to warehouses from the store. This means that ICA’s goods transports increases, but the environmental impact overall has declined. In the Baltic countries, goods transports increased since during the year new warehouses opened and new and old warehouses where open during a period. Read about our Diesel Consumption on page 26. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 26 Environmental Performance EN We are also trying to shift more transports from road to rail. Today ICA Sweden transports practically all its beverages by rail. ICA Norway transports imported, refrigerated and frozen products as well as fruit and vegetables by train to the distribution terminal in Narvik. ICA Sweden, ICA Norway and Rimi Baltic in Estonia require their drivers to practice eco-driving. Since 2009, all trucks that drive for ICA Sweden are equipped with alcolocks. ICA Sweden has hired a third party to audit its freight forwarders every year. In 2010, the number of violations was cut in half compared to 2009. Four freight companies followed the requirements completely, compared to only one in the previous year. The most frequent issue was that they could not properly manage the speeds of their vehicles. After the annual audit, the freight forwarders submit action plans, which we review and approve. The ICA Group limits air shipments to products that do not keep the quality on boatshipments like sensitive fruits, vegetables and flowers. Any exceptions must be approved by ICA’s management. Initiatives for greener business travel ICA employees in Sweden have guidelines on choosing company cars. In 2010, the number of eco-friendly cars in ICA’s ﬂeet increased from 38 to 42 percent. ICA’s central leasing agreement for Swedish employees steers drivers toward eco-friendly choices. Since 2008, ICA buys carbon offsets for air travel by employees in Sweden and Norway if they book through our main travel agency. The money is helping to finance wind power turbines in China. The offsets are purchased according to the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Gold standard. CDM is a project model that meets the requirements of Kyoto Protocol’s directive for greenhouse gas-reducing measures in developing countries. ICA Sweden and ICA Norway have increased their number of videoconferences by 19 percent and teleconferences by 53 percent. Business travel by train in Sweden decreased slightly, while air travel increased, due to the long winter prompted many to choose air circulate. Transports Business travel by air, thousand km Business travel by rail, thousand km Business travel by car, thousand km Sweden 08 13,461 Sweden 08 1,898 Sweden 08 7,176 09 10,625 09 2,153 09 7,714 10 12,873 10 1,993 10 7,919 Norway 08 3 ,400 Norway 08 n.d. Norway 08 n.d. 09 2,535 09 n.d. 09 n.d. 10 3,110 10 n.d. 10 n.d. Baltic 08 n.d. Baltic 08 n.d. Baltic 08 n.d. countries 09 n.d. countries 09 n.d. countries 09 n.d. 10 n.d. 10 n.d. 10 n.d. Diesel consumption from goods transports between warehouses and stores, thousand liters Sweden 08 22,181 09 26,069 10 26,821 Norway 08 5,773 09 5,609 10 5,0071) Baltic 08 4,645 countries 09 4,092 10 4,398 1) Calculation method is updated for outsourced transports. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 27 Environmental Performance EN Our waste and how we manage it EN22 reported Global Compact 8 We work to maintain high recycling rates in our warehouses and stores. During the year we improved the degree of sorting in our warehouses in Sweden and Norway, which further reduced the amount of waste going to landfill and increased the amount that goes to composting and anaerobic digestion. The total amount of waste increased during the year compared to previous years, since Sweden and Norway now also handles waste consisting of non-prescription drugs. During 2010 the issue of food waste was raised in all our markets, and many new ideas were offered how we can reduce shrinkage and the amount of food waste. • In Sweden, ICA retailers prepare lunches made from products near expiration, sell blemished fruits and vegetables at a discount and have introduced a concept called “Eat Soon,” which allows customers to buy products that otherwise would go to waste at sharply discounted prices. ICA Norway has a “50%” concept where products near their expiration date are discounted by 50 percent in stores, which reduces shrinkage. • ICA Sweden’s warehouses sort all their wastes, and in 2010 99 percent was recycled. During the year, procurement contracts were awarded to manage ICA’s inventory waste. Waste providers that could show they recycle the waste while maximizing recovered energy and minimizing the impact of transports have been given priority as business partners. • ICA Norway has introduced a new quality control system for fruit and vegetables in five warehouses, including in Luhrtoppen and Bryne. The system is clearly reducing inventory shrinkage. The quality of fruit and vegetables has improved and thereby reduced shrinkage in stores as well. • ICA Norway has joined with the Church City Mission, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Norwegian Food Safety Authority to create a food bank in Oslo that accepts items that the industry must discard for practical or legal reasons and distributes them to charities. • In Latvia, Rimi Baltic works with around 30 zoos and animal shelters that receive soon-to-expire products, while in Estonia it was the chief partner in the UN’s “European Week on Waste Reduction,” which was arranged for the third and final year. Waste 1) ,2) Total waste volume, tons Incinerable, tons Compostable, tons Sweden 08 11,171 Sweden 08 2,592 Sweden 08 4,078 09 10,597 09 2,305 09 3,724 10 11,227 10 2,345 10 4,226 Norway 08 29,576 Norway 08 6,265 Norway 08 7,615 09 28,906 09 6,434 09 7,002 10 29,464 10 7,435 10 9,231 Baltic 08 44,421 Baltic 08 n.d. Baltic 08 n.d. countries 09 33,046 countries 09 614 countries 09 0 10 35,795 10 1,263 10 0 Recycled, % Recovered/recycled, tons Incinerated waste, tons Sweden 08 98 Sweden 08 4,261 Sweden 08 240 09 98 09 4,371 09 197 10 99 10 4,547 10 110 Norway 08 92 Norway 08 13,219 Norway 08 2,476 09 95 09 13,882 09 1,589 10 97 10 11,886 10 912 Baltic 08 27 Baltic 08 n.d. Baltic 08 n.d. countries 09 39 countries 09 12,194 countries 09 20,238 10 47 10 15,562 10 18,970 1) Sweden comprises waste from logistics, Norway and the Baltic countries comprise waste from logistics and stores. 2) Updated 2009 figures for Baltic countriesto clarify the waste handling method. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 28 Social performance PR Taking responsibility for a sustainable product range Ensuring that our product range lives up to our requirements, and those of the market, through the entire supply chain is an important element in our CR work. All our suppliers have to comply with legal requirements and ICA’s policies. Structured quality work PR1 reported Global Compact 1 We monitor compliance with the help of audits, product label reviews, product tests and structured quality assurance in logistics and stores. Taking responsibility for a sustainable product range also means inspiring customers to make well-informed, healthy choices on a daily basis. In addition, we offer a wide range of eco-labeled, organic and ethical labeled products. Quality assurance of our suppliers We require ICA’s private label food suppliers to be third-party certified according to a product safety standard approved by the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). These standards cover food safety management systems, Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) plans and good manufacturing practices. ICA Group’s objective was that 80 percent of all food suppliers of our corporate brands should be third party certified under GFSI by 2010. At the end of 2010, this amounted to 67 percent for the whole group due to efforts to ensure that we continually have updated certificates in our systems and that enforcing GFSI-requirement takes longer than expected. ICA Sweden reached the target in late 2010. We also have our own quality standard in markets where third-party certification is not yet established or where we feel there are higher product quality risks. In 2008, we played a part in developing a third-party standard for small-scale food production, IP Livsmedelsförädling (IP Food Processing), and reached an agreement to offer reduce auditing prices to small producers. Suppliers of corporate brand cosmetics and hygiene products are required to be certified by BRC Global Standard Consumer Products (BRC CP) or similar standards. For other private label non-food suppliers, the goal is to be certified according to BRC CP, ISO 9001 or similar standards. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 29 Social performance PR Quality assurance of our products All of ICA’s private label products undergo sensory and quality tests on the way to becoming a finished product. The sensory tests evaluate appearance, odor, taste and consistency. Ingredients, nutritional information and other properties are detailed in internal product specifications. In addition to sensory and quality tests, we test each product’s function, as in the case of baking powder, washing detergent and housewares. All products are examined and approved to ensure that they live up to ICA’s policies and internal guidelines. Packaging information is also inspected and approved. Rimi Baltic has expanded its corporate brands in recent years and now has its own quality organization to assure the quality of these brands in the Baltic markets. In 2010, we conducted a total of around 5,000 tests, 2,100 of which were sensory tests on new and existing products. Read how we control products from the factory to the store, page 30 in our Annual Report. Quality assurance of distribution High quality is maintained throughout the supply chain until our products reach the store. Product quality is assured through self-assessments and product safety work. This includes a fully implemented HACCP plan, which is required by law and describes how the company investigates, evaluates and inspects food risks. Quality assurance of stores Since 2009, ICA stores in Sweden have applied the Swedish standard for food handling. ICA Sweden played a decisive role in developing what became the world’s first third-party food safety standard for food stores. In Sweden, the routines are being introduced in stores under the leadership of our quality coaches. In total, 1,125 stores have implemented the standard and 223 have been audited and certified by an inspection body, including all 72 Maxi ICA Hypermarkets. Number of quality-certified ICA-stores and stores that have implemented the Swedish food handling standard, ICA Sweden 2010 2009 Accepted by inspection body 223 100 Implemented the standard 1,125 882 The ICA Group has begun promoting the standard internationally, in part to allow ICA Norway’s and Rimi Baltic’s stores to be certified. ICA Norway has begun building systems and an organization to meet the requirements of the standard. In Norway, quality coaches have been hired since early 2010 to support and inspect food safety in stores. Until now, ICA Norway has measured quality in stores based on hygiene inspections. Rimi Baltic conducts internal audits to see how well its stores comply with the quality standard; violations have been few in number. Hygiene inspections, ICA Norway 2010 2009 2008 Number of hygiene inspections in stores 458 340 308 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 30 Social performance PR When we recall or withdraw a product PR2 reported Global Compact 1 PR4 reported Global Compact 8 When we suspect that a product we have sold may pose a health risk, we contact the responsible supervisory authority, take the product off the shelves and distribute a press release. In total, the ICA Group had 31 public recalls during 2010; ICA Norway, 17, ICA Sweden, 10 and Rimi Baltic, 4. The public recalls of corporate brands included for example Euroshopper Raspberry, which contained calicivirus and was stopped on March 18. We followed up the recall by visiting the supplier, which confirmed that it was taking corrective measures to improve quality. Two hot dog products, ICA’s Grillkorv 500 gram and Euroshopper Grillkorv 400 gram, were recalled on April 13 when it was feared that they might contain listeria. Tests later showed no trace of listeria. The third recall pertained to three types of imported chopped meat sold under the Euroshopper name, when it was shown that certain batches contained salmonella. For less serious quality problems, such as different texture, different appearance, problems with labels and small labelingmistakes, do we withdraw the party from the warehouses and stores. As a total for 2010, the ICA Group withdrew 920 products; ICA Norway, 57, ICA Sweden, 76, Rimi Baltic, 764 and non-food, 23, in stores and warehouses. Withdrawn products, the ICA Group 2010 2009 2008 Total number of withdrawn products & public recalls 951 919 759 Of which corporate brand products 363 440 971) 1) Includes only private label Our value-added products PR3 reported Global Compact 8 The products we sell obviously have to comply with laws on labeling and ingredients. All corporate brands are inspected to ensure that they meet these requirements. The aim is also to offer a large variety of eco-labeled, organic and Fairtrade products and to always apply environmental thinking when selecting products. Healthier eating habits for everyone Our goal is to be seen as a leader in inspiring people to eat healthy. This includes being a source of inspiration for people with food intolerances, which is a growing customer group in our Nordic markets. We are already an industry leader in products for allergy sufferers. In 2010, we modernized our Swedish ICA Gott Liv line, which includes around 70 products with more fiber and less sugar, salt and fat compared to other brands. In this work we use the official Nordic nutritional recommendations. Salt is a major issue, since studies show that a lower salt intake can help to prevent cardiovascular disease and high blood pressure. We will use the keyhole criteria as a guide regarding the question of salt. Another future challenge is satisfied consumers’ desire for fewer additives and less salt and sugar in their food without sacrificing taste and shelf life. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 31 Social performance PR Keyhole-labeled products In 2009, the keyhole became a Nordic health symbol and is now used by the entire Nordic food retail industry. ICA Norway introduced the keyhole to Norwegian consumers back in 2006. Through a series of activities and consistent information, Norwegians were educated to buy healthier food and what the keyhole represents. Thanks largely to ICA Norway’s efforts, there was widespread familiarity with the keyhole in Norway at the time of the Norwegian launch. Number and the sale of keyhole-labeled products in Sweden and Norway decreased during 2010. Demand has declined partly because of the public debate on the additives, and different diets. ICA’s private label products that are labeled keyhole does not diminish in sales in Sweden due to that ICA continued to label our products with the keyhole while other suppliers removed the label. In 2010, ICA’s annual “Buddy with Your Body – 5 a Day” campaign gave 30,000 elementary school students the opportunity to learn about fruit and vegetables and why the body needs them. Around 800 ICA stores welcomed classes to discuss health. Encouraging children to eat healthy is also on the agenda in Estonia, where Rimi Baltic and health authorities support a campaign called “Your Health Is in Your Hands. eat 5 handful fruit and vegetables in a day” Rimi is also involved in Latvia in encouraging students to eat right. Keyhole-labeled products in ICA and Rimi stores 2010 2009 2008 Sweden, number (sales trend) 1,158 (–5%) 1,373 (–5%) 1,610 (+6%) Norway, number (sales trend) 670 (–15%) 620 (+5%) 900 (–3%) Sales of keyhole-labeled products ICA stores in Sweden, ICA and Rimi stores SEK million in Norway, NOK million 10,000 10,000 9,909 9,385 8,000 8,915 8,000 6,000 6,000 4,000 4,000 2,655 2,780 2,000 2,000 2,371 0 0 08 09 10 08 09 10 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 32 Social performance PR Glutenand lactose-free alternatives To give food allergy sufferers more options, we offer a wide range of glutenand lactose-free alternatives. All recipes that we develop are adapted to make every day a little easier for food allergy sufferers. The allergy-free product range is constantly evolving and in 2010, the number of products increased with nearly 50 products in both Sweden and Norway. Sales in Sweden has increased by more than 50 percent since 2008 and in Norway, sales are also positive. One explanation is our commitment to include these products in price promotions and in Sweden they are included in the ICA cards personalized offers. ICA will continue to invest in further developing the range and in 2011, ICA will launch private label lactose-free dairy products. Food intolerance products in ICA and Rimi stores 2010 2009 2008 Sweden, number (sales trend) 630 (+7%) 586 (+44%) 493 (+7%) Norway, number (sales trend) 177 (+53%) 127 (n.d.) 140 (n.d.) Sales of food intolerance products ICA stores in Sweden, ICA and Rimi stores SEK million in Norway, NOK million 1,800 1,500 1,725 1,616 1,200 1,000 1,121 600 500 28 43 n.d. 0 0 08 09 10 08 09 10 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 33 Social performance PR Organic products Our organic corporate brand, ICA I love Eco, is now available in all our markets. The launch in the Baltic countries in 2010 has been received very positively. In Norway and the Baltic countries, ICA I love Eco is seen as an economical organic alternative and sells well despite that other organic sales have trended lower. ICA I Love Eco is also a success in Sweden and accounts for a significant share of organic sales. Products in the ICA I love Eco brand are certified according to the EU’s organic criterias or according to KRAV rules in Sweden or Debio in Norway. Animal-based ingredients in ICA I love Eco-products must be approved according to KRAV in Sweden or Debio in Norway, both of which place more stringent requirements on animal welfare than the EU. ICA Swedens organic sales have more than doubled since 2007 and in 2010 it rose by over five percent. The organic range continued to gain share of sales, partly to widen the range and in part because more customers are choosing organic. Baby food, fresh spices, grains and tea are some of the commodity groups in which the organic sales increased sharply in Sweden. In 2010, the number of organic items in our Swedish main assortment counted to 1,138 products, an increase of about 100 items compared to 2009. ICA Norway’s organic sales dropped by around four percent during 2010. This trend is also seen for Fairtrade and keyhole-labeled products. Reduced demand for valueadded products have been identified for the industry as a whole in Norway. Organic products in ICA and Rimi stores 2010 2009 2008 Sweden, number (sales trend) 1,138 (5%) 1,036 (+44%) 660 (+54%) Norway, number (sales trend) 426 (–4%) 563 (+14%) 500 (+21%) Baltic countries, number (sales trend) 771 ( n.d.) 461 (n.d.) 232 (n.d.) Sales of organic products ICA stores in Sweden1), ICA and Rimi stores in SEK million Norway, NOK million 2,100 1,500 1,940 1,844 1,400 1,000 1,277 700 500 1) Total organic sales are higher, since 113 128 123 these figures include only products supplied from ICA’s central warehouses, not products that stores 0 0 source directly from local suppliers, 08 09 10 08 09 10 for example. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 34 Social performance PR Fairtrade products We are in the process of broadening our range of ethically labeled products; Fairtrade, UTZ Certified and Rainforest Alliance products. In 2010, a new packaging design was introduced in Sweden for ICA’s ethical private labels to make it easier for customers to find them on the shelf and to spark interest in what the various labels stand for. Rimi Baltic launched a few of its own Fairtrade-certified products in 2010. ICA Sweden introduced a private label banana in 2010, certified by Rainforest Alliance and originating from selected plantations in Costa Rica and Ecuador. The first shipments are being tested in early 2011. The Swedish ICA store sales of Fairtrade certified products have continued to increase. Since 2008, sales growth has been more than 90 percent. In 2010, sales increased by approximately eight percent due to ICA’s continued commitment to expand and highlight the ethical marked range. In Norway, sales of Fairtrade marked products decreased. Reduced demand for value-added products have been identified for the industry as a whole in Norway so it is important to continue to make clear what these products represent. Fairtrade products in ICA and Rimi stores 2010 2009 2008 Sweden, number (sales trend) 113 (+8%) 96 (+78%) 51 (+61%) Norway, number (sales trend) 45 (–8%) 45 (0%) 36 (+26%) Rimi Baltic, number (sales trend) 36 (n.d.) 34 (n.d.) n.d. (n.d.) Sales of Fairtrade-products ICA Sweden, SEK million ICA Norway, NOK million 250 25 200 20 193 179 150 15 14 14 13 100 10 100 50 5 0 0 08 09 10 08 09 10 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 35 Social performance PR Our stance on E-numbers and chemicals The debate in Sweden on food additives continued in 2010. Many consumers find it difficult to understand what E-numbers stand for and whether they are really necessary. Our position is that they should be used restrictively and only if they add value for the consumer, e.g., by improving food safety. In accordance with current laws, we clearly label all additives in the list of ingredients, so that customers can make informed decisions. We are also working actively to limit the use of chemicals that could be hazardous to humans and the environment. In our agreements, suppliers must pledge to comply with our chemical restrictions. We ensure that they do through samples and inspections. According to the European regulation on chemicals, REACH, we are required upon request to inform customers whether specific products contain any substances that could be classified as toxic. Our goal is not to sell any products containing such substances. In 2010, the subject of bisphenol-A in baby bottles and other products received a lot of attention in Sweden. We had been discussing bisphenol with our suppliers of these products for some time. In 2010, we phased out all baby bottles, cash register receipts, baby food jars and other baby products containing bisphenol from ICA Sweden’s main assortment. Our stance on animal welfare and GMOs Our products must be manufactured under fair conditions. Animals should not be put at risk, and natural ingredients should not be altered without good reason. Products sold by ICA should be traceable to when and where they were manufactured. When it comes to fresh meat, we place stricter requirements on animal welfare than the EU, and we refuse to sell Belgian Blue breed of cattle. In the ICA I love eco line, all animal-based ingredients are KRAV-certified to ensure that the animals are treated with respect. KRAV’s requirements have been chosen because they are stricter than the EU’s organic rules on animal welfare. Our ICA Selection pork and free range beef are also a way to protect the well-being of animals. ICA takes a fundamentally positive view of new technology that provides consumers with better products. For ethical and environmental reasons, however, ICA does question the production and cultivation of genetically modified foods and seeds that are not produced in a closed environment . Genetically modified foods (GMO) and ingredients shall be kept separate and shall be traceable. Consumers are entitled to information on whether a product comprises or contains ingredients with genetically modified origins. No such product has ever been or is part of our assortment. Decisions on whether to include such products in the product range are taken by ICA’s management. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 36 Social performance PR How we are perceived by the customers PR5 reported We work systematically with internal and external surveys to communicate with consumers and find out what they think about us and our products. In the Swedish Quality Index (SKI) for 2010, ICA maintained a leading position among Swedish food retailers. The four Swedish formats all rank at the top against the competition. ICA Kvantum has the highest customer satisfaction among the formats. Customer expectations are higher than in previous years, and all the major chains have managed to live up to them in terms of perceived product quality. The gap is slightly larger when it comes to service expectations. However, service quality has improved since 2009 for all retail chains. SKI measures and analyzes how actual customers and other users rate products and services in Sweden. Its 2010 retail survey comprised 4,000 interviews. ICA Sweden received a rating of 72.1 in 2010, compared to 70.6 in 2009. SKI also measures the opinions of bank customers, and in 2010 it showed that ICA Bank’s customers are more satisfied in recent years. Measured by customer satisfaction, ICA Bank exceeds the industry average. The SKI bank survey for 2010 comprised around 22,000 telephone interviews. The Customer Satisfaction Index survey is conducted annually. In the 2010 survey, all four ICA store formats maintained a strong position in Sweden. ICA Kvantum and ICA Maxi Hypermarket ranked at the top of their lists. The 2010 survey was based on telephone interviews with 6,200 customers covering a number of questions. In Latvia’s “Brand Top,” Rimi came in seventh on the list of the country’s most popular brands presented by the ad agency DDB Latvija, the business magazine Kapital and the research firm TNS Latvia. Rimi also placed eighth on the list of Latvian companies with the best reputations (Reputation Top 2010). The list was compiled for the fourth consecutive year by the newspaper Diena in collaboration with the PR firm Porter Novelli based on consumer and business opinions of 150 companies. 100,000 customer contacts in 2010 ICA’s call centers are there to maintain contact with customers, stores and suppliers. In 2010, the volume of calls and e-mails from customers in Sweden and Norway reached 100,000. The questions mainly concerned our products, specifically nutritional information, ingredients, packaging and origin. Customer contacts through ICA’s call centers in Sweden and Norway 2010 2009 2008 Number of e-mails 52,181 50,431 51,448 Number of telephone calls 49,981 49,554 65,238 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 37 Social performance PR Codes of market communication PR6 reported ICA stores are not permitted to sell tobacco, alcohol or lottery or gaming tickets to underage customers in Sweden. We inspect independent Swedish retailers using undercover purchases to verify that they comply with the law. ICA Sweden’s goal is that stores will properly check IDs at least 85 percent of the time. In 2010, The total outcome of the inspections buying pharmaceuticals, games, tobacco and beer undercover was 83 percent. Inspections are made from two to 24 times a year depending on the format. Evidence shows that undercover purchases are producing good results. They remind the staff to check IDs. Through continuous information and training for store employees, we want to maintain a high level. In Norway, all the stores are now hiding tobacco products according to a new law. The ICA-retailers in Sweden are discussing a similar decision at a later point. Since 2009 there was change in the Swedish pharmacy market, which meant that the vast majority of ICA stores decided to sell certain non-prescription drugs. During 2010 ICA Sweden also opened 30 full-scale pharmacies under the name of ICA Cura in a number of major ICA stores around the country. In rural areas, many ICA-stores already has a history as pharmaceutical agents, and thus already offered drugs. The new pharmacy market offer great opportunities but also challenges for us as a food retailers. The Medical Products Agency (MPA) has strict requirements on how the non-prescription drugs should be exposed to prevent them from falling into the wrong hands. During 2010 MPA notified that ICA sold and advertised nicotine replacement products without referring to it as a drug. Steps have been taken to ensure that this does not happen again. We have an ongoing dialogue with MPA and see the regulations as a good starting point for the stores to ensure customer safety. In general, our sponsorships support the Group’s long-term business plan and emphasize food and health, social responsibility, the environment and sustainable development. We commit in various ways and especially in Sweden and Norway we prefer projects that target children and young adults. The sponsorship policy and guidelines follows the principles of the International Code of Sponsorship. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 38 Social Performance LA We develop with our employees ICA faces high expectations as an employer. In total, the Group employs people in over 150 different professions and 500 different positions, from systems developer to banker and pharmacist, from Oslo in the west to Shanghai in the east. Every day we have to adapt our operations based on our various businesses and local market conditions. We continuously utilize our policies and guidelines on diversity, gender equality and training. An important part of this work comes from leadership and the connection to ICA’s Good Business values. By maintaining a consistent approach to leadership within the Group, we put all our employees in a better position to help us reach our business objectives and to enjoy their work. About ICA’s employees LA1 reported LA2 reported Global Compact 6 In the immediate years ahead, our biggest challenge will be to motivate and attract the right employees for the long term. To achieve this and further strengthen the ICA Group’s employer brand, we took several measures in 2010. In cooperation with the ICA School in each country, we are reinforcing core competencies in sales, product selection and logistics. CEO Kenneth Bengtsson has initiated a network of young leaders to promote exchanges within the Group and to raise the knowledge and understanding about the ICA Group. The network has been in existence in various forms for several years and since 2010 is called the ICA Group Network. In 2010, ICA Norway launched a “Talent Program,” where employees with leadership abilities receive training to become store managers. Rimi Baltic has a Management Trainee program since seven years. A total of 38 employees have graduated and today works in different managers positions in stores and within the company. The program has given Rimi Baltic a good pool for internal recruiting. In total, the ICA Group employs about 28 800 employees. In 2009, a reorganization in Sweden was done in order to decentralize the organization. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 39 Social Performance LA Number of employees 2010 2009 2008 Parent Company 604 550 2,009 ICA Bank 294 264 258 ICA Real Estate 66 67 n.d. ICA Sweden 7,926 7,870 6,581 ICA Norway 9,959 9,490 8,940 Rimi Baltic 9,970 10,305 12,173 ICA Group 28,819 28,546 29,961 Employee turnover, % 2010 2009 2008 Parent Company 6 5 8 ICA Bank 4 4 8 ICA Real Estate 13 2 n.d. ICA Sweden 5 4 8 ICA Norway 22 27 24 Rimi Baltic 29 24 52 ICA Group 21 20 33 In addition, we have created a Group-wide leadership development program to ensure that future managerial needs are met and to call attention to opportunities for personal development and careers within the Group. Staff turnover and staff numbers in Rimi Baltic has declined since 2009 since the country was strongly influenced by the financial crisis, and was marked by rising unemployment. ICA Real Estate, a relatively small organization, where a minor change in the number of employees turns out in a large percentage difference on staff turnover. Wellness contributes to a good work environment LA7 reported Global Compact 1 A good work environment is created when leaders join with their staff to make the workplace safe and secure. To position the ICA Group as a healthy company, we stress early rehabilitation and prevention of disease and accidents. This improves the health of our employees and reduces rehabilitation costs. The sick-leave within the ICA Group is quiet stable. ICA Norway has the highest absenteeism but working with preventive wellness during the last year has improved the health among the employees during 2010. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 40 Social Performance LA Preventive wellness gives the ICA Group’s leaders a tool to effectively work with their teams. It also creates a dialogue with each employee on what they can do to improve their own health and well-being. Wellness options include massage, naprapathy and on-site occupational healthcare. Sick-leave, % 2010 2009 2008 Parent Company 2 2 2 ICA Bank 3 4 5 ICA Real Estate 4 4 n.d. ICA Sweden 5 5 6 ICA Norway 7 8 8 Rimi Baltic 5 5 6 ICA Group 5 5 6 Safe stores are essential Grocery stores are a gathering place for large numbers of people, from customers and suppliers to the store staff. Preventing accidents and creating safe environments is obviously critical. In Sweden, Norway and the Baltic countries, employees receive training in fire safety, first aid and how to prevent robberies and avoid threatening situations. Preventive measures such as neighborhood watches together with other retailers, authorities, municipalities and schools are also important. In Sweden and Norway, the ICA Group is in the process of implementing a common safety standard for stores and periodically conducts safety audits. The aim is to prevent internal and external criminality and create a safe and secure environment. ICA Sweden is working in several ways to support ICA retailers. All employees have the opportunity to enroll in an interactive online course on Store Safety free of charge. In addition, it is recommended that all stores implement a 13-point program to prevent threats, violence and robberies. ICA Sweden has also conducted insurance inspections to prevent damages from fires or break-ins. A coordination center in Sweden provides resources and crisis support round-the-clock if an ICA store is victimized by crime. In 2010, there was a total of 47 robberies in Swedish ICA stores, an increase of about eight percent from the previous year. Small stores were primarily victimized, and the most common type of robbery, and attempted robbery, involved a cash register. Number of store robberies 2010 2009 2008 ICA Sweden 47 41 35 ICA Norway 3 15 9 Rimi Baltic 0 0 0 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 41 Social Performance LA Performance and development reviews LA12 reported The ICA Group is trying to increase the number of performance and development reviews it conducts, and improve their quality. The goal is that all our employees will receive a review once a year. According to the results of the Temperature Survey in 2010, 76 percent have had a review in the last twelve months. To ensure that all our leaders have the same platform for performance management and evaluation, a new leadership model was integrated into performance reviews in 2010. Diversity and gender equality initiatives LA13 reported Global Compact 1, 6 An active approach to diversity increases our attractiveness as an employer. Everyone, regardless of gender, age, sexual preference, religion, ethnic or national background, or disability should have the same chance of being hired and developing on the job. We condemn sexual harassment and discrimination in any form. One indication of the importance we attach to this issue is that the ICA Group now have diversity manager. Since 2009, ICA Sweden and the Association of ICA-retailers have collaborated on a project called “We can do more,” which offers a number of people with functional disabilities the opportunity to work in ICA-stores and at ICA’s offices and warehouses. The other partners are Samhall and Sweden’s municipalities. The goal is that between 500 and 1,000 people in total will be recruited during a three-year period. By year-end 2010, the number was over 450. “We can do more” begun on the initiative of the ICA Group’s CEO inspired by the Glada Hudik Theater. The idea to help the people with functional disabilities to join the workforce originated in Rimi Baltic, which has been working to integrate employees for several years. Today Rimi Baltic Estonia has around 35 employees with functional disabilities in its stores and Rimi Lithuania count about 70. Share of employees by age group, the ICA Group, % 50– : 14% –19: 10% 40–49: 19% 20–29: 33% 30–39: 25% Gender distribution, the ICA Group, % Share of women among total employees Share of men among 36 53 47 64 35 48 52 65 34 52 48 66 total employees Share of women in leadership positions Share of men in leadership positions 10 09 08 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 42 Social Performance HR Global Trade and human rights The ICA Group sells products from around the world. We require our suppliers to meet our expectations in terms of social responsibility and labor conditions in production. The requirements are based on the UN’s declaration on human rights, UNICEF’s Convention on the Rights of the Child and the International Labour Organisation’s core conventions. Since 2008, the ICA Group is represented by ICA Global Sourcing in Asia. With a local presence, we now have new opportunities to build partnerships with our suppliers and audit that the production is done in accordance with our requirements. Our goal is that every product we sell will be produced in an acceptable manner with respect to human rights. We will not accept discrimination, infringements on the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, child labor or other human rights violations. This is clarified in our policy guidelines and in the contracts all our suppliers must sign. We monitor labor conditions in the factories that produce our corporate brand products as well as products we import directly, e.g., generic non-food items called “no-names.” In addition to the UN’s Global Compact, we support and follow other human rights initiatives, such as the OECD’s sustainability guidelines for multinational companies, the International Chamber of Commerce’s (ICC) Business Charter for Sustainable Development and the ICC’s anti-corruption and anti-bribery principles. Social audits lead to faster improvements HR2 reported Global Compact 1–6 To monitor and help suppliers that produce our corporate brands to meet our requirements, we conduct social, environmental and quality audits. In 2008 and 2009, the ICA Group opened sourcing offices in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Ho Chi Minh City, staffed by teams for product quality, environmental safety and social responsibility. Being close to our Asian suppliers gives us better insight and valuable experience that helps these collaborations. After three years, our efforts have resulted in a greater mutual understanding and better compliance with our social requirements. The job of our auditors is to verify human rights compliance. They also work preventively by reviewing our suppliers’ employment routines and discussing what they can do, for example, to avoid hiring underage workers and improve work environments. The ICA Group has its own control system, ICA Social Audit, whose requirements are based on similar criterias as the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). The combination of our own inspections and third-party audits has successfully sped up the often time-consuming process of obtaining an audit from a third party. Through the ICA Social Audit, we can help suppliers to more quickly improve human rights in their production. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 43 Social Performance HR Our supplier inspections are focused on countries that are considered to be a greater risk of human rights violations. The countries are classified as high-risk based on an analysis of the Human Development Index and the Economic Security Index, which are updated about every second year. We also inspect suppliers in other countries when we see a risk of human rights violations. For example, berry suppliers in Sweden will be closely inspected in 2011. With the help of colleagues from Asia who speak the right languages, we will conduct social audits during berry-picking season in the Swedish woods. Approximately two thirds of the production units, factories, farms or warehouses, located in high-risk countries and that makes ICA’s own products were socially revised in late 2010. In late 2009, the corresponding share was around 50 percent. In 2011, great attention should be paid to continue to pursue this work to achieve the goal of 100 percent of ICA’s corporate brand suppliers in high-risk countries should be socially revised. See page 34 in the ICA Group’s Annual Report regarding where in the world our corporate brands are produced. Share of socially audited corporate brand suppliers % 2010 2009 Total ICA Group 68 47 Increased knowledge increase understanding Providing our employees with training on social responsibility guidelines and routines is an important measure. Internal training is offered on a continuous basis to the organization responsible for the product assortment and sourcing. Sharing our knowledge with suppliers is critical to improvement efforts. During the year, we arranged a seminar on social responsibility in Shanghai. Several of our suppliers have also participated in four seminars arranged by the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). We use ICA Social Audit as a training tool as well, since suppliers receive support on how to rectify every violation we detect. All employees of the Group receive training in ICA’s Good Business and related policies, through a web-based courses. The aim is that all ICA employees in Sweden and Norway will complete the course. In 2010 22 percent have done so. Stakeholder dialogue on social responsibility In November 2010, ICA Sweden invited its key stakeholders to a dialogue to discuss sustainable development and working conditions for producers of fruit and vegetables. This follows several controversial documentary films on banana and pineapple plantations. The dialogue resulted in a concrete 10-point list of measures and activities to sustain the progress that has been made on ethical and sustainability issues affecting fruit and vegetables. Among the points are: • Improve and increase information in stores and in the ICA Group’s annual report to emphasize improvement work. • Bring up positive, concrete examples when communicating the social responsibility work being done in the supply chain. • Clarify the ICA Group’s long-term goals in terms of organic and Fairtrade labeling. • Focus on building capacity building rather than just inspections. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 44 Social Performance HR Human rights measures HR4 reported Global Compact 1, 2, 6 HR5 reported Global Compact 1, 2, 3 HR6 reported Global Compact 1, 2, 5 HR7 reported Global Compact 1, 2, 4 We regularly buy goods from suppliers in countries where human rights are not taken for granted. If ICA’s own auditors or third-party auditors detect violations at a production facility we use, a concrete action plan is established and followed up in a re-audit. The first time a supplier violates our contractual requirements, they generally get a second chance to correct the problem. If they do so to our satisfaction, we will keep working with them. If a serious offense is repeated, the cooperation with the supplier will be terminated. In social audits conducted with our own personnel in Asia during the year we identified a number of shortcomings among our suppliers. These are mainly concentrated in five areas: • health and security • management routines • overtime hours • the possibility for employees to join trade unions • minimum wage In twelve cases, the auditors identified serious violations in production locations that we chose to stop buying products from them. On the other hand, several suppliers have received larger orders after they demonstrated positive results and improved working condistions in their production. It is very important for ICA also to work with enforce and respect the fundamental right for its own employees. Based on the analysis of high risk countries it is seen that the risk of not respecting human rights is larger in some of the countries where our products is produced and therefore the report of our work within this area is focused within this area. During the year no incident regarding discrimination came to the managements attention. Our stance on child labor Our basic rule when it comes to child labor is that individuals younger than 15 may not work for any of our suppliers. If national laws have stricter limits, we apply them. In China, for example, the legal working age is 16, so there we do not allow employees below this age. We also require our suppliers to give special consideration to young workers (younger than 18) in terms of the right to limited working hours, for example. If we detect or suspect that an employee is not of legal age, the supplier is obligated, through ICA’s contract, to take measures to protect the best interests of that person. Together with the supplier, we try to find the best possible solution in light of the child’s age, education and social situation. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 45 Social Performance SO ICA – part of the community We want to be seen as a positive force in society. A strong local presence is essential to this work. We therefore participate continuously in debates and outside initiatives, in addition to sponsoring and supporting various local projects in all our markets. Guidelines for relationships with our suppliers and partners are contained in a business ethics policy. ICA’s new store policy contains the fundamental guidelines on how and where new stores are opened. Our sponsorship policy explains how we responsibly manage sponsorships. A retail network in balance with local needs SO1 reported ICA contributes to the community in several ways. We work with municipalities, regions and authorities in connection with new store openings. In Sweden, there is a connection through local ICA retailers, who own their stores and live and work in the local area. ICA is constantly refining the retail network it has built up over more than 90 years, so that it remains sustainable and attractive. This means considering the local environment when deciding where to open new stores. We also try to balance customer needs with transports to and from stores in a way that benefits the local community. For example, new stores are given priority along existing thoroughfares to avoid increasing traffic and allow customers to get to the store on bike paths or walkways or by using mass transit. ICA’s also tries to maintain clear-cut rules on new stores with effective decision-making channels that emphasize the autonomy of local municipalities. ICA’s dialogue and strong local connections with decision-makers, local businesses and interest groups are important to the development of the retail network. Strong business ethics provide a foundation SO2 reported Global Compact 10 SO3 reported Global Compact 10 ICA works systematically to prevent ethically questionable incidents and corruption. Business ethics are covered in the ICA Group’s overarching risk analysis, where every area of operations has been analyzed. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 46 Social Performance SO Rimi Baltic in Lithuania has joined “Baltoji Banga” (The White Wave), an organization promoting transparency in the local business community and fighting economic crime. Member-companies pledge to follow specific guidelines. Rimi Baltic is a member of the organization’s board of directors. The Group’s business ethics policy is based on the assumption that the ICA Group must be managed profitably and with high ethical standards. This includes how managers and employees behave on a daily basis and in contacts with suppliers, competitors and other parties. All employees of the Group receive training in ICA’s Good Business and related policies, including through web-based courses. Engagement in society’s decision-making processes SO5 reported Global Compact 1–10 The ICA Group cooperates with organizations and participates in networks focused on social responsibility, the environment, health and food quality. Our most important partners and commitments include: • We signed the UN Global Compact in 2004 and Caring for Climate in 2007. ICA has also pledged to follow the European Consumer Goods Forum’s sustainability program. ICA’s CEO is a member of its board. • ICA Norway participates in a CR network organized by the Federation of Norwegian Commercial and Service Enterprises, HSH, where experience in the CR area is shared with others in the retail community. In 2010 ICA Norway participated in HSH’s lobbying efforts to maintain the current law mandating temperature requirements for chop meat in stores. In Sweden, a similar organization, Svensk Dagligvaruhandel, is working to protect the interests of consumers. • ICA Norway participates in a network arranged by the Norwegian-Swedish Chamber of Commerce to strengthen relationships between Scandinavia and the Balkan region. ICA has, among other things, hosted a network meeting on taking responsibility. • Rimi Baltic in Lithuania has supported local farmers in their discussions with the Ministry of Agriculture to improve conditions for small businesses and has participated in discussions with the Ministry of Economy on making electronic invoices a mandatory business practice. • Rimi Baltic in Lithuania is a standing member of “Baltoji Banga” (The White Wave), which promotes transparency in Lithuanian business. • Rimi Baltic in Lithuania is also member of Investors Forum, a voluntary, independent alliance of the largest and most active investors in the Lithuanian economy. The CEO of Rimi Lithuania is a member of the organization’s board. • Rimi Baltic in Latvia is one of founders of the Latvian Food Retailers’ Association, which was established in 2010. • Rimi Baltic in Latvia has participated in discussions to amend the country’s Waste Management Law, where it has stressed the importance of maintaining a free market in order to maximize waste collections and recycling rates for Latvian retailers. • Rimi Baltic in Estonia has participated in discussions on “Fair price agreement: The euro will not increase prices” and a higher VAT. The Estonian retail sector is being carefully monitored by the public, the media and government institutions due to the euro’s introduction in January 2011. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 47 GRI Index with Global Compact principles Strategy and Analysis page 3–7 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body of calculations, including assumptions and techfor overseeing the organization’s identification and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-makniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and oper of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent the report. portunities, and adherence or compliance with insenior position) about the relevance of sustainabilternationally agreed standards, codes of conduct ity to the organization and its strategy. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restateand principles. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opporments of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers/ 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest govertunities. acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature nance body’s own performance, particularly with of business measurement methods). respect to economic, environmental and social performance. Organizational Profile page 3, 11 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precaumethods applied in the report. tionary approach or principle is addressed by the 2.1 Name of the organization. organization. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. Disclosures in the report. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other ini2.3 Operational structure Introduction. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to tiatives to which the organization subscribes or seeking external assurance for the report. If not inendorses. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. cluded in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as indus2.5 Number of countries where the organization any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization try associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations. operates, and names of countries with either maand the assurance provider(s). jor operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Governance, Commitments 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakand Engagement stakeholders with whom to engage. down, sectors served and types of customers/benpage 6–10, AR1 page 40–43 eficiaries). 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, in4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including frequency of engagement by type and by 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. cluding committees under the highest governance stakeholder group. body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting peristrategy or organizational oversight. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how od regarding its size, structure or ownership. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest govthe organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. ernance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 1) A  R = Annual Report Report Profile page 2, 12–14, 47–48 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board AR app = Annual Report appendix structure, state the number of members of the www.ICA.se/AnnualReports highest governance body that are independent and/ 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. or non-executive members. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). highest governance body. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the re4.5 Linkage between compensation for members port or its contents. of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including departure arrangements), 3.5 Process for defining report content. and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divi4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance sions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications boundary of the report. and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect compa4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or rability from period to period and/or between orvalues, codes of conduct and principles relevant to ganizations. economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 48 GRI Index with Global Compact principles Economic EN17 Other relevant indirect 8 HR7 Operations identified as hav1, 2, 4 Global greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ing significant risk for incidents of Performance Compact page 24–29 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimiEC1 Direct economic value generEN18 Initiatives to reduce greennation of forced or compulsory laated and distributed, including rev7, 8, 9 bor. page 44 house gas emissions and reductions enues, operating costs, employee achieved. page 24–25 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital EN22 Total weight of waste by 8 Society Global Compact providers and governments. page 15 type and disposal method. page 27 EC2 Financial implications and othEN29 Significant environmental SO1 Nature, scope, and effective7 8 ness of any programs and practices er risks and opportunities for the orimpacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for that assess and manage the impacts ganization’s activities due to climate the organization’s operations, and of operations on communities, inchange. page 17 transporting members of the workcluding entering, operating and exitforce. page 25–26 ing. page 45 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. page 21 AR app1/note 18 SO2 Percentage and total number 10 of business units analyzed for risks reLabor Practices and lated to corruption. page 45-46 EC6 Policy, practices, and proporGlobal tion of spending on locally-based Decent Work Compact SO3 Percentage of employees suppliers at significant locations of 10 trained in organization’s anti-corrupoperation. page 18 LA1 Total workforce by employtion policies and procedures. page ment type, employment contract and 45-46 EC8 Development and impact of region. page 38–39 infrastructure investments and serSO5 Public policy positions and vices provided primarily for public LA2 Total number and rate of em6 participation in public policy develop1–10 benefit through commercial, in-kind, ployee turnover by age group, gender ment and lobbying. page 46 or pro bono engagement. page 19 and region. page 38–39 EC9 Understanding and describLA7 Rates of injury, occupational ing significant indirect economic diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 1 Product Global impacts, including the extent of imand number of workrelated fatalities pacts. page 19 by region. page 39–40 Responsibility Compact LA12 Percentage of employees rePR1 Life cycle stages in which 1 ceiving regular performance and cahealth and safety impacts of prodEnvironmental reer development reviews. page 41 ucts and services are assessed for Global Performance Compact improvement, and percentage of sigLA13 Composition of governance 1, 6 nificant products and services categories subject to such procedures. EN3 Direct energy consumption by 8 bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, page 28–29 primary energy source. page 22–23 age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. PR2 Total number of incidents of EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8 page 41, AR1 page 42–43 non-compliance with regulations and 1 by primary source. page 22–23 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products EN5 Energy saved due to conserGlobal and services, by type of outcomes. vation and efficiency improvements. 8, 9 Human Rights Compact page 30 page 22–23 HR2 Percentage of significant supPR3 Type of product and service 8 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy8, 9 pliers and contractors that have un1–6 information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products efficient or renewable energy-based dergone screening on human rights products and services, and reducand services subject to such informaand actions taken. page 42–43 tions in energy requirements as a retion requirements. page 30–35 sult of these initiatives. page 23–24 HR3 Total hours of employee 1–6 PR4 Total number of incidents of training on policies and procedures 8 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect 8, 9 concerning aspects of human rights non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product energy consumption and reductions that are relevant to operations, inachieved. page 22–23 and service information and labeling, cluding the percentage of employees by type of outcomes. page 30 trained. page 43 EN12 Description of significant PR5 impacts of activities, products, and 8 HR4 Total number of incidents 1, 2, 6 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surservices on biodiversity in protectof discrimination and actions taked areas and areas of high biodiverveys measuring customer satisfacen. page 44 sity value outside protected areas. tion. page 36 page 20–21 HR5 Operations identified in 1, 2, 3 PR6 Programs for adherence to which the right to exercise freedom EN13 Habitats protected or re8 of association and collective bargainlaws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communicastored. page 20–21 ing may be at significant risk, and actions, including advertising, promotions taken to support these rights. tion and sponsorship. page 37 EN14 Strategies, current actions 8 page 44 and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. page 20–21 HR6 Operations identified as hav1, 2, 5 ing significant risk for incidents of 1) A  R = Annual Report EN15 Number of IUCN Red List 8 child labor, and measures taken to AR app = Annual Report appendix www.ICA.se/AnnualReports species and national conservation list contribute to the elimination of child species with habitats in areas affectlabor. page 44 ed by operations. page 20–21 EN16 Total direct and indirect 8 greenhouse gas emissions by weight. page 24–25 GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 49 Limited assurance report Auditor’s Review Report on ICA AB’s Sustainability Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish To the readers of ICA AB’s Sustainability Report Introduction We have been engaged by the executive team of ICA AB to review the ICA AB Sustainability Report for the year 2010. Our review is limited to the information related to 2010. Our review covers the ICA Group’s Annual Report pages 10–11 and pages 21– 39, and the ICA Group’s GRI report 2010 disclosed on ICA AB’s website www.ICA.se/ AnnualReports. The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responsible for ongoing activities regarding the environment, health & safety, quality, social responsibility and sustainable development, and for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. The Scope of the Review We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by Far. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. The criteria on which our review are based are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Company has developed and disclosed. These criteria are presented on pages 2 and 12–14 in the ICA Group’s GRI report 2010. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. GRI Report 2010, ICA Group 50 Limited assurance report Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and risk, e.g. included the following procedures: a. an update of our knowledge and understanding for ICA AB’s organization and activities b. assessment of suitability and application of criteria in respect to stakeholders need of information c. assessment of the result of the company’s stakeholder dialogue d. interviews with responsible management, at group level, subsidiary level and at selected business units with the aim to assess if the qualitative and quantitative information stated in the sustainability report is complete, correct and sufficient e. read internal and external documents to assess if the information stated in the sustainability report is complete, correct and sufficient f. analytical review of reported information g. assessment of the company’s stated application level according to GRI’s guidelines h. overall impression of the sustainability report, and its format, considering the information’s mutual correctness with applicable criteria i. reconciliation of the reviewed information against the sustainability information in the company’s annual report for 2010. Conclusion Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information in the ICA Group’s Annual Report pages 10-11 and pages 21-39, and the ICA Group’s GRI report 2010 has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the abovestated criteria. Stockholm 2 March 2011 Deloitte AB Jan Berntsson Torbjörn Westman Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of Far
