Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Excellence Across Oceans United Nations Global Compact Gulf Energy Maritime (GEM) PJSC Communication on Progress 2011 Gulf Energy Maritime (GEM) PJSC COMPANY BACKGROUND Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC can trace its roots to the Dubai Maritime Transport Company which was established in 1974 and was a wholly owned Government of Dubai Company. Shipping activities were very limited during these first years with a small fleet of ships mainly trading in the Arabian Gulf region. In 1993 Emirates National Oil Company (ENOC) was established in Dubai and in 1997 Dubai Maritime Transport Company was reformed into Dubai Shipping Company L.L.C. and became an affiliate company of ENOC. The company continued to operate in the marine field in the owning and operation of product oil tankers and managing the vessels of the marine bunkering operation established by ENOC on the UAE east coast. A Shipping Agency was also established during this time. The fleet was essentially small in numbers throughout the history of Dubai Shipping but operated to international standards of operation and safety. In May 2004 ENOC entered into a joint venture partnership with three shareholders based in the UAE and Oman with the formation of a new shipping venture named Gulf Energy Maritime (GEM) PJSC. The venture, headquartered in Dubai at the ENOC complex, is 35 % owned by ENOC, 30 % by Abu Dhabi based International Petroleum 1 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Investment Company (IPIC), 30 % by Oman Oil Company and 5 % by Thales under the UAE Offset Programme. The intended aim of this new company was to expand into the oil and chemical tanker shipping industry and provide a high quality operation to customers on a world wide basis. At the core of this venture was the utilization of the existing fleet of owned and managed vessels of Dubai Shipping Company and its existing team of people based in Dubai. On the 1st October 2004 the Dubai Shipping fleet was formally integrated into GEM and Dubai Shipping ceased to operate the fleet of vessels under that name but GEM continued to operate under DSC policies and procedures until GEM developed its own. GEM has a stated aim of continuous improvement and achieving the highest standards in the international tanker industry. Since 2004 GEM has received four new panamax sized oil product tankers (2005) , two MR sized oil/chemical tankers (2006) and three handysize chemical tankers in 2007/8. This has been followed by two MR Chemical tankers in the last quarter of 2008. Delivery of six new vessels, two further MR chemical tankers and four panamax product tankers in 2009. All new vessels have been built in Korea at either Hyundai Heavy Industries or Hyundai Mipo and this brings the current fleet total to 17 operating vessels with additionally two Aframax tankers due for delivery in 2012. This will bring the ultimate total of vessels to 19. GEM is accredited in ISO standards 9001 and 14001. In 2006 GEM won the Seatrade Energy Transportation award and in 2008 won the prestigious Seatrade Safety and Quality Award Middle East and Indian Sub-Continent Region. Additionally the Seatrade Safety and Quality Award was won in 2009 and 2010. GEM was recognized by winning the Lloyds List Tanker Company of the Year award for the Middle East Region and the Lloyds List Clean Seas Award for the Middle East Region. The Senior Management of GEM give the company integrity and leadership in all aspects of good corporate governance and the upholding of the high international standards of the maritime shipping industry. Our Mission Statement is: “To provide provide flawless marine transportation in an environmentally conscious, safe and reliable manner contributing to commerce but above all safeguarding people and the planet”. 2 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 The Mission explained : Provide : To supply or furnish someone with something Flawless : Without Imperfections or Blemishes Environment : Surrounding conditions Conscious : Aware , Knowing and concerned with external circumstances Safe : Uninjured, Secure, out of or not exposed to danger Reliable : Of sound and consistent character and quality Commerce : The exchange of merchandise or services for prosperity People : Persons composing a community or nation Planet : A heavenly body having a motion and uniqueness of its own We believe in and We practice our mission 3 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 GEM SHAREHOLDERS Established in 1983 as a wholly-owned company of the Government of Dubai, ENOC aims to promote the interests of its shareholders through the development of further downstream and upstream activities in the oil and gas sector, and beyond, in order to encourage the economic diversification of Dubai and the United Arab Emirates as a whole. IPIC is wholly owned by the Government of Abu Dhabi and was established in 1984 to invest in the hydrocarbons and related sectors outside of Abu Dhabi. Oman Oil Company (OOC) is a commercial company 100% owned by the Government of the Sultanate of Oman. The company was created in 1992 to give the Government a vehicle for pursuing investment opportunities in the energy sector both inside and outside of Oman. (30%) Thales in an international electronics and systems group, serving the defence, aerospace and security markets. Thales has been present in the UAE for more than 30 years. 4 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 GEM SHIPS Gulf Energy currently owns and operates a fleet of 19 ocean going oil and chemical carrying tankers ranging in size from 37,000 tonnes deadweight to 114,000 tonnes deadweight. They are operated to the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) Conventions and additionally under the laws and regulations of their Flag State (Bahamas). They additionally comply with individual regional and national standards as applicable. The Conventions, laws , regulation and industry standards cover safety of life at sea, environmental conventions for the protection of the global marine environment, seafarers safety, work and rest hours, human rights, training and certification. All vessels construction standards and ongoing maintenance standards are carried out under international Classification Society supervision. 5 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 GEM PEOPLE GEM people based on shore in our office in Dubai numbers 56 personnel. They are drawn from the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Egypt, Palestine, India, Bangladesh, United Kingdom, Croatia, Romania, Philippines, Singapore, Russia, and Chile. GEM encourages diversity and equal opportunity within its employees. Their skills are very much in the marine industry field but also include finance, business administration, information technology, purchasing, human resource and the field of international quality standards. Employment procedures are well established and controlled to ensure fairness, equal opportunity and strict adherence to the company’s terms and conditions of employment. Transparency is encouraged at all levels of personnel relations The company regularly engages in teambuilding events, engaging all employees and building up confidence in our abilities and strengths. 6 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 GEM PEOPLE GEM seafarers are drawn from a number of nations, India, Oman, Bangladesh, Sri lanka, Romania, Croatia, Ethiopia and the Philippines. Through their professionalism and hard work they meet the requirements of operating a modern ships in all aspects of safety, environmental performance, efficient and safe handling of hazardous and potentially polluting cargo. It is the seafarer who is at the forefront of the marine shipping industry. Their skill in operations , navigational safety and protection of the marine environment is to the highest standards. Our aim within the company is always to promote the role of seafarers in the global economy and ensure the standards of their work environment, safety, training and welfare is of the highest. It is vital to the progression of the marine industry that seafarers are not neglected but are nurtured and encouraged so that a career at sea is considered favourably by future generations of young people as a challenging, interesting and well rewarded career. Seafarers are vital to the global economy, shipping traded goods in bulk by sea, but they are also vital in protecting the marine environment which is a senstive environment but vital to the wellbeing of our planet. Their role cannot be underestimated and a high priority should be given to them in the shipping industry. 7 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 GEM’s HOME Dubai United Arab Emirates Dubai is a city that aspires to high international standards and provides an excellent base for a company engaged in the operation of a fleet of oil tankers. There are many marine support services in Dubai and the United Arab Emirates for the shipping industry and the country is a signatory to many of the International Conventions applicable to the maritime industry. International communications are excellent which is very important to the nature of the industry and assist in maintaining close links to our vessels and the seafarers who man them. Dubai, through its laws and standards, provides the right atmosphere to conduct our business according to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 8 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The “Global Compact” is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies within ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The ten principles are: Human Rights Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ; and Principle 2 : Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility: and Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 9 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Human Rights _______________________________________________________________________ GEM support of the “Save our Seafarers” initiative : Gulf Energy Maritime along with many other ship owners faces the scourge of Somali piracy in the NW Indian Ocean, Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea. This situation has been ongoing for a number of years and each year we see an escalation of the problem. Navies from a number of countries and groupings have done a very good job in fighting piracy but with limited resources and large sea areas to cover they can not eradicate the problem. In terms of human rights seafarers are being denied their right to pursue their lively hood unhindered and are being killed, abused and held hostage unlawfully sometimes for long periods up to 12 months. At any given time there may be up to 600 seafarers on up to 30 ships being held hostage and denied their human rights Ship owners and seafarers are calling on ‘people power’ to push their governments to act now and show the political will to resolve the growing Somali piracy crisis before it strangles world trade and before more innocent seafarers are tortured and murdered. The SOS Save Our Seafarers campaign, launched by BIMCO, the International Chamber of Shipping (ICS), the International Shipping Federation (ISF), Inter-cargo, INTERTANKO and the International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF), is aimed at encouraging millions of people around the world to heap pressure on their national Governments to crack down on piracy. They are calling on YOUR help. The Somali piracy crisis affects every one of us worldwide. The dramatic recent extension of the pirates’ operating area right across the Indian Ocean means that there are now no alternative routes to avoid the Somali pirate gangs, especially for tankers coming out of the Gulf. Ship owners and seafarers are re-evaluating their current determination to ensure that these vital trade routes remain open, and are going to have to choose whether to trade through this area or not. 10 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Merchant ships are being attacked daily, running a gauntlet of gunfire and rocket propelled grenade attacks from armed gangs of Somali pirates. Over 600 seafarers are currently held hostage on their hijacked ships. Subjected to physical and psychological abuse for months at a time, they are held ransom for millions of dollars. Yet even when caught red handed by naval forces, 80% of pirates are released to attack again. Why? Because the world’s politicians don’t realise the severity of this critical situation. The governments (Flag States) hold the key to resolving this crisis. But they seem unwilling to face the problem and act. Their brief to the naval forces is simply to deter and disrupt, unless it involves a national interest. Enough is enough. The Round Table of international shipping associations (RT) and the (International Transport Workers Federation) ITF have placed hard-hitting advertisements in key major international newspapers on 1 March 2011 to kick off the SOS Save Our Seafarers campaign which highlights the plight of seafarers and, with six specific requests, brings pressure to bear on governments to show more political will and fewer legalistic excuses in dealing with Somali piracy. Six specific requests Save our Seafarers is specifically asking for governments to recognise the threat to our seafarers and the world economy, and take the necessary steps to eradicate piracy at sea and ashore by: • Reducing the effectiveness of the easily-identifiable pirate motherships. • Authorising naval forces to detain pirates and deliver them for prosecution and punishment. • Fully criminalising all acts of piracy and intent to commit piracy under national laws in accordance with their mandatory duty to co-operate to suppress piracy under international conventions. • Increasing naval assets available in the area. • Providing greater protection and support for seafarers. • Tracing and criminalising the organisers and financiers behind the criminal networks. SOS Save our Seafarers The RT and the ITF launched a website for the SOS Save Our Seafarers campaign http://www.saveourseafarers.com/. Just two clicks and supporters can send a pre-prepared letter, signed by them, to their chosen heads of government. The website also has up-tothe minute information on the piracy situation, and an SOS TV page with film clips and pictures. Piracy is out of control – background As pirates use hijacked merchant ships (so-called motherships) to extend their reach almost to India’s coast some 1,500 miles from Somalia, the lawlessness has spread right 11 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 across the Indian Ocean through which half the world’s oil supply passes. Tankers coming from the Gulf and the Middle East can no longer avoid the pirates – and a hijacked tanker with 2 million barrels of oil represents 20% of daily oil imports to the USA. In addition to the human cost, piracy is strangling key supply routes and costing the global economy $12 billion a year. We rely on freedom of the seas for the safe delivery of 90% of our food, fuel, raw materials, humanitarian aid and manufactured goods. Shipping serves international trade and assists economic activity and therefore regional stability in neighbouring countries. This freedom to serve world trade is threatened and the human rights of seafarers blatently ignored. Quotable quotes “It’s time for Governments across the world to take firm action against the pirates that attack and hijack our ships. The current practice of releasing apprehended pirates without trial is a disgrace to our seafarers and to the international conventions. The upholding of international law and order is being grossly neglected.” BIMCO President, Robert Lorenz-Meyer “Pirates are getting stronger, more violent and richer every day as a result of inertia by Governments. On behalf of all the major shipping organisations, we’re calling for help from Governments to tackle this human and economic terror being inflicted upon innocent seafarers. We hope that by working together and encouraging support from the global community we can ease the current crisis of Somali piracy.” ITF General Secretary, David Cockroft “Piracy is out of control. The pirates’ extended reach through the use of hijacked merchant ships (so-called motherships) means that for tankers coming from the Gulf, there is no longer an optional route to avoid the risk of hijacking – and one captured tanker with 2m barrels of oil represents one fifth of U.S. daily oil imports. Governments need to protect the world’s shipping lanes by showing political will, not political indifference.” INTERTANKO Chairman, Capt Graham Westgarth “Politicians don’t realise the severity of this crisis. Escalation affects our seafarers first and foremost, but the potential effect on world trade and regional stability will affect us all. Governments can no longer afford to simply to deter and disrupt the pirates.” Intercargo Chairman, Nicky Pappadakis “We are drawing to the urgent attention of governments and inter-governmental organizations the recent deeply concerning shift in the modus operandi of Somali pirates, particularly where torture and murder of innocent seafarers is involved. The impact of 12 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 this growing crisis on the welfare of seafarers and on trading patterns has to be understood by politicians and the public alike.” Chairman of ICS/ISF, Spyros M Polemis The Rights of GEM Employees GEM’S Corporate Values GEM’s Corporate values are freely published and displayed in the company’s offices. Professionalism – Ensure that the highest standard of business ethics is to serve our customers, stakeholders and shareholders Integrity – Steadfast adherence to stringent moral and ethical standards (as well as legal requirements Teamwork – Constant ambition to always work together in order to achieve a common goal. 13 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Accountability – Bound to be accountable and transparent using the GEM’s system efficiently. Communication – Effective, open, consistent, constant and two way communication. Human Resources Policies and Procedures for Office Based Staff Human resources policies and procedures are set out in a manual freely available to all company employees via the company intranet. The manual is regularly updated to ensure best practice and compliance with UAE Labour Law. The manual is comprehensive and includes 31 sections dealing with all aspects of employment policy. The relevant sections are as follows : Section 2 : Manpower Planning and Recruitment System Includes Internal career progression Manpower plan reviewed annually Compliance with UAE Labour law Recruitment minimum age (18+) Employment action –CEO approval Section 5 : Conduct of Managers Includes Correct & Proper interaction with external parties The welfare and safety of staff Addressing and opposing racial prejudice The rejection of favouritism/nepotism Non display of favouritism/ bias re.sexual prejudice Sexual harassment Control of emotions with employees Threatening behavior in the work environment Handling of complaints and concerns Section 6 : Standard of Conduct Includes Personal responsibility Compliance with the Law Relations with the public Acceptance of valuable gifts and cash rewards Avoiding Conflict of Interest Work environment Disciplinary measures including employee rights Section 22 : Training and Development Policy 14 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Includes Non-discriminatory policy statement Professional development – learning and development Allocation to company cost for training and development Section 24 : Grievance Resolution Includes Need for good communication links (employee/ supervisor) Indicative list of valid grievances (relating to employee rights) Indicative list of invalid grievances Right of appeal Record of grievances in writing Grievance procedure with fixed response time scales Policies and Procedures for the Seafarers and the Fleet The Safety, Quality and Environment Management Systems Manuals 15 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 The manuals comprise of: The Safety and Health Manual The Environment Management Manual The Main Safety,Quality,Environment Manual (ISO Standards) The Emergency Contingency Manual The Operations Manual The Ship-Shore Administration Manual All manuals are openly available to all on board the vessel. The Safety and Health Manual The manual outlines the company’s Safety Management System as prescribed in the Safety of life at Sea Convention. includes : Promotion of Safety and Health Accidents, Incidents and Near Miss Reporting Health and Hygiene on board ships Personal Safety Shipboard Safety Familiarisation Hazardous Work Safe Working Practices Medical safety and Preparedness Drug and Alcohol Testing Personal Protective Equipment Matrix 16 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 17 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 18 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 The Safety Management System (SMS) as well as policy and procedures are internally audited annually on board each vessel and an audit report compiled including any nonconformities or observations. The SMS is audited externally by the ships Flag State ( or an organisation appointed by and on behalf of the Flag State). This is carried out on average every two and a half years. The company’s office is audited annually both internally and externally for the effectiveness of the SMS. Statistics are maintained on accidents and incidents within the fleet and circulated to all vessels. Safety Management Reviews are held on a quarterly basis at the company’s office to review overall fleet safety and the effectiveness of the SMS. GEM regularily attends industry safety forums and benchmarks safety performance against other tanker owners through the Intertanko benchmarking website. GEM’s safety record has been consistently good and this has been recognised by the prestigious Seatrade organisation with the awarding of the Safety and Quality Award for the Middle East and Indian Sub – Continent Region for 2008, 2009 and 2010. ( The lloyd’s List Awards shown in the photograph are for the environmental award “Clean Seas” 2008 and the Tanker Operator of the Year 2008) 19 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 The Environment Management Manual The manual describes the Environmental Management System (EMS). The company has gained the ISO 14001 Environmental Standard in 2004 and has maintained the standard consistently. Includes: Environmental Objectives and Policy Evaluation of Environmental Aspects and Impacts Identification of Legislation Environmental Planning Training, Awareness and Competence Emergency Preparedness and Response Environmental Management System audits Pollution Green Purchasing Garbage handling Cargo Vapour Emmissions Mitigation of Air Pollution Waste Reduction The Main Safety, Quality, Environment Management System Manual The manual supports the company’s adherence and accreditation to ISO Standards 9001 / 2008 and ISO 14001 / 2004 through the management systems and procedures described in the manual. Includes: Company Declaration and Scope Management Responsibility and Authority Company Objectives and Policy Planning Communication Management Review Provision of Resources Facilities and Work Environment Measurement Analysis and Improvement Certification, Verification and Control Emergency Preparedness Corrective and Preventive Action Safety, Quality and Environmental Audits Internal International Ship and Port Security Audits Risk Assessment 20 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 21 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 The Emergency Contingency Manual The manual details the training and procedures to be carried out in various emergency scenarios. Includes: Shipboard Emergency Organisation Office Emergency Organisation Emergency notifications Shipboard Emergency Drill and Training Personal Accidents / Injuries Rescue Action / Rescue of Survivors Fatality on Board Missing crew Members Abandoning Ship The Operations Manual The manual is a technical manual detailing all operational and technical procedures. Fleet Personnel procedures are included in this manual including grievance/ disciplinary procedures. The Ship-Shore Administration Manual The manual details many administrative procedures including routine staff meetings to be held on board. Includes: Implementation of the GEM quality system Document Control Experience Feedback Personnel Administration Routine meetings Management Reports Personal Conduct on Board Training of Ships Personnel All manuals are constantly reviewed by both office and sea staff. GEM receives “Masters System Reviews” from fleet vessels that comment and suggest changes to the policies and procedures as detailed. All personnel are encouraged to participate in this process to maintain the manuals as “live “ documents for success in fields of safety, quality, environment and operations. 22 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 GEM subscribes to an supports the Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF) “Tanker Management and Self Assessment 2 “ programme for continuous improvement in the following 12 elements contained in the best practice guide : Element 1 – Management, leadership and accountability Element 2 – Recruitment and Management of shore – based personnel Element 3 – Recruitment and Management of vessel personnel Element 4 – Reliability and maintenance standards Element 5 – Navigational Safety Element 6 – Cargo, ballast and mooring operations Element 7 – Management of change Element 8 – Incident investigation and analysis Element 9 – Safety management Element 10 – Environmental management Element 11 – Emnergency preparedness and contingency planning Element 12 – Measurement, analysis and improvement In each element there are key performance indicators (KPI) set out in 4 stages of continuous improvement. Tanker operators must assess themselves in KPI in each element stage and aim to continuously improve in each element ultimately to level four. Results are usually submitted twice a year on the TMSA OCIMF website where oil companies can review an operators performance and look to continuous improvement. GEM’s current assessment is to stage three in all elements. Operators may be physically audited by major oil companies on their assessment and GEM has undergone a number of such audits since its introduction in 2004, (2010 was the most recent external audit by an Oil Major). ________________________________________________________________________ 23 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Labour Gulf Energy Maritime upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of collective bargaining. The company only engages seafarers from reputable, licensed agencies based in the country of the seafarer in full compliance with all the laws and regulations of that country as well as international standards. No seafarers are engaged on a casual employment basis and all complete a formal contract with the company. Contractual employment is based upon collective bargaining agreements examples of which are given as follows: The International Bargaining Forum TCC Agreement for the employment of Indian Seafarers is agreed and signed between the company and the National Union of Seafarers of india. This agreement details areas such as duration of employment , wage scales, holidays and rest periods, repatriation, medical attention, sick and disability pay, insurance, equality and training. 24 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Philippino seafarers that the company employs are employed under the Philippine (Government) Overseas Employment Administration (POEA) contracts. The terms of the contract include duties, hours of work, grievance procedure, compensation and benefits for injury or illness, general safety, dispute settlement etc. Philippino seafarers or other seafarers of other nations are never employed on a casual basis. No seafarers of any nationality are employed on board company vessels under the age of 18 years old. The certification of seafarers is strictly controlled by IMO Convention and no uncertified Officers and Seamen are employed on GEM vessels. 25 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 All GEM ships are certified as being covered by IBF agreements acceptable to the International Transport Workers Federation. GEM supports the International Labour Organisations (ILO) Maritime Labour Convention (MLC), 2006 which provides comprehensive rights and protection at work for the world's more than 1.2 million seafarers. The Convention aims to achieve both decent work for seafarers and secure economic interests in fair competition for quality shipowners. An estimated 90% of world trade is carried on ships and seafarers are in this sense essential to international trade and the international economic and trade system. The new labour standard consolidates and updates more than 68 international labour standards related to the Maritime sector adopted over the last 80 years. The Convention sets out seafarers' rights to decent conditions of work on a wide range of subjects, and aims to be globally applicable, easily understandable, readily updatable and uniformly enforced. It has been designed to become a global instrument known as the fourth pillar of the international regulatory regime for quality shipping, complementing the key Conventions of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). The decision by the ILO to move forward to create this major new maritime labour Convention was the result of a joint resolution in 2001 by the international seafarers’ and ship owners’ organizations, also supported by governments. 26 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 18 of the required 30 states have signed up to the convention to date , therefore it is not yet come into force. Some of the key provisions of the convention are as follows: Minimum Age (the Convention sets this at 16 years old) Medical Certification Qualifications of seafarers Seafarers Employment Agreements Use of any Licensed or Certified or Regulated private Recruitment Service Hours of Work and Rest Manning Levels for the Ship Accommodation Standards On Board Recreational Facilities Food and Catering Health, Safety and Accident Prevention On Board Medical Care On Board Complaints Procedure Payment of Wages The international shipping industry has throughout its history been an employer of people from many nations albeit mainly those with a history of seafaring and having merchant fleets that traded around the world. On a modern ship you will find Officers and Crew from a number of countries all living and working together with equal opportunities of employment and advancement. The certification and qualification of seafarers has largely been unified internationally through the IMO and therefore there are no barriers to their employment on board ships of different nations. In the GEM shore based office the staff are employed from 13 different countries as diverse as Chile and the Philippines. GEM supports and employs its shore based staff and seafarers from many countries, does not differentiate on the grounds of nationality and is an equal opportunity employer. International conventions applying to the maritime sector strictly prevents the use of child labour. The United Arab Emirates has strict laws and monitoring powers that prevent the use of child labour. Gulf Energy Maritime upholds and supports all measures to prevent the use of child labour. ________________________________________________________________________ 27 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Environment 28 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Gulf Energy Maritime (GEM) PJSC, formed in 2004 operates modern double hull oil and chemical tanker fleet from Dubai. GEM adheres to the highest standards of environmental performance with a culture of ‘leadership by example’ starting from the CEO, senior management and company officials at all levels of its personnel. GEM’s environmental protection policy is strictly carried out through its Marine Safety, Environmental and Quality (MSEQ) department. GEM complies strictly with existing International (IMO) Conventions and in particular Marpol 73/78 (The International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution From Ships, 1973 as modified by the Protocol of 1978. Marpol 73/78 is one of the most important international marine environmental conventions. It was designed to minimize pollution of the seas, including dumping, oil and exhaust pollution. Its stated object is: to preserve the marine environment through the complete elimination of pollution by oil and other harmful substances and the minimization of accidental discharge of such substances. The original MARPOL Convention was signed on 17 February 1973, but did not come into force. The current Convention is a combination of 1973 Convention and the 1978 Protocol. It entered into force on 2 October 1983. As of 31 December 2005, 136 countries, representing 98% of the world's shipping tonnage, are parties to the Convention. All ships flagged under countries that are signatories to MARPOL are subject to its requirements, regardless of where they sail and member nations are responsible for vessels registered under their respective nationalities.[1] Marpol 73/78 contains 6 annexes, concerned with preventing different forms of marine pollution from ships: Annex I Oil Annex II Noxious Liquid Substances carried in Bulk Annex III Harmful Substances carried in Packaged Form Annex IV Sewage Annex V Garbage Annex VI Air Pollution Additionally GEM complies fully with regional and national environmental legislation as it applies to the sea areas controlled by them. For example our vessels comply with Special Emission Control Areas (SECA’s) as established in the North Sea and Baltic under EU regulation. 29 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 GEM’s Mission To Provide flawless, marine transportation in an environmentally conscious, safe and reliable manner contributing to commerce but above all safeguarding people and the planet. Investment in Green Technology Tin-free anti-fouling paint Type approved ballast water treatment systems planned. Measures Taken to Promote Environmental Awareness Strong commitment from the boardroom, CEO and senior management. Effectiveness of policy, planning and procedure assigned to a senior manager. Adequate resources to support and operate the fleet. Communicating the company’s commitment using modern education techniques, training, crew annual seminars with daily monitoring. Specific checklists for GHG, Ozone substances, waste management, water management and air quality. 30 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Benchmarking across the fleet. Conducting external and internal audits to raise awareness. Management Reviews quarterly and results disseminated. Training, awareness, competence reviewed of persons whose work may create a significant impact upon the environment. Office and onboard training of Ship Management Team. Environmental near miss reporting and alerts. Annual assessment of Environmental Objectives & Targets. Vessel Pre-arrival Environmental Regulations’ obtained and incorporated into ‘Passage Plan’ (Navigational plan for the vessels voyage). Quarterly Environment Newsletters Environmental Best Practices shared across the fleet The commitment for continual improvement ISO Compliance Attained ISO 14001:2004 Certification. Fleet and office covered by scope of ISO 14001. National and local regulations incorporated into passage planning. “Green Passports” incorporated into existing and new buildings planned. Achievement to stage 3 of the OCIMF Tanker Management and Self-Assessment. Emergency Response Strategies Monitor and review the fleet for potential emergency situations. Dedicated Emergency Response Manual. Dedicated Emergency Response Team on call 24/7. Dedicated Emergency Response Room with access to ENC world charts, wind, tidal and sea state weather service prediction, GMDSS and SAR coverage. 31 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Subscription to Lloyds “Ship Emergency Response Service “(SERS). Matrix of emergency scenarios utilizing flow chart bullet points. Scenario training and drills on yearly basis with fleet and 3rd parties. Media Training conducted every 2 years. Company’s Carbon Footprint and Measures to Reduce It Objectives and targets established for control of Nox, Sox, slop/sludge disposal, garbage generation, maintenance of sewage plant, loss of fuel and training. These are specific and measureable. GEM ensures that what we say with Environmental Issues we do.. We practice what we preach and we preach what we practice. The company has an annual audit plan that covers all vessels and includes ISM , ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISPS. The plan covers both internal audits and external audits. Under ISO 14001 a sample of 25%of vessels are externally audited but GEM internally audits all vessels for environmental performance annually. Environmental friendly technologies have played a big part in the oil tanker industry in recent decades and continue to do so. Although many of the changes are mandated by International Convention or regional laws the industry has readily implemented and supported them. Examples of the technologies introduced are: Double hull construction of oil and chemical tankers. Segregated ballast water systems. Oily water separation systems Oil Discharge Monitoring systems Incineration of waste on board vessels Hydrocarbon vapour return systems (reduction of vapour release to atmosphere) Reduction of NOx and SOx (funnel emmissions) through design, fuel efficiency and quality Improved hull paint technology ( improved fuel efficiency and free of toxins) Ballast Water Treatment systems (invasive species control) Sewage systems. 32 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Research and introduction of new environmentally friendly technologies continues and one of the most significant in relation to all types of ocean going vessels is Ballast Water Treatment. Currently the Ballast Water Treatment Convention is undergoing ratification through the IMO and is expected to be ratified during the last quarter of 2011. Once ratified and in force it will mandate ships to be fitted a ballast water treatment system to eliminate all microorganisms and larger creatures within the ballast taken on board a vessel. This means that invasive species such as Zebra mussels cannot be spread from one country or continent to another by the discharge of ships ballast at the end of the voyage. This is new technology to ships although some of the methods used such as ultra violet light have been used for water treatment for many years. GEM will be engaged in the fitting of treatment systems to its fleet of vessels over the next few years in accordance with the Convention implementation requirements. The choice of the type of technology to use to achieve the required standard remains with the ship owner. Finally GEM’s record on environmental issues and the protection of the marine environment is we feel a good one. We maintain statistical information on safety and environmental performance and a vital statistic to any oil tanker company is the safe carriage of hazardous and potentially polluting oil cargoes. In this regard GEM has not spilled any oil to sea in the years 2009, 2010 and 2011. ________________________________________________________________________ 33 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 Anti – Corruption In the Spirit of the Global Compact Gulf Energy Maritime does not condone corruption and ensures that its business is carried out in an atmosphere of honest and transparency. The company relies on two strategies to work against any forms of corruption: 1. GEM values Codes of employee conduct Written detailed policies and procedures Best management practice 2. The Audit Process The first strategy has been frequently referred to and described in this report. The second strategy is underpinned by annual audits as follows: Annual Internal Audit programme for Office, Ships and Manning Agents (policies and procedures) Annual Government Audit Corporate Statutory Audit by Government approved (listed) auditor. Internal Good Governance Audit by recognized international auditors. These audit processes ensure that the correct checks and balances are carried out and that the company operates to high standards of corporate governance and procedural integrity. In general terms the conduct of the marine shipping industry in terms of anti-corruption is good. Seafarers are inherently honest by tradition however ships can suffer low level corruption in some ports visited by a vessel and this has to be dealt with on a case by case basis. The shipping industry does however have to suffer extortion by the phenomenon of piracy and in particular Somali piracy in recent years. Ships have been hijacked and substantial ransoms demanded. Some countries government policy does not permit the paying of ransoms and discourage ship owners from paying them. The reality is that piracy in the case of Somalia has proved difficult to suppress and ship owners, many of whom operate under flags of convenience, have found themselves on their own when it comes to the safe return of their crew, ship and its cargo. They have been forced to 34 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2011 engage in negotiation and payment of ransoms. This goes against the spirit of the UN Global Compact however the scourge of this type of piracy continues. ________________________________________________________________________ In Conclusion: Gulf Energy Maritime (GEM) PJSC Statement of Continued Support 2011 I am pleased to confirm that Gulf Energy Maritime reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours, Captain Robert Ferguson Head of Marine Safety, Environment and Quality 35
