WESTPAC GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Annual Review and Sustainability Report 2011 01 PAGE 10 PAGE 12 WESTPAC ST.GEORGE PAGE 16 BANKSA PAGE 22 WESTPAC NZ PAGE 14 BANK OF PAGE 17 PAGE 18 MELBOURNE RAMS BT PAGE 24 WESTPAC O7 PACIFIC WIB Edignimi, cus, sunt maion nobit quasincto blandus dis adis et, seria. More detailed information about the PAGE 20 Westpac Group is available on our WIB investor website www.westpac.com.au/investorcentre In particular, we refer you to Section 1 of the Westpac Group Annual Report 2011, which can be viewed at or downloaded from the website. – Contents 1 25 31 36 2011 Highlights People & Transformation Sustainability Governance 5 Year Summary 2 27 33 38 2011 Recognition Westpac Group in Multiple Stakeholders Board of Directors the Community & Remuneration 3 34 Strategy & Sustainability 28 40 Sustainability Performance Product & Operations Scorecard Shareholder Information, 6 incl. AGM and Calendar Chairman’s Report 30 35 Technology 41 2012 Key Sustainability 8 Objectives Our Contact Details CEO’s Report Information contained in or accessible through the websites mentioned in this Annual Review and Sustainability Report does not form part of this document unless we specifically state that it is incorporated by reference and forms part of this document. All references in this report to websites are inactive textual references and are for information only. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 2011 HIGHLIGHTS CASH EARNINGS $6,301 Million, uP 7% % Mov’t Cash earnings ($m)1,2 ouR PERFoRMAncE 2011 2010 2011/2010 7,000 cash basis1,2 6,301 Cash earnings ($m) 6,301 5,879 7 5,879 5,047 7,000 Cash earnings per 209.3 197.8 6 3,500 7,000 4,675 share (cents) 6,3016,301 3,507 5,8795,879 3,079 Cash return on equity3 (%) 16.0 16.1 (1) 2,559 2,804 5,047 5,047 2,244 2,271 4,6754,675 3,500 Economic profit ($m) 4 3,578 3,438 4 3,507 3,507 3,5000 3,079 3,079 Reported Earnings 2,804 2,804 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2,2712,271 2,5592,559 2,244 2,244 Net profit5 ($m) 6,991 6,346 10 CASH 250 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE 209.3 0 cEnts, uP 6% Earnings per share (cents) 233.0 214.2 9 200 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Cash0 earnings per ordinary share (cents)1,2 209.3 Dividends per share (cents) 156 139 12 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 198.3 197.8 2010 2011 250 150 189.4 167.2 163.7 Return on equity3 (%) 17.8 17.4 2 250 151.5 200 138.6 Expense to income ratio (%) 43.8 43.9 – 123.8 124.5 100 198.3198.3 197.8197.8 209.3 209.3 189.4189.4 200 150 Tier 1 capital ratio (%) 9.7 9.1 7 167.2167.2 163.7163.7 50 151.5151.5 Asset quality ratio6 (%) 138.6138.6 150 6.3 6.2 2 123.8123.8 124.5124.5 100 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 100 50 sustainability 50 Employee engagement7 81 80 150 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 156 2011 Women in Leadership (%) 8 37.5 35.4 0 142 139 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 131 2008 2009 2010 2011 DIVIDEND 100 156 cEnts, uP 12% 116 116 Lost time injury frequency 2.5 2.6 150 Dividend per ordinary share (cents) ratio9 (LTIFR) 100 156 156 142 142 150 86 Community investment 135 136 139 139 78 131 131 70 50 – financial reporting 116 116 116 116 100 basis10 ($m) 100 100 100 86 86 Community investment – 155 116 78 78 70 70 0 50 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GRI reporting basis11 ($m) 50 Greenhouse gas emissions12 184,124 189,425 0 (tonnes CO2-e) 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 1. Cash earnings is net profit attributable to equity holders adjusted for the impact of Treasury shares, fair value changes on economic hedges of hybrid instruments, and one-off significant items not part of ongoing business operations. 2. Figures for 2009 (and for cash earnings in 2008 only in the ten year chart) are presented on a ‘pro-forma’ basis, that is as if the merger between Westpac and St.George Bank Limited was completed on 1 October 2007. Cash earnings for 2009 has been restated to exclude the impact of St.George merger related fair value adjustments. 3. Return on average ordinary equity. 4. Economic profit represents the excess of adjusted cash earnings over a minimum required rate of return on equity invested. For this purpose, adjusted cash earnings is defined as cash earnings plus the estimated value of franking credits paid to equity holders. 5. Net profit attributable to equity holders. 6. Net impaired assets to equity and collectively assessed provisions. 7. Employee engagement is a score out of 100; prepared by Towers Watson. The 2011 data was collected by Westpac Group using Towers Watson methodology under license. Excludes Pacific Banking. 8. Women in Leadership refers to the proportion of women (permanent and maximum term) in people leadership roles or senior roles of influence, as at 30 September. 9. Lost time injury frequency ratio (LTIFR) measures injuries per one million hours worked. 10. Community investment as reported in the Westpac Group Annual Report 2011. The 2010 figure restated to include a one-off $20 million contribution to the Westpac Foundation. 11. Community investment calculated in accordance with the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 12. Refers to scope I and 2 emissions in Australia and New Zealand. Prepared in line with the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act (2007), Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Certified Emissions Measurement and Reduction Scheme (CEMARS) for New Zealand. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 1 2011 RECOGNITION sustAinAbility custoMER PRoducts PEoPlE And sERvicE Dow Jones sustainability inDex 2011 eMployer of ChoiCe Recognised as a global leader for banks Money MaGazine 2011 ConsuMer The Westpac Group was recognised in since 2002, including sector leadership finanCe awarDs the Equal Opportunity for Women in the from 2002-2007 and 2011. Westpac Retail and Business Banking was Workplace Agency (EOWA) Employer awarded Business Bank of the Year for of Choice for Women lists from 2008 2011 Global 100 Most sustainable to 2011. Corporations in the worlD, the fourth consecutive year. announCeD at the 2011 worlD environMental finanCe 2010 blue ribbon list eConoMiC foruM awarDs 2010 Recognised in EOWA’s 2010 Blue The only Australian bank. Westpac Institutional Bank voted best Ribbon List for the third time running Trading Company in Australasia and for our support in advancing the careers Carbon DisClosure proJeCt 2011 of women. runner-up in the Best Finance HouseGlobal Top 10 and top scoring Renewable Energy Finance Asia-Pacific. asia’s best eMployer branD Australian banking group in the Carbon (Awarded December 2010) awarDs 2011 Performance Leadership Index for the 2nd year in a row and the Carbon afr sMart investor blue ribbon Westpac named as the Most Sought Disclosure Leadership Index for the 7th awarDs 2011 After Employer. year in a row. BT Financial Group’s Advance Asset australian siGn lanGuaGe worlD’s Most ethiCal CoMpanies Management awarded Fund Manager interpreters assoCiation by the ethisphere institute in 2011 of the Year; and BT Wrap awarded nsw anD Deaf australia nsw Investment Platform of the Year. awarDs 2010 Named as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies from 2008 to 2011. The Westpac Group was named Organisation of the Year for 2010. ftse4GooD (Awarded 2011) Included in the international responsible investment index, the FSTE4Good Index Series. Money MaGazine 2011 ConsuMer finanCe awarDs The Westpac Group awarded Socially Responsible Bank of the Year. 2 STRATEGY & SUSTAINABILITY – vision 2011 MARKED THE THIRD YEAR OF LIVING OUR VISION OF MAKING THE WESTPAC GROUP THE LEADING FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP IN AUSTRALIA ouR viSion linkS to SuStAinAbility to be one of the world’s great companies, our sustainability activities focus on the helping our customers, communities and issues that matter, to help customers, people to prosper and grow. communities and our people prosper over the long term. ouR ASpiRAtionS diMenSionS of SuStAinAbility · A family of much loved financial · deep customer relationships. services brands. · Supporting employees. · Recognised for enduring customer · Strong community connections. relationships. · financial stability. · A place where the best people want to work. · A leader in the community. · A great investment. ouR MiSSion ouR foCuS earning all our customers’ business. financing the future. our vision to be Great Our vision encapsulates the ‘heart’ of who we are and what we’re about. this year marked the third year of living our vision of making the Westpac Group the leading It reflects our commitment to the community and financial services company in Australia, and the role we play in society to enrich people’s lives. one of the world’s great companies, based on It’s about building relationships with customers building enduring customer relationships and that stand the test of time so we earn all their earning all our customers’ business. business. It’s about creating a great place to work, We are well advanced on the path of transforming with great people working here. the company, notwithstanding the conditions It’s about where we’re going and how we’re that were much more challenging than we had going to achieve our strategy, working as envisaged. And, we believe that we are well One Team. prepared for the expected challenging conditions It’s about living our values, and having them guide that are likely to remain in the near future. the decisions we make, every conversation we have, every product or service we provide, and every customer interaction. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 3 STRATEGY & SUSTAINABILITY – Strategy and approach “THE WORLD IS CHANGING AND PEOPLE NEED TO THINK DIFFERENTLY. WE BELIEVE WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO SHOW LEADERSHIP AND BRING OUR PARTICULAR RESOURCES AND SKILLS TO BEAR TO ASSIST CUSTOMERS AND SOCIETY UNDERSTAND AND ADAPT TO A CHANGING LANDSCAPE.” In a continuation of the strategy review companies in our region we have an must be on breaking cycles of social and process commenced in 2010, we sought opportunity to lead the debate and economic exclusion. Our aspiration is to more explicitly define our approach understanding of these issues. However, to share our experience to meaningfully to sustainability and how it is managed we want to respond in a way that benefits increase participation outside our across the Group. We looked again at not only our business, but our customers employment footprint. what sustainability means in the context and the wider community as well. The second focus area is an extension of of the Group’s vision, our brands and our work on environmental challenges. business strategies. This review has led to takinG a lonGer terM view We expect to see systemic disruptions a significant evolution in our thinking and of Materiality from environmental change and that the a new strategic focus. Our approach now In addition to our usual materiality emerging scarcity of natural resources formally acknowledges that ‘sustainability’ process, which focuses on the current as well as issues of energy security, is not a static agenda. Instead, both the reporting year, we undertook a separate and the continuing response to climate materiality of sustainability issues and our process to identify the societal issues change, will lead to systemic change in response to them will evolve over time, as we expect to become material for our the way natural resources are accessed new issues emerge and priorities change. operations and stakeholders over the and valued. Our focus will be innovative next 30 years. We focused on issues that business solutions to help customers ManaGinG the Current lanDsCape are emerging, relevant to our role as a prosper in the face of these disruptions. Our view is that if areas of performance financial institution, and where we can Our third focus area flows directly from or issues are material for our business have a meaningful impact, drawing on our vision. We expect that traditional or stakeholders, they should be already our skills or where we have or need to paths of wealth creation will need factored into our strategic planning and develop relevant experience. to change because long established risk management. Performance against Whilst it will take time to embed this new assumptions for wealth creation have these areas is discussed in the relevant future-focus in our business planning, and changed. In response, we want to be the Brand and Business Unit sections in this to develop detailed objectives, we have first bank to help customers achieve a report. Examples of these ‘here and now identified three initial focus areas. From sustainable financial future by advising issues’ include the management of our 2012 these issues will be systematically them on alternative wealth creation sustainable supply chain by sourcing addressed in our Group and business pathways and we want to advocate on teams within each country of operation, unit strategic planning, coordinated ‘sustainable wealth creation’ beyond our and the management of carbon risk by by the Sustainability Council, to build customer base. our institutional, business banking and a comprehensive program across the risk areas. Group. Our aim is that as these issues mature, they should become part of our anD shapinG the future standard business practices. lanDsCape Our vision also commits us to take a three foCus areas long-term view on the issues that will Our first focus area is demographic and impact future prosperity. Our new cultural change. The challenge is that strategic focus is therefore to anticipate demographic changes in Australia will and shape the most pressing emerging lead to unprecedented skill shortages, societal issues where we have the skills an issue for our own business and and experience to make a meaningful customers, as well as its broader impact difference. We believe the world is on productivity and economic growth. changing and that people need to With workforce participation already think differently. As one of the largest high and unemployment low, one focus 4 STRATEGY & SUSTAINABILITY LEVEL OF CONCERN TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS INTEREST RATES & FEES – Material issues FUTURE GROWTH CUSTOMER SERVICE IT SYSTEMS REGULATION EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT MULTI-BRAND RESPONSIBLE LENDING High Low & INVESTMENT CAPACITY BUILDING CLIMATE CHANGE FOR SUSTAINABILITY DIVERSITY & FLEXIBILITY SOCIAL IMPACTS FINANCIAL CAPABILITY PROFIT LEVELS TEAMWORK BIODIVERSITY INNOVATION SUPPLY CHAIN CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS Low High Material issues Multi-brand – how we ensure we keep our brands distinctive and respect customer interest Rates and Fees The issues that are currently most material to our business and stakeholders choice. See CEO’s Report, Brand and Interest rates and fees continued to are assessed throughout the year and Business Unit reports. capture stakeholders’ attention during feed directly into our governance model, Future growth – given global the year. and in turn, into this report. These issues, uncertainties and lower rates of domestic The global financial crisis (GFC) risks and opportunities are identified from credit growth, where we see future prompted a structural readjustment a wide range of sources, including a range growth coming from. See Chairman of wholesale funding markets, with of engagement mechanisms discussed in and CEO’s Reports, Brand and Business the increased costs of short-term the Multiple Stakeholders section of this Unit reports. wholesale funding hastening the need report, as well as our own benchmarking to look for alternative funding sources it systems – concerns about IT stability and strategic planning activities. for continued sustainable lending. and security across the industry Once identified these issues are and what we are doing about it. See In order to operate at a sustainable prioritised according to the impact on our Technology report. level, in November 2010 some of our stakeholders, our business operations and brands made the difficult decision Employee development – how we ensure financial outcomes. to raise standard variable home loan employees are given opportunities to This year saw changes in focus on develop; and how to equip them with rates above the Reserve Bank of particular issues either their importance the skills to address the challenges of the Australia increases, in response to the or impact developed further or changed. future. See People & Transformation and higher cost of funds. For example, the 2010 issue of the Brand reports. We continue to deal with this impact of the global financial crisis has challenge, by working to attract Responsible lending and investment changed with the redirected focus of greater customer deposits to – how to make sure we take account of our stakeholders to the more general diversify our sources of funding the challenges of our changing world by issue of future economic growth, and the as we transition to new prudential considering environmental, social and previous focus on the St. George merger regulatory requirements. In the last governance issues in our investments has now matured into consideration of year, the deposit to net loans ratio and lending. See Our Sustainability our approach to multi-brand. Concerns has increased 3.8 percentage points, Governance and BT Financial Group. about technology system stability across to 63%. the financial services industry emerged as climate change – including the challenge of reducing our emissions Banking fees and charges also a new issue in 2011. whilst growing our business, and received close attention in the As current issues, these are primarily context of broader Government transitioning our financing activities to managed within each business unit and deliberations on competition in the low emission activities and industries. See more information on progress made banking industry. In December 2010 Environmental Footprint and Westpac during 2011 is contained within this report. the Treasurer announced a package of Institutional Bank. customer service – how to build deeper reforms to the banking sector, which diversity and flexibility – how we included, from July 2011, the removal relationships with customers. See Brand build on early progress to ensure that of exit fees for home loans taken out and Business Unit reports. we continue to be a place where the after that date. Regulation – how to ensure we best people want to work. See People productively engage in regulatory & Transformation. discussions to create a better financial system. See BT Financial Group and Pacific Banking. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 5 CHAIRMAN another ChallenGinG but rewarDinG year across the larger Group, particularly in risk management and technology. TED EVANS W ithin a challenging international environment, I am pleased to report On behalf of the Board I can say that we are particularly pleased with the progress that the Westpac Group has delivered made through the year, and indeed over another sound financial performance. the past three years. – Report We have achieved this while further strengthening our balance sheet with a sounD result ted Evans Ac additional capital and liquidity, and Our net profit was $6,991 million, an Chairman continuing to lead the market in asset Westpac Group increase of 10 per cent from the previous quality and provisioning coverage. year. This reflects strong performances We have also continued to invest in our throughout the business (particularly in ambitious technology upgrade, known our retail and wealth divisions), improving as our Strategic Investment Priorities. We asset quality, lower impairment charges have now delivered around half of the and well managed expense growth. planned capabilities from this program, Cash earnings were $6,301 million, up on time and within budget. 7 per cent, with cash earnings per share December 2011 marks the third of 209.3 cents, up 6 per cent. anniversary of the merger with St.George. Revenue growth on a cash basis was up The merger was the largest financial 1 per cent, with stronger retail banking services transaction in Australia’s history and wealth performances offset by and has been an important strategic step lower trading income from more volatile for Westpac, lifting the Group’s scale to market conditions. Strong cost discipline a number one or two in most banking saw expenses up just 2 per cent, with sectors, with leadership in wealth and the benefit of our productivity program superannuation platforms. partially offsetting higher salary costs and The merger also helped the Group to increased investment, including the Bank become closer to customers, drawing of Melbourne launch. The cost to income on St.George’s strong customer oriented ratio, on a cash basis, remained sector culture, and assisted the development leading at 41.5 per cent. of our multi-brand strategy, with the The return on equity on a cash basis was St.George family of local brands providing 16 per cent, steady on last year. a new growth option – reflected, for example, in the successful launch this year of the Bank of Melbourne. At the same time, the merger has allowed us to leverage broader skills and capabilities 6 a leaDer in sustainability outlook farewell anD thank you At Westpac we see sustainability as a Australian economic growth ended In May this year I announced my decision way of thinking about and managing our the financial year a little weaker than to retire, effective from the close of business. It speaks to the culture of our it started, with demand easing on the the 2011 Annual General Meeting. I will organisation, and the way we approach back of lower consumer and business be succeeded from within the Board issues and decision making. We are confidence. Despite this, the country’s by Lindsay Maxsted. Lindsay is an committed to building a strong future for economic fundamentals remain sound enormously experienced and capable our customers, our employees and the with solid employment, well controlled director and I wish him well for his tenure communities in which we serve. inflation, more robust household savings as Chairman. One international benchmark by which and a strong banking industry. While the past few years have provided we can measure our success in meeting Globally, conditions remain challenging more than a few challenges, particularly our sustainability objectives is the Dow and the associated disruption in markets dealing with the impacts of the global Jones Sustainability Index. This highly has increased uncertainty and impacted financial crisis, it has always been a regarded Index comprises the top 10 per global and domestic confidence. privilege and a pleasure to serve as cent of the largest 2,500 companies in Growth in Asia, however, remains your Chairman. Among the Group’s the Dow Jones World Index measurement strong and will provide support for the many achievements during my time as in terms of their environmental, social and Australian economy. Chairman, there are two that I would economic performance. Your company has continued to perform like to specifically mention. One is our After being recognised as the global soundly and, with a further strengthened ambitious, forward looking, investment in leader for banks since 2002 (including balance sheet and market leading asset technology; and the other is the Board’s sector leadership from 2002-2007) I’m quality and provisioning, Westpac is well appointment of our outstanding Chief pleased to say that Westpac has regained placed to continue delivering high quality Executive, Gail Kelly. its sector leadership status in the Index returns for shareholders. I would like to sincerely thank Gail for this year by being ranked number one out her leadership, and her support and of 190 banks. ChanGes to the boarD dedication during my period as Chairman. Graham Reaney, who joined the Board It has been a real privilege to work with iMproveD returns for in December 2008 following the merger Gail and her executive team, as it was shareholDers with St.George, will retire from the Board with her predecessor, David Morgan. The final dividend for the year of 80 cents at the conclusion of the Annual General I leave Westpac with a strong Board, brought total dividends for the year to Meeting. We thank him for his highly a highly talented management team $1.56 per share, up 12 per cent on the valued contribution to your Board and and secure in the knowledge that the prior year. The increased dividend reflects wish him well for the future. leadership of our great company is in the our healthy capital generation and strong We were pleased to announce in very best of hands. overall position, and signals confidence September that Ms Ann Pickard will in the future. The Westpac share price join the Board on 1 December 2011 remained volatile during the year, but as an independent, non-executive performed broadly in line with the overall director. Her experience, particularly as a market, finishing the year slightly ahead of senior executive in global organisations, the Banks and Finance Index. Our market will complement the skills of your capitalisation stood at $61.6 billion at existing directors. 30 September 2011, making us the 16th largest bank in the world on that measure. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 7 CEO the year’s aChieveMents • Being recognised by the Dow Jones I t is my pleasure to report on our Sustainability Index as the 2011 global GAIL KELLY performance over the past 12 months. I am particularly pleased with the leader in sustainability for the banking sector and being recognised as the 18th continued progress we are making most sustainable corporation at the on our strategic agenda, delivering 2011 World Economic Forum. – Report tangible benefits for our customers, our finanCial perforManCe our shareholders, our people and our Gail Kelly communities. This supported a very Our performance this year has been Chief Executive Officer sound financial performance in 2011, underpinned by good customer flows – Westpac Group with increased customer numbers across with net profit up 10% and cash earnings rising 7%. our brands and increased numbers of Progressing our strategic agenda has customers with four or more products – seen us deepen relationships with our together with strong financial discipline. customers right across the Group, despite Westpac Retail & Business Banking the subdued economic conditions. benefited from our earlier investment We have also continued to invest in in the ‘Westpac Local’ initiative to technology and in our multi-brand model, deliver a strong performance, with including the exciting launch of the Bank cash earnings up 11%. This performance of Melbourne in July this year. was supported by good growth in Other significant achievements during the lending and fee income, and disciplined year have included: cost management. • The strengthening of our balance sheet, St.George Banking Group’s improved with higher capital levels and a $30 momentum lifted cash earnings by 12%, billion increase in customer deposits reflecting improved growth in lending and more than funding the Group’s lending strong cross-sell, particularly in insurance for the year; and superannuation. • Implementing the first phase of our BT Financial Group delivered a strong productivity program, which has outcome with cash earnings up 9%, from enabled us to continue investing, improved funds management earnings while helping to moderate overall and a higher insurance result, even after cost growth; absorbing the significant natural disasterrelated claims from the floods and • Reaching the halfway point of our cyclones in the first half of the year. Strategic Investment Priorities program, with benefits delivered to date making Westpac Institutional Bank’s result, while our businesses more efficient and sound, was down 2%, impacted by lower enhancing customer experience; and markets income as a result of the extreme volatility in global markets, offset to some 8 degree by the excellent quality of our lookinG to the future engaged, committed people. We lending book. The next phase in our strategic journey will raise the bar on leadership Westpac New Zealand delivered a much will build on today’s momentum in development and people management improved result, with cash earnings up our core business franchises to deliver as part of this next phase, including 41% (in NZ dollars) benefiting from its enhanced returns for our shareholders. our diversity initiatives. We have significant front line investment over We will do this by leveraging the made good progress this year on our recent years. While the Christchurch substantial investments already made in objective to improve gender equality earthquakes impacted earnings to our businesses and continuing with our we now have women in 37.5% of our some extent, the impact was less than targeted investment plan. leadership roles and we continue to initially anticipated. move towards our objective of a 40% There are five key elements to our ratio by the end of 2014; and future plans: strateGiC proGress • Balance sheet strength – it is of • Our customer relationships – driving 2011 marks the end of the first phase of paramount importance that we build even further depth and strength in our the journey we began in 2008 towards on our strong capital and liquidity relationships, particularly in deposits, becoming a truly customer centric positions and that we maintain our wealth, payments, transactional organisation. I am very pleased to say enviable record in risk management. banking and trade, and with a focus that our work to date sees us in a strong on our high value, relationship Although these five elements together strategic position and well placed to managed segments such as corporate make up a very substantial program of launch the next phase of our journey. and affluent; work, we are committed to seeing them Today, Westpac is one of the world’s through, and to ensuring that the second • Our multi-brand platform – our national leading banks on almost any measure. phase of our strategic journey is every bit brand, Westpac, goes from strength We have emerged very safely from the as successful as the first. to strength and from 1 October 2011 last four years of economic uncertainty our suite of regional brands – Bank of with a set of capabilities that distinguish thank you Melbourne, BankSA and St.George – us from our peers and as a much stronger I would like to pass on my sincere thanks will be joined by RAMS, our specialist company for the longer term. to the almost 40,000 people who lender. Each of our brands is managed Some of the metrics that demonstrate the make up the Westpac Group team. Our locally but supported centrally, strength of our strategic position are: sound performance during the year is a allowing us to deliver market leading testament to both their hard work and • We have an enviable record on risk service with high efficiency. In the their adherence to our company’s values management – whether the measure next phase we will further enhance – delighting customers, one team, valuing is impaired assets, provisioning cover the distinctiveness of our different each other, integrity and achievement. or impairment charges, we have brands, leveraging the customer choice outperformed and been a global leader; inherent in the multi-brand platform, Finally, I would like to thank our muchwhile obtaining the scale benefits our loved Board chairman, Ted Evans, for • We have an expense to income ratio his leadership and wise advice, and wish Group, as a whole, has to offer; comfortably below our peers and at the him and his wife Judith all the best for leading edge of banks globally; • Productivity – we will follow through his forthcoming retirement. It would be on existing, successful initiatives, such • We have a set of distinctive brands difficult to over-estimate the value Ted’s as our technology upgrade program, across banking and wealth, and our experience, wisdom and stewardship and we will introduce new productivity superior ability to link the two at brought to the Group over the turbulent initiatives. This will include optimising the front line means we have real years of the global financial crisis, and we our multi-brand platform by further opportunities for further growth; will miss him greatly. streamlining and standardising all • We are very well placed in our home common or shared activities. We Thank you for your continued support. markets – with the benefit of the have significant opportunities here, St.George merger we are No.1 or 2 in especially in mortgage and business most banking markets, with leadership lending processes. The end result will in wealth and superannuation be a higher quality service at a reduced platforms, and we are also the clear cost – benefiting both our customers leader in institutional banking; and and shareholders; • On capital, our common equity ratio • People – the key to better performance places us very well relative to others on across all our businesses is having a like-for-like comparison. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 9 EST. 1817 WESTPAC RETAIL & BUSINESS BANKING Westpac Retail & business banking (WRbb) offerings. As a result, we continue to enjoy is responsible for sales, marketing and the highest levels of customer advocacy customer service for all consumer, smallfor a big four bank in the commercial, small to-medium enterprise and commercial business and agriculture segments. customers in Australia under the Westpac Westpac held National Business Month brand. We are also responsible for the management of our third party consumer in May 2011, reaching thousands of and business relationships. businesses across Australia with hundreds of events and seminars designed to add Activities are conducted through our value to their business. In many cases we Rob coombe nationwide network of 857 branches spent a day in their business to better Group Executive, and 70 business banking centres, home understand individual needs. Westpac Retail & finance managers and specialised Business Banking We recently launched the ‘Local Business consumer and business relationship Sentiment Survey’ to assist us to better managers, with the support of cash flow, “WESTPAC IS financial markets and wealth specialists, understand local business sentiment and give our business customers important insights AUSTRALIA’S FIRST customer service centres, 1,924 automatic into, and strategies to deal with, local issues. BANK. FIRST FOR MANY teller machines, and internet channels. BANKING MILESTONES, Our continuing commitment to Westpac DaviDson institute – australia’s Local saw improvements in customer first sChool of Money SUCH AS ATMs AND advocacy in all customer segments. Our This year we launched the Davidson EFTPOS, WOMEN’S objective remains to develop strong Institute, a dedicated education resource MARKETS AND BUSINESS locally run regions for Westpac Retail to help all Australians access financial BANKING. WE’RE ALSO and Regional Banking with appropriate: education and take their financial expertise leadership; people capability and training, THE FIRST THERE FOR learning and development; remuneration to the next level. Through the Davidson Institute, Australia’s First School of Money, OUR CUSTOMERS and reward processes; and, decision rights we offer customers, employees and the WHEN THEY NEED US. and management information processes. community the opportunity to attend local THIS YEAR HAS BEEN business bank of the year in-branch seminars, access to free online TESTIMONY TO OUR Our understanding and commitment to our education, complete personal finance and business management short courses, as LOCAL STRATEGY, business customers, going the extra mile, well as nationally recognised qualifications DEMONSTRATING has contributed to WRBB being named in finance, business and management. THAT INVESTING IN Money Magazine’s Business Bank of the Year in 2011, for the fourth consecutive year. strenGtheninG our OUR PEOPLE DELIVERS Scoring consistently well across all award woMen’s Markets BENEFITS FOR criteria, Westpac’s Bank Bill Business Loan, Westpac is recognised by the International CUSTOMERS AND THE Business Choice credit cards, Business Finance Corporation for demonstrating COMMUNITY AS A One Account, Business One Cash Reserve and Bonus Cash Reserve were all named international best practice in women’s banking and we are the only Australian WHOLE.” as standout, flexible business product bank with a unit exclusively dedicated to 10 supporting women: Westpac Women’s helpinG CustoMers thouGh supportinG inDiGenous Markets. We were a proud major partner natural Disasters entrepreneurs of the 100th anniversary of International This year we stepped up to assist our As Australia’s oldest bank and company, Women’s Day on 8 March 2011, an customers affected by the devastating we believe we hold a special responsibility opportunity to reflect on past and present impacts of floods in Queensland, Victoria and in the community for the reconciliation achievements, and on how we can continue New South Wales. Our bankers kept their journey with Indigenous Australians. to create an inclusive and supportive branches open for customers to cash relief We support the Indigenous Capital organisation for all people in the future. cheques and we worked with our partner, Assistance Scheme, an Australian We provide women with education, Westpac Life Saver Rescue Helicopters, to Government initiative in conjunction information and networking opportunities fly in cash to emergency centres. We also with the Department of Education through a national program run across provided $500,000 in community funding. Employment and Workplace Relations, both metropolitan and regional Australia, Our disaster relief package was extended to providing loans to eligible Indigenous this year creating ‘rubyconnection.com. customers, and our bankers worked closely borrowers at subsidised interest rates. au’ – an interactive online community with local government authorities to assist in Many Rivers Microfinance (MRM) designed to inspire, promote and connect the administration of relief. organisation provides access to microall Australian women. enterprise finance to support Indigenous builDinG eMployee aDvoCaCy and non-Indigenous entrepreneurs. bankinG for the CoMMunity anD In 2011, recognising employees as a valuable Demonstrating Westpac’s commitment soCial seCtor customer base and advocates, we built to make a real difference for marginalised In response to the special needs of the a program to give them the very best of people and communities in regional social sector we’ve developed a range of our banking experience. Employee Week Australia, and our continuing support banking solutions to suit not-for-profit provided experts from across the bank for our for MRM, in 2011 we made a financial organisations and community groups. Our people to hear how to manage their finances commitment of $200,000 per year for five social sector bankers, since 2009, have and to get work life balance tips. Over 28,000 years to support MRM’s operating costs. been supporting community organisations employees participated, with some 68% to become more sustainable operations. reviewing their own financial situation. We businEss unit PERFoRMAncE 2011 2010 launched: a dedicated head office branch and Operating income ($m) 6,417 6,146 supportinG aGribusiness in phone-line for our people whose family and Operating expenses ($m) (3,102) (3,045) Cash earnings ($m) 1,949 1,756 ChanGinG tiMes friends needed extra assistance to get issues Economic profit ($m) 1,790 1,587 Westpac, with over 15 years experience, has resolved; and, Family Benefits, a banking Total assets ($bn) 261.1 243.7 been globally recognised for our capabilities package specifically for families of Westpac Deposits ($bn) 125.1 114.5 in managing emerging climate change risks employees, with 10,000 family member Net loans ($bn) 256.0 239.1 nominations registered since June. Expense to income ratio (%) 48.3 49.5 and opportunities. We believe, therefore, Number of customers (m) 5.2 5.1 that we have the experience and expertise Number of branches 857 857 to assist our customers’ transition to a iMprovinG CustoMer serviCe Number of business banking centres 70 69 carbon constrained economy. As part of our Building on the initial and significant 50% NPS – Consumer – Affluent -17 -24 regular dialogue with customers, industry reduction in monthly average complaint NPS – Commercial 3 -7 stakeholders and government, we consulted volumes in 2010, we made solid progress NPS – SME -10 -21 Employee numbers 10,441 11,663 with our customers and in-house experts in 2011, despite significant impacts such Employee engagement 85 81 to prepare a submission to the Australian as system/internet outages, to reduce Community investment ($m) 94 82 Government’s Carbon Farming Initiative. complaint volumes a further 29%. Social Sector Banking footings ($m) 8,210 7,107 AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 11 EST. 1937 ST.GEORGE st.GeorGe bankinG Group St.George has evolved over the last twelve months from a national State based and structured distribution business to a family of local brands operating under the divisional name of St.George Banking Group. st.GeorGe bank St.George has now transitioned from a National brand to a strong Regional our consumer activities are conducted brand in New South Wales and ACT, and Rob chapman, through our network of 242 st.George a challenger brand in Queensland and Chief Executive, branches, third party distributors, call Western Australia. St.George Banking Group centres, 662 AtMs, EFtPos terminals, and internet and mobile banking. St.George’s brand proposition is the “MULTI-BRAND IS ABOUT Business and corporate customers are ‘people’s bank’, providing a personal style of service and being the number one CUSTOMER CHOICE AND provided with the full range of banking alternative to the majors. RECOGNISING CUSTOMERS and financial products and services, The universal truth that people want including specialist advice for Cash Flow HAVE CERTAIN Finance, Trade Finance, Automotive and to get ahead and ‘Do better’, is at the PREFERENCES AS TO Equipment Finance, Property Finance, heart of the refreshed St.George brand WHERE THEY CONDUCT Transaction Banking and Treasury launched in September. THEIR BANKING. NEARLY Services. Sales and service activities for As the people’s bank, St.George is well business and corporate customers are placed to help customers do better by 50% OF AUSTRALIANS conducted by relationship managers via delivering innovative solutions to help WOULD PREFER TO DEAL 34 business banking centres, and internet them make the most of their money. WITH A LOCAL, REGIONAL and telephone channels. Cross-sell of wealth proDuCts BANK. THE ST.GEORGE the branD Wealth cross-sales performance has been BANKING GROUP Since the merger with Westpac, a major focus this year, leveraging the SATISFIES THAT NEED St.George Bank (St.George) has strength and resources of BT Financial WITH THREE RESPECTED maintained its leading customer Group’s suite of products and services BRANDS (BANK OF satisfaction and advocacy levels and has to satisfy the needs of customers for risk grown customer numbers. protection and managing their retirement MELBOURNE, BANKSA & savings. Cross-sell of superannuation, Following the merger and through the ST.GEORGE) AND, FROM global financial crisis, it was important insurance and other wealth products OCTOBER 2011, RAMS, to promote St.George as a brand that improved significantly in the second half WHICH CATERS TO THOSE is ‘Big Enough and Small Enough’ – of this year. WHO WOULD PREFER TO leveraging the strength and stability of branCh optiMisation the wider Westpac Group, while offering DEAL WITH A SPECIALIST the personal, friendly service for which Customer experience remained a strong LENDER.” St.George is renowned. focus for St.George this year, with a 12 number of initiatives implemented in cards online and extended our business informed decisions about their spending branches to standardise customer and banking online service to customers using and borrowing. It covers: identifying sales processes, to improve efficiency and Apple Macintosh. income and expenses; differentiating customer service. Many of our ideas and enhancements in between needs and wants; setting up a As a result, in the branches re-engineered mobile and online banking have come budget; understanding the costs involved so far (30%), we have improved our directly as a result of customer feedback, in credit card use and other forms of customer queue waiting times by up to through our new online ‘voice of the borrowing; and how to save. 13%; lifted teller productivity by 28%; and customer’ tool. The financial literacy program will be increased sales per branch staff member promoted through local community by 25%. Our Net Promoter Score (which CoMMunity centres and organisations in Sydney and reflects our customers’ preparedness The St.George Foundation continued Newcastle, government agencies and to recommend St.George to their its important work, helping build Wesley Mission’s own community services. family and friends) has also improved in a secure future for disadvantaged re-engineered branches by 41%. children by investing in projects run by Disaster support – QueenslanD small community-based organisations flooD relief eChannels to improve the lives of Aussie kids St.George has a long history of St.George continues to innovate in who are physically, socially or supporting customers and communities the online space, with significant economically disadvantaged. affected by disasters, and this year improvements in access, capability and In 2011, this commitment to the ‘little responded quickly to the devastating service experience for customers. We guys’ saw the Foundation fund projects in Queensland floods. St.George activated offer the widest range of mobile banking 109 different communities and delivered its financial assistance package for applications with rich functionality, programs worth $1.8 million to the kids affected customers and donated including the ability to transfer funds who need them most. $250,000 to the Queensland Premier’s overseas (an Australian first). More than Flood Relief Appeal. 25% of our online customer base use St.George made a donation of $1 million mobile banking, which has driven a 15% to the Foundation this year and absorbs businEss unit PERFoRMAncE1 2011 2010 increase in mobile log-ins per month and all of its administration costs, meaning all Operating income ($m) 3,369 3,240 funds raised are used to directly benefit Operating expenses ($m) (1,313) (1,242) strong customer advocacy levels. Cash earnings ($m) 1,167 1,041 children in need. Economic profit ($m) 952 769 We have also increased our online Total assets ($bn) 135.5 134.0 footprint through our presence on finanCial literaCy Deposits ($bn) 70.8 65.6 major social networking sites, including St.George this year launched a Net loans ($bn) 128.1 126.8 Facebook and Twitter, which has provided partnership with Wesley Mission to deliver Expense to income ratio (%) 39.0 38.3 customers additional ways of interacting a new user-friendly financial literacy Number of customers (m) 2.70 2.66 Number of branches 417 405 with us. education program, aimed at alleviating Number of business banking centres 47 52 This year St.George improved its online financial stress by helping people take NPS – Consumer -2 -4 credentials in deposit and home loan control of their money. NPS – Business -5 3 processing through a new website with Employee numbers 4,998 5,518 The program, ‘In charge of my money’, Employee engagement 78 81 simplified navigation, enhanced customer assists communities, groups and Community investment ($m) 26 18 tools and improved design. We also individuals to be able to make more 1 All data includes St.George Bank, Bank of added the ability to report lost and stolen Melbourne and BankSA. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 13 EST. 2011 BANK OF MELBOURNE “VICTORIANS WANT AND DESERVE THEIR OWN BANK. BANK OF MELBOURNE CAN DELIVER A TRULY DIFFERENTIATED, LOCAL BANKING ExPERIENCE. WE CAN BE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE AND HAVE STRUCTURED THE BUSINESS TO MAKE DECISIONS LOCALLY. WE OFFER THE PEOPLE OF VICTORIA A FRESH AND INNOVATIVE APPROACH TO BANKING WITH PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS DESIGNED BY scott tanner, VICTORIANS TO PROVIDE A TRULY LOCAL BANKING ExPERIENCE.” Chief Executive, Bank of Melbourne bank of Melbourne opened its doors for business loCally ConneCteD on 25 July 2011 with 50 branches, six corporate We also have a locally based Advisory Board, banking centres and 116 AtMs across the state, with prominent, experienced Melbournians and plans to add 85 new branches and 200 AtMs appointed to ensure that we stay close to the over the next four years. pulse of Melbourne and Victoria, the business We are making banking quicker and easier for community, and opportunities that may emerge in customers by investing in our branch network, the local market. and the number of staff and ATMs to help meet customers’ banking needs. Along with our internet loCally responsive banking services and mobile applications, this Bank of Melbourne has locally-based teams means that customers can interact with us in who make decisions on products and services, the way that is most convenient for them. Our pricing, credit and distribution, which means branches are different to other banks, designed more competitive solutions and quicker decisions for easy interaction to improve the customer for customers. Local branch managers are experience and give them quick access to relevant empowered to make decisions locally, including information, with open plan formats that bring their hours of operation and can extend opening staff ‘front of house’ and internet banking booths hours to meet their customers’ needs. that free up staff to focus on customer needs. They are supported by technology solutions including ‘smart’ ATMs in branch and automated coin counters. 14 passionate people We aim to attract and hire Victoria’s best and brightest people who are passionate about their State and their local community. Between March and September, we received 12,250 job applications – with 130 new people joining us. At the same time we invested over 7,000 hours of training and development in all of our people. loCal investMent Since March 2011 we have also opened 14 new branches and a customer contact centre in the heart of Melbourne. The centre, opened on 7 July 2011, currently has around 50 staff and with plans to grow to 125 staff over the next two to three years. All Bank of Melbourne staff, including our customer contact centre team, live in Victoria and are close to what’s happening in businesses and communities across the State, enabling us to deliver customers a superior level of service. Our substantial investment, our Victorian leadership team, and customer contact centre, demonstrate the strength of our Westpac CEO Gail Kelly, Bank of commitment to the State and its local Melbourne Chief Executive Scott Tanner communities and we have seen very (centre) and The Hon. Ted Baillieu encouraging support since opening, a Premier of Victoria ensuring greater banking competition. testament to our highly energised staff. Fairfax Syndication AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 15 EST. 1848 BANKSA BankSA’s Tara Glennie and Joe Byrt inspect the Bank’s new electric car. Established in 1848, banksA prides itself We have also expanded the accessibility on being close to its customers. With the of our mobile phone banking technology largest distribution network in sA, at 125 to include Android, Windows Phone 7 and branches, 183 AtMs and 79 electronic Blackberry (6Series+) phone users. agencies, including four branches and four AtMs in the northern territory. We CreatinG eMployMent truly are close in a geographic sense opportunities for inDiGenous australians our approaCh In January a number of Indigenous year Jane Kittel, BankSA’s strategy is to be close to 11 and 12 high school students began a Managing Director, customers, through local knowledge traineeship in a diversity program, which BankSA and local decision-making. We provide was the first of its type run by BankSA. expert local economic insights through The students continue their school “BANKSA IS PART OF ‘BankSA Trends’ economic bulletins and studies but also undertake workplace THE FABRIC OF SOUTH ‘State Monitor’ surveys of consumer and business confidence. Integral to our local experience for up to one day a week AUSTRALIA, WORKING commitment is our involvement in more during a 12-month period at six branches in South Australia and the WITH OUR CUSTOMERS than 500 grass-roots community events Northern Territory. AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES and initiatives each year. TO BUILD A PROSPEROUS This year we refreshed our school CelebratinG 70 years of our FUTURE. WE ARE A banking program, under the banner of LittleSavers, which reinforces to people supportinG loCal CoMMunities POWERFUL BRAND WITH schoolchildren the value of saving The BankSA and Staff Charitable Fund, STRONG INVOLVEMENT IN and is an important link to our originally established to provide gift THE COMMUNITY, AND AN local communities. parcels to colleagues serving in the armed ExTENSIVE DISTRIBUTION usinG teChnoloGy to ConneCt forces in World War II, celebrates its 70th anniversary this year. BankSA branches NETWORK ACROSS THE with CustoMers will have local charity displays and the STATE. WE KNOW SOUTH We have installed technology, in Fund is sending a modern-day version of AUSTRALIA, AND WITH conjunction with BT Financial Group, at a comfort parcel to some of our military our Darwin and Roxby Downs branches LOCAL ExPERTISE AND enabling customers in more remote officers currently serving overseas. DECISION MAKING, WE’RE locations to talk to a city-based financial Over those seven decades, the Fund has consistently contributed to the THE FIRST CHOICE IN planner via video-link using real-time community and charities in South BANKING FOR MORE technology – as if they were attending Australia, making donations to more the consultation in person. It enhances SOUTH AUSTRALIANS.” service and reduces our travel and than 100 charities and organisations each year. This year those donations footprint needs – Roxby Downs is 560 totalled $175,000. kilometres north of Adelaide. 16 EST. 1991 RAMS RAMs is an Australian-based home loan Franchise Conference, operational focus franchise distribution business. this groups, and regular meetings between year we have continued to focus on franchisees and our senior management. growing the franchise channel, bringing In response to feedback from the RAMS on six new franchisees, expanding franchise network we delivered a number our footprint to 55 franchisees across Australia, with 69 owner-operated Home of improvements throughout 2011 to loan centres. We also opened our first help them be more productive and grow Home loan centre in south Australia, their customer base. These included based in the southern vales area. upgrades to the RAMS Home Loan Melos sulicich application system, new monthly reports Chief Executive, RAMS plays a key role in the Westpac on key business metrics, new local area RAMS Group’s multi-brand platform by marketing tools, and the promotion of appealing to customers who might not local Home Loan Centres through the “THE ICONIC RAMS choose a major or a regional bank. We RAMS website. have had great success, focusing on BRAND IS WELL KNOWN first home buyers, investors and the responDinG to the reGulatory FOR BEING SIMPLE AND self-employed and are well positioned reforM aGenDa REAL FOR EVERYDAY to meet more of our customers’ financial During 2011 we provided comprehensive AUSTRALIANS. WITH needs and to grow our share through new training to our network on additional products and services. OUR REPUTATION obligations under the National Credit Consumer Protection (NCCP) Act and FOR INNOVATIVE AND GrowinG our loCal footprint automated a number of tools in the COMPETITIVELY PRICED RAMS franchisees are chosen for their home loan application process to make PRODUCTS DELIVERED integrity, extensive industry or business it simpler to meet Responsible Lending experience and commitment to customer THROUGH A GROWING service excellence. We continue to receive requirements. In addition, we removed mortgage exit fees from all new loan NETWORK OF LOCAL a steady number of enquiries from people agreements issued on or after 16 May HOME LOAN CENTRES, seeking to run a local RAMS franchise. 2011, in line with new regulations. WE WILL CONTINUE TO enGaGinG our franChise network We have also developed an information ATTRACT CUSTOMERS Integral to the success of our franchise sheet outlining details of our external SEEKING A GENUINE model, and in meeting customers’ dispute resolution (EDR) scheme, which RAMS Authorised Credit Representatives ALTERNATIVE TO THE needs, is our commitment to listening now provide to customers before MAJOR BANKS.” to, consulting and engaging with our franchisees. Key is the RAMS Franchise providing credit assistance. Advisory Council, comprising elected RAMS franchisees from each State, which meets quarterly to provide feedback and input into the operation of the franchise channel. Other forums include the annual AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 17 EST. 1969 BT FINANCIAL GROUP bt Financial Group is the wealth teams worked tirelessly to fast track our management arm of the Westpac Group. claims processing. Ninety per cent of our offering includes investment, the more than 6,000 claims we received superannuation and retirement in relation to Cyclone Yasi and the 2011 products, investment administration floods in Queensland and Victoria were services, financial advice, private processed within 30 days of lodgement. banking and insurance solutions from some of Australia’s most trusted and During August’s extraordinary market respected financial services brands. volatility we were again there for our customers, receiving more customer calls brad cooper, BT Financial Group’s brands include: than at the height of the global financial Chief Executive Officer, Advance, Ascalon, Asgard, BT Investment crisis. Our disciplined focus on delivering BT Financial Group Management (64.5% owned by the investment performance, of ultimate Westpac Group), Licensee Select, importance to our investors and super “NEVER HAS THERE BEEN Magnitude, Securitor and the advice, members, resulted in Advance Asset A MORE IMPORTANT TIME private banking and insurance operations Management (Advance) being named of Bank of Melbourne, BankSA, St.George, TO HELP AUSTRALIANS and Westpac Retail & Business Banking. Financial Review Smart Investor Blue Ribbon Awards Fund Manager of the Year PROTECT, MANAGE AND for 2011. GROW THEIR WEALTH. helpinG CustoMers throuGh ChallenGinG tiMes workinG with our VOLATILE MARKETS, Over the past 12 months the investment, bankinG partners NATURAL DISASTERS, insurance and superannuation sector In the past 12 months in continuing to LOW LEVELS OF and its stakeholders have experienced focus on earning more of our banking unprecedented conditions as a result RETIREMENT SAVINGS, of: ongoing global investment market customers’ wealth business, a significant opportunity and important area of UNPRECEDENTED volatility; the largest-ever Australian growth, the Westpac Group saw the INDUSTRY REFORM – Government reform agenda spanning greatest improvement in wealth cross-sell WE’VE WORKED THROUGH all aspects of financial advice and superannuation; and, natural disasters of the four major banks. IT ALL BY DOING ONE impacting thousands of Australians and A national Lost Super initiative by THING: RETAINING A their properties. Through all this, we Westpac RBB and BT Super for Life in August highlighted the opportunity STEADFAST FOCUS ON retained a steadfast focus on the impact to engage with our bank customers on both our business and on customers. OUR CUSTOMERS.” about their wealth management needs. This was most obvious during the Launched by Financial Services and unprecedented number of catastrophes Superannuation Minister, The Hon. around Australia between December Bill Shorten, Australians were urged to 2010 and February 2011. We were one track down and reconnect with their of the insurance providers to cover both share of the nation’s $18.8 billion of flash and riverine flooding and, as a result, lost super. across the country our insurance claims 18 It pays to look at the bigger picture. preparinG for a new era in market leading capability for advisers Advance managed $10.7 billion of funds wealth ManaGeMent and their clients. We launched a number under management. Working closely with the Australian of new initiatives including a new awardDuring the year, Advance developed Government and industry on the major winning Life Insurance solution, and new its ‘Sustainable Investment Philosophy reform programs around superannuation tax and trading tools for BT Wrap. In and Beliefs’, which can be found at and financial advice, we are committed September, we announced a new product www.advance.com.au/about-advance/ to flawlessly executing the required called Infinity, which will sit on the Asgard sustainable-investing.asp changes within the BT Financial Group platform and target investors with low balances or specific investment needs. In progressing implementation of the and partnering with customers to UNPRI, Advance enhanced its manager help them navigate to ensure their Our commitment to and investment in selection process to include specific sustainable futures. our platforms has resulted in us retaining assessment of short-listed managers’ The superannuation reform is the most the number one position in quarterly approach to environmental, social and significant opportunity for the sector to and annual fund flows, with one in every corporate governance (ESG) factors. increase access and engagement in super three dollars coming onto a BT Financial Group platform as at 30 September BT Super for Life has also grown to $1.6 and drive better retirement outcomes 2011. BT Wrap was again named billion in funds under management. At for all Australians. Our award-winning Investment Platform of the Year at the an aggregated level, one out of every BT Super for Life is very well positioned 2011 Financial Review Smart Investor Blue five dollars invested in BT Super for the expected changes, given its Ribbon Awards. for Life is invested in a sustainable position as a low cost, highly accessible, investment process. commission-free super solution. investinG responsibly We continue to support the development Similarly, we strongly support the Future As signatory to the United Nations of sustainable investment practices of Financial Advice reforms, which bolster Principles for Responsible Investment more broadly through our involvement the professionalism of the financial (UNPRI), we have carriage of the in the UNPRI, Investor Group on Climate advice sector and increase confidence Group’s approach to responsible Change, Responsible Investment in the industry. Our financial planning investment, through Advance and our Association Australasia and Regnan. businesses, in Westpac RBB, St.George, BankSA and Bank of Melbourne, are investment management affiliate BT businEss unit PERFoRMAncE 2011 2010 ahead in their ‘paths to professionalism’, Investment Management. Operating income ($m) 1,853 1,732 demonstrated by our employed BT Investment Management’s (BTIM) total Operating expenses ($m) (907) (866) Cash earnings ($m) 649 595 advisers operating without commission funds under management in ethical and Economic profit ($m) 531 441 on investment, superannuation and sustainable funds was $643.7 million at Total assets ($bn) 22.8 27.5 retirement products for new business 30 September 2011. Further information Funds under administration ($bn) 77.4 79.9 from 1 October 2011, well in advance of on BTIM’s responsible investment Funds under management ($bn) 40.1 42.5 the Government’s July 2012 requirement. practices can be found in BTIM’s Annual Expense to income ratio (%) 48.9 50.0 Report at www.btim.com.au Number of customers (m) 2.7 2.6 Employee numbers 4,239 4,316 helpinG aDvisers help Advance is a specialist asset Employee engagement 79 78 their Clients management business with a focus on Responsible Investments (FUM $m)1 644 891 While dealing with the reforms, we have asset allocation and risk management 1 Funds under managment. also focused on the sustainability of our implemented through a multi-manager investment platforms to ensure they offer process. At 30 September 2011, AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 19 EST. 1817 WESTPAC INSTITUTIONAL BANK WIB operates through dedicated • Running information sessions on industry relationship and specialist Carbon, Personal Property Securities product teams with expert knowledge Reform, and regulatory change in the in transactional banking, financial and financial markets industry; debt capital markets, specialised capital, • Providing innovative solutions for margin lending, broking and alternative State governments to help them to investment solutions. be more sustainable by: addressing Customers are supported through productivity; streamlining processes Westpac branches and subsidiaries and reducing costs; and Rob Whitfield, located in Australia, New Zealand, United Group Executive, • Growing our market leading, States, United Kingdom and Asia. seamless, integrated data Westpac Institutional Bank connectivity service, Westpac institutional insiGht anD our “PROVIDING OUR CustoMer foCuseD strateGy Integrated Banking Services, now used by over 118 key organisations. CUSTOMERS WITH Our hard work, commitment and ‘INSIGHT’ IS ABOUT THE genuine insights result in deeper and supportinG our CustoMers in asia stronger customer relationships. This PREPARATION, FOCUS is demonstrated by Corporate Online, A key focus for us in Asia is supporting AND ENERGY WE PUT INTO which has remained the superior our customers with business interests and trade and investment flows between Asia, DEEPLY UNDERSTANDING banking platform for the large corporate Australia and New Zealand. THEIR FINANCIAL NEEDS and institutional markets seven years We have continued to grow our business running1, being voted Australia’s number AND PROVIDING THE NOTone transactional bank for eight years organically, including: YET-OBVIOUS SOLUTIONS running2, and maintaining our long • Opening a fully operational branch in TO UNLOCK GROWTH… IT standing leadership position in debt Beijing (1 July 2011); and IS A GENUINE REFLECTION securities origination3. • Signing a General Cooperation OF WHAT SETS US APART This closeness provides the ‘insight’ to Agreement with China Eximbank provide customers with a not-yet-obvious (7 April 2011) – promoting close FROM OUR COMPETITORS.” solution that may become the basis collaboration to support our common Westpac institutional bank (Wib) for a competitive advantage and customers’ investment in Australia, New delivers a broad range of financial unlock growth. Our response is to Zealand, China and other key markets. services to commercial, corporate, bring our expertise to bear in a broad Westpac was named in Asia’s Best institutional and government range of market-leading innovative Employer Brand Awards 2011 as the most customers with connections to Australia solutions, including: sought after employer, for our exemplary and new Zealand. capability in learning and development • Developing and distributing capital defensive products (e.g. structured initiatives, distinctiveness in employee deposits) as an alternative to equities hiring, training and retention practices, and that are suitable for the transition and continuing innovation. to retirement; 20 operatinG in a Carbon or material ESG risk issues, which are social housing to generate investment ConstraineD eConoMy published on our website. returns. The main area of concern is We were the first bank to begin trading In late 2010, WIB was voted Best Trading capital growth as the institutional investor Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) in Company in Australasia and runner-up market views social housing as declining 2002, have been trading in the EU ETS in the Best Finance House – Renewable in value over time. since 2006, undertook the first trade of Energy Finance Asia-Pacific in the global We understand this is a complex issue Australian compliance credits in 2008 Environmental Finance awards. and we will be here for the long haul as and were the first financial institution we continue to work through these issues to begin trading in the New Zealand partnership with with Mission Australia. Emissions Trading Scheme in 2010. In Mission australia 2011, Westpac partnered with Perenia businEss unit PERFoRMAncE 2011 2010 In December 2010, the Westpac Group Operating income ($m) 3,057 3,295 to deliver Primary Certified Emission announced a strategic partnership to Operating expenses ($m) (1,032) (1,038) Reductions for sale into the New Zealand apply our skills with Mission Australia Cash earnings ($m) 1,487 1,514 and Australian markets. (MA) to address homelessness, a real Economic profit ($m) 1,162 1,157 This year, key deals under our Renewable issue within the broader community, and Total assets ($bn) 109.9 99.2 Deposits ($bn) 52.2 47.8 Energy Strategy, established in 2008, help deliver more affordable housing Net loans ($bn) 59.6 61.5 included: the Woodlawn Wind Farm in across the country over the next decade. Funds under management ($bn) 7.6 8.0 New South Wales developed by Infigen WIB has taken the lead with this Expense to income ratio (%) 33.8 31.5 Energy, to be operational by the end of partnership by: Customer satisfaction4 (Peter Lee Survey #1 #1 rank number) 2011; and, Oaklands Hill Wind Farm in • Hosting a Social and Affordable Employee numbers 3,194 3,139 Victoria developed by AGL Energy, to be Employee engagement 76 75 Housing Forum with local and state operational by early 2012. Proportion of infrastructure and utilities 45 52 government officials, not-for-profit financing in renewables (incl. hydro) – Over 1,200 employees have been trained organisations and Westpac executives Aust. & NZ5 (%) across the bank in ‘Carbon 201’ sessions from Australia and New Zealand; and Finance assessed under the Equator 383 364 over the last nine months, exploring Principles5 ($m) • Promoting strong employee regulatory, market and risk issues, and Footnotes 1, 2 & 4 based on results of Peter Lee engagement through: hosting an Associates Large Corporate and Institutional identifying opportunities for key impacted employee charity event, raising over Transactional Banking survey, Australia customer segments. Meetings have 1 No.1 for years 2005-2011 where rank is based on $35,000 for homelessness programs; been held with around 130 customers on the platform performance index (against the Top supporting the MA Winter Sleep Out; 4 competitor platforms). carbon issues and impacts. and, driving a ‘Blanket Blitz’ and ‘Winter 2 No.1 for years 2004-2011 where rank is based on Carbon risk assessment is integrated in Warmer Appeal’ with employees lead domestic transactional relationships. annual industry sector strategy reviews donating blankets and clothing. 3 Peter Lee Associates Debt Securities Origination and standard credit submission templates surveys, Australia 2004-2007 and 2010-2011. We have also been working with Mission Rank is based on the Relationship Strength Index applied to each transaction. We are (against the Top 4 competitors). Australia to establish a ‘social housing continuing to embed the Environmental, 4 In 2011 maintained No. 1 position for Relationship fund’, which is designed to attract Strength Index and overall Customer Satisfaction Social and Governance Risk (ESG) investment monies rather than donations. (against the Top 4 competitors). Management framework across WIB Feedback from our market testing of the 5 Full details of the calculation and methodology policies, systems and processes, are available in our on-line report at concept with institutional investors has including the ongoing review and www.westpac.com.au/investorcentre highlighted concerns about the ability of development of positions on sensitive AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 21 EST. 1817 WESTPAC NEW ZEALAND Westpac in NZ since 1861. Institutional customers are supported the first self-service devices in Oceania to in New Zealand by Westpac credit deposits of cash and coins straight Institutional Bank1. to accounts in real time. These Smart Deposit machines and Cash Exchange MovinG froM Caution machines aim to reduce branch queues to ConfiDenCe by 40%, thereby freeing up valuable time There were encouraging signs during to better serve customers. the year that New Zealand was moving Our iPhone ‘save at the push of a button’ toward recovery after a challenging application, ImpulseSaver, became an George Frazis, period, with business and consumer award-winning mobile phone campaign Chief Executive Officer, confidence improved, and commodity for Westpac, winning a Bronze Lion Westpac New Zealand prices improving. Award at the Cannes Lion International In addition to growth in our home and Advertising Festival 2011 and Gold “AS NEW ZEALAND’S business lending, a number of our (Mobile Category) in the 2011 Spikes ‘CONFIDENT BANK’, OUR products were recognised as market Asia Awards (Asia’s Creative Advertising FOCUS IS TO BECOME leaders, becoming the first Australasian Festival and Awards). bank to achieve Canstar 5 star ratings MUCH LOVED BY NEW across all home loan product categories Another six community branches were opened in 2011, offering our customers ZEALANDERS BY HELPING for product quality and value. A recent the convenience of 24/7 self-service THEM TO ACHIEVE Morningstar KiwiSaver Performance options, enabling staff to dedicate more THEIR DREAMS AND survey ranked a number of the Westpac time for more in-depth discussions with KiwiSaver Scheme2 investment funds GROW – IN SHORT ‘HELP amongst the best performing in their customers. The on-going investment in staff training and our localised approach IS WHAT WE DO BEST’ categories for the year to 30 June 2011. to risk management continues to – USING INNOVATIVE The Balanced Fund and Capital enhance the customer experience. As TECHNOLOGY AND Protection Plan Fund No.1 were both an example, we have seen an increase ranked No.1 in their respective categories. DEVELOPING COMMUNITY BT Funds Management (NZ) Limited in home loans approved locally, which has improved our percentage of loans CONNECTED BRANCHES.” is the scheme provider, and Westpac approved within one hour. Westpac new Zealand limited provides New Zealand Limited is the distributor of a full range of banking, insurance and the Westpac KiwiSaver Scheme. Grow new zealanD wealth services for 1.3 million personal, Reinforcing our ‘local’ position we launched business and agribusiness customers. innovatinG to help the Grow New Zealand initiative, engaging it operates 207 branches and 554 our CustoMers local government, community leaders AtMs across the country and has more During the year we introduced two and businesses to ascertain key elements than 560,000 registered active users internationally recognised innovations. needed to invest for growth. Insights of its online banking service. in 2011 Our ‘Smart Deposit’ machines are the first from 14 forums were mapped against a Westpac new Zealand celebrated its in the southern hemisphere to accept all national survey of business customers 150th anniversary. forms of deposited funds (including coins, and the wider economic environment. banknotes, cheques and bulk-bags) and We identified three key areas where 22 The Westpac Business and Community Hub opened for Christchurch businesses in need, in September 2011. Photo: © Westpac NZ. we can use our expertise – leadership Appeal Trust, Fletcher Building, gen-i, The opening of the Centre builds upon development, infrastructure development, Meridian, Christchurch City Council, the success and momentum of Westpac’s and education to provide greater Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Managing Your Money program, with over confidence and understanding in handling Authority and many other supporters. 25,000 people participating in workshops cashflow, risk, balance sheet, people and or tutorials this year alone; more than the technology. This program will be extended ContinueD efforts in last two years combined. across other areas of the bank. iMprovinG sustainability Our partnership with Halberg Trust saw Our carbon emissions decreased in us achieve another four year target, to helpinG Canterbury reCover 2011, resulting in an overall reduction of support 2,000 people with a disability On 22 February 2011 Christchurch was 24% from the 2008 baseline. The most in sporting events. As part of Westpac’s struck by a second major earthquake significant decreases were emissions support of the Sir Peter Blake Trust, ‘Care that claimed the lives of 181 people. from energy and fleet, in part due to for our Coasts’ program, we are also well None of our staff died or were seriously the continued roll out of more energy on target to pick up 1 million pieces of injured. Our first priority was ensuring efficient vehicles. Domestic air travel rubbish from NZ beaches and waterways the wellbeing and safety of staff by was one of the most significant increases by the end of 2012. providing our employee relief package this year, impacted by an increase in – including leave, child support and flights to Christchurch as part of our businEss unit PERFoRMAncE (nZ$) 2011 2010 financial assistance. We also invoked earthquake response. Operating income ($m) 1,668 1,550 Operating expenses ($m) (784) (746) a package for our affected customers and took mobile ATMs into local inspirinG GooDwill in Cash earnings ($m) 454 322 Economic profit ($m) 143 (5) neighbourhoods to provide cash for our CoMMunities Total assets ($bn) 52.6 51.2 those stranded in the suburbs. To date For over 30 years, Westpac’s sponsorship Deposits ($bn) 33.3 30.5 $2 million has been donated to the of the Westpac Rescue Choppers has Net loans ($bn) 51.2 49.8 Westpac Canterbury Care Fund. been giving New Zealanders a second Funds under management ($bn) 2.7 2.2 Expense to income ratio (%) 47.0 48.1 chance at life. The 2011 National Westpac The Westpac Business and Community Number of customers (m) 1.3 1.2 Chopper Appeal raised more than $1.65 Hub was established with partners to Number of branches 207 204 million, and we have already exceeded NPS – Consumer -9 -14 provide extensive temporary facilities and our four-year target of raising $4 million NPS – Business -29 -28 practical assistance to local businesses for the Westpac Rescue Helicopters. Employee numbers 4,575 4,698 and community groups. The initiative is a Employee engagement 82 79 direct result of feedback from customers In June this year Westpac in conjunction Community investment ($m) 7 7 explaining what they needed to continue with Massey University, launched the Scope 1 & 2 Emissions (tonnes of CO2-e) 5,024 5,294 their operations and maintain relationships New Zealand Centre for Personal 1 On 1 November 2011, various business with suppliers and customers during the Financial Education – aimed at improving activities of Westpac Banking Corporation New Zealanders’ knowledge, attitudes (NZ Division) were transferred to Westpac rebuilding of Christchurch. The 2,600m2 New Zealand Limited. of office space is free to use and equipped and behaviour towards money matters. 2 A copy of the Westpac KiwiSaver Scheme with a conference venue, meeting rooms, The Centre was founded in partnership Investment Statement is available from any with Massey University delivering a Westpac Branch in New Zealand. video conferencing, free wifi, telephones and an onsite cafe. The delivery of this certification program for Personal initiative was made possible through our Financial Educators. It will also undertake partnership with Christchurch Earthquake a 20-year study to identify why so many Kiwis struggle with their finances. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 23 EST. 1817 WESTPAC PACIFIC BANKING Olive Whippy, Head of Microfinance Fiji, demonstrating EFTPOS in rural Fiji. bankinG the unbankeD friendly functions to better manage their Our financial inclusion aligns to the Pacific accounts, receipts and payments. Financial Inclusion Program – a joint initiative of the UN Capital Development finanCial eDuCation Fund, AusAID, the European Union and We expanded our financial inclusion the UN Development Program. education program to offer workshops in Tonga, PNG and Vanuatu, providing Our successful launch of Everywhere knowledge and skills to business owners Banking in Fiji this year, simple banking and community members enabling them to transactions via mobile phone, has Greg Pawson become better managers of their money. enabled us to plan for expansion into other General Manager, Pacific Banking The program, which reached new rural areas Pacific Banking countries later in 2011. and achieved higher female participation this “THE WESTPAC BRAND MakinG bankinG easier year, was assisted by the support of AusAID – continuing next year under the auspices of IN THE PACIFIC IS MORE With increased focus from governments the Pacific Financial Inclusion Program. THAN A BANK; FOCUSING and regulators, we participated in various In our other Pacific Banking countries our reviews and forums designed to increase ON CONTRIBUTING TO THE transparency and accountability of basic financial literacy programs were COMMUNITIES WHERE WE financial and economic systems. supported with additional communication OPERATE TO HELP THEM We launched Choice Basic, a transaction activities including monthly newsletters and media education pieces to reach new areas. PROSPER AND GROW; AND, account with pay per transaction MAKING BANKING EASIER rather than a flat monthly fee, offering foCus on woMen lower cost banking to more people. – FOR OUR TRADITIONAL In PNG, we introduced customised To build gender equity in the region, we launched the Westpac Women’s Education BUSINESS AND CONSUMER identification requirements for those Grants as a part of the International CUSTOMERS AND NOW, AS without the resources to meet traditional Women’s Day 100 year anniversary PART OF OUR FINANCIAL identification requirements. celebrations. The grants assisted 24 girls INCLUSION AGENDA, We reviewed our fees and charges and, to assist communities reliant on remittances, and women to continue their education. This builds on the Westpac Women in THOSE NEW TO THE significantly reduced the cost of sending Business Awards in PNG, and support BANKING SYSTEM.” funds from Australian branches to the for business womens’ award programs in Pacific and waived inward receiving charges Samoa and the Cook Islands. our financial products and services for more than 280,000 retail, business for Westpac account holders in the Pacific. businEss unit PERFoRMAncE 2011 2010 and government customers in Papua helpinG builD loCal businesses Operating income ($m) 229 203 new Guinea (PnG), solomon islands, Operating expenses ($m) (86) (78) anD links abroaD vanuatu, Fiji, tonga, the cook islands Cash earnings ($m) 76 81 and samoa, with 51 branches and 106 In Business Banking, Westpac Fiji offered Economic profit ($m) 52 59 AtMs, and telephone and internet local businesses the ability to accept Total assets ($bn) 3.0 2.4 banking services. Westpac Fiji this year various currencies through purchases Deposits ($bn) 2.4 1.9 made online, bringing it into line with Expense to income ratio (%) 37.6 38.4 celebrated 110 years of continuous Number of branches and agencies 51 51 service to the local community. all other Pacific Banking countries. The Employee numbers 1,306 1,254 second phase of Westpac PNG’s internetEmployee engagement1 n/a 88 based Corporate Online was launched Community investment ($'000) 667 234 offering large local corporations user1 Pacific Banking did not participate in the 2011 survey. 24 PEOPLE & TRANSFORMATION People & transformation has The framework’s key measure is a Net responsibility for human resources Promoter Score (NPS)1, or how likely our strategy and management, including customers are to recommend us. This is a reward and recognition, learning and deliberately higher bar than satisfaction development, careers, leadership, and seeks to measure advocacy of talent, diversity, health, safety and customers, which aligns to our key value wellbeing and employee relations and to ‘delight’ all our customers. policy. in addition, we manage the customer and people elements of our Following a ‘Listen, Learn, Act’ feedback transformation Program, as well as model, we support each brand in tracking Peter Hanlon corporate Affairs & sustainability. their NPS by surveying thousands of Group Executive, customers every month, just after they People & Transformation the people behinD the ChoiCe have interacted with our people. We use this information to constantly make “WHEN CUSTOMERS Our people deliver the experience improvements to our service, based on that our brands promise. The launch MAKE A CHOICE, THEY’RE of the Bank of Melbourne required a what our customers tell us. CHOOSING THE PEOPLE unique approach to human resource stanDinG up to be CounteD THEY WANT BY THEIR management, to help deliver a unique We believe in speaking up on issues SIDE IN THEIR MOMENTS customer experience. We leveraged our collective resources to provide a that matter, and gender equity in the OF TRUTH.” fresh, custom approach to recruitment, workplace is particularly important to our learning and development and company, our people and the community. engagement. Highlights included the This year, the 100th anniversary of use of social media as a recruitment International Women’s Day provided tool, a new learning curriculum and a timely opportunity to revitalise the an extensive employee engagement ‘conversation’ around gender equity program, including branch and corporate and the role of women in business and wardrobe design. the community, and to showcase our absolute focus on driving change within We leverage our Group’s human the Westpac Group and beyond – by resources capability to provide a ‘custom significantly increasing the profile given to where it counts’, real choice approach to women’s achievements in both areas. human resource management for each brand in our family. Our program, including partnering with UN Women Australia, included: suCCess is our people • Producing a public report card DeliGhtinG CustoMers demonstrating how the Westpac Group 1 Net Promoter Score (NPS) refers to an external Our customer transformation program is delivering on the UN Global Compact measure of customer supports our family of brands, with a Women’s Empowerment Principles, advocacy, which looks at framework to measure success on how which we are a signatory to; how willing customers are to recommend their bank to we delight our customers. their family and friends. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 25 PEOPLE & TRANSFORMATION Fundraising by the St.George Foundation. • Providing platinum sponsorship for support each other and contribute to our injury free workplace, as significant International Women’s Day in Australia; company-wide conversation. We now priorities for our company. • Producing a series of short films for have Mature Age, People with a Disability, Our comprehensive transformation Australian pay television, ‘Australian Gender, Flexibility, Aboriginal & Torres program focuses on revising our Women: Shaping a nation’ and a Strait Islander and Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Health, Safety and Wellbeing (HS&W) coffee table book ‘The Power of Transgender and Intersex Action Groups Management System, to clearly define the 100’, celebrating the remarkable in place. policies, practices and procedures that are achievements of Australian women; and Our annual Employee Survey indicated essential to working safely at Westpac. • Achieving recognition as a 2011 EOWA that our employees continue to be highly All aspects of our System are aligned with employer of choice for women. engaged, with our 2011 result up one Australian Standards and Occupational percentage point to 81%. Encouragingly, Health & Safety (OHS) Legislation and are While we’re proud to lead the debate, our People Leader Index has again independently audited. we recognise that there is still a way improved and is now at 83%, placing us to go, both for us as a company and We are now well advanced in educating above the Global High Performing Norm our people, with 94% accreditation in the wider community. One of our of 82%. However, there is still work to be diversity objectives is to increase the for our Group-wide Health & Safety done and the survey results indicated on-line training and 1,670 of our leaders representation of women in leadership Change Leadership as a ‘watch area’ at an roles to 40% by 2014. This is an participating in safety cultural leadership enterprise level. training during the year. Our internal ambitious objective but one that we’re on track to achieve, with a current ‘safe+sound’ brand has also been Great people neeD Great leaDers successful in helping focus people’s representation of 37.5%. During 2011, we researched what good attention on safety. leadership means at Westpac and a plaCe where all our people Our increased focus on safety awareness designed a Group-wide Leadership Can be their best has resulted in a slight decrease in Capability Framework that specifies We count on our people to deliver for our Lost Time Injury Frequency Ratio what we expect of our people leaders, our customers in their moments of truth from 2.61 in September 2010 to 2.53 at in line with our values. We have – to set us apart from our competitors. September 2011. We have also seen a also implemented a comprehensive So it’s important that we engage all our significant 39% reduction in the volume Leadership Development Curriculum people and provide the flexibility and of workers compensation claims over the to help them reach this standard. opportunities for everyone to thrive. In year to September 2011. Supporting our leaders with coaching, last year’s Diversity Audit, 58% said they mentoring, feedback and development While we still have work to do, we’re would like to accommodate their personal programs will be a key component confident that we now have the right or life stage needs through flexible work in building our leadership culture for foundation for the future. over the next three years. competitive advantage. We have also focused on ensuring that we give all our people a voice, in addition a Great CoMpany is a to providing a workplace that is flexible safe CoMpany and rewards achievement. During 2011 Last year, we identified issues of health, we helped our employees form a series safety and wellbeing, having a safe and of ‘Action Groups’ to discuss issues, 26 Westpac staff and supporters at the Perth City to Surf. WESTPAC GROUP support for a stronGer CoMMunity seCtor Indigenous suppliers into our supply chain through the Australian Indigenous and IN THE Our community approach focuses on three key areas: employee involvement; community Minority Supply Council (AIMSC). We also extended our involvement to COMMUNITY partnerships; and capacity building. Redfern and Waterloo, NSW building During 2011 total community on our decade-long work with Jawun, responDinG to natural Disasters contributions across the Group were $155 Indigenous Corporate Partnerships The Group responded quickly to natural million1, equivalent to 1.72% of operating in Cape York, through skill-sharing disasters in Queensland, Victoria and profit before income tax (cash earnings with Indigenous businesses. This year New Zealand with financial and on the basis). This includes foregone revenue over 30 employees were involved with ground support to impacted customers, from fee-free accounts for not-for-profit six partners in Redfern and 50 employees through traditional disaster relief packages organisations, charitable gifts, community joined secondments in Cape York. and financial contributions. Employee investments, eco projects, in-kind and fundraising donated over $516,000 to commercial sponsorships. founDation review support impacted employees in Queensland In 2011 the Westpac Foundation received a In March 2011 over $2 million was provided and Victoria, and $38,000 for Christchurch $20 million capital boost from the Westpac to approximately 600 charities to match employees, and these amounts were Group, bringing the total funds invested by employee donations. Internal surveys matched by the Westpac Group. the Foundation to around $46 million. indicate more than 63% of our employees An upfront contribution of $500,000 to the participated in volunteering or fundraising With this capital boost, the Foundation Queensland Premier’s Disaster Relief Appeal activities in the last year. Board hopes to see its annual (including $250,000 from St.George), was distributions double. In addition to giving Our Organisational Mentoring program boosted by a further $500,000 set aside as a wider range of grants, the Trustees plan is in its second year, with over 230 a local communities small grants program. to expand the reach of the Foundation’s participating employees and over 50 The Organisational Mentoring program also work geographically and involve more not-for-profit organisations and social provided business mentors to help impacted people as donors and volunteers. enterprises, including a number of Social customers re-establish their operations. Sector Banking clients. Organisational It was established 132 years ago as the mentoring has been incorporated into Buckland Fund, to assist past employees. MakinG sustainability our employee development program and In 1999, through the vision of the Westpac MeaninGful for our people has contributed to increased engagement Board, its scope of support was expanded Employees were encouraged to participate to the wider Australian community and employee advocacy. in initiatives through our sustainability through not-for-profit organisations. employee program, ‘Our Tomorrow’, with support for inDiGenous membership of more than 2,500 employees. Between 1999 and 2011, The Westpac CoMMunities Foundation distributed more than $21 Our intranet site and news channels This year we began implementing our million in grants to not-for-profits to help attracted over 100,000 views from across Reconciliation Action Plan. We introduced: drive their social entrepreneurial aims. The the Group during the year. We piloted local a new Senior Manager, Indigenous grants are seen as a catalyst in encouraging working groups focused on environmental Engagement; a steering committee to sustainable improvements to the wellbeing and community projects at four of our oversee our Indigenous engagement of all Australian communities and they will large key sites, in addition to existing local across the Group; an Indigenous employee continue and expand their work. community engagement across our brands. working group; and, we integrated 1 Measured on a GRI basis. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 27 PRODUCT & OPERATIONS experience and delivering sustainable and rewards customer loyalty, using the productivity improvements. mortgage as an anchor product. We are pleased with changes made to the New capabilities delivered included a customer experience, through delivery of DIY Super solution – incorporating three process improvements, including: products designed for those running • Reducing the time to activate new self-managed superannuation funds. transaction or savings accounts from In 2011, the Altitude Platinum Card was a maximum of 12 days to as little as awarded Smart Investor’s ‘best full1 day; moved over 630,000 existing featured credit card’ and Cannex awarded Peter clare, five stars to the Altitude Classic/Gold/ Group Executive, and new Westpac RBB accounts to e-Statements, saving annualised 18.5 Platinum and Earth Platinum cards. Product & Operations million sheets (or 462 tonnes) of paper; Our product team was integral to the Product & operations (P&o) brings and, improved the PIN change process – successful implementation of a unified together over 4,500 employees it now takes 2 minutes, compared to the card platform across all Westpac Group across Australia undertaking retail and 4 minutes in 2010, saving 30,000 hours brands, reducing duplication and small business product management of productive time and approximately streamlining processes whilst delivering a and operations processing. We 2 million sheets of paper per annum; modernised IT platform. provide sourcing, property, payroll • In our Contact Centres, we have processing, crisis, security and fraud CoMMunity reduced both the time customers need management functions for the Group’s Responding proactively to the devastating Australian operations. We also to spend on hold (‘average hold time’) by 5% and the time customers need natural disasters across the region put us to manage the Australian banking Risk the test this year. Our ‘Assist’ team helped function for our retail brands, further to spend on the telephone (‘average handling time’) by 5%, through the over 30,000 business and consumer consolidating support to the Group introduction of a context driven online customers, one third of whom were multi-brand approach. guidance tool (‘SupportPoint’) enabling supported in the early months following P&O has continued to embed a change staff to assist customers more rapidly the natural disasters. Our Crisis and program to drive a unified culture, and accurately; and Security Management team responded to focused on customer centricity and 20 serious incidents and our Operations supporting the multi-brand environment. • For approximately 80% of Westpac team assisted in helping impacted In response to the current challenging RBB customers wanting to vary their Westpac and St.George customers. environment, we have made a significant mortgage, the average time taken has reduced from 18 days to less than 6. We have partnered with OzHarvest, investment in leadership development, donating all unsold food from our coaching and mentoring. Our mortgage top-up process reduced from 21 to 9 days in September, for canteen and catering services to charities those requested through the Customer including Mission Australia and Youth off MakinG thinGs siMpler anD faster Service Centre. Time to prepare The Streets. for CustoMers Further progress was achieved on our documents for mortgage settlement The Westpac Group was named productivity agenda through a multihas reduced by 75%, from 20 to 5 days. Organisation of the Year for 2010 by disciplined approach, including cost We have achieved a 42% reduction in Australian Sign Language Interpreters reduction, process redesign and the customer complaints received over the Association NSW and Deaf Australia development of a sustainable productivity year, clearly demonstrating our work is NSW for employee support initiatives in and process excellence capability. having a positive impact. our Operations site at Concord West, also winning in 2007 and 2009. The appointment of Peter Clare, Group proDuCt Finally, P&O worked to a goal of Executive Product & Operations as the Group’s Chief Process Officer Through our customer centric focus, Saving Lives in 2011 through blood reinvigorated a comprehensive process we successfully developed and trialled donations, saving over 1,000 lives – ownership education program by Relationship Pricing, the Bank’s first placing us 5th on the Red Cross’ top promoting understanding of the role quantitative/behavioural approach to 20 organisations list for the Club Red it plays in improving the customer customer based pricing. It recognises corporate donation program. 28 sustainable proCess Lean and Six Sigma techniques, first through the Australian Graduate School iMproveMent introduced in a combined approach in of Management (AGSM) for our Lean Our transformation program, part of 2010, then having them use those skills to Silver Belt and Six Sigma Green Belt our productivity and process excellence drive improvements across the Group. programs to support a process excellence journey, is also about taking a great Since October 2010 over 430 people have career path for our staff. Employees step forward in embedding a culture of been trained in the skills and techniques who successfully complete Six Sigma productivity across the Group. We’re required to support continuous accreditation can also credit it toward the setting ourselves up to be quicker, better productivity improvement in their achievement of an AGSM MBA. and faster by developing our people’s respective business areas. In August we innovative thinking by training them in were delighted to achieve accreditation ENTERPRISE FOOTPRINT AND SUPPLIERS UPDATE reDuCinG our footprint • Introducing sustainability top-rated for the banking sector by the We continue to reassess our performance guidelines for commercial and retail 2011 Dow Jones Sustainability Index. We against the target we set in 2008, to refurbishment, such as the introduction have continued to roll out our Sustainable achieve a 30% reduction in Greenhouse of signage illumination guidelines, Supply Chain Management (SSCM) Gas Emissions (GHG) by 2013. As a first minimum National Australian Built framework to suppliers, with continuous mover in tackling emission reductions Environment Rating System (NABERS) improvement of the SSCM framework. within the financial sector in Australia, a ratings and lighting; This further simplifies the process, great majority of simpler opportunities • Being the first bank in Australia as a allowing Westpac to target suppliers were addressed early. foundation signatory to the FluoroCycle more efficiently to comply with SSCM scheme, recycling all fluorescent light requirements. Each year a number of Our ongoing work aims to implement cost tubes; and high spend and/or high risk suppliers are effective energy initiatives addressing the internally validated. In 2011, 25 suppliers increasing challenge, including: • Increasing our fleet energy efficiency were internally validated and five were • Decommissioning redundant through: the introduction and independently assured against the equipment; championing of the use of electric information provided. cars; increasing the Hybrid vehicle • Energy efficient lighting, appliances In November 2010, we signed a formal (zero drive time emissions) proportion and equipment, including Heating, commitment with the Australian of the fleet to 24%; phasing out of Ventilation and Air Conditioning Indigenous and Minority Supply Council Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) equipment; (AIMSC) to increase the number of vehicles; and, shifting from 6 to 4 • Making energy efficiency a criteria in cylinder engines. We also monitor Indigenous businesses in our supply new property leases; individual fuel consumption, with chain. This has seen several new • Taking part in voluntary and legislative driver education undertaken where indigenous suppliers being engaged programs e.g. CitySwitch, Earth Hour, considered necessary. to supply services, including catering, NSW Energy Saving Scheme; teleconferencing and printing. supply Chain • Reinvesting refunds from participating in the NSW Energy Saving Scheme into Our sustainable supply chain practices other energy-saving projects; were, for the fourth consecutive year, STRATEGIC INVESTMENT AND PROCESS IMPROVEMENT strateGiC investMent priorities The Group made significant progress capability for staff, improved productivity We remained focused on delivery of the with the SIPs program during the and faster service for customers. Strategic Investment Priorities (SIPs) year particularly for our branches Major improvements were also made program during this its second year. and call centres. We implemented a throughout the year in relation to new telephony system in all branches mortgage, collections, payments and The five year SIPs Program, involving nationwide, enabling our customers to credit card processing. around a $2 billion investment, aims call staff directly in all locations. Then in to progressively transform technology Significant progress was also made August, a new teller system, based on the capabilities through simplified and in transforming our technology same platform used by St.George, was innovative customer touch points, infrastructure through the technologyrolled out to three test sites in Westpac enterprise-wide shared services, agile and specific SIPs. Of particular note is the RBB with full roll-out planned for 2012. efficient product systems, and robust, remediation and renovation of our And, we enhanced branch systems, secure and stable infrastructure. existing data centres and the building removing the need for customers to Each program has been designed to complete deposit slips for cash deposits, of our new, state-of-the-art data centre, be modular, and of a size that can be making it easier and faster to do business which is due to be opened by year end. efficiently managed while delivering for with us. customers and shareholders in terms We implemented a new customer-centric of better products, improved customer call centre desktop, which aggregates service, lower costs, increased scale over 45 individual systems onto one. It and enhanced revenue opportunities. has been deployed to over 1,000 call It also benefits our employees by centre bankers, delivering improved streamlining processes. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 29 TECHNOLOGY With approximately 3,700 employees the year, we achieved a saving of almost located in sydney, Adelaide and Perth, 15,000 tonnes in CO2 emissions. the technology division supports and This has been an important year for the enhances: customer channels (including Strategic Investment Priorities program, internet, contact centres and branches); which has been designed to build out our infrastructure (including data centres, services and utilities); and, our IT Strategy in a sequence that is both our applications (including customer affordable and aligned with the priorities systems, core banking), to ensure they of the business. Details of the progress are available, reliable and secure at all with our Strategic Investment Priorities bob McKinnon, times for our customers and employees. are provided on page 29. Group Executive, Technology teChnoloGy Journey strenGtheneD relationships “THE TECHNOLOGY We’ve come a long way in our We have made significant progress in DIVISION ExISTS TO technology journey over the last three relation to strengthening our relationships PROVIDE A WORLD CLASS years. During the year, we made further with our major providers of technology services, including Telstra, Optus, Oracle, IT ENVIRONMENT THAT significant improvements in systems Microsoft, Cisco, Fujitsu and IBM. A major reliability. We have reduced the number ENABLES OUR EMPLOYEES of technology related outages (those milestone was the signing of a new five TO DELIGHT CUSTOMERS that have a significant impact) by a year contract with IBM for infrastructure AND EARN ALL OF THEIR further 40%, so that critical customer services. The new arrangements with IBM will further support the transformation of BUSINESS. WE ACHIEVE related systems, such as ATMs, our technology environments. EFTPOS and internet banking, are now THIS THROUGH ALIGNING even more available for customers THE WAY WE ARCHITECT, and the employees who serve them. enhanCeD operatinG MoDel DEVELOP, SOURCE Despite the significant improvement in This year we have made some significant changes to the Technology operating AND MANAGE OUR stability, we acknowledge that there is still more work to do in modernising and model, with a view to achieving TECHNOLOGY ASSETS simplifying our technology environment. greater integration across the Group. WITH THE WESTPAC Our stakeholders have told us this is an Key objectives have been to find new opportunities to share capabilities, GROUP’S STRATEGY.” issue of concern and, as the stability identify more efficient ways to deliver and reliability of technology within financial services is an industry-wide technology solutions, and to leverage issue, we recognise this will take some existing, and develop new Technology time to resolve. Centres of Excellence. Our focus on reliability has also delivered We have also continued to strengthen substantial reductions in CO2 emissions, our Technology leadership team with as we progressed with the upgrade the appointment of several globally of our data centres and replaced experienced individuals to key technology outdated equipment with more efficient roles across the Group. alternatives. We estimate that during 30 OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE – Reporting framework and indicators We continue to use the Global Reporting Further progress has been made in Finally, by refining our business and Initiative (GRI) G3 and Financial embedding Environmental, Social and sustainability strategy against the material Services Sector Supplement as our Governance (ESG) risk analysis into our issues raised, and transparently reporting core sustainability reporting framework, credit policies and frameworks. We have our performance against objectives, we reporting at an A+ level, and plan to move supported this implementation process disclose how we have responded to these to the GRI’s new G3.1 standard once it with specific ESG training activities for issues. During 2011 a number of changes has been incorporated into our sector key analysts. were made to our governance forums, supplement. This information has been most notably the Sustainability Council, assured using the AA1000 and ISAE3000 applyinG the aa1000 (aps) to improve how these issues are identified assurance standards and the assurance During the year we have continued and managed. report from KPMG is available in our to improve our application of the online report. Our New Zealand emissions principles of inclusivity, materiality and sustainability GovernanCe data is verified locally under the CEMARS responsiveness across our operations. Supporting the identification and scheme by Deloitte. Throughout the year Our approach to inclusivity is outlined in management of issues is a governance internal audit has undertaken reviews of the Multiple Stakeholders section of this model for sustainability that our matching gifts program and emissions report. The forums listed ensure there provides oversight on both current reporting and external consultants have are mechanisms in place to both formally and emerging dimensions. Overall been employed to review our emissions and informally recognise the voice of carriage of the model remains with the trajectory and abatement opportunities. stakeholders and that stakeholder views Board Sustainability Committee which Work continues to integrate our financial are not only recognised, consulted holds responsibility for reviewing and non-financial indicators. This has and considered but are built into the policy, commitments and strategy seen a number of changes to our people processes through which we make as well as current practice and metrics to better align with business business decisions. performance outcomes. strategy, including the introduction of The results of our materiality process The CEO and Executive team have more specific retention metrics, as well are outlined in the Material Issues explicit accountability for sustainability as seeing greater consistency in our section, together with a discussion of the performance, reflected in personal and reporting compared to our peers. challenges they raise. This year we further divisional scorecards. The formation of the Westpac Academy enhanced our process by looking at both During the year our internal Sustainability in 2009 has also seen us report more the current and emerging material issues Council agreed new terms of reference, detailed Group-level training data. for our business and our stakeholders. giving this body more explicit authority Similarly, the launch of the Davidson A number of additional issues specific for strategy development and Institute in Westpac RBB sees us report to individual business units have been accountability for implementation. The financial education metrics for the first identified via their own processes and are membership also changed to consist of time in 2011. We have also reviewed discussed within the content of this report General Managers representing each of our Scope 3 emissions reporting in the the divisions of the Group. light of additional guidance from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol on Scope 3 (indirect) emissions. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 31 OUR SUSTAINABILITY: GOVERNANCE – Reporting framework and indicators (cont.) Beneath this structure are a number of Our credit process incorporates ESG additional forums to manage specific risk analysis into the assessment elements of our sustainability activities. and approval process for business, These include Environmental Steering corporate and institutional customers Groups to oversee our footprint at each stage of our credit assessment program, as well as Carbon and Water process including origination, evaluation, Sub-Committees in our institutional and approval, documentation and monitoring. agribusiness divisions and our Indigenous The Principles were approved by the Working Group. Board Risk Management Committee Endorsement is also sought from in August 2011 and are available on a range of other forums according our website. to the issue being addressed. For In addition, an ESG Risk Management example, the ESG Risk Management Framework has been developed Framework is approved by the Board and approved for Westpac Risk Management Committee. This New Zealand Limited. Committee also approves any new sector position statements developed In line with our responsibilities as a UN across the business. PRI signatory, work has also progressed on our approach to ESG assessment in further enhanCeMents to our our investment activity and a discussion esG fraMework on work to date can be found in the BT Financial Group update on page 19 of Following the introduction of the ESG this report. Risk Management Framework and Credit Policy in 2010, further work was undertaken to increase the number and scope of supporting principles and statements. Most notably was a revision of our Principles for Responsible Lending. The Principles have been updated to reflect improvements in our own practices and to incorporate recent regulatory changes. The Principles have been expanded to cover business as well as retail lending and now apply across all the Group’s retail brands. 32 OUR SUSTAINABILITY: MULTIPLE STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder engagement is not only used as well as more explicit engagement focus and long-term objectives via an for our sustainability strategy and approach, of employees and recognised external interactive accelerated learning process. it is also used for the management of experts, in determining our areas of our business more broadly. Continuous dialogue with a wide range of stakeholders stakeholder Primary Main issues stakeholder Primary Main issues engagement raised during engagement raised during is important in understanding emerging mechanism 2011 mechanism 2011 trends and issues, and potential roles and responses for the Group. These Retail Monthly formal • Fees and rates Suppliers Questionnaires, • Multi-brand conversations feed directly into the customers tracking and • Customer supplier forums • Innovation development of our business practices. analysis of service and meetings • Offshoring complaints • Security of with individual We have a range of formal and and feedback systems suppliers. informal mechanisms in place to ensure received via: our we effectively include the views of branch network; Broader Research with • Climate stakeholders in our decision making. call centres; community non-customers, change, Examples of the key mechanism and issues online; monthly specific including raised during 2011 are listed in the tables. quantitative stakeholder proposed research as well as meetings on carbon pricing Key changes during the reporting year ongoing qualitative emerging issues or • Competition have included the completion of a research; local proposed activities, • Funding workability study within St.George to better engagement; and media analysis • Interest rates understand the balance between the health, customer events. and publications, • Security of motivations and competence of our staff local branch sytems and the work environment that provides Employees Annual Staff • Desire for engagements, • Profits the best outcomes for the individual and Perspectives coaching, organisational Survey, regular mentoring and mentoring, the business; the expansion of more formal ongoing research, career paths volunteering. tracking of reputation measures across a blogs and • Concerns over wide range of stakeholders, and changes suggestion boxes the level of Government Meetings, policy • Competition in to our community engagement model. including process bureaucracy and trend analysis and the sector Engagement with the broader community improvement • Diversity and regulators industry forums. • Interest rates continues to be led, at the local level, by campaigns as flexibility and fees our retail brands. However, as indicated well as regular • Superin 2010, a review was also undertaken employee annuation of our Community Consultative Council. forums and team reform meetings. • Consumer Whilst we are still implementing changes credit to our overall engagement framework we Investment Formal surveys, • Growth (incl. • Financial held a smaller, more focused meeting of community briefings, questions credit growth) advice reform external stakeholders to seek input on the received, AGM • Regulation • Liquidity development of our sustainability strategy • Interest rates and capital and overall approach to engagement. and fees standards • Funding and • Carbon This was supplemented by formal liquidity pricing research on sustainability trends globally, AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 33 OUR SUSTAINABILITY: PERFORMANCE SCORECARD The following table sets out our performance against 2011 sustainability objectives. customer To be ranked as the top 1 & 2 for Net Promoter ✗ St.George and Westpac continue to be ranked 1 and 2 respectively for NPS amongst the major banks for Score (NPS) in Australia amongst the major business customers. Within the priority business segments, St.George and Westpac continue to rank 1 and 2 in banks and St.George Banking Group. the SME and Commercial Segments. For consumer NPS St.George and Westpac are currently ranked 1 and 4 respectively amongst the major banks. Achieve NPS scores of +1 for retail and -12 for ✗ While the NZ retail NPS has steadily improved, the target has not yet been reached. business in Westpac New Zealand. Top 3 regional player in carbon related markets due Lead bank in the NZ Emissions Trading Scheme (NTS). WIB recognised by Environmental Finance Magazine in by 2013. 2013 its survey of customers, peers and competitors, being named ‘Best Trading Company’ in Australasia and runner up ‘Best Finance House – renewable Energy Finance’ in Asia-Pacific in 2010. Employee To increase the percentage of women in senior due The Group is on track to achieve its Women in Leadership target, with 37.5% of leadership roles currently held management roles to 40% by the end of 2014. 2014 by women. Implement initiatives to address outcomes of ✓ Diversity plans have been developed for each business unit, with a particular focus on flexibility, in response to our Diversity Audit. the Diversity Audit conducted in Full Year 2010. community Reduce Scope 1 and 21 emissions by 30% on due Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions have reduced by 7% from the 2008 baseline, despite growth in the 2008 levels2 by 2013. 2013 property portfolio and increased demands on data centres. Embed Organisational Mentoring into due Since inception over 230 employees have applied to act as mentors with over 50 not-for-profit organisations and operational processes by 2013. 2013 social enterprises. In 2011 there were over 95 active participants as part of employee development programs. Provide the Managing Your Money program to ✓ The target has been exceeded. 46,146 people have already been through the program since it commenced 45,000 New Zealanders by 2013. in 2009. Launch a major initiative to help address ✓ In December 2010 the Group launched a major initiative with Mission Australia to address family homelessness social disadvantage. in Australia. The strategic partnership includes the funding of specific projects as well as the development of a social innovation fund to develop more affordable housing nationally. business Consideration of Environmental, Social and due Further progress has been made with the expansion of our Principles for Responsible Lending to cover all retail Governance (ESG) issues incorporated into 2013 and business customers in all brands. relevant risk management policies, practices and decision making processes by 2013. Responsible lending and investment practices due Across the investment management business and particularly in Advance Asset Management, work has embedded in key processes by 2013. 2013 continued to integrate ESG factors into mainstream investment management in line with BTFG’s commitments under the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment. This has included setting out Advance’s ‘sustainable investment philosophy and beliefs’, and including ESG related questions and assessment in the manager review and appointment process. 1 Scope 1 emissions are all direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions generated by the organisation. Scope 2 emissions are GHG emissions from energy (typically electricity) purchased by the organisation. 2 The 2008 baseline has been adjusted to include St.George Banking Group on a pro forma basis. 34 OUR SUSTAINABILITY: 2012 KEY SUSTAINABILITY OBjECTIVES customer To be ranked as the top 1 & 2 for Net Promoter Score (NPS) in Australia amongst the major banks and St.George Implement financial literacy education for small and medium sized (SME) customers in New Zealand Top 3 regional player in carbon related markets by 2013 Employee To increase the percentage of Women in Leadership roles to 40% by the end of 2014 Implement the second phase of initiatives to address outcomes of the 2010 Diversity Audit, including mainstreaming flexibility, implementing the Accessibility Action Plan, Indigenous recruitment and the mature age employee strategy community Reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30% on 2008 levels by 2013 Embed Organisational Mentoring into operational processes by 2013 Continue to work in partnership with Mission Australia to examine feasibility of a ‘social housing fund’ for Australia business Consideration of Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) issues incorporated into relevant risk management policies, practices and decision making processes by 2013 Responsible investment practices embedded in key processes by 2013 5 year summary: non-Financial & other information footnotes to table on page 37 17 LTIFR measures injuries per million hours worked. More detailed explanatory footnotes are provided in the online report at 18 Refers to the proportion of women (permanent and maximum term) in people www.westpac.com.au leadership roles or senior roles of influence as a proportion of all leaders across 1 ‘n/a’ indicates information was not collected in the relevant year. the Group. Aligned to the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency 2 Unless otherwise stated all data from 2009 includes St.George Banking Group. (EOWA) standard in September 2010. 3 All customers, primary and secondary, with an active relationship. 19 Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2010 and 2011 are from 1 July to 30 June in line with the 4 ATMs have functionality to assist visually impaired users. New indicator 2011. National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act (2007) for Australia, and the Certified 5 Net Promoter Score is the net percentage of customers who would recommend their Emissions Measurement and Reduction Scheme (CEMARS) for New Zealand. Main Financial Institution to a friend or colleague. 20 Scope 3 emissions are GHG emissions from indirect sources (typically from purchased 6 Source: Roy Morgan Research, 6 month rolling average (6MMA). materials, products and services). 7 Sources: DBM Consultants Business Financial Service Monitor, September 2010–2011, 21 Total paper consumed (in tonnes) by Westpac Group as reported by its suppliers for 6MMA; TNS Business Financial Monitor September 2008-2009, 6MMA. the period 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011. 8 Source: AC Nielsen Consumer Finance Monitor Toplines, 6MMA. 22 Aggregate committed exposures, as per APRA reporting standards. 9 Source: TNS New Zealand Business Finance Monitor, September 2011. Four quarter 23 Voluntary principles used to assess project finance activities. rolling average. 24 2007 and 2008 previously disclosed for Australia only and revised to include the 10 Scores are for the St.George Banking Group. NPS business score for 2010 restated. Group total. 2010 revised to include a one-off $20 million contribution to the Westpac Foundation, and new methodology for calculating foregone fee revenue. 11 Total of assets, liabilities and funds under management (FUM) of the WRBB business unit dedicated to not-for-profit customers. 2010 revised to include footings at 30 25 Calculated in accordance with the Indicator Protocol Set for EC1 of the Global September 2010. Reporting Initiative’s G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and reflects the date the one-off $20 million contribution was received by the Westpac Foundation (see 12 FUM which are managed using sustainable and/or ethical investment processes. footnote 24). 13 Employee engagement score is out of 100; prepared 2007-2010 by Towers Watson. 26 2007 and 2008 was previously disclosed for Australia only and has been revised to 2011 data collected by Westpac Group using Towers Watson methodology under include the Group total. license. 2011 excludes Pacific Banking. 27 St.George data is included from 2009 onwards. 14 The total voluntary separation of permanent employees/12 month average total permanent headcount. Excludes Pacific Banking. 28 The number of people (staff and otherwise) who have completed a financial education program offered by the Westpac Group. 15 Total New Starter retention/12 month rolling New Starter headcount. Excludes Pacific Banking. 29 The total dollars spent in AUD with external suppliers during the reporting period. 16 Total High Performer Retention/12 month rolling High Performer headcount. Excludes 30 The percentage of top 150 suppliers by spend that have provided a self assessment Pacific Banking. against the Sustainable Supply Chain Management (SSCM) Code of Conduct and/or SSCM Questionnaire since the introduction of SSCM in 2003. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 35 5 YEAR SUMMARY: FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION1 incoME stAtEMEnts – year ended 30 September2 ($m) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net interest income 11,996 11,842 11,646 7,222 6,313 Non-interest income 4,917 5,068 4,859 4,383 4,006 Net operating income 16,913 16,910 16,505 11,605 10,319 Operating expenses (7,406) (7,416) (7,171) (5,455) (4,689) Impairment charges on loans (993) (1,456) (3,238) (931) (482) Profit before income tax expense 8,514 8,038 6,096 5,219 5,148 Income tax expense (1,455) (1,626) (2,579) (1,287) (1,630) Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (68) (66) (71) (73) (67) Net profit attributable to owners of Westpac 6,991 6,346 3,446 3,859 3,451 St.George cash earnings prior to merger – 163 1,321 – Cash earnings adjustments – non-merger related3 139 (55) 812 (144) 56 St.George merger related cash earnings adjustments (829) (412) 254 11 – Cash earnings3 6,301 5,879 4,675 5,047 3,507 FinAnciAl Position And KEy FinAnciAl RAtios2 balance sheet Total assets ($m) 670,228 618,277 589,587 439,676 377,620 Shareholder’s equity and minority interests ($m) 43,808 40,118 36,571 19,471 17,908 Business performance Operating expenses to operating income ratio (%) 43.8 43.9 43.4 47.0 45.4 Net interest margin (%) 2.19 2.21 2.38 2.07 2.19 capital adequacy Tier 1 ratio (%) 9.7 9.1 8.1 7.8 6.5 Total capital ratio (%) 11.0 11.0 10.8 10.8 9.5 Total equity to total assets (%) 6.5 6.5 6.2 4.4 4.7 credit quality Net impaired assets to equity and collectively assessed provisions (%) 6.3 6.2 5.7 3.0 1.4 Total provisions to gross loans and acceptances (basis points) 88.2 104.9 101.2 69.0 61.6 shareholder value Dividends per ordinary share (cents) 156 139 116 142 131 Dividend payout ratio (%) 67.0 64.9 92.6 68.9 70.1 Dividend payout ratio – cash earnings (%) 75.0 70.5 72.7 71.6 69.2 Cash earnings to average ordinary equity (%) 16.0 16.1 14.0 22.3 23.8 Earnings per share (cents) 233.0 214.2 125.3 206.0 186.9 Net tangible assets per ordinary share4 ($) 9.96 8.96 7.89 7.71 7.00 Share price as at 30 September ($) 20.34 23.24 26.25 21.48 28.50 1 The Summary Income Statement and the Balance sheet and key financial ratio information has been extracted from the Westpac 2011 audited Annual Report. 2 For more detail please refer to the Westpac 2011 Annual Report, which is available at: www.westpac.com.au/investorcentre 3 Net profit attributable to equity holders adjusted for the impact of Treasury shares, fair value changes on economic hedges of hybrid instruments, and one-off significant items not part of ongoing business operations. 4 Total equity attributable to owners of Westpac, after deducting goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of ordinary shares outstanding, less treasury shares held. 36 5 YEAR SUMMARY: NON-FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION1 custoMER2 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Total customers (millions) 3 12.2 11.8 11.4 6.9 6.7 Total online customers – active registrations (millions) 5.4 4.8 4.3 3.3 2.9 Number of points of bank representation 1,532 1,517 1,491 1,089 1,073 Number of ATMs 3,544 3,625 3,540 2,285 2,207 Percentage of Talking ATMs (%)4 88 n/a n/a n/a n/a NPS5 – Westpac Australia – Affluent6 -17 -24 -16 n/a n/a NPS – Westpac Australia – Commercial7 3 -7 -5 n/a n/a NPS – Westpac Australia – SME7 -10 -21 -24 n/a n/a NPS – Westpac New Zealand consumer8 -9 -14 -17 -19 n/a NPS – Westpac New Zealand business9 -29 -28 -38 -28 n/a NPS – St.George10 consumer6 -2 -4 -9 -13 n/a NPS – St.George10 business7 -5 3 -21 n/a n/a Social Sector Banking Footings ($m)11 8,210 7,101 6,072 n/a n/a Responsible Investment Funds Under Management ($m)12 644 891 717 513 552 EMPloyEEs Total core full time equivalent staff (number at financial year end) 33,898 35,055 34,189 26,717 25,903 Employee engagement – Group (%)13 81 80 81 78 n/a Employee Voluntary Attrition Aust, NZ & WIB Offshore (%)14 11.5 11.8 n/a n/a n/a New Starter Retention (%)15 83.8 n/a n/a n/a n/a High Performer Retention (%)16 95.3 94.3 n/a n/a n/a Lost time injury frequency ratio (LTIFR) – Group17 2.5 2.6 2.6 3.4 3.8 Women as a percentage of the total workforce – Group (%) 61 61 62 63 64 Women in Leadership – Group (%)18 37.5 35.4 n/a n/a n/a EnviRonMEnt Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions – Aust and NZ (tonnes CO2-e)19 184,124 189,425 187,239 197,002 108,893 Total Scope 3 emissions – Aust and NZ (tonnes CO2-e)20 57,163 70,457 61,846 47,694 33,915 Total paper usage – Aust and NZ (tonnes)21 6,262 6,655 7,146 8,791 6,542 Proportion of infrastructure and utilities financing in renewables and hydro 45 52 51 56 n/a (%) – Aust and NZ22 Finance assessed under the Equator Principles – Group ($m)23 383 364 1,292 1,315 2,176 sociAl Community investment – Group Financial reporting basis ($m)24 135 136 84 64 58 Community investment – Group GRI reporting basis ($m)25 155 116 84 64 58 Community investment as a percentage of pre-tax profits – Group – 1.82 1.44 1.38 1.22 1.13 GRI basis (%)26 Community investment as a percentage of pre-tax operating profit 1.72 1.37 1.24 1.20 1.15 (Cash Earnings basis) – Group GRI basis (%)27 Financial Education courses completed28 36,838 n/a n/a n/a n/a suPPly cHAin Total supply chain spend – Australia ($bn)29 4.61 4.39 4.17 2.70 3.00 Percentage of top 150 suppliers ($ invoiced) screened for sustainability 92 86 99 99 94 – Australia (%)30 Refer to page 35 for footnotes. AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 37 OUR BOARD: – WESTPAC GROUP DIRECTORS – REMUNERATION teD evans aC Gail kelly John Curtis aM elizabeth bryan GorDon Cairns BEcon (Hons.), Age 70 HigherDipEd, BA, MBA BA, LLB (Hons.), Age 61 BA (Econ.), MA (Econ.), Age 65 MA (Hons.), Age 61 with Distinction, HonDBus, Independent Director Age 55 Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director since November 2001. and Deputy Chairman since November 2006. since July 2004. Chairman since April Executive Director since December Chairman of the Risk Member of each of the 2007. Member of each of since February 2008. 2008. Chairman of Management Committee. Audit, Remuneration the Audit, Nominations, Managing Director and the Remuneration Member of each of the and Risk Management Risk Management and Chief Executive Officer Committee. Member Audit, Nominations, Committees. Technology Committees. since February 2008. of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Member of each of Nominations and Technology Committees. the Sustainability and Risk Management Technology Committees. Committees. DireCtor & senior exeCutive reMuneration Executive remuneration has continued to be a focus for governments, regulators and other stakeholders. We have assessed our executive remuneration frameworks and are satisfied that we have a solid foundation for managing remuneration-related risk for the long term. Key to this success was the continuing efforts of our board and our executive team led by Gail Kelly. non-exeCutive DireCtor reMuneration Westpac’s Non-executive Director remuneration strategy is designed to attract and retain experienced, qualified Board members and remunerate them appropriately for their time and expertise. As the Board’s focus is on strategic direction, long-term corporate performance and the creation of shareholder value, fees for Non-executive Directors are not directly related to the Group’s short-term results and Non-executive Directors do not receive performance-based remuneration. youR boARd oF diREctoRs – REMunERAtion REcEivEd duRinG 2011 Westpac Banking Subsidiary and Corporation Advisory Board Board Fees1 Fees Superannuation Total Name Position ($000) ($000) ($000) ($000) Ted Evans Chairman 735 – 15 750 John Curtis Deputy Chairman 392 – 15 407 Elizabeth Bryan Director 341 3 15 359 Gordon Cairns Director 306 – 15 321 Peter Hawkins Director 296 32 15 343 Carolyn Hewson Director 286 110 26 422 Lindsay Maxsted Director 285 – 15 300 Graham Reaney Director 280 15 15 310 Peter Wilson Director 300 121 15 436 1 Includes fees paid to Chairman and members of Board Committees, including fees for the temporary Health, Safety & Wellbeing Committee. 38 peter hawkins Carolyn hewson ao linDsay MaxsteD GrahaM reaney peter wilson BCA (Hons.), SF Fin, FAIM, BEc (Hons.), MA (Econ), Age 56 DipBus (Gordon), FCA., Age 57 BComm, CPA, Age 68 CA, Age 70 ACA (NZ), FAICD, Age 57 Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director since February 2003. since March 2008. since December 2008. since October 2003. since December Chairman of the Chairman of the Member of each of the Chairman of the 2008. Chairman of the Nominations Committee. Audit Committee. Audit, Risk Management, Sustainability Committee. Technology Committee. Member of each of the Member of each of and Sustainability Member of each of the Member of each of the Audit, Remuneration the Risk Management Committees. Audit, Risk Management, Audit, Nominations and Risk Management and Nominations and Nominations and Risk Management Committees. Committees. Committees. Committees. Ceo anD senior exeCutive reMuneration The Westpac Group’s remuneration strategy is to attract and retain talented employees by rewarding them for achieving high performance, developing sustainable customer relationships and delivering superior long-term results for our shareholders. This strategy incorporates sound principles of risk management and governance. youR sEnioR EXEcutivE tEAM – REMunERAtion REcEivEd duRinG 2011 total cash, Value of Value of other previous previous Fixed benefits years’ STI years’ LTI Remuneration & Other STI & superawards that awards that Superannution payments & received annuation vested during vested during Benefits 1 benefits as cash3 2 received 20114 20114 Name Position ($000) ($000) ($000) ($000) ($000) ($000) Gail Kelly Managing Director & 2,929 – 2,376 5,305 1,884 1,321 Chief Executive Officer John Arthur Group Executive, Counsel & Secretariat 870 1 792 1,663 – – Rob Chapman5 Chief Executive, St.George Banking Group 941 613 734 2,288 170 117 Peter Clare Group Executive, Product & Operations 1,013 1 990 2,004 255 – Philip Coffey Chief Financial Officer 1,214 – 1,350 2,564 910 – Rob Coombe Group Executive, Westpac Retail & 967 1 1,200 2,168 473 – Business Banking Brad Cooper Chief Executive Officer, BT Financial Group 1,015 7 1,320 2,342 1,049 – George Frazis CEO, Westpac New Zealand Limited 988 53 1,200 2,241 1,931 – Peter Hanlon Group Executive, People & Transformation 1,063 167 1,062 2,292 473 – Bob McKinnon Group Executive, Technology 887 1 1,106 1,994 – – Greg Targett Chief Risk Officer 1,226 – 828 2,054 129 103 Rob Whitfield Group Executive, Westpac Institutional Bank 1,872 211 1,104 3,187 926 – 1 Fixed remuneration is the total cost of salary and salary sacrificed benefits (including motor vehicles, parking, etc. and any associated fringe benefits tax) and annual leave accruals. Superannuation benefits include the value of insurance premiums that the CEO and Senior Executives receive at no cost under the Westpac Staff Superannuation Plan. 2 Includes annual health checks, provision of taxation advice, relocation costs, living away from home expenses and allowances. 3 The CEO and Senior Executives receive part of their annual STI as cash and part is required to be deferred for up to three years. The figure in this column represents the value of the 2011 STI that actually received as cash. 4 The value of previous equity awards that vested in 2011 is calculated as the number of securities that vested during the year ended 30 September 2011, multiplied by the five day volume weighted average price of Westpac ordinary shares at the time they vested, less any exercise price payable. 5 Rob Chapman began exercising the functions of Chief Executive, St.George Banking Group from 1 October 2010 before being formally appointed to that role on 1 December 2010. Greg Bartlett retired on 1 December 2010 after facilitating an orderly transition at St.George over the period from 1 October 2010 until his retirement. Further details, including an explanation of remuneration components and individual circumstances, are provided in the Remuneration Report in the Group’s 2011 Annual Report – available at www.westpac.com.au/investorcentre AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 39 Information for shareholders online inforMation AnnuAl GEnERAl MEEtinG shareholder enquiries: Westpac’s investor internet site The Westpac Annual General Meeting Tel: 1800 804 255 (toll free in Australia) www.westpac.com.au/investorcentre (AGM) will be held in the Bayside Int’l: +61 2 8280 7070 provides detailed information on Auditorium, Level 1, at the Sydney Fax: +61 2 9287 0303 Westpac Group, including: a more Convention & Exhibition Centre, Darling Email: westpac@linkmarketservices.com.au detailed Financial calendar, with dates Drive, Darling Harbour, on Wednesday, for Westpac SPS & SPS II; current 14 December 2011, commencing at new zealand – ordinary shares on the Westpac share price and charting; 10:00 am. new zealand branch register financial and dividend history; Investor The AGM will be webcast live on the Link Market Services Limited presentations; sustainability and internet at www.westpac.com.au/ Level 16, Brookfields House community activities; and, links to investorcentre. An archived version of 19 Victoria Street West, the latest ASX announcements and the webcast will also be placed on the Auckland 1142, New Zealand Westpac’s share registries. website to enable the AGM proceedings Postal address: P.O. Box 91976, to be viewed at a later time. Auckland 1030, New Zealand FinAnciAl cAlEndAR Website: www.linkmarketservices.com Record date for final stocK EXcHAnGE listinGs shareholder enquiries: ordinary share dividend 11 Nov 20111 Westpac ordinary shares are listed on: Tel: 0800 002 727 (toll free in Annual General Meeting 14 Dec 2011 New Zealand) • Australian Securities Exchange, Final ordinary share (code WBC); Int’l: +64 9 375 5998 dividend payable 19 Dec 2011 Fax: +64 9 375 5990 • New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), as Email: lmsenquiries@linkmarket Interim results and dividend American Depositary Shares, (code announcement 3 May 2012 services.com WBK – CUSIP 961214301); and Record date for interim • New Zealand Exchange Limited, Depositary in usa for american ordinary share dividend 18 May 20122,3 (code WBC). Depositary shares (aDs)1 Interim ordinary share JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. dividend payable 2 July 20123 WEstPAc invEstoR RElAtions PO Box 64504, St Paul Final results and dividend Information other than that relating to MN 55164-0504, USA announcement 5 Nov 2012 your shareholding can be obtained from: Ads holder enquiries: Record date for final Westpac Investor Relations Tel: 1 800 990 1135 ordinary share dividend 15 Nov 20124,5 Level 20, 275 Kent Street (toll free: non-US callers will be Annual General Meeting 13 Dec 20126 Sydney NSW 2000 Australia charged IDD) Final dividend payable 20 Dec 20124 Tel: +61 2 8253 3143 Tel: +1 651 453 2128 Fax: +61 2 8253 1207 (Hearing impaired: +1 866 700 1652) 1 Record date for 2011 final ordinary share Email: investorrelations@westpac.com.au Email: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com dividend in New York – 10 November 2011. Website: www.adr.com 2 Record date for 2012 interim ordinary share dividend in New York – 17 May 2012. sHARE REGistRiEs 1 Each ADS is comprised of five fully paid 3 Dates to be confirmed at the time of announcing ordinary shares. the 2012 interim results. australia – ordinary shares (main 4 Dates to be confirmed at the time of announcing the 2012 final results. register), and westpac sps and The Westpac Group Annual 5 Record date for 2012 final ordinary share westpac sps ii Review & Sustainability Report 2011 is printed on paper dividend in New York – 14 November 2012. Link Market Services Limited certified by the Programme 6 Details regarding the location of this meeting Level 12, 680 George Street for the Endorsement of Forest and the business to be dealt with will be Certification (PEFC), which contained in the separate Notice of Meeting sent Sydney NSW 2000 guarantees it has been sourced from well managed forests. to shareholders in November 2012. Postal address: Locked Bag A6015, Westpac’s printer is Sydney South NSW 1235 certified under an ISO14001 Environmental Management Website: System. www.linkmarketservices.com.au 40 Contact Us Pacific banking locations From outside Australia: +61 2 9845 4772 Cook Islands – Rarotonga Facsimile: 1300 725 907 westpaC Group Fiji – Suva Email: banksa@banksa.com.au Head Office Papua New Guinea – Port Moresby Website: www.banksa.com.au 275 Kent Street, Samoa – Apia Sydney NSW 2000 Australia Solomon Islands – Honiara Tel: +61 2 9293 9270 Tonga – Nuku’alofa Facsimile: +61 2 8253 4128 Vanuatu – Port Vila bt finanCial Group International payments westpaC new zealanD 275 Kent Street, Tel: +61 2 9806 4032 16 Takutai Square, Sydney NSW 2000 Australia Email: online@westpac.com.au Auckland 1010 New Zealand Tel: 132 135 Website: www.westpac.com.au/ Tel: +64 9 367 3999 From outside Australia: +61 2 8222 7154 thewestpacgroup Email: westpacnz@westpac.co.nz Email: customer.relations@ Website: www.westpac.co.nz btfinancialgroup.com Website: www.bt.com.au westpaC retail & Global locations business bankinG Specific contact details for the many Tel: 132 032 – Consumer st.GeorGe bank locations globally can be located on our Tel: 132 142 – Business St.George House, website at www.westpac.com.au. Select From outside Australia: +61 2 9293 9270 4–16 Montgomery Street ‘About Westpac’ from the top menu Email: online@westpac.com.au Kogarah NSW 2217 Australia bar, then ‘Global Locations’ from the Website: www.westpac.com.au Mail: Locked Bag 1, ‘Explore’ menu. Kogarah NSW 1485 Australia westpaC institutional bank Tel: +61 2 9236 1111 Tel: 132 032 sustainability Contacts Facsimile: +61 2 9952 1000 Facsimile: +61 2 8254 6938 Email: stgeorge@stgeorge.com.au For further information on the Westpac Email: institutionalbank@westpac.com.au Website: www.stgeorge.com.au Group’s sustainability policies and Website: www.westpac.com.au performance, call +61 2 8254 8488; Email corporateresponsibility@ institutional bank locations westpac.com.au, Hong Kong or visit www.westpac.com.au/ India – Mumbai bank of Melbourne corporateresponsibility People’s Republic of China – Beijing 530 Collins Street or contact: – Shanghai Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia Westpac Group – Pauline Gregg, Republic of Indonesia – Jakarta Tel: 13 22 66 Email: pgregg@westpac.com.au Republic of Singapore – Singapore From outside Australia: +61 3 9982 4153 New Zealand – Suzie Marsden, United States of America – New York Facsimile: +61 3 9296 4371 Email: suzie_marsden@westpac.co.nz United Kingdom – London Email: info@bankofmelbourne.com.au Website: www.bankofmelbourne.com.au Pacific – Alvin Wong, westpaC paCifiC bankinG Email: alvinwong@westpac.com.au Tel: 132 032 UK and Europe – Martin Hancock, From outside Australia: +61 2 9293 9270 Email: mhancock@westpac.com.au Facsimile: +61 2 8253 1193 banksa For further information on our compliance Email: online@westpac.com.au 97 King William Street, with International Agreements, including Website: www.westpac.com.au/pacific Adelaide SA 5000 Australia the United Nations Global Compact and Mail: GPO Box 399, Declaration on Human Rights, contact Adelaide SA 5001 Australia David Bell, General Manager, Corporate Tel: 131 376 Affairs & Sustainability: davidbell@ westpac.com.au AnnuAl Review And SuStAinAbility RepoRt 2011 41 42 WARV2011 238663 (10/11)
