United Nations Global Compact Saita (Pakistan) Pte Ltd Communication on Progress for the Year 2011 Message from the Chief Executive Officer: Saita Pakistan Pte Ltd is a leading construction and engineering company that has successfully executed mega projects of national importance as a challenge and as a commitment towards the infrastructural development of Pakistan and Afghanistan. Saita (Pakistan) Pte Ltd stands committed to all the 10 principles of United Nations Global Compact and as a good corporate citizen we give highest priority to good corporate governance, environmental conservation, health and safety policies and further we have achieved International Standard policies such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and we are in compliance with SA8000 and OHSAS 18001. We place society and the environment at the heart of our business by acting continuously and often exceeding the minimum requirements of law to avoid environmental damage. Every employee is trained and accustomed to our environment and therefore obliged to act in a responsible manner in order to avoid any risks to the enviroment and to the end users. Through this COP we are now able to reflect light on our sustainable business practices and collective role in addressing national and global development challenges. Our employees play a central role in the success of our company, their winning combination of commitment, honesty, skill, hardwork and flexibility makes our vision possible. we are committed to the implementation, disclosure and promotion of the ten universal principles and making it an integral part of business strategy, day-to-day operations and organizational culture; we have incorporated the Global Compact and its principles in the decision-making processes of the higestlevel governance body (i.e. Board) and contributing to broad development objectives including the Milliennium Development Goals. Furthermore, we would like to take this oppurtunity to express our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. ____________________________ Pirzada Mohammed Ajmal Farooqi Chief Executive Officer SAITA (PAKISTAN) PTE LTD Principle-1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Actions • We ensure our employees a safe and healthy working environment. • Risk assessments, fire drills and mock drills are conducted on regular basis. • Trainings such as defensive driving, fire fighting, first aider, medivac and job specific trainings are conducted on regular basis. • The company provides its staff with competitive remuneration packages according to the national policies and procedures. • All equipment being used are third party certified. • Guarantee freedom association. • Non-discrimination in personal practices. • Forced labor and child labor is prohibited within the sphere of our influence. External Measures: • Preventing force able displacement of Individuals, group and communities. • Protecting economic livelihoods of local communities. • Hiring labor from the local communities. • Purchasing commodities from the local communities. • Compliances with the international guidelines and standards while using security services for site operations. Principle-2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ethics Actions • Saita pursues the highest standards in ethics, morals and values. • The code of ethics is reviewed and signed by all employees on yearly basis. • Human rights assessments are carried out. • Human right policies are available for the protection of workers. • Monitoring system is available to make sure human rights policies are implemented. • Explicit policy is available for security arrangements to make sure human rights are not violated. External Measures: Actions: • We encourage our associates and business partners to comply with the ISO9001, ISO-14001, OHSAS-18001 and the SA-8000 certifications. • Internal audits are conducted according to the standard operating procedures of human rights abuse. Principle-3 Business to uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Industrial Relations Actions • The company believes in the freedom of opinion and expression of all stakeholders within the organization. • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Non discriminatory policies and procedures are available with workers. Principle-4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Prevention Procedures for Forced Labour Employees Actions • Providing employment contracts to all employees in various languages stating the terms and conditions of service, the voluntary nature of employment and the freedom to leave. • Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period. • Exit interviews are taken for feedback and necessary action are taken accordingly. • The company provides a clear policy of national standards against forced labor. • Ensures all company officials have a full understanding of forced labor. • Ensuring bonded or debt bondage labour is not engaged within the organization. • Prohibiting policies and procedures where workers launch financial deposits while being hired. • Closely monitoring supply chain and sub contracting arrangements. External Measures: Actions: • All associates and business partners are internally audited according to the International policies of forced labour. • Awareness program are conducted regarding all forms of Forced labour. Principle-5: Businesses should uphold the affective abolition of child labor. Employees Actions • During hiring all employees must provide original National identification card (NIC) which verifies the age of the applicant and must also provide academic attested documents to verify age. As applicants below 18 years are not allowed to work within the organization. • The company is in compliance with SA-8000 and will soon be achieving the SA-8000 certification. • Internal audits are done regularly in order to comply with the International child labour policies. • The code of ethics document is signed by all employees. • Policies and procedures are followed according to International standards abiding to child labor. • Influencing measures are taken with sub-contractors, suppliers and another business affiliates to combat child labor. • Developing mechanisms to detect child labor. • Using adequate and verifiable mechanism for age verification in recruitment procedures. • Taking measures to ensure that wages paid are meeting the needs of their families. External Measures: Actions: • Awareness programs of international child labour are conducted regularly within the sphere of our influence. Principle-6: Businesses should uphold elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Equal Employment Opportunity: Actions: • Saita provides equal opportunities for employment and discourages all forms of employee discrimination. • Women are given equal opportunities within the organization at all levels. • All employees are given special holidays in accordance with their religious customs. • Hiring and promotions are done on merit and performance basis. • Employee evaluations are done on quarterly basis and are provided professional trainings accordingly. • Providing clear company-wide policies and procedures to guide equal employment practices. • Keeping up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion that provide a transparent view of opportunities for employees and their progression within the organization. • Developing Grievance procedures to identify discrimination and in order to address complaints handle appeals and provide recourse for employees. • Providing staff training on ‘non-discrimination policies and practices’ including disability awareness. • Establishing programs to promote access to skills development training and to particular occupations. External Measures: Actions: • Developing occupational development programs such as adult education programs, health programs and child care services. • Accommodating cultural traditions by working with representatives of workers and governmental authorities to ensure equal access to employment by women and minorities. Principle-7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Health, Safety and Environment: Actions: • The management commitment to HSE policy is prominent in the company premises showing its commitment to health and safety of all its employees, contractors and visitors and ensuring conservation within the company’s operations and sphere of influence. • The company conducts regular trainings on HSE according to the international standards. • Regular HSE inspections are conducted within the company premises and site operations. • Company has achieved ISO 14001 certification and is in compliance with OHSAS 18001. • Ensuring adequate number of fire fighters and first aiders on company premises and at site operations. • Prohibiting uncertain activities effecting the environment and taking proactive measures for its safeguard. • Developing a code of conduct for its operations and products that confirms commitment to care for health and the environment. • Creating a managerial committee that oversees the company application of precautions, in particular risk management in sensitive issue areas. • Establishing a two way communication with stake holders in a proactive and transparent manner to ensure effective communication of information about uncertainties and potential risk and action measures to deal with related enquires and complains. • Join industry-wide collaborated efforts to share knowledge and deal with issues in particular production processes and products around with high-level of uncertainty, potential harm and sensitivity exist. • Sound pollutions and gas emissions are monitored regularly through internal auditors and third-party certification regulatory bodies. • Management site visits are made quarterly to show management commitment to HSE policies and procedures and in order to encourage the dedicated workforce. • Internal HSE audits are conducted regularly to strengthen the HSE culture within the organization. External Measures: Actions: • We encourage local communities, suppliers, contractors, government agencies, and other organizations to comply with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 policies and regulations. • We provide HSE trainings to all external contacts before and during the execution of projects. • Monthly environmental monitoring is carried out through external certifying bodies. • Incidental spills are handled by trained staff with the help of spill control kits to safeguard the environment. Principle-8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities. Environmental Responsibilities: Actions: • Policies are implemented to preserve and protect the environment according to international standards. • Our policies promote conservation of resources, waste management and minimization of the release of chemicals and gases in the environment. • Performing monthly environmental checks, audits and trainings throughout the entire business in order to comply with the policies and procedures. • Emission aspects are identified and environment management plan is developed accordingly. • The company has achieved ISO 14001 certification (Environmental Management System) in order to develop an environmental friendly culture within the organization. • Creating vision, policies and strategies in-line with economic prosperity, environmental quality and social equity in order to achieve sustainable development. • Establishing a sustainable production and consumption program with clear performance objectives to take the organization beyond compliance in the long run. • Working with suppliers to improve environmental performance, extending responsibility up the product chain and down the supply chain. • Ensure transparency and unbiased dialog with stakeholders. • Environmental friendly training programs are conducted on regular basis. External Measures: Actions: • Encouraging business partners to comply with EST (environmentally sound technologies) in their business processes. • Conducting the third-party audit on ISO 14001 certification within the organization. • Tree-plantation campaigns are undertaken at all sites operated by the company in order to off-set emissions and improve environmental ambiance. • Promoting a paperless filing system and electronic communication for official use. Principle-9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment-Friendly Technologies: Actions: • The company has achieved ISO 14001 certification (Environmental Management System) and implements all its policies and procedures. • We work closely and corporately with local communities, suppliers and contractors, Government agencies and other organizations engaged in improving the environment. • Implementation of Energy Efficient Projects. • Improved environmental technology can be achieved by changing the process or manufacturing techniques, further changing input materials and by reusing materials on site. • Establishing a corporate or individual company policy on the use of environmentally sound technologies. • Making information available for stakeholders that illustrates the environmental performance and benefits of using such technologies. • Refocusing research and development towards ‘designed for sustainability ’. • Use of life cycle assessment in the development of new technologies and products. • Employing environmental technologies assessments. • Examining investment criteria and the sourcing policy for suppliers and contractors to ensure that tenders estipulate the minimum environmental criteria. • Co-operating with the industry partners to ensure that best available technology is available to other organization. • Use of natural sun-light at day time to reduce electricity consumption for lighting. • All products used are environmental friendly and certified under the environmental Law of the country. External Measures: Actions: • We encourage local communities, suppliers, contractors, government agencies and other organizations to implement environment friendly technologies and waste management and emission control systems. • We encourage the use of EST (environmentally sound technologies) by including them in our tendering process. • We also encourage the use of ESTs in our sphere of influence. Principle-10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Employees: Actions: Code of Ethics • Saita has introduced anti-corruption policies and programs within the organization and our sphere of influence. • Saita has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, bribery or extortion. • All employees are required to sign the ‘statement of ethics of business practices’ at the time of joining and it is to be renewed every year. • All employees are forbidden to give or receive gifts or bribes in order to compromise on fare business decisions and developing relationship with the company. • All employees are required to declare their assets while joining and on yearly basis. • Confidentiality, honesty and accuracy of information in the course of business are required by the all employees of the company. Corporate Governance: • Comply with regulations of security and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. • All funds, assets, receipts and disbursement properly recorded in the books of the company. • The company uses internationally acceptable accounting standards to maintain transparency. • Promotes fare business practices and ensures compliance with regulatory legal requirements. • Regular checks by internal audit department are carried out to ensure implementation of procedures in compliance with company policies. External Measures: Actions: • Quarterly briefing for financial and security analysis is conducted. • Board of directors meetings held quarterly. • Media / press briefings and interviews are given on demand. • The company ensures timely payment of taxes. • Quarterly briefings on financial statements are given to management. • All financial reports are properly audited by external auditors.
