Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Outotec in brief and highlights in 2010 1 Sustainability Report 2010 CONTENTS 1 Outotec and sustainability 2 Outotec in brief 3 Highlights in 2010 4 Our approach 4 CEO’s letter to stakeholders 6 Strategy 7 Materiality assessment 9 Management approach 11 Our way of working 11 Employees 14 R&D and innovation 16 Code of conduct, values and principles 18 Governance and sustainability 20 Interaction with stakeholders 23 Commitment to external initiatives 26 Our impact 26 Metals and sustainability 28 Industry drivers 29 Risks and opportunities 32 Impact of our products and services 35 Ecological footprint of our operations 37 Economic impact 39 Impact of our supply chain 42 About the report 42 Report scope and profile 42 Data collection 43 Key targets for 2011 44 Independent assurance report 46 GRI application level statement 47 Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 53 Contact information Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Outotec and sustainability 1 Outotec and sustainability Our approach to sustainability is defined in our mission, strategy, principles, corporate responsibility policy and management system documents. Our mission is the ‘sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources’. In order to achieve this, we intend to incorporate sustainability into all aspects of our operations, from our own business processes to the solutions we develop for our customers. Our strategic intent is to be the leading provider of sustainable minerals and metals processing solutions, and to become an innovative provider of sustainable energy and water processing solutions. Because of the nature of our business, our most significant contribution to abating climate change is made through providing sustainable technology to our customers, enabling them to run a more environmentally friendly business. In that way, with our innovative solutions, we enable societies’ sustainable development. In 2010 Outotec’s Executive Board decided to improve the company’s performance and transparency in all aspects of sustainability. Outotec has existed as an independent company since 2006 and this report is the first of its kind in Outotec. The reporting complies with the accounting standards and the reporting guidelines issued by the voluntary Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 2 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Outotec and sustainability Outotec in brief Summary of key figures 2010 2009 With a mission of sustainable use of Sales, EUR million 969.6 877.7 Earth’s natural resources, Outotec Reported operating 41.6 58.6 develops technologies and provides profit, EUR million (from business sustainable life cycle solutions to its operations 74.7) customers, guaranteeing the best R&D investments 4.7 4.1 return on the customer’s investment. (incl. IPR), EUR million The common denominator in Outotec technologies is their ability to maximize R&D expenses, 28.5 20.5 recovery, minimize environmental imEUR million pacts, and conserve energy, natural Priority applications, pcs 50 56 resources and capital investments. The improve their energy efficiency and to ture company established together with National patents granted, 287 286 majority of Outotec’s customers operreduce carbon dioxide (CO2) and espeSkellefteå Kraft. pcs ate in the minerals and metals induscially other emissions, as well as water Outotec has been listed on the NASAverage number of 3,151 2,612 tries, and increasingly in the energy consumption. Outotec believes that DAQ OMX Helsinki since October 2006. employees sector, chemical industry and industrial with modern technologies and life cycle Wages and salaries, 224.4 159.5 water treatment. solutions metals and materials can be EUR million Non-ferrous Solutions Innovative research at Outotec’s produced sustainably. • Businesses related to processing copTotal greenhouse gas 24.4 18.1 in-house R&D facilities and continuOutotec, headquartered in Finland, per, nickel, zinc, lead, gold, silver and emissions, 1,000 t CO2-e ous ­development work together with has global operations with sales and platinum group metals at all stages in customers has made the company a service centers in 24 countries and the value chain from ore to metal, as GHG emissions avoided 4.2 4.1 well as industrial minerals. through use of Outotec leading developer of technology in the sales to over 80 countries. Outotec technologies, minerals processing and metallurgiOyj is the parent company and there Ferrous Solutions million t CO2-e cal industry. The company has a strong are over 50 legal entities in the group. • Businesses related to processing iron ores and other ferriferous materials at Total energy 150.0 101.6 market position across the entire value Outotec’s business is divided in four all stages in the value chain from ore consumption, TJ chain from ore to metal and intends business areas: Non-ferrous Solutions; to metal. to strengthen its technology leaderFerrous Solutions; Energy, Light MetRead more about our organization, products ship also through acquisitions. In 2010 als and Environmental Solutions; and Energy, Light Metals and and services as well as financial performance ­Outotec acquired the businesses of LarServices. Environmental Solutions in Outotec’s Annual Report 2010. • Businesses related to sulfuric acid ox, Ausmelt, Millteam, and ­Edmeston. Together with Eesti Energia, ­Outotec production, off-gas handling, alumina Outotec’s most significant impact on operates a joint venture company refining, roasting, calcination, biomass sustainability occurs indirectly through developing a cleaner and more effiprocessing, oil shale and oil sands our customers’ operations. At present, cient production method for refining oil processing, as well as industrial water treatment. these organizations are confronted with from oil shale. In addition, Outotec is the dilemma created by the growing involved in developing energy-efﬁcient Services need for metals and the environmental and environmentally sound approaches • Providing life cycle services to Outotec’s customers in all business areas. impact of their production. As a result, for utilizing logging and sawing wastes customers are increasingly looking to through GreenExergy AB, a joint ven© Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Outotec and sustainability 3 Highlights in 2010 • Joining UN’s Global Compact Initiative • Human Capital Committee • Significant donation to established by the Board of Finnish universities Directors • Outotec’s CO2 report • Updated strategy and new • New operational model • Joining the University of financial targets and management system Alberta’s research program • Development of integrated launched ① QEHS system started jan – mar APR – Jun jul – sep oct – dec • O’People employee • Energy efficiency survey recognition at Hannover Messe ② • Ranked 6th in the list of the most reputable • Participation in Baltic • New mission ‘Sustainable companies in Finland Sea Action Summit and use of Earth’s natural • Rated 3rd in CDP Nordic support to saving the resources’ ① Leadership Index ③ Baltic Sea • New Supply function • New CO2 removal formed to develop global pilot plant ④ sourcing • Capital Market Day in Stockholm ① The new operational model was launched ② Brazilian alumina producer Alunorte received ③ Outotec is ranked the third best Nordic ④ Outotec commissioned a new CO2 removal in order to align the organizational structure the ‘Special Recognition’ award for its energy company by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in pilot plant at its R&D center in Germany. The pilot with strategic growth objectives and to improve efficiency during the Hannover Messe. Alunorte the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, which installation allows Outotec to fully demonstrate the cost efficiency of our operations. The new uses Outotec® calcination technology at its is a key component of CDP’s annual Nordic 200 its proprietary Circofer® process for the direct structure also supports the goal to grow our new refinery. New optimization processes in cyclones Report. The Index highlights companies with reduction of fine iron ores based on coal. environmental business and service business, improve heat transfer and cut down on pressure the most complete and professional approach as well as to create closer cooperation within the losses thus resulting in energy savings and more to corporate governance in respect of climate entire Outotec. stable operation. change disclosure practices. Outotec’s score in ‘Sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources’ the CDP ranking was 90/100. was chosen for Outotec’s mission after an extensive ‘Have your say’ dialogue with employees and the management about the company’s future direction. 4 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our approach Our approach “Of the megatrends facing the mining and metals sector, we consider sustainability the most important.” CEO’s letter to stakeholders To take a step back from the world eco-efficient solutions it is possible to our customers and employees can fully tery over the entire metal value chain. of corporate affairs for a moment, it reduce the environmental impact of embrace and work toward achieving. In a ­ ddition, to stay at the forefront of should be pointed out that as a society, the industry, while at the same time sustainable solutions we continuously and as responsible inhabitants of planincreasing welfare. Of the megatrends Our global impact develop our proprietary technologies, et Earth, we have a dilemma. The fact is facing the mining and metals sector, Climate change, pollution, exhaustion pushing them to the next level. that throughout the history of mankind, we consider sustainability the most of natural resources and lack of clean When dealing with all aspects of the much of our prosperity, progress and important, and we see evidence of this water are issues that threaten to affect industry, from ore to refined metals, development as a species can be attribnot only in mature markets but also in us all and only fast, decisive action can you will find Outotec solutions at work, uted to metals and their usage. those in the developing stages. In the reverse such trends and enable more not to mention our work in other areas Outotec’s most significant impact on world of exhausting natural resources sustainable activity in the future. such as water, energy, and biomass. The sustainability occurs indirectly through and a new energy paradigm, where oil is We address these challenges by technologies we provide can reduce the our customers’ operations. At present, expected to run out by 2050 and nuclear providing our customers with sustainenvironmental effects of a number of our customers are confronted with the power is being abandoned by many able technology solutions to maximize industrial operations worldwide, hence dilemma that exists between the growcountries, there is increasing demand the recovery of valuables and m ­ inerals our strong commitment to making the ing need for metals and the environfor more advanced, energy-efficient whilst consuming less energy and f­ ewer most of our potentially global impact. mental impact of producing them. technologies and recycling solutions. natural resources at reduced operaWe constantly strive to enable the We believe that this dilemma can be In 2010, we re-stated our mission tional cost. Outotec’s roots in the metal sustainable use of natural resources. addressed. In fact, its solution is a vital and defined our strategic priorities. production sphere, combined with our Based on self-evaluation carried out topart of our strategy – we see it as our Sustainable use of Earth’s natural re100-year pedigree, have allowed us gether with an independent consultant, role in the industrial eco-system. With sources is the mission we believe both to establish a strong position of masaround 72 percent of our order intake © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our approach 5 “Around 72% of our order intake for 2010 was categorized as Environmental Goods and Services under the OECD classification.” for 2010 was categorized as Environmental and Health and Safety Managemental Goods and Services under the ment, based on our business objectives OECD classification. This shows the and requirements, internal policies, depth of our commitment to sustainand international standards. This work ability. We are a provider of cleaner will continue in 2011. technologies, products and services In addition, we strengthened our geared towards the reduction of envicommitment by signing the United ronmental risk, pollution, and use of Energy, Light Metals and Environmenimproved scalability, flexibility and Nations Global Compact initiative and natural resources. This is demonstrably tal Solutions business area focuses productivity. Restructuring the organimaking formal our pledge to uphold the the core of our business. on developing offerings for bioenergy, zation and adjusting to new ways of coprinciples on human rights, the enviwater, improved heat recovery, cleaning operating has demanded a lot of work ronment, labor, and anti-corruption. Paving the way of process gases and clean technoloand commitment from our personnel. We will continue to lend our support We launched a new operational model gies for oil shale and oil sands. MarketHowever, I am convinced that the path to this and other such causes, pushing in April 2010 to align our organizational ing, sales and delivery operations in we have chosen is the key to our future for good use of Earth’s resources for structure with our growth objectives. geographical market areas were placed competitiveness and growth. generations to come. Each of our four business areas are in a global Market Operations organiWe also consolidated our efforts in focusing on growing and developing zation to strengthen the sales of our 2010 and started the process to hartheir respective businesses globcompany’s offerings. The new shared monize our environmental and quality ally by providing life cycle solutions to functions are responsible for establishmanagement systems and create an Pertti Korhonen our customers. In particular, our new ing the operational platforms enabling Integrated System for Quality, EnvironPresident & CEO, Outotec 6 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our approach Strategy “We strive to become the Our most significant impacts on the undisputed global leader environment occur indirectly through our in sustainable minerals customers’ operations. Our strategy for 2010–2015 builds on providing sustainand metals processing able life cycle solutions which fully utilize solutions and to firmly Outotec’s technology and service offering and guarantee performance and lifelong establish our presence benefits to customers. These benefits in the energy and water include license to operate, reduced energy and water consumption, high businesses.” recovery, and minimum emissions. In addition to strengthening our technology portfolio for the entire value chain – from steadily mounting importance. nificant threat for these customers, it 2011–2015 are to become an integrated ore to metals – through own research Energy and industrial water treatalso provides immense possibilities global company, to develop a strong and development as well as by acquisiment are just two examples of adjafor Outotec to successfully market its company culture, and to improve costtions, our strategy focuses on expansion cent areas which require efficient and technologies. According to GS Sustain, efficiency and scalability. Supported to adjacent industries such as the energy environmentally sound use of scarce Goldman Sach’s sustainability-focused by a strong brand and reputation, the industry and industrial water treatment. raw materials. These industries show research body, mining as well as the company aims to cover all relevant We also aim at strengthening further our significant growth opportunities for steel and aluminum industries present geographic markets with its full offerpresence in emerging markets and imOutotec while offering high synergy significant opportunities for differentiaing and become the undisputed global proving our productivity and scalability. potential and manageable risks. tion through effective management of leader in sustainable minerals and metThis strategy provides the direction for As well as the pressure to improve climate change pressures iii. als processing solutions and to firmly Outotec’s sustainability work. production efficiency from an environIn light of the trends mentioned establish a presence in the energy and In the area of mineral and metal promental sustainability perspective, the above, Outotec’s strategic goals for industrial water treatment businesses. cessing, Outotec has been an industry financial impact of sustainability in the leader, developing innovative technolometals and minerals industry is also of Outotec has worked on over 2,000 Notes: gies for nearly a century. This expertise growing relevance. Goldman Sachs esprojects worldwide. The majority i GS Sustain, May 21 2009: Change is coming: has since been successfully applied to timates that, assuming a working emisof the world’s iron ore pellets, half A framework for climate change – a defining many other industries. We continue to sions trading scheme is in place pricing issue of the 21st century, p.6. of the world’s primary copper and actively seek new applications for our carbon at USD 60/ton of CO2, 15 percent a third of the nickel from sulfide ii GS Sustain, May 21 2009: Change is coming: technologies. Rising energy costs and of the total cash flow of global comores are produced using Outotec A framework for climate change – a defining stringent legislation have guided users panies will be transferred from comprocesses. Furthermore, over issue of the 21st century, p.6 and 8. to seek out energy efficient solutions panies with high emissions to those 600 sulfuric acid plants installed for many years. In addition, water is with low emissions i. This trend will be with the help of our expertise aciii GS Sustain, May 21 2009: Change is coming: an increasingly scarce resource and seen specifically in carbon intensive count for more than a third of the A framework for climate change – a defining its efficient use, along with recycling industries, such as those of ­Outotec’s world’s sulfuric acid capacity. issue of the 21st century, p.10. and purification processes, is a goal of customers ii. While this poses a sig© Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our approach 7 Materiality assessment Outotec’s most important sustainability revealed that development and imrespect to Outotec’s employees, health, Various Outotec stakeholders, such as issues were defined in a management provement of the company’s technology safety and employee well-being were investors, analysts, and NGOs, have workshop in 2010. The participants solutions is clearly the most important ranked among the matters of highest a special interest in sound corporate included the CEO and heads of shared sustainability issue for Outotec. The concern. Efficient management of the management. Corresponding to these functions such as strategy, technology, significance of providing eco-efficient company with clear principles (e.g. concerns the appropriate GRI indicators communications, investor relations, solutions is underlined by comparing corporate governance, business e ­ thics were chosen and targets for improveand business infrastructure. Feedback the amount of CO2 emissions annually and anti-corruption) was regarded ments determined. from stakeholders was taken into acavoided through use of Outotec’s goods important. count when evaluating the most imporand services (4.2 million tonnes CO2-e) Improving the sustainability of tant sustainability issues and, subseand the amount of greenhouse gas ­Outotec’s operations was also identified quently, the chosen GRI indicators. emissions from Outotec’s operations as an important target. Employee moThe relevant sustainability-related (approximately 25,000 tonnes CO2-e). tivation and satisfaction, the ecological Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Improving customer environmental footprint and water use of Outotec’s were chosen based on the workshop performance and customer satisfaction operations were determined material results. The materiality assessment were also regarded as significant. With sustainability issues in the assessment. Outotec’s sustainability issues with high impact Important sustainability issues • Energy efficient solutions • Water use • Eco-efficient solutions • Compliance with laws and regulation • Product life cycle • Risk management and internal • Quality control • Improving customer environmental performance • Employee motivation and satisfaction • Customer satisfaction • Improving sustainability of Outotec’s • Business ethics and anti-corruption operations • Employee and subcontractor health and safety • Carbon footprint • Employee well-being 8 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our approach Feedback from Outotec’s stakeholders, identification of key impacts, risks, and opportunities from sustainability trends and internal workshops led to the creation of Outotec’s sustainability map. We enable sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources The demand for metals and raw materials to support global development is growing while resources are becoming increasingly scarce. 4. SUSTAINABLE OUTCOME Solution Engineering, CUSTOMERS Our customers face many challenges definition Sourcing, 1. such as declining ore grades, rising Delivery Clean, efficient operations and high energy prices, water scarcity, 3. return on investment. tightening environmental SOCIETY regulations, employee health Benefits Improved resource and safety, and long-term efficiency, clean operational profitability. environment, prosperity. Material Fuel Energy Increased SUPPLIERS Feasibility efficiency efficiency efficiency safety We expect our study, Installation, suppliers to adhere 2. Our core competence is in mineral and metal Analysis Commissioning to the same high standards as we do. processing. We develop new applications for energy and Water Reduced Increased Recycling EMPLOYEES industrial water treatment, efficiency emissions recovery Meaningful and rewarding jobs. offering customers sustainable technology solutions and life SHAREHOLDERS cycle services. Investing in a responsible company. Upgrades, ECOLOGICAL Operation, Expansion, FOOTPRINT Maintenance Technologies with Demolition low impact. © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our approach 9 Management approach Economic responsibility As a listed company Outotec is committed to increasing shareholder value. The company delivers on this commitment by developing and maintaining competitive and profitable operations based on ethical business practices. Outotec applies principles of good corporate governance and transparent accounting. Outotec’s operations have economic impacts on the local, national and global communities in which the company operates. We contribute to community well-being through paying taxes, direct and indirect employment, and other ways of community involvement. The world’s industrial production is increasingly concentrated in Asia to serve the area’s rapidly growing large local markets and to supply world markets with low-cost manufacturing. Thus, the majority of new metals production capacity is also being constructed in developing reliability of our sulfuric acid plant delivAs a leading provider of technology, and providing jobs directly and indirectmarkets. Outotec is strengthening its eries thanks to its material know-how. Outotec ensures that all the plants, ly, by supporting charitable enterprises presence and aims to support sustainequipment and services engineered and events in line with our ethics. We able development in these markets. Environmental responsibility and delivered by the company are relialso maintain close co-operation with An essential part of Outotec’s Although improving the sustainability able and safe over the life cycle and educational institutions. Outotec does growth strategy is to complement the of Outotec’s operations is an important all the products meet with all relevant not support or give donations to politi­com­pany’s technology portfolio of sustarget for the company, the develophealth and safety laws and regulations. cal organizations. tainable products and services through ment and delivery of energy-efficient It is ensured that the equipment fulfills acquisitions. In 2010 for example, the and environmentally sound solutions the safety-related industrial standards. Human rights and labor practices acquisition of Ausmelt strengthened for the customers has far more signifiOutotec encourages its employees to Outotec’s recycling offerings, Larox cance for Outotec in terms of environSocial responsibility value diversity and different cultures brought new technologies and products mental responsibility. We also intend to Society and treats people in an equal and fair for filtration and industrial water treatgrow the share of environmental goods Outotec contributes to the community manner regardless of their ethnic oriment, while Edmeston increased the and services in our offerings. well-being, in addition to paying taxes gin, nationality, religion, political views, 10 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our approach sex, sexual orientation, or age. Freedom of association prevails in Outotec. The global QEHS system will: Outotec’s aim is to be an open and • Facilitate the efficient, safe and legal equal work community. The company operation of Outotec’s business processes culture encourages everyone to dis• Facilitate continuous improvement of cuss and develop Outotec’s operations. these processes concerning QEHSRegular briefing and interactive events related topics are organized for the personnel regard• Ensure that our customers’ needs are being satisfied ing the company’s financial situation, • Enable the certification of chosen QEHS targets and successes. In addition, varisystem modules in chosen locations ous influencing and discussion chan• Facilitate Outotec’s fast and profitable nels are used, such as the intranet, growth by providing scalability in the form of well-defined QEHS modules Outotec Round-Table, and meetings with employee representatives. Competent and motivated people are essential to Outotec’s success. Therement (QEHS) to replace current unitfore the company provides continuous specific quality systems. training and competence development The aim is to establish and impleas well as a healthy and safe working ment the agreed integrated QEHS environment for the personnel. Management System at all Outotec loAs a technology company, Outotec cations based on local laws and global needs both highly qualified employees Outotec policies in order to fulfill the and suppliers. In Outotec’s customer requirements of our businesses, busiprojects, the locally sourced subconness processes, shared functions and tractors need also to be trained spesupport processes. The full coverage of cialists, and therefore the risk profile this system, and its efficient implemenregarding affront/violation of human tation and continuous improvement, will The operating QEHS systems consist Outotec policies, processes and procerights is relatively low. However, more help the businesses meet their growth of the developed system framework dures. Managers are also responsible emphasis will be put in future on the targets. The QEHS system should also and the daily work of all the individuals for facilitating and monitoring their supplier selection procedures. develop Outotec’s competitiveness by in the Outotec organization. The syspeople to work in the processes, mea­ facilitating even more efficient and tematic implementation of the processsuring, analyzing, problem-solving and Globally integrated QEHS system modularized business processes, which es and proactive approach to problem for implementation of improvements In 2010, in order to operate as a globdeliver the desired output quality at the solving and debottlenecking are the in the process. Each unit is responsible ally integrated company, to grow the right cost. Improvements in Outotec’s fundamentals in achieving desired for its quality assurance procedures business and to improve productivity business processes will also be made outcomes. QEHS will be integrated into and corrective actions. The whole and quality, Outotec’s management by facilitating continuous improvement Outotec’s operational model. Outotec organization is responsible for started a process to create a globally and by introducing harmonized ways to Everyone at Outotec is responsible implementation and continuous imIntegrated System for Quality, Environmanage common problems in Outotec for the quality of their work and for provement. mental and Health & Safety Manageglobally. ensuring the full implementation of all Read also Outotec strategy, p. 6. © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working 11 Our way of working Employees At the end of 2010, Outotec had a total There was a major restructuring ing has demanded a lot of work and of 3,130 employees. Temporary personwithin Outotec in 2010. Company acquicommitment from our personnel. Folnel accounted for about 8 percent of sitions, the most significant of which lowing negotiations carried out in the the total. In addition to own employees, was the acquisition of a filter solution spring, the number of personnel was Outotec had approximately 328 fullsupplier, Larox, brought more than 600 reduced by 161 world-wide. About half time equivalent contracted professionnew employees to Outotec. Additionof the reductions were implemented als working in project execution. ally, the company’s operational model through pension arrangements and by Nearly half of Outotec’s employees was changed, and related structural reducing fixed-term contracts. Interare based in Europe, however, Outotec reorganization and development of nal transfers were used in an effort has operations and employees in all the global business processes got off to a to minimize personnel reductions. continents. good start. Through the organizational The Services business was developed change, possible new cost savings were through internal transfers, as well as Educational background sought and overlapping functions were by recruiting new experts. At the same Outotec’s position as an industry leader abolished. time, the legal structure of the comrequires strong technological expertise, Restructuring of the organization pany was simplified. For many employunderstanding of customers’ producand adjusting to new ways of cooperatees, the change also meant a change of tion processes, project know-how, and production plant expertise. One third of Outotec’s employees has a higher uniEmployees 2010 2009 GRI indicator versity level or post graduate degree, Number of employees at year end 3,130 3,128 LA1 and some 40 percent of the employees Number of employees on average 3,151 2,612 LA1 has upper secondary level or lower university level degree. Temporary, % of the total number 8 8 LA1 Number of full-time equivalent contracted professionals 328 250 LA1 Challenging year for employees Share of women in employees, % 20 N/A LA2 The company’s new mission ‘SustainShare of women in management, % 11 N/A LA2, LA13 able use of Earth’s natural resources’ Wages and salaries paid, EUR million 224.4 159.5 EC1 was communicated to all employees globally as part of strategy communicaEmployee average age 41.3 43.7 LA2 tion. The target is that every employee Safety performance in manufacturing facilities, 17 N/A LA7 in Outotec understands the purpose of number of accidents the company, our future direction and ways to reach set goals. 12 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working Personnel survey 2010 2008 2007 Employee satisfaction, % 63.7 66.4 63.9 Survey coverage, % 74.6 73.1 79.0 supervisor. For some, their supervisor Employee turnover is now based in another country. During 2010 employee turnover reWhile extensive internal changes mained low in main locations. The data were implemented at Outotec, business collection system will be developed also began to pick up toward the end of further, however, to get exact turnover 2010. Indeed, the year as a whole can rates of global operations. be described as a fairly challenging and busy one for personnel. Competence development Competent and motivated people are Work satisfaction remained on a good level essential to Outotec’s success. ThereThe O’People personnel survey mea­ fore the company provides continuous suring work satisfaction globally was training and competence development done in October/November 2010. The as well as a healthy and safe working number of respondents rose from two environment for the personnel. years ago by nearly two percentage To implement major changes points to 74.6 percent. According to the globally requires commitment of all survey, both overall satisfaction and employees and enhanced communicacommitment continue to be at a good tion and training. The whole Executive In learning and development, 70 On-the-job learning level, although both fell slightly from Board and nearly 100 employees in percent of Outotec’s emphasis is on onAs part of on-the-job learning and the previous measurement. The bigeleven design teams participated in the-job learning, 20 percent on learning personal growth, job rotation was very gest decrease was seen in cooperation, the organizational design work in the from others and 10 percent of formal much encouraged and approximately information ﬂow inside the company beginning of 2010. In the second half of training programs. In 2010, the new 60 employees did take on new chaland organization, which was expected 2010, the process to create the strategy operational model and integration of lenges. Outotec’s new employees parbecause of signiﬁcant changes that for the coming years engaged over 100 Larox were the key themes in all comticipated in various customer projects took place during the year. By contrast, employees. munication, change management and to get practical experience. Hundreds management was perceived to have To support the communication of trainings to increase the understanding of employees participated in different improved since the previous survey. the new operational model and stratof the new organization, matrix reladevelopment initiatives in Outotec, such The development of HR management egy as well as the on-boarding of new tionships, purpose of each employee’s as operational model design, strategy continued on the basis of the results employees, an e-learning application own job and target setting. process and designing global business received from the previous survey, as was developed. Nearly 1,000 employees The average hours of trainings in difprocesses. As part of life-long learning well as country-speciﬁc surveys. successfully completed the e-learning ferent formats per year is estimated to and uniqueness of knowledge in certain exercise. be 10 hours/employee. expertise areas, Outotec encourages © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working 13 experienced specialists to take an eduing program, and a one-year O’Leader setting is tied to an annual bonus sys55 percent of employees are covered cator role to share their expertise and program was organized for 16 young tem. The targets and evaluated results by collective bargaining agreements. train successors. experts and leaders. Different tools are always signed by both parties and Binding collective agreements are folsuch as EQ-i Emotional Intelligence approved by over manager (line manlowed in each country where they are Learning from others (160 participants) and 360 assessments ager’s manager). In 2010, 86 percent applicable to Outotec employees. Mentoring is used to transfer tacit (55 participants) were used as part of of the employees had a Performance Almost all Outotec employees are knowledge from senior experts to personal growth and coaching. Also Development Dialogue (2009: 64%). covered by an annual bonus system to juniors. During 2009–2010 some 60 some local leadership development proencourage them for performance and employees participated in the mentorgrams were organized in Australia and Labor practices development. The bonus is paid only to ing programs as mentees and mentors. Chile. A program for increasing lumpRound-Table discussed strategy those who have been employed by the A new concept was introduced in which sum turnkey project understanding was Outotec Round-Table is a discussion company at least six months during two persons mentor a group of 10 perorganized twice in Germany. In addition, forum for personnel representatives the accounting period, or if a person sons for a year. Outotec’s business lines and product and management on matters concernhas been hired during the accounting Outotec has its own concepts to lines organized technical trainings for ing the whole of Outotec. It is based period, the minimum employment time strengthen leadership and supervisory employees and customers worldwide. on the European Works Council direcis 4 months. skills. Leadership development and Various support functions, Services tive 94/95 EU, Article 6 and it covers new key expert position holders in a business area and product lines trained all employees in EU countries as well Health and safety matrix organization were supported by their network and global community as Norway (and Switzerland). Outotec In 2010, Outotec started the work coaching programs. In 2010 there were members. Furthermore, language Round-Table was held three times in to harmonize its environmental and about 25 personal coaching processes training in several languages and some 2010. Topics discussed included stratquality management systems and to for key employees to support them in cross-cultural training for Indian and egy, acquisitions, organizational change create an Integrated System for Qualtheir challenging job. Also manageMiddle East cultures were organized. and development programs. Some 20 ity, Environmental and Health & Safety ment team development processes Over 650 employees received training personnel representatives participated Management (QEHS) that is based started for the Executive Board and for MS Office and Lotus Notes applicain the meetings. on Outotec’s business objectives and management teams of the Non-ferrous tions. Also, many employees individually requirements, internal policies and Solutions and Services business areas, participated in external training and Employee benefits international standards. for 35 executives in total. The Corporate graduation programs. Outotec has several pension plans in Outotec has adopted a policy on Human Capital function has created various countries. The plans are mainly occupational health, safety and envian in-house coach pool to find a suitPerformance Development Dialogues classiﬁed as deﬁned contribution penronment which addresses issues from able coach to meet different needs and In 2010, Outotec launched a renewed sion plans. In Germany we use deﬁned a general perspective, leaving specific developed regular monitoring of qualprocess supported by an electronic beneﬁt pension plans. Other post-emdetails to be further elaborated and ity and achievement of targets of the workbook for Performance Developployment beneﬁts relate to retirement applied as required locally. It is each coaching processes. ment Dialogues (PDD), and approximedical arrangements in Germany. employee’s responsibility to comply mately 350 managers globally were Fair and motivating compensation with those policies. Training programs trained and supported in the use of the is achieved through pay that is in line The Occupational Health and Safety As part of formal trainings, some corponew tool. The Outotec Performance with the requirements of the job, and (OHS) Committee at Outotec’s headrate-wide programs were organized. In Development Dialogue process inthe performance and skills of the emquarters facilitates regular OHS training leadership development, 120 discipline cludes a participative process between ployee. Furthermore, every employee is and education for employees and conleaders participated in a tailored trainan employee and a line manager. Target covered by the bonus system. tinuously audits safety at the working 14 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working Targets related to employees R&D and innovation Target for 2010 Performance in 2010 Target for 2011 GRI indicator Outotec’s success is based on a strong require solutions for utilizing scarce Decision was made Have a dialogue with SO3 portfolio of world-class technologies, raw materials in an efficient and envito review Outotec employees about Outorobust expertise and innovative personronmentally sound way. For some time principles. Outotec tec values, principles nel. To stay at the forefront of sustainnow, rising costs of energy and strinsigned the United Naand code of conduct able solutions we continuously improve gent legislation have led users to seek tions Global Compact and redefine them. and develop our proprietary technoloout energy efficient technologies. Water initiative. Long-term target is to gies. We will further strengthen our is also an increasingly scarce resource provide training relatportfolio of sustainable solutions for and its efficient use, along with recyed to code of conduct the entire value chain from ore to metcling and purification processes, is a to all employees. als, and complement our in-house R&D goal of steadily mounting importance in Build a platform that Human Capital master Implement the HC LA1–13 with acquisitions and partnerships. the customer industry. enables harmonized data system was demaster data system We cooperate with universities, The growth opportunities offered by processes and effective veloped. globally and develop research institutes and ­customers adjacent industries such as energy and utilization of personnel it to include relevant in R&D. Outotec has over 560 p ­ atent industrial water treatment are attracdata globally. personnel data needed ­families, over 4,700 national ­patents tive as they show high synergy potential to establish corporate wide indicators. and applications, and over 70 and manageable risks. Outotec’s en­trademarks. Key areas of expertise ergy and environmental solutions busi86% of employees had 90–95% of employees LA12 are physical separation, metallurgy ness includes offerings for bioenergy, a Performance Develhave a Performance opment Dialogue. Development Dialogue. of solid-state materials, chemistry water, improved heat recovery, and including pyroand hydrometallurgy, as applications for oil shale and oil sands. well as gas handling technologies. We Naturally, all of the company’s business area. The committee contributes to a Procedures for local hiring have two in-house research centers, areas focus on energy and water efsafe working environment and mainWhen Outotec starts a new operation in state-of-the-art laboratories and test ficiency, emission reductions and waste tains a system to record accidents and a country, normally an expatriate is sent facilities, which have made it possible management in their product develophazardous situations in the workplace. to take care of integration of the new that dozens of Outotec technologies ment. In addition to in-house R&D, operation. However, the target is that are today industry standards. Outotec ­Outotec develops sustainable solutions Women in the workforce senior management of the local operaalso has extensive knowledge of matein partnership with other companies. Outotec’s Board of Directors had one tion is hired locally. Currently there are rial technology, plant and equipment For example utilizing its expertise female member in 2010. The share of operations in 24 countries with a local engineering, equipment and process in solid-water separation technolowomen in the workforce was 20 percent manager in 93 percent of them. automation and the implementation of gies Outotec cooperates with Kemira and the share of women in managerial Read also Interaction with stakeholders, p. 20. large international projects. to improve the oil recovery and water positions was approximately 11 percent. Outotec actively strives to explore ­efficiency in oil sands extraction. The low shares may reflect the typinew applications for its technologies. In 2010 Outotec commissioned a cally high share of men in the history of Among other sectors, energy and new CO2 removal pilot plant at its R&D the mining and metallurgical industry. industrial water treatment in particular center in Germany. The pilot instalThere were no reported incidents of any offer significant and attractive growth lation is aimed to fully demonstrate type of discrimination cases in 2010. opportunities. Both of these sectors Outotec’s proprietary Circofer® process © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working 15 R&D and innovation 2010 2009 GRI indicator R&D expenditure, EUR million 28.5 20.5 EN6, EN26 R&D expenditure, % of sales 2.9 2.3 EN6 R&D grants, EUR million 1.3 2.0 EC4 Amount of new patent applications filed 50 56 New national or regional patents granted 287 286 Amount of patent families 565 539 Proportion of Environmental Goods and Services in 72 76 EN6 order intake, % Performance in 2010 Target for 2011 GRI indicator 72% of order intake classified as Grow the percentage of EGS in order EN6 Environmental Goods and Services intake, long-term target is to reach a (EGS). level of 80–90%. EUR 28.5 million invested in R&D. Increase the investments in R&D in line EN6, EN26 with business growth. Acquisitions of Ausmelt and Larox Continue growth through acquisiEC1 brought new sustainable technologies tions, update the acquisition process to for the direct reduction of fine iron ores Targets related to R&D for recycling and water filtration. include sustainability assessment in due based on coal, where CO2 removal from An essential part of Outotec’s growth diligence. the process gas enables full utilization strategy is to complement the com4.2 million tonnes CO2 emissions Over 5% annual increase in the amount EN26 of the reduction potential of coal. It also pany’s technology portfolio of sustainavoided (CDP 2010) through use of of avoided CO2 emissions through use of complements the existing circulating able products and services through three Outotec technologies. Outotec technologies and solutions. fluidized bed pilot plant allowing for acquisitions. In R&D Outotec focuses the cleaning of process gas also from on technology development to increase Read more about our R&D activities in Outotec Annual Report 2010, pages 36–39. coal and biomass gasification. The new resource efficiency, for example by pilot plant plays an important role in reducing energy and water consumpthe development of Outotec’s new oftion and environmental impacts of the ferings for the energy industry providcompany’s products and services. We ing the testing facilities to reduce the plan to grow the percentage of environcarbon footprint of coal and biomassmental goods and services in our offerbased energy production well as the oil ing and order intake through product winning from oil shale. However, the development and acquiring sustainable segregation of captured carbon dioxide technologies. is not included into scope currently at the pilot plant. 16 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working Code of conduct, committed to its principles of human rights, environment, labor, and antiOutotec has expressed its intent to further advance sustainability and social Outotec’s current values, defined jointly with employvalues and principles corruption. By joining the corporate responsibility principles in its business ees as the Principles, reflect responsibility Global Compact initiative practices. the target culture where we As defined in our Corporate Responsibility Policy, corporate responsibility needs UN Global Compact Outotec to be an integral part of all Outotec opTen Principles erations, activities and decision-making Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of • Outotec Principles everywhere we operate. Compliance internationally proclaimed human rights • Outotec Corporate Responsibility Policy • Outotec Occupational Health, Safety and Environmental Policy with laws forms the basis of all Outotec’s • Local health and safety systems actions. This Policy serves currently as • Employee training and development guidelines for Outotec’s business ethics, • Collective bargaining agreements and management as well as employees Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in • Outotec Principles are expected to comply with it. human rights abuses • Corporate Responsibility Policy In order to develop our performance Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and • 55% of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements and reporting, we strive for a continuthe effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining ous dialogue on corporate responsibilPrinciple 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of • Outotec Principles ity issues with our customers, employforced and compulsory labor • Corporate Responsibility Policy ees, shareholders, suppliers, as well as Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child • Outotec Principles public and non-governmental organilabor • Corporate Responsibility Policy zations. As a listed company Outotec is committed to increasing the sharePrinciple 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination • Corporate Responsibility Policy holder value. We deliver on this comin respect of employment and occupation mitment by developing and maintaining Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to • R&D, technology development to improve process solutions environcompetitive and profitable operations environmental challenges mental performance, comply with all relevant environmental legislabased on ethical business practices. tion, risk management (materials used, products, processes) • Quality and environmental management systems We apply principles of good corporate • Risk management system governance and transparent account• Technology Policy ing. Outotec’s Corporate Governance Statement 2010 has been prepared in Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater • R&D, technology development environmental responsibility • Energy efficiency agreements in Finland accordance with recommendation 54 • Unit-specific quality and environmental management systems of the Finnish Corporate Governance • Outotec products and services fully comply with local environmental Code and related instructions issued by laws and regulations the Securities Markets Association. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffu• BAT offerings; sustainability KPIs in Outotec solutions sion of environmentally friendly technologies • Outotec mission and vision Committing to the Global • Sustainability features in product design Compact initiative Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, • Corporate Responsibility Policy In 2010 Outotec signed the United including extortion & bribery Nations Global Compact initiative and © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working 17 want to work. These Principles are cerning the provision and use of prodSustainable technology; Lead in life and ucts and services has been reported to work; Pro customer; and Share and Outotec. care. However, as the personnel has increased due to acquisitions and active Internal control and audit recruiting, more than half of the curInternal control is a fundamental part rent personnel has not been involved in of Outotec’s corporate governance sysdefining the Principles. Therefore it was tem. Internal control can be defined as decided in 2010 that Outotec Principles a set of processes designed to provide and brand values need to be reviewed reasonable assurance on achievement and their alignment with the new misof company objectives in areas of efsion and strategy to be checked. This fectiveness and efficiency of processes work will be done in 2011. and economic use of resources, reliability of financial reporting information Compliance with regulations and laws and compliance with external rules and Outotec endorses ethical business regulations as well as internal policies practices and complies with national and procedures. and international laws and regulaInternal audit helps Outotec to tions. In 2010, there were no incidents comply with good corporate gover­ of corruption or anti-trust behavior nance, give an independent perspective reported. No fines or sanctions for the for management in considering and non-compliance with laws and regulareviewing company operations, and tions were imposed. Neither had any accomplish its objectives by bringing issues emerged concerning the rights a systematic, disciplined approach to of indigenous people. evaluating and improving the effectiveOur products comply with industrial ness of risk management, control, and health and safety standards and regugovernance processes. lations. We provide extensive product The existing internal and external information for the customers in the audit processes take into account ganizations on a regular basis to train more concrete guidelines for everyday form of user manuals and technical eventual corruption suspicions. Legal employees in the organization’s antisituations will be developed in 2011. We descriptions. No non-compliance conseminars are held throughout the orcorruption policies and procedures. plan to have a dialogue with employees about Outotec values, principles and Targets regarding code of conduct, code of conduct, and based on the rePerformance in 2010 Target for 2011 GRI indicator values and principles sults of the dialogue redefine them. As Decision was made to review Outotec Have a dialogue with employees about SO 3 Because there are so many new a long-term target we plan to make the principles. Outotec signed the United Outotec values, principles and code of employees in the company who are code of conduct available for all stakeNations Global Compact initiative. conduct and redefine them. not familiar with Outotec Principles holders via the internet and provide and Corporate Responsibility Policy, training related to the code of conduct Read also our Corporate Responsibility Policy at www.outotec.com/sustainability. an updated code of conduct providing to all employees. 18 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working Governance and This pertains mainly to environmental Decision making in sustainability issues and sustainability managers. Inventors sustainability working with new, patentable solutions also receive monetary rewards for their Outotec follows the Finnish Corporate Board of Directors inventions. In general, the inventions Governance Code (available at www. that qualify are those with potential for cgfinland.fi) issued by the Securities introducing energy savings and reducMarket Association and adopted by the tions in CO2. Furthermore, Outotec NASDAQ OMX Helsinki stock exchange. CEO rewards all employees for making proOutotec complies with the regulations Executive Board posals that improve the sustainability of and recommendations issued by NASthe company’s internal processes. Sustainability aspect DAQ OMX Helsinki. The company’s research center in At Outotec, the highest level of Pori, Finland applies a reward system responsibility for issues related to susbased on balanced scorecard indicaProducts and tainability of our products and services Community Strategy Employees QEHS Corporate Services tors. The majority of Outotec’s techinvolvement Head of Supply chain Economic lies with the Technology and Product Head of Head of Head of Business Head of Supply Governance CFO Technology and nology development projects focus Strategy Human Capital Head of Legal Product Board, Board chaired by the CEO. Decisions Communications Infrastructure CTO on raw material and energy efficiency made, actions and commitments are improvements and thus CO2 emissions reported to the Board of Directors. reductions, but management of other In addition, Outotec has a separate emissions has been the target a longer sustainability working group that meets Corporate Investor Sustainability period of time. Water efficiency is also two to three times annually. The group Communications Relations Working Group CTO often a driver for Outotec’s research is headed by the Chief Technology Ofand customers expect Outotec to deficer (CTO) and decisions made at these velop new technologies that result in meetings are communicated to the energy and cost savings. Employees of Technology Board including the CEO the research center are rewarded if the Sustainability and to Business Areas’ Presidents. Specialists number of inventions and patent applications exceed a defined annual target. Sustainability working group In 2010, Outotec’s Technology and Board work Product Board and sustainabilThe purpose of the working group tors the progress it has made in its acThe Board of Directors of Outotec conity working group set sustainability was to identify Outotec’s actions related tions to mitigate climate change issues. sists of seven members, six of which are targets, and monitored and reviewed to sustainability and climate change. independent. Tapani Järvinen, who was the company’s sustainability actions. The group was also responsible for the Monetary incentives for management the former CEO of the company until The CEO received regular updates on annual calculation of the company’s related to sustainability end of 2009, is defined as dependent sustainability-related issues from the carbon footprint and the emissions Employees whose responsibilities because of his employment relationship. CTO, who in turn received reports from avoided through the use of Outotec’s include working with sustainability and One of the Board members is female. the Vice President of Environment and technology solutions. It is through environmental issues have personal In 2010, the Board of Directors met 14 Sustainability. these means that the company monitargets set in their annual bonus plans. times. The average attendance of mem© Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working 19 bers at Board meetings was 100 percommittee’s task is to review, in greater benefit plans and compensation as well cent. The Board of Directors assesses detail than is possible for the Board as as remuneration of the CEO and other its performance regularly by conducting a whole, the auditing work, the internal executives. The Human Capital Coman internal self-evaluation annually. controls, the scope of internal and exmittee did not convene during 2010. The remuneration of the Board ternal audits, invoicing by the auditors, members is described in Outotec Anthe company’s financial policies and Targets related to governance nual Report 2010, p. 62. There is no other procedures for managing compaWe aim to improve our sustainability linkage between the compensation for ny-specific risks. In addition, the comgovernance processes, data collecBoard members and the social or envimittee shall prepare recommendations tion and reporting in 2011. Following ronmental performance. to the General Meeting of Shareholders this report, which is Outotec’s first The Board of Directors as a whole concerning the election and fees of the GRI-based sustainability report, a web determines the qualifications and auditors for the company. In 2010, the based communication platform focusexpertise of the candidates for the Audit Committee met four times and all ing on sustainability will be launched. members of the board and decides who members were present. As part of the targeted growth is will be submitted to the AGM. Outotec’s Board of Directors estabplanned to be achieved through acquiThe Board has an audit committee lished a Human Capital Committee sitions, we intend to update our acquiconsisting of four Board members, who in November 2010 which focuses on sition process to include sustainability are independent of the company. The policies and procedures, employee assessment in due diligence. Target for 2010 Performance in 2010 Target for 2011 GRI indicator Build a platform for fuNew mission, vision and Improve sustainability ture growth, develop an strategy defined. New governance processes, efficient and flexible way operational model was data collection and of working and harmolaunched in April. reporting. nize operations. Acquisitions of Ausmelt Continue growth EC1 and Larox brought new through acquisitions, sustainable technologies update the acquisition for recycling and water process to include susfiltration. tainability assessment in due diligence. Decision to improve Publish the first GRItransparency and combased sustainability munication related to report and web-based corporate responsibility. communication platform. Read more on Outotec’s Corporate Governance Statement 2010 at www.outotec.com/investors. 20 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working Interaction with solutions. Communicating actively the sustainability of the offered technologies stakeholders and how they can improve the environmental performance of the customer’s Outotec’s most important stakeholdproduction is an area of development for ers are customers, current and future Outotec according to the survey. employees, suppliers, shareholders, In 2010, Outotec organized a semiand the scientific community. These nar ‘Sustainable solutions for Vietnam’ key stakeholders have been prioritized in cooperation with Vietnam National in the sustainability working group. In Coal Mineral Industries Group for the addition, we cooperate with media as decision-makers in Vietnam. well as public and non-governmental organizations. Outotec has dedicated Awards in customer work functions to deal with the key stakeOutotec and Brazilian alumina proholders in an open and continuous ducer Alunorte received an energy dialogue and to enhance transparency. efﬁciency award at the Hannover Messe 2010. Alunorte was presented with the Customers ‘Special Recognition’ award for using Outotec’s customers comprise large optimization processes in its cyclones global mining companies as well as to improve heat transfer and cut down small and medium-sized mining and on pressure losses thus resulting in metallurgical companies operating energy savings and more stable operalocally. In addition, our customers contacts, we organize seminars, users’ survey was done in cooperation with tion. Alunorte uses Outotec® calcination include companies utilizing natural meetings, training and workshops for the students of University of Oulu. The technology in its production. resources as their raw material, such the customers. To get feedback and inresults of the survey showed that the Together with the construction as fertilizers and energy producers. We formation on customers’ expectations, majority of the customers place much subcontractor Graña y Montero, have long relationships with the majorwe make customer satisfaction surveys emphasis on the environmental friendliOutotec received a safety award from ity of our customers. As a provider of and case study interviews. ness of their products and solutions in their ­client Votorantim Metais for tailored technological solutions and Furthermore, it is industry practheir strategic product decisions, and outstanding safety results achieved in services, we continuously interact with tice that the experts of both producers that environmental issues have had a the ­Cajamarquilla project in Peru. The our customers on various levels during and technology suppliers exchange strong impact on the company’s values project team achieved 500,000 working the lifetime of the investment or plant. information and experiences and meet and philosophy. Outotec was rated as a hours without a severe incident during Personal discussions and site visits are frequently at technical conferences and reliable and environmentally conscious the construction. always needed in Outotec’s business. In trade shows around the world. supplier. Customers rated Outotec’s For the second consecutive year, a number of cases we have joint R&D products/solutions as of high quality, Outotec received the Top Engineerprojects with the customers in order to Sustainability expectations but did not agree strongly that Outotec’s ing Award in the category Engineerdevelop the best possible solution for Outotec studied its customers’ sustainprice is reasonable. However, customing Mining/Metals – Supplier (Plants/ the customer’s specific need. ability expectations in 2009 by sending ers said they are willing to pay more for Equipments and Technological Services In addition to regular business a questionnaire to 500 customers. The environmentally friendly products and in Mining and Metals) in Brazil. The © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working 21 award is an initiative of the EngineerCurrent and future employees Students business operations, economic perforing Association from Minas Gerais, Outotec’s aim is to be an open and We have identified students and future mance, corporate governance as well seeking to recognize suppliers in each equal work community. The company employees as an important stakeholder as environmental and social issues. The segment, disseminating and enhancing culture encourages everyone to disgroup increasingly interested in susaim in communicating with the capital engineering, engineering professionals, cuss and develop Outotec’s operations. tainability and our performance as a market is to ensure that the market has continuous revolution and academic Regular briefing and interactive events responsible employer. a true and fair view of the company’s development. are organized for personnel regarding To increase recognition and to the company’s financial situation, tarstrengthen its employer image, Outotec Customers’ customers’ gets and successes. In addition, various has actively sought different forms of Case, Student cooperation: sustainability expectations channels are used for discussion and collaboration with university students, Outotec was the main organizer of In 2010, Outotec conducted a study influence, such as the intranet, ­Outotec especially in Finland and Germany. This the 12th International Ferro Alwith the objective of going deeper Round-Table, and meetings with emcollaboration is planned to be expanded loy Congress, which was held in into the value chain and exploring our ployee representatives. During 2010, in other countries as well. We organize Helsinki in June 2010. Outotec customers’ sustainability expectations. focus was on the use of the intranet visits, internships, cooperative work cooperated with the communicaThese companies are for example in developing the dialogue between on research, topics and supervision for tion students of the Haaga Helia car manufacturers and other original management and personnel. The CEO’s diploma theses, field trips to producUniversity of Applied Sciences to equipment manufacturers. In order blog postings were amongst the most tion plants and lectures on various create the visual design of the conto gain insight into their sustainability visited pages, and frequently comtopical issues. Many graduate students gress materials. The main criterion needs, a German car manufacturer mented. In 2010 there were also online have contributed to the development for the design was that it should was chosen for closer analysis. Results questionnaires for employees focusing of Outotec’s technologies through their reflect the theme ‘Sustainable of the analysis illustrated that envion change and well-being. M. Sc. and post-graduate research. Future’. The teachers included the ronmental proficiency can be a door Employee expectations regarding design task in the study program opener in becoming a supplier, and sustainability are illustrated in one of Investors and announced a competition for suppliers with better environmental the 1,500 answers in the ‘Have your In recent years investors have more students. Each student participated performance are promoted. When price say’ dialogue held at the end of 2009: and more been requesting information with ideas and proposals for select and quality factors are evenly matched, “Outotec shall be the benchmark for on Outotec’s corporate governance and items. Outotec’s organizing team better environmental performance is sustainability in the field of natural sustainable technologies. selected the most suitable ideas for a competitive advantage. In order to resources exploitation. There is still further development. The students increase their profitability and competa lot to do in making the mineral and Widely spread shareholder base then designed in smaller teams all itiveness, metal producers should and metal processes more efficient, and the Outotec’s investor base is geographimaterials needed at the congress: will in future choose energy efficient global mining industry still interprets cally widely spread and the company’s posters, signage, book cover, jingle, solutions. More sustainable metal fatal accidents as a part of the busifreefloat is 100 percent. Some half (May congress bag, badges and stationproduction and improved environmenness, while this approach has totally 2011) of the company’s shares are held ery as well as the gift for speakers. tal performance also make them more changed e.g. in the chemicals industry. outside Finland and the two largest The students of Aalto University and attractive suppliers in general to their Outotec should highlight the efficiency shareholders account for some nine Haaga Helia University of Applied clients. Outotec can provide solutions and the safety in all her solutions all percent of the shares. The shareholder Sciences also helped the organizers that make this possible for the metal over the world.” structure means there are numerous by working as congress assistants producers, and often in a profitable Read more about our employees, p. 11. requests for information from the capiduring the event. way. tal markets regarding the company’s 22 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working financial position, operations and future Good reputation amongst investors prospects in order to make investment In 2010, Outotec was ranked the sixth decisions. At the end of 2010 Outotec best company in a survey by Reputation had 15,114 shareholders. Shares held Management Consultancy Pohjoisranta in 17 nominee registers accounted for evaluating the reputation of 100 listed 57.4 percent and Finnish households companies in Finland. The ranking held roughly 13.6 percent of all Outotec improved from the ninth place the comshares. pany achieved in its first year as a listed company. Altogether 1,283 persons, Continuous dialogue mainly private investors, participated in Outotec’s IR team has a continuous the survey. It has six different dimendialogue with investors and analysts sions to measure reputation, using and meets them on a regular basis at factors related to corporate culture and investor meetings, road shows, industry leadership, financial excellence, public seminars and annual general meetings. image, products and services, social reIn conjunction with the interim and sponsibility and operational dynamics. annual financial reviews the company Read more about dividends, shareholders and hosts webcasts in order to disseminate share-related key figures on p. 38 and in Outotec public information simultaneously to Annual Report 2010, p. 126–127. the market. In addition, Outotec organizes the CEO’s mid-quarter Q&A in 2010 was to introduce the new CEO Third best Nordic company in Suppliers sessions (started in 2010) and Capiand management team to the capital Carbon Disclosure Project 2010 Outotec uses thousands of suppliers tal Market Days. As part of Outotec’s markets. Management introduced the Being transparent means that we try to around the world for its customers’ CMDs, management sheds more light new operational model and renewed answer to various sustainability-related projects. These include mechanical on company strategy, business operastrategy at the Capital Market Day in questionnaires sent by investors and workshops, component manufacturers tions and long-term plans, as well as November 2010. The CEO’s Q&A sesanalysts. One example of these is the and local construction and engineering introduces technologies and solutions sions, which were launched in 2010, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In companies. in more detail to the capital market. In formed an important channel in order 2010, Outotec was ranked the third best Read more about our suppliers in Impact of our addition to Finnish law, EU directives, to maintain a dialogue in between the Nordic company in the Carbon Disclosupply chain, p. 39. Corporate Governance and stock exinterim reviews and to comply with fair sure Leadership Index, which is a key change rules and regulations, Outotec’s disclosure. These live webcasts aim component of CDP’s annual Nordic 200 Scientific community IR policy is based on self-regulation to give further clarity on information Report. The Index highlights companies As a technology company, we cooperate which is embodied, for the most part, in made public already earlier. In order to with the most complete and profesclosely with universities, research instithe company’s Disclosure Policy. serve the capital market efficiently, and sional approach to corporate governtutes and international organizations. In 2010, Outotec had 22 road show ensure equal access to company-reance with respect to climate change In 2010 Outotec donated EUR days and hosted 100 investor meetlated information, as well as to comply disclosure practices. Outotec’s score in 600,000 to Finnish universities to furings at the company headquarters. with disclosure requirements, the live the CDP ranking in 2010 was 90/100. ther enhance the level of research and 19 analysts conducted research on webcasts are recorded and available on education in universities important for Outotec. One key task for the company demand for future reference. Outotec. The donations strengthen the © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working 23 company’s wide cooperation with sciennon-ferrous metals BREF, a document Commitment to tific communities focusing on technolwhich defines Best Available Techogy and economy. niques for non-ferrous metals, as a external initiatives Outotec continued its sponsorship member in the European Integrated of the Millennium Technology Prize. In Pollution Prevention and Control BuOutotec works actively in various orCompanies are scored on their climate 2010, the prize was awarded to Profesreau (IPPC) technical working group ganizations and in engaging with policy change disclosure, with high scores sor Michael Grätzel, recognized as the and in an environmental working group makers. A representative of Outotec indicating good internal data managedeveloper of third-generation dyeof the Federation of Finnish Technolparticipates in the definition of Best ment and an understanding of the sensitized solar cells. Grätzel cells are ogy Industries. In addition, Outotec Available Techniques (BAT) for nonferclimate change related issues affecting likely to have an important role in lowhas been involved, for example, in the rous metals as an expert in the Eurothe company. Read more about our perforcost, large-scale solutions for renewInternational Copper Association’s pean Union’s working group. In addition mance in CDP 2010 in Investors, p. 22. able energy. Health and Environment Program AdviOutotec has been involved in the comOutotec joined the University of Alsory Committee work. In addition, one mittee work of the International Copper Support and active cooperation with berta’s industrial research program inof Outotec’s experts is a lead author Associations’ Health and Environment scientific communities tended to foster sustainable water use and editor of a document on recycling Program, among others. Outotec donated EUR 600,000 to in the extraction of Canada’s oil sands. technology under the auspices of Dr. further enhance the level of research The program represents collaboration Ernst von Weizsaecker, the co-chair of The United Nations and education in Finnish universities between Kemira and Suncor Energy the UNEP resource panel. Global Compact initiative and to strengthen the company’s wide services, the Canadian government and Read also Commitment to external In 2010, Outotec signed cooperation with scientific communities the Alberta Water Research Institute. initiatives, p. 23. the United Nations Global focusing on technology and economy. Its goal is to establish an industrial reCompact initiative, comsearch chair – ‘Water Quality Managemitting the company to Sponsorship of ment for Oil Sands Extraction’ – within its principles of human rights, envithe Millennium the Natural Science and Engineering ronment, labor and anti-corruption. Technology Prize Research Council of Canada (NSERC) at By joining the corporate responsibilOutotec continues its sponsorship of the University of Alberta. The five-year ity Global Compact initiative Outotec the Millennium Technology Prize. In research program focuses on water expresses its intent to further advance 2010, the prize was awarded to profesquality management, and will generate sustainability and social responsibility sor Michael Grätzel, who is recognized studies addressing water consumpprinciples in its business practices. as the developer of third-generation tion, reuse and recycling by the in-situ dye-sensitized solar cells. Grätzel cells oil sands extraction industry. It aims to Carbon Disclosure Project are likely to have an important role solve this highly relevant environmental Outotec has in low-cost, large-scale solutions for challenge which the oil sands industry participated renewable energy. currently faces. in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Outotec also continued its acsince 2009. CDP analysis is based on a Research program tive work in various organizations in questionnaire focusing on greenhouse to foster sustainable developing environmentally sound gas emissions, emissions reduction water use technologies. A representative of Outargets and the risks and opportuniOutotec joined an industrial research totec participates in the update of the ties associated with climate change. program of the University of Alberta 24 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working intended to foster sustainable water Järvinen Environmental Technology use in Canadian oil sands extraction. Fund in honor of Outotec’s retired CEO In addition, the company is establishTapani Järvinen. The fund aims to ing a Natural Science and Engineering promote the research of environmental Research Council of Canada (NSERC) technology and will fund the research industrial research chair at the univerand development work of distinguished sity entitled ‘Water Quality Manageindividuals. The basic capital for the ment for Oil Sands Extraction’. The fund was donated by Outotec. research chair is a joint effort between Outotec and the companies Kemira and Cleantech Finland® CLEANTECH Suncor Energy Services, the Canadian Since its incepFINLAND government and the Alberta Water Retion, Outotec has search Institute. The five-year research been active in developing the Cleantech program focuses on water quality Finland® brand together with Finpro. management studies to address water The Cleantech Finland® brand brings consumption, reuse and recycling by Finnish clean energy and environment the in situ oil sands extraction industry. experts together in an effort to build clean technologies as part of Finland’s Collaboration and sponsorship of competitive advantage. technology development Outotec also continued its active work Commitment to in the development of environmentally ­rehabilitating sound technologies in various organithe ­Baltic Sea zations. As an expert in the European Outotec joined the BalUnion’s technical working group and tic Sea Action Group in in an environmental working group of 2009 with a commitment to contribute the Federation of Finnish Technology EUR 40,000 annually for three years and Industries, an Outotec representaprovide professional services related tive participates in the updating of the to improving the state of the Baltic BREF on non-ferrous metals, a referSea. The focus of Outotec’s profes2010 Outotec participated in the top Technology Industries of Finland ence document which defines Best sional services for the group will be the level meeting of the Baltic Sea Action Centennial Foundation Fund for the Available Techniques (BAT). In addiminimization of metal-containing dusts Summit and later in the year initiated Association of Finnish Steel and Metal tion, Outotec has been involved with and sulfur dioxide emissions of the a study on oil and organics containing Producers the work of the International Copper metals industry as well as the reduction industrial waters at its research centOutotec was one of the five founding Association’s Health and Environment of metal-containing effluents. ­Outotec ers. Outotec’s new applications of the members of the Foundation aiming to Program Advisory Committee, among will also contribute its expertise in circulating fluidized bed technology for grant EUR 300,000 annually in grants other organizations. symposia focusing on environmentally oil shale processing and sewage sludge and scholarships to students and uniThe board of the Helsinki University sound processing methods in the metincineration have further potential to versity research groups. of Technology established the Tapani als and energy industries. In February reduce emissions to the Baltic Sea. © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our way of working 25 Finnish Business Principal international stakeholder organizations and Society Outotec is a member Organization Interest area Outotec’s engagement of Finnish Business & Society which International Copper Association Increase the awareness and usage of copper by communicating the Member, member of Environment promotes financially, socially and ecounique attributes that make this sustainable element an essential Program Advisory Committee logically sustainable business in Fincontributor to the formation of life. land and is a member of CSR Europe, International Zinc Association Improvement of zinc production methods Member CSR 360 Global Partner Network and International Chromium Association Promote sustainable ferrochrome production Member Global Reporting Initiative. International Committee on Ferro Alloys Promote the holding of International Ferro Alloy Congresses to Member Support for children and youth retain the established high technical standard of the industry. Outotec’s support for local communiEurometaux Non-ferrous metals industry in Europe Member via the Association of ties, whether international, national Finnish Steel and Metal Producers or local, primarily targets sustainable Federation of European Mineral Programs Support international education and research Member development, arts and music as well Finnish Environmental Cluster for China Increase the awareness of Finnish environmental solutions in China Member, consultation as student and youth activities. The (FECC) focus of Outotec’s donations to chariEuropean Industrial Research Management R&D method management and development Member of the Board table causes is on projects that aim to Association improve sustainable development and/ Finnish Business and Society Promote financially, socially and ecologically sustainable business Member or human life. in Finland In 2010, Outotec continued to sponsor the renowned Tapiola Choir, which Cleantech Finland Promote clean technologies Member since 2009 is composed of about 70 young, talBaltic Sea Action Group Improving the state of the Baltic Sea Member since 2009 ented singers and musicians aged nine EU IPPC Bureau T W G evaluating the referEnsure in cooperation with Finnish non-ferrous metals industry that Outotec’s employee member since to 18. Donations to charitable causes ence values for BAT on non-ferrous metals the technologies and emission values relating to them are realistic 2007 included support for the Engineers but reachable without Borders’ initiative to build waExcellence Finland Promote sustainable excellence and competitiveness in Finland Member ter collectors in Kenya and for the SOS Federation of Finnish Technology Industries Ensure that the Finnish technology industry has the preconditions Member of Technology & Business Children’s Village in Kitwe, Zambia. for success in the global marketplace. Working Group, member of Association of Finnish Steel and Metal Producers, Member of Environmental Working Groups Carbon Disclosure Project Reporting since 2009 United Nations Global Compact Greenhouse gas emissions reduction Participant since 2010 Global Reporting Initiative Business sustainability guidelines Outotec sustainability report 2010 according to GRI guidelines 26 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact Our impact Expert’s view: Metals, water, energy and sustainability Metals and sustainability Though metals and minerals, once and water consumption and the effecaccounts for around 70 percent of Outotec’s Director of Technology & extracted, have a very long usage life tive utilization of raw materials not only costs in aluminum production, and the Product Management, Dr. Markus Reucycle, and are often close to 100 perreduce environmental impact, they also energy consumption of concentrators ter, gives us an outline of how metal cent recyclable, their production is improve profitability. attached to mines amount to approxiproduction and prudent usage of water often linked to negative impacts on the mately 50 percent of total operating and energy enable the sustainable use environment as well as on society. As The industry’s impact on the environcosts. of our shared natural resources. a provider of technologies and services ment and on local communities In many mining regions such as for these industries, we see our role as Resource-based industries have Chile and Australia, the quality and Metals are an essential component of an essential contributor to change for great potential to assist the economic quantity of water also pose problems, today’s society: a moment’s reflection the better. As part of the varied soludevelopment of the communities in as the water demands of companies on their ubiquitous presence in virtutions we offer, we aim to address the which they operate. The mining incan result in conflicts with local comally all energy and material production main sustainability challenges facing dustry has, for example, aided the munities that depend on the same processes is enough to confirm this. We our customers. development of several areas in the resources. Furthermore, mining and also, of course, consider an abundant United States, ­Canada, and Australia, mineral work is often carried out in supply of clean water a routine essenOutotec’s role as well as helped Chile to emerge parts of the world that are rich in tial, and the constant need for energy As a technology company, the bulk of as South America’s most successful natural resources, yet particularly is a given all over the world. However, Outotec’s impact on the environment economy. Unfortunately, there are also environmentally sensitive ii. Production the resources of our planet are limited, and communities unfolds through our many challenges, such as corruption, processes also create slag and other as is the strain to which we can subject customers. Our primary sustainability that countries face when attempting potentially harmful by-products, waste it in terms of emissions, pollution, and challenge is therefore to help minimize to translate their wealth of natural and eco-toxic emissions. disposal of waste. For these reasons, any negative effects our customers’ ­resources into economic prosperity i. finding ways to lower the environmenoperations may have on the social wellHistorically, the mining and metals i ICMM: Economic wellbeing: http://www.icmm. tal footprint of our collective existence being in communities. This includes sectors have been heavy consumers of com/page/4655/our-work/industry-issues/artiis a vital priority. assisting them with reducing their energy. For this reason, climate change cles/mining-and-economic-development This urgent need highlights impact on the surrounding environconcerns are a significant risk for the ii ICMM, environment: http://www.icmm.com/ ­Outotec’s status as a vital player in ment and aiding them in the reuse and industry. Energy is often the most our-work/work-programs/environment sustainability. Two things are required: recycling of resources involved in their significant cost in the processes of the best available technology for reducprocesses. The minimization of energy ­Outotec’s customer industries. ­Energy Read also Industry drivers, p. 28. ing the environmental toll of existing © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact 27 Enabling sustainability Consumer expertise As we strive to make clear, Outotec’s A company cannot provide metallurgicommitment to sustainability extends cal solutions effectively without deep far beyond our own operations, which insight into the fields in which the are relatively minor in terms of emisend product will ultimately be used sions. We see our impact in the mining nor without substantial knowledge of and metallurgical industries as of core consumer demands. Every quantity of importance to the effective use of the metal produced using Outotec techplanet’s limited resources. nologies will end up with a consumer of You may have seen the phrase ‘enasome kind, and knowledge of how they bling sustainable use of Earth’s natural will employ these materials is one of resources’ in an Outotec publication. the best ways in which we can promote This statement is testament to the fact resource efficiency. Understanding both that we not only seek to produce metals the design and the substance well can sustainably, but also aim to provide the lead to enterprising new whole-of-sysprocesses, and innovative solutions advanced metal recovery, water and materials necessary for green energy tem solutions and techniques to impact to reverse the trend on a global scale. recycling technologies. production methods such as solar and sustainability significantly. Again, OutoWith our decades of experience and It may surprise you to learn that for wind power, as well as other energytec has a unique opportunity to offer its forward-looking attitude, we see oursome metals, recovery has already conserving solutions like mass transport expertise here, for the greater benefit selves as capable of fulfilling both of eclipsed mining as the principal source concepts. All of these are means of of our society. these criteria, enabling sustainability for production. Lead is a good examreducing our footprint as a global society, There is also a more wide-ranging as a company by providing metals for ple, as over 65% of the metal currently and all, for better or worse, require metperspective, of equal or greater improducts that lower society’s environproduced worldwide is sourced from als from the outset. The key fact is that portance, which involves seeing where mental footprint. recycled car batteries. Outotec’s top we want those metals to be produced in society’s usage of metals is headed, submerged lance technology helps to a sustainable manner, and then returned anticipating trends in sustainable soluClosing the loop make this possible, and can be used to to the value chain via recycling once they tions, and ensuring that the materials At Outotec, we produce some of the process and recover other metals, as have achieved their purpose in the world. in demand in the future are put to good, world’s most energy-efficient metals well as e-waste. Take wind power, for example. Those efficient use before they, too, reenter and water processing solutions, often Resource efficiency is of great imimpressive windmills one can see the production cycle. We at Outotec, for making extensive use of local re­ portance when considering the productowering over the shorelines of some our part, will continue working to ensources and personnel. We are justifition of metals from this perspective. of our most forward-thinking countries sure that the fundamental link between ably proud of our sustainability track Prudent and efficient use of materials are constructed mainly of steel, and the metals and sustainability is handled record in process technologies. Howand technology will define our future on magnets employed within them incorwith awareness, experience, and sigever, our activities do not end there. this planet, and, by recognizing this fact porate rare earth elements. It must be nificant expertise. In doing so, we hope The ultimate aim of our solutions today, we are taking a responsible step recognized that without the mining and to help guarantee a sustainable future is to decouple resource usage, and towards ensuring that the precondimetallurgical industries, the resourcefor our planet. thereby the welfare of our societies, tions for an advanced society continue efficient solutions of the near and far from nature. This is achieved through to be available for generations to come. future will simply not come to pass. 28 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact Industry drivers Outotec believes that the increasing awareness of sustainability is the most Industry drivers important megatrend driving industries 1. Ore grades are declining and today. This trend can be seen not only the demand for metals is inin developed economies but also in creasing. In order to meet the emerging and developing markets. demand, more ore needs to be Much of global development can processed with more advanced be attributed to metals and minerals. technology. However, society is confronted by a di2. Making metals requires a lot lemma: the need for metals is growing, of energy and energy costs while at the same time there is great are constantly climbing. More concern over the environmental imenergy-efficient processes are pacts of producing them. As a technolneeded. ogy company, we at Outotec believe that 3. Mining and metallurgical inthis dilemma can be resolved. dustries are major emitters of Decision makers have realized CO2 and eco-toxic substances. that the current exploitation of nature Cleaner solutions must be cannot continue. Increasing energy developed. consumption and criticism against 4. Water availability and pollution nuclear power plants, pollution and are critical issues. Advanced lack of clean water are growing issolutions for water cleaning, sues that need to be addressed. At the conservation and recycling are same time, employee health and safety needed. requirements are increasing. All of the 5. Peak oil is approaching. Oil is aforementioned developments stimuexpected to run out by 2050 late increased investment into sustainwith current production rates, able solutions, a trend that we believe thus alternative sources are will continue to strengthen over time. needed. The companies producing minerals, 6. The need for recycling is growmetals and materials face many chaling, thus requiring new techlenges and require social license to opnologies for turning scrap and erate. We have identified six trends that waste into products. act as drivers of sustainable development. These contribute to an increased demand for new technology, presenting great opportunities for Outotec’s techRead also Metals and sustainability, p. 26. nologies and solutions. © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact 29 Risks and opportunities Outotec’s business environment is imble for the risk assessment procedure. that our customers are facing. These ers’ processes and therefore help them pacted by the fact that while developed Furthermore, Outotec’s Technology challenges include improved energy address these risks. They help customeconomies are stagnating, emerging Management function includes a team efficiency, reducing CO2 and other ers to reduce emissions to air, water countries keep growing fast, especially that concentrates on the environment emissions as well as improved recovery and soil, and thus help them control the China. This accelerates urbanization and sustainability. of metals and greater efficiency in the financial implications of regulatory risk. and the use of natural resources. The The risks and opportunities disutilization of raw materials in general. For instance, energy savings, which exhaustion of natural resources as well cussed below are those that have been We also assess the water consumption lead to reduced carbon emissions, as a new energy paradigm, where oil is deemed as key risks by management in our customers’ processes. make customers less vulnerable to expected to run out by 2050 and nuclear and which bear a strong link to sustainWe aim to capitalize on these opfuel and energy taxes and regulations. power is being abandoned by many ability. Outotec has defined a risk to portunities to introduce technology These include international, national, countries, requires improvement in the be anything that may have an impact improvements or develop new technolregional or state regulations on emiseco-efficiency of resources and materion the company’s business activities. ogies that mitigate climate change and sions, carbon taxes, as well as cap and als. Awareness is increasing in environWhile risks can be threats, uncertainpromote sustainability. By successfully trade schemes. mental, social and economic sustainties or lost opportunities, they may also implementing our technologies and In order to help customers reduce ability all over the world. Furthermore, be potential opportunities. Outotec’s solutions to address customer chaltheir exposure to emissions and enthere is a trend of outsourcing non-core risk management policy defines a ballenges, Outotec’s references increase, ergy related regulatory risks, Outotec activities. This means that networking anced risk profile from the perspective which also enhance competitiveness. provides proven environmentally sound and partnerships will be increasingly of all stakeholder groups. While climate change presents and energy saving solutions that meet important, both for our clients and us, Strategic and business risks are ­Outotec with attractive business openvironmental standards and regulain R&D and tailoring solutions. The associated with the nature of the busiportunities, some risks may affect our tions. Regulatory opportunities can industry is consolidating, resulting in ness and are often difficult to quantify. customers and therefore indirectly help Outotec grow its business because fewer but bigger customers, and comAmong other areas, strategic risks ­Outotec. International, national, regioninefficient mining and metallurgical petition will further increase. relate to Outotec’s business portfolio, al or state regulations on emissions processes need to be replaced with From an environmental, social and market position, and major investmay present risks, and excessively new technologies. Outotec’s solutions, governance perspective, Outotec’s ments. Business risks are connected to strict limits on emissions can threaten for instance, help cushion customers greatest risks and opportunities unfold the operating environment, customers’ the operations and existence of some against carbon taxes and secure their through our customers. Within Outotec, and subcontractors’ operations, and customers. Furthermore, cap and trade competitiveness. Furthermore, with the an in-house system of risk manageoverall economic outlook. Outotec folschemes may force our clients to move carbon trade mechanisms, customers ment is in place throughout the comlows up on environmental legislation, operations into areas with less strinutilizing Outotec’s technologies may pany to identify operational risks and competitors’ technologies and Best gent regulations, and in some cases have the opportunity to turn a profit opportunities. The Board of Directors Available Technologies, as well as our excessively strict regulation may lead from CO2 savings and obtain emission is responsible for the company’s risk own operations and solutions offerings. to plant closure. High energy prices, reduction credits (ERCs). Outotec’s management procedures and for enwhich may be a cause of the cap and customers will not be threatened suring that risks are taken into account Climate change poses risks trade schemes, also compromise our by tighter environmental regulation in strategic planning and business and opportunities customers’ competitiveness. and will be able to indicate that their operations on the Group level. In turn, We continuously look for new business Outotec’s technologies are designed production requires less energy and the Project Board is primarily responsiopportunities to address the challenges to improve the efficiency of our customresults in fewer emissions than their 30 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact competitors. In the future a premium We work in close partnership with institutes globally. In 2010, Outotec inOutotec revised its operational may be placed on clean production, but our customers to continuously develop vested EUR 28.5 million in research and model in spring 2010 for the purpose of strictly speaking the main benefits are our technology solutions, a task that is technology development. In addition, we better addressing the growing sustainmaintaining a license to operate, lower carried out both in-house and in coopplan to acquire new technologies and ability challenges our customers face. operation costs and improved recovery. eration with universities and research processes based on customer needs. As a response to the increasing signifiSustainability driver Opportunity for Outotec Risk for the customer and/or Outotec Ore grades are declining, ores are more complex and more difficult to process. Average copper ore grade is 0.8%, which is 20% less than ten years Outotec’s vast knowledge of mineralogy and process technologies, Developing new incremental technologies takes time and is ago, and it is forecasted to fall further to 0.65% by 2020. To produce comprehensive R&D and testing facilities enable the company to expensive. If Outotec fails to develop new technologies or keep its one tonne of copper requires 30 more tonnes of ore to be milled, develop new process solutions for lowgrade and complex ores. portfolio competitive, it may lose business. Customers’ operations which also results in an increased amount of tailings and the conOutotec’s technologies enable efficient ore processing and higher require sufficient amounts of water, coal, fossil fuels, rock and sumption of energy and water. yield thanks to advanced process control in the grinding and flotamineral resources. Any changes related to the availability or the tion phases. Customers replace inefficient mining and metallurgiprice of these commodities has financial implications. The operacal processes with new technologies. There are increased business tional costs (energy and water) may rise too high for the customers opportunities also for energy and water efficient solutions. and they may need to close down some operations, which could also reduce Outotec’s business. Making metals is energy-intensive and energy costs are constantly climbing. Minerals and metals processing is very energy-intensive. GHG Several Outotec technologies are rated BAT by EU thanks to their Price changes prompted by resource scarcity, energy shortages emissions in this industry are mainly related to energy use. energy-efficiency and low CO2 emissions. Outotec designs sealed and changes in consumer attitude imply high financial risks for our Roughly 7% (2008) of the world’s energy is used by the metals secprocesses that utilize the energy contained in the raw materials. customers and subsequently for Outotec. If in consumers’ point tor and will increase due to falling ore grades. Grinding mills alone For example, adoption of best practice technologies in iron and of view CO2 footprint from plastic is smaller than from aluminum consume 10% of Australia’s total energy consumption. steel, aluminum and non-ferrous metals production worldwide or copper, they might change attitudes and buying habits, which would reduce CO2 emissions annually by 280-460 million tonnes would risk our customers’ and Outotec’s business. (IEA 2007; Tracking Industrial Energy Efficiency and CO2 Emissions). Through Outotec’s technology solutions impacts of carbon taxes for our clients are cushioned and their competitiveness secured. Cleaner solutions need to be developed. Sulfur is a constituent in many ores, therefore sulfur dioxide (SO2) Outotec’s sustainable technologies guarantee license to operate far Too strict laws and regulation can result in unprofitable operation is released in smelting and refining. The metals industry emits into the future and make it easier for customers to get financing for and the customer may lose its license to operate. If Outotec fails annually over 13 million tonnes of SO2, the largest amounts in their investment. Modern metallurgical processes combined with to provide competitive solutions for the customer, it may lose busiPeru, Chile, Russia and Australia. SO2 emissions have a significant sulfuric acid plants can capture 99.99% of the sulfur. Efficient gas ness. local impact. Fine particulate matter emissions to air cause health cleaning captures mercury, arsenic, antimony, bismuth and lead problems. Heavy metals in hazardous dusts and fumes can cause from off-gases and sealed processes minimize fugitive emissions. occupational exposure. Eco-toxic substances from metallurgical Outotec is continuously working to further develop its existing operations impact air quality, water and soil. technologies and innovate new ones, and therefore well positioned in the competition. © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact 31 cance of climate change, all business Many growth opportunities are seen the cycles of the mining and metals inareas are now focused on improved in adjacent industries, such as the dustries, Outotec has begun to pursue energy and water efficiency, carbon energy sector, for environmental soluopportunities to deliver its technologies dioxide reductions, waste management tions, including industrial water treatto other process industries. and life cycle services. ment. In order to be less dependent on Sustainability driver Opportunity for Outotec Risk for the customer and/or Outotec Availability of water and water pollution. Availability of water is becoming a critical issue at many mine Outotec has technologies which lead to significant reduction in Customers who have operations in areas of draught may be forced sites, because when ore grade declines by 20%, water consumpfresh water consumption, recycling of process water and decrease to close down their operations, which may reduce Outotec’s busition increases respectively. For example, processing one tonne of in water loss. For example, advanced filters separate water from ness. ore requires some 3,500 liters of water, one tonne of nickel some concentrates energy-efficiently. Paste thickening separates water 377,000 Iiters of water in a hydrometallurgical process, and one from tailings and reduces water consumption by approximately If Outotec fails to develop new water-efficient applications it may tonne of gold 252 million Iiters of water. Furthermore, mining and 10%. Paste can directly be used as a back fill in the mine. The not be able to grow its business. metals extraction can impact nature due to discharges of contamicompany is also developing new applications for industrial effluent nated water. treatment and cooperating with Kemira in developing solutions for water-intensive industrial applications. Peak oil is approaching. Global energy demand is expected to increase by 44% in the next Outotec already has some technologies which enable environToo high energy prices due to carbon taxation and emission trading two decades (EIA, 2009). With current rate of production, industry mentally sustainable use of oil shale, oil sand and bio fuels as new schemes can cause our clients lose their competitiveness and are estimates that global conventional oil reserves will be exhausted alternative energy sources, and the company is developing new obliged to stop operation. If the first reference plant for oil shale in 40 years. The world’s proven oil shale reserves are 3 trillion applications in cooperation with Eesti Energia, Kemira, and some processing with Enefit technology fails, Outotec’s growth opportubarrels, many-fold compared to conventional oil reserves. Current other companies, universities and research institutes. The demand nities will reduce. If the environmental regulation will tighten so methods for oil shale and oil sand processing are inefficient in oil for sustainable solutions for alternative energy sources is increasmuch that oil shale and oil sand processing will not be allowed, recovery, energy and water consumption and have a substantial ing and Outotec can expand its business in the energy sector and Outotec may lose business. There is also a risk that the developimpact on the environment. environmental solutions. ment of new technologies will not succeed. Need for recycling is increasing. Metals are almost 100% recyclable, which is not fully utilized. Outotec can grow its business by selling solutions for the producIf the industry does not succeed in organizing the recycling of scrap Product lifetime is becoming shorter, thus the need of recycling is tion of metals from secondary materials, such as electronic waste, and waste properly, opportunities for Outotec may be reduced. growing. Manufacturing new products from recycled metal conmetallic scrap, cabling, battery paste/scrap. Outotec’s technologies sumes much less energy than for virgin metal. There is also need are used for the recovery of metals from residues, fume dusts and for recycling of process water and turning waste into products. waste stockpiles at production sites. They utilize raw materials efficiently reducing the amount of emissions, residues and waste. 32 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact Impact of our products and services Outotec innovates, develops and delivcombined with sulfuric acid plants can ers solutions which utilize natural capture 99.99 percent of the sulfur. Efresources and raw materials efficiently, ficient gas cleaning captures mercury, reduce energy and water consumption, arsenic, antimony, bismuth and lead produce less waste and emissions as from off-gases and sealed processes well as minimize the plant’s lifetime minimize fugitive emissions. In metaloperating costs. Through our vast expelurgical processing, energy is the most rience and in-house R&D centers, we significant cost item and main reason have the ability to tailor processes for for CO2 emissions. Outotec designs different raw materials, test and scale sealed processes that utilize the enup, or develop new processes for comergy contained in the raw materials. plex raw materials. We have a strong The annual emissions avoided by the portfolio of world-class technologies metallurgical industry through use of for the entire value chain of processing ­Outotec’s ferrochrome production techore to refined metals. Each of Outotec’s nology, copper flash smelting technoltechnological developments has the ogy and alumina calcination technology potential to reduce the environmental amounted to 4.2 million tonnes of CO2 impact of a large number of industrial equivalency (CO2-e) in 2009. In addition, operations worldwide. Outotec’s new CO/CO2 filter enabled the Our concentrator technologies use of process gas in direct electricity enable efficient ore processing and generation. higher yield thanks to advanced proOnce a plant is built and commiscess control in the grinding and flotasioned, we assist the customer by tion phases. Outotec has technologies providing services and technological which lead to significant reduction in improvements to maintain the plant so fresh water consumption, recycling of that it will run smoothly, safely and efprocess water and decrease in water ficiently at all times. loss. For example, advanced filters sepThrough hundreds of successful arate water from concentrates energyprojects, we have made a significant efficiently. Paste thickening separates global impact by creating new revenue water from tailings and reduces water streams, reducing our customers’ consumption by approximately ten carbon footprints, and increasing wellpercent. Paste can be used directly as a being in local communities. bak fill in the mine. Several Outotec technologies are Modern metallurgical processes Best Available Techniques (BAT) rated © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact 33 by EU thanks to their energy-efficiency Outotec’s expertise in a value chain from natural resources to minerals, metals, energy, water and other materials and low emissions. Outotec designs sealed processes that utilize the energy Metallurgical processing Natural Minerals processing Industrial minerals/ contained in the raw materials. For resources Grinding Sintering and pelletizing concentrates example, adoption of best-practice (ores, Flotation Smelting and refining Direct and smelting reduction Copper technologies in iron and steel, aluminerals, Filtration energy, Physical separation Calcination minum and non-ferrous metals proRoasting and off-gas handling Nickel water) Thickening and clarification duction worldwide would reduce CO2 Analyzers and process automation Leaching and solution purification Zinc emissions annually by 280–460 million Solvent extraction tonnes (IEA 2007; Tracking Industrial Electrorefining and electrowinning Cobalt Process control Energy Efficiency and CO2 Emissions). Precious metals Through Outotec’s technology solutions Chemicals Aluminum impacts of carbon taxes for our clients Sulfuric acid production are cushioned and their competitiveFerroalloys ness secured. Water treatment Pellets/sinter Neutralization, effluent treatment, drinking water DRI/HBI/ Pig Iron Outotec BAT-rated products: Energy • Flash smelting and flash converting for Combustion and gasification, heat recovery, gas handling, Sulfuric acid copper and nickel bio energy, oil sand and oil shale processing • Zinc direct leaching Water • Electrolytic refining of copper, nickel, Shale oil zinc Services • Direct reduction of iron ore fines Expert services, spare parts and maintenance, operation, Char • Traveling grate process for iron ore modernization and expansion, life cycle service contracts pelletizing Energy • Emission optimized sintering for iron ores • Ferrochrome process • Alumina calcination • Aluminum smelting (rodding plant, green paste plant) • Partial roasting of copper concentrate • Zinc roasting in fluidized bed • Pyrite roasting • Sulfuric acid production (single/double absorption) • Spent acid regeneration • Wet electrostatic precipitator 34 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact Products and services that address tunities to apply our wide technology dance with the provisions of the aster usage). For different kinds of equipcustomers’ challenges platform even more broadly and tap sessment of the risk defined in the EU ment Outotec makes safety information The industries in which our customers unused market potential. machinery directive. In larger deliveries available according to industry standoperate face many crucial and growing the process or plant is often examined ards. For industrial processes safety challenges. At the present time, ore Product safety by a structured and systematic hazard is an integrated part of the operational grades are declining, more efficient As a leading provider of technology, and operability study (HAZOP) in order manuals covering the whole delivery of energy consumption is essential, and Outotec ensures that all the plants, to identify and evaluate problems that Outotec. In addition, Outotec provides the availability of water and natural equipment and services engineered may represent risks to personnel or training services to the client, including resources is at risk. Peak oil is rapidly and delivered by the company are reliequipment, or prevent efficient operasafety training. The operational manuapproaching, carbon dioxide emissions able and safe over the life cycle and tion. In 2011 the aim is to widen the als contain information on maintenance need to be drastically reduced and reall the products meet with all relevant HAZOP to cover all major deliveries. and in addition Outotec offers maintecycling is increasingly essential. These health and safety laws and regulations. Outotec provides information to cusnance as a service package. circumstances mean that the demand It is ensured that the equipment fulfills tomers on the impacts of products and Read also Industry drivers, p. 28. for sustainable technologies is growing. the safety related industrial standards services (e.g. their energy consumpIn this global situation, we see opporand often this is carried out in accor­ tion, emissions, metal recovery and wa© Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact 35 Ecological footprint of our operations Outotec operates globally, mainly in ofdecrease bureaucracy and costs. The Energy consumption 2010 2009 GRI indicator fices which are located in 24 countries. common QEHS system will be impleDirect energy consumption, TJ 17.5 5.3 EN3 In addition, the operations include two mented globally and the aim is to get research centers in Finland and Gerexternal certification in the company’s Propane gas, TJ 9.8 0.02 EN3 many, two manufacturing workshops main locations. Light fuel oil, TJ 0.5 0.4 EN3 in Finland and three assembly shops in In 2010 Outotec acquired four new Coal, coke, semi coke, TJ 1.0 1.1 EN3 Canada, China and the USA, a ceramic companies including three equipment Diesel and gasoline, TJ 6.2 3.8 EN3 plate production plant in Finland and manufacturing workshops that conIndirect energy consumption, TJ 132.5 96.2 EN4 some warehouses. However, the majortributed to an increase of scope 1 and 2 ity of Outotec’s manufacturing is outgreenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Due Electricity, TJ 67.6 51.3 EN4 sourced. to increased business activities, scope Heating including steam, TJ 65 44.9 EN4 The bulk of Outotec’s operations 3 GHG emissions from air travel rose. Total energy consumption, TJ 150.0 101.6 EN3, EN4 involve engineering and business manGHG emissions from air travel are agement, the environmental impact of the biggest single source of Outotec’s which is relatively small and is manemissions. New video conferencing Greenhouse gas emissions 2010 2009 GRI indicator aged through the use of unit-specific systems were installed in Outotec’s Scope 1 emissions (own fuel combustion, 2,587 1,349 EN16 environmental and quality management facilities to reduce air travel. Flights to company cars), tonnes of CO2-e systems. In addition, at our workshop in visit customers are an integrated part Scope 2 emissions (purchased heat and 10,617 7,243 EN16 Turula and at our Pori Research Center, of Outotec’s business, by which means electricity), tonnes of CO2-e we are committed to the Federation of Outotec contributes indirectly to avoid Scope 3 emissions (air travel and commuting), 11,049 9,512 EN17 Finnish Technology Industries’ energy emissions through the use of Outotec’s tonnes of CO2-e efficiency program. No spills were retechnology solutions and services. The Total greenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of CO2-e 24,254 18,104 EN16 ported from these activities in 2010. positive impact of Outotec’s business In 2010, Outotec started the work to travels can be best illustrated by comGreenhouse gas emissions avoided through use of 4.2 4.1 EN18 harmonize the company’s environmenparing Outotec’s annual greenhouse Outotec technologies, million tonnes of CO2-e tal and quality management systems gas emissions in 2010 (24,254 tonnes and to create an Integrated System CO2-e) with emissions avoided through for Quality, Environmental and Health our goods and services (4,200,000 & Safety Management (QEHS) that is tonnes CO2-e). based on our business objectives and requirements, internal policies, and international standards. The maintenance, including external certification, of just one management system instead of three separate systems will 36 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact Materials used 2010 2009 GRI indicator Company cars in Finland 2010 2009 2008 GRI indicator Paper, tonnes 100.1 92.1 EN1 Company car emissions, grams of CO2-e/km 147 173 191 EN16 Reduction from 2008, % 23 9 Waste 2010 2009 GRI indicator Targets related to environmental performance Waste recycled, tonnes 1,480.3 843 EN22 Performance in 2010 Target for 2011 GRI indicator Landfill waste and incinerated waste, tonnes 678.3 584.9 EN22 New video conferencing systems installed Increase video conferencing EN18 Hazardous waste, tonnes 27.3 25.5 EN22, EN24 in Finland and Germany to reduce air travel. globally and introduce 20 new Total waste, tonnes 2,185.9 1,453.4 EN22 Emission reduction achieved through use of installations. Paper recycled, tonnes 96.3 59.8 EN22 video conferencing. A small amount of hazardous waste is formed in the final surface treatment of Local unit-specific targets filter presses in Lappeenranta works. In addition, oily waste from lubricants used In addition to common Outotec-wide targets we have local or unit-specific tarin Turula works is hazardous. The hazardous waste is sent for treatment to local gets regarding the energy efficiency of operations. Outotec Research Center and hazardous waste treatment facilities. Turula works in Finland are committed to the Federation of Finnish Technology Industries’ energy efficiency agreements 2008–2016 and plan to save 9 percent in Water consumption 2010 2009 GRI indicator energy consumption compared to the baseline year 2006. Actions taken to achieve the targeted savings include the implementation of energy efficient air conditionTotal water withdrawal, m³/year 43,774 30,305 EN8 ing and heating at the new production facilities in Turula and the refurbishment of the ventilation system at the main building at the research center. Water is purchased locally from municipal water suppliers and the waste water Outotec’s target in Finland is to reduce company cars’ emissions per km by 18 is sent to municipal waste water systems. Because our workshops are mainly aspercent by 2013 compared with base year 2008. sembly shops, no process water is discharged. Read also Management approach, p. 9. Local unit-specific environmental performance Energy consumption and emissions in Finnish units (Research Center in Pori and Turula works) 2010 2009 GRI indicator Energy consumption, TJ 44.5 46.8 EN3, EN4 Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ 3.4 1.1 EN5, EN7 Emissions, tonnes of CO2-e 2,983 3,140 EN16 © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact 37 Economic impact Through solid financial performance Solid performance in 2010 annualized savings in fixed operational Outotec benefits all company stakeOutotec’s financial performance was costs and plan to reinvest a substantial holders. Profitable business enables solid and we achieved the targets that amount in R&D and building our global growth and development of the busiwe had set for 2010. Well over half of operational platform and respective ness as well as prosperity of owners our sales came from the emerging tools to ensure long-term growth and and employees. Through providing markets. Sales grew due to the techprofitability improvement. sustainable solutions to our custo­mers nology and service businesses of four we create jobs and wealth locally in acquisitions, namely Larox, Ausmelt, countries where we operate, or where Millteam and Edmeston. In addition, we our customers’ projects are located. achieved the targeted EUR 25 million Added value to stakeholders Generation of added value Distribution of added value Employees + Customers Wages and salaries Sales EUR 969.6 million EUR 224.4 million Public sector Suppliers Direct taxes Cost of goods, materials and EUR 30.9 million services purchased EUR 658.4 million Creditors Interest on debt and = EUR 311.2 million borrowings EUR 8.2 million Added value Shareholders Dividends EUR 32.0 million 38 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact Financial targets projects. Our tax rate and taxes paid in Dividends ings per share were EUR 0.59 (2009: Outotec’s long-term financial targets a certain year vary according to large The value of Outotec’s share rose 187% EUR 1.01). The decrease was due to to ensure continuous profitable projects under implementation or compercent on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki one-time costs related to restructuring growth are pleted in that particular year, and the in 2010 and the closing price at the and purchase price allocation amorti• to grow faster than the market legislation of the country in which the end of the year was EUR 46.24 (Dec 31, zations. The Annual General Meeting resulting in a compound average anproject is located. 2009: EUR 24.74). At the same time, the decided that a dividend of EUR 0.75 per nual sales growth of 10-20 percent; Our income tax expenses in 2010 ­NASDAQ OMX Helsinki portfolio index, share be paid out for 2010. This is a to• annual operating profit margin from totaled EUR 10.4 million (2009: EUR OMX Helsinki CAP, increased 25 percent. tal of EUR 34.3 million, and it was paid business operations, excluding 18.6 million). These expenses inHowever, the share price in 2009 was afto shareholders in April 2011 (dividends one-time costs and purchase price clude taxes paid on the basis of local fected by the uncertainty in the markets paid in 2010: EUR 32.0 million). allocations of acquired businesses, tax legislation, tax adjustments from and the global economy at that time. to be at 10 percent on average; and previous years and the effect of annual Our market capitalization at year-end Donations • to maintain a strong balance sheet change in deferred taxes. The direct was EUR 2,117 million (Dec 31, 2009: According to Outotec’s donation policy in order for the company to have taxes (current taxes in Outotec’s conEUR 1,107 million). When the dividends the focus of donations is on global operational flexibility and to execute solidated financial statements) were paid and the changes in share price are projects that aim to improve sustainacquisitions. EUR 30.9 million in 2010 (2009: EUR taken into consideration, Outotec’s total able development and/or human life. 13.7 million), out of which the majorshareholder return (TSR) in 2010 was 90 Outotec will not give donations to In addition, we aim to grow the sales of ity, EUR 30.2 million in 2010 (2009: percent (2009: 138%). individuals, political parties or pressure our services to an annual level of EUR EUR 14.0 million), came from outside Outotec’s target as defined in the groups, religious organizations or any 500 million by the end of 2015. Finland. The most significant countries company’s dividend policy is to distriborganizations showing or encouragin terms of tax expenses in 2010 were ute at least 40 percent of annual net ing any type of prejudice (for example Tax expenses Germany, Chile, Australia and South income of the preceding financial year ­racial, sexual or religious). Outotec Outotec pays taxes to 24 governments Africa, whereas in 2009 the respective per share as dividends. does not give political contributions. in countries where the company either countries were Brazil, Chile, Peru and Our profitability from business Read more about Outotec’s financial performance has own operations or customer Australia. operations improved in 2010. Earnin Outotec Annual Report 2010. © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact 39 Impact of our supply chain At Outotec the supply chain has hisfacturing facilities we also operate conSustainability aspects in supply chain the risk profile regarding affront/violatorically been managed on a projectstruction sites on behalf of our custo­ Supplier selection is of key importion of human rights is relatively low. by-project basis. The new operational mers. For this reason, installation and tance in Outotec’s business. Outotec However, more emphasis will be put model, introduced in spring 2010, has services comprise an important part of gives performance guarantees for on supplier selection procedures in marked a strong transition period for our supply chain. On the supplier side, the plants and processes we deliver the future to improve our supply chain our supply chain management activiOutotec’s supply chain management to our customers. Naturally, Outotec management, and thus also our susties. Outotec considers the establishencompasses supplier selection and is responsible for the equipment and tainability performance. ment of global supply chain manageproject purchasing. materials supplied as well as engineerment as a key strategic pillar for the ing and construction work provided by company, and has actively begun to our subcontractors and project-specific streamline its supply activities. Simulsuppliers. We therefore aim to develop taneously, Outotec appointed a Senior long-term relationships with selected Vice President, Supply, Michael Frei, suppliers and establish procedures to oversee the development of supply to ensure that results meet with our chain management, including corpoexpectations. rate responsibility aspects. We expedite the work at our suppliers’ manufacturing workshops and Supply chain management impose quality checks throughout the Outotec sees its supply chain as enmanufacturing and logistics timelines. compassing both our own activities as Currently, however, expediting and Together with the construction well as management of our suppliers. inspection focuses on project consubcontractor Graña y Montero, We deliver large tailored solutions to trol and technical aspects. Outotec is Outotec received a safety award our customers all over the world and developing systematic procedures for from their client Votorantim hence use various suppliers in our checking ethical behavior, labor pracMetais for outstanding safety projects. In 2010, Outotec spent aptices, environmental soundness, and results achieved in the Cajamarproximately EUR 660 million on extergovernance issues of its suppliers. The quilla zinc plant project. The nal sourcing. development and implementation of health and safety team of Outotec Some 90 percent of manufacturing these procedures is part of the global and Graña y Montero reached is sourced from external suppliers. Supply development initiative started in the spectacular mark of 500,000 The remaining 10 percent of Outotec’s 2010. working hours without a severe manufacturing takes place in the comAs a technology company, O ­ utotec incident. The project had more pany’s three manufacturing workshops needs high-quality suppliers. In than 600 employees in various in Finland and three assembly shops ­Outotec’s customer projects, also the fields of construction as a part located in China, USA and Canada. Data for these graphs has been collected locally sourced subcontractors need of Outotec’s turnkey delivery to Besides managing our own manuduring 2007–2009. to be trained specialists, and therefore Votorantim Metais, Peru. 40 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact Safety in field operations Safety is an important aspect in ­Outotec’s field operations at customers’ sites. Outotec’s project manager is responsible for the company’s own and subcontractors’ site activities and follows the management of environmental issues, safety, systematic practices and cleanliness. All Outotec’s project and service persons follow the customer’s safety regulations at site. From the occupational safety standpoint, the greatest risks are associated with work assignments in countries that have little awareness of safety issues and a weak occupational safety culture. In these countries, Outotec employees are instructed to follow the company’s own occupational safety principles. In its main locations Outotec provides training in occupational safety for all employees whose work involves or will involve participating in installation, commissioning, maintenance, or general site operations related to plants, equipment or services delivered by Outotec to its customers. The objective of the training is to teach employees hazard recognition, methods of preventive action and to improve practical collaboration between the customer and supplier organizations on shared sites. Our manufacturing/assembly shops Outotec operates three manufacturing workshops in Finland, and three assembly shops located in China, USA and Canada. These facilities have unit-specific local quality, health and © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Our impact 41 safety systems in place and they care of oritized as a development area in the the supplier base and supplier qualificonsistent use of it. A responsible supproper sorting and further handling of company’s strategy, which builds and cation procedures, including sourcing ply chain is naturally a key aim of this wastes, including hazardous wastes. manages the supplier base through policy. As well as developing our polistrategy. sourcing category management. Furcies, we have also introduced programs Our suppliers thermore, it leads and develops sourcthat will help systematically incorpoOutotec uses thousands of suppliers ing activities with locally based purrate them into our daily operations. around the world for our customers’ chasing for projects and services. For example, we plan on incorporating projects. These include mechanical suppliers into one template that will be workshops, component manufacturers Targets regarding supplier activities used across the company. We consider and local construction and engineering Previously, supplier activities were the supplier qualification process an companies. The majority of purchaslooked at only on a project basis, but essential element, which will be put in ing (approximately 63%) takes place in new corporate wide supply policies are place during 2011. the EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, now being developed that will impleAs a long-term target we aim to Africa). ment global Outotec standards across establish a systematic supplier reOutotec has defined Supply as a all operations. lationship management system with strategic function and it is highly priThe main target for 2011 is to assess a harmonized code of conduct and Safety performance in our manufacturing facilities Facility Number of Number of GRI indicator Performance in 2010 Target for 2011 GRI indicator employees accidents The new Supply function built Assess supplier base, update EC6, HR2 in 2010 in 2010 the basis for the systematic and develop the sourcing Turula works in Finland 160 8 of which 4 LA7 sustainable development of policy. • manufacturing and assembly of proprietary were lost-time Outotec’s supply base across equipment, components and complete producinjuries and 4 the corporation. tion lines non-lost-time • committed to the Federation of Finnish Techinjuries nology Industries’ energy efficiency program Read also Impact of our supply chain, p. 39. Lappeenranta works in Finland 100 3 LA7 • manufacturing and assembling filters and their components Turku Ceramics in Finland 28 2 LA7 • manufacturing ceramic plates for filters Suzhou assembly shop in China 27 0 LA7 • supports Outotec’s filter business Burlington assembly shop in Canada 11 1 LA7 • focuses on aluminum smelter equipment Jacksonville assembly shop in the USA 12 3 LA7 • focuses on physical separation equipment 42 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // About the report About the report Report scope Data and profile collection This report, the first of its kind for The environmental data reporting sysunits for electricity, heating, owned or and Outotec’s HFM system. The fig­Outotec, covers the company’s sustain­ tem was introduced in Outotec in 2009. leased company cars, flight emissions, ures used in the consolidated finanability performance for the 2010 calendar The data on environmental performance water, paper, recycled waste, and landcial statements of Outotec have been year. In the upcoming years performance is based on Outotec’s financial reporting fill waste. In addition, the combustion prepared according to IFRS (Internaand targets will be reported annually on system ‘Hyperion Financial Manageof fuels in company owned combustional Financial Reporting Standard). In the company’s website. Outotec’s susment’ (HFM), where each business unit tion sources (scope 1 emissions) and addition, some data has been collected tainability reporting is prepared accordreports its environmental figures. After hazardous waste occurring in Outotec’s manually from MS Excel sheets. ing to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) data collection the reported figures research centers, equipment manuIn preparing the report, the ‘Guidsustainability reporting guidelines and were retrieved from the HFM system facture workshops, and ceramic plate ance on Defining Report Content’ has the UN Global Compact principles. If you and Microsoft Excel was deployed to production plant are included in the been applied. The content of this report are interested in specific issues relating carry out calculations. In 2010 Outotec report. The sources of own fuel comwas reviewed and approved by Outotec to corporate responsibility, we recomacquired the Larox filtration business, bustion are identified through separate Executive Board in May 2011. mend that you check the GRI and UN Millteam, Edmeston and Ausmelt. environmental data reports provided on Global Compact reporting index, where These new businesses are included in an annual basis. When required, e-mail Identified users of the report all the indicators regarding responsibility the environmental data reporting. correspondence was used to collect the We have identified investors, custo­ practices are listed together with links to For collection of social performance information from the different business mers, current and future employees the pages on which they are addressed. data, a global master data system units. and suppliers as the main users of this Outotec reports on the core indicawas applied. Outotec HC Master Data For Outotec’s most important and report. tors of most relevance to its operations, system, introduced in autumn 2010, has largest business units, environmental solutions and stakeholders. The sebeen built on SAP HCM (Human Capital data was available. Outotec’s smallest lected core indicators are of importance Management) software. It includes acoffices were not able to report environat the corporate level and are based on curate data of each Outotec employee mental data as they are located in bigthose proposed by the GRI guidelines. globally and covers all major busiger office premises together with other We report on our own operations, but ness units. The system will be further companies. They pay a monthly lump do not include delivery projects, use of developed in 2011. Safety data is colsum to the office providers and it is not the technology and supply chain. The lected locally by safety managers and possible to identify electricity, heat, and report boundary includes all our major information is sent to the headquarters, water consumption. For this populaoperations. Our aim is to expand inforwhere the global data is consolidated. tion an average number was calculated mation collection and include site operaPerformance data on the environbased on the available data. tions, construction and commissioning mental aspects of sustainability has Economic performance data is based work carried out at our customers’ sites. been collected from major business on data collection through ERP systems © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // About the report 43 Key targets The materiality assessment and ability – namely through improvements with process solutions, technologies responsibility UN Global Compact inithe CO2 emissions avoided through in its technologies to enable customers and services, Outotec also strives to tiative Outotec has expressed its intent Outotec’s technology solutions clearly to reduce the environmental impact improve the economic, environmento further advance sustainability and illustrate where Outotec can achieve of their operations. Besides efforts tal and social performance of its own social responsibility principles in its the most positive impacts on sustainin R&D and providing customers operations. By joining the corporate business practices. The key targets related to sustainability are collected in this table: Target for 2010 Performance in 2010 Target for 2011 GRI indicator Build a platform for future growth, New mission, vision and strategy defined. New operational Improve sustainability governance processes, data collection and Economic and governance develop an efficient and flexible way of model launched in April. reporting. working and harmonize operations. Acquisitions of Ausmelt and Larox brought new sustainable Continue growth through acquisitions, update the acquisition process to EC1 technologies for recycling and water filtration. include sustainability assessment in due diligence. Decision to improve transparency and communication related to Publish Outotec’s first GRI-based sustainability report and web-based corporate responsibility. communication platform. 72% of order intake classified as Environmental Goods and Grow the percentage of EGS in order intake; long-term target is to reach a EN6 Environmental Services. level of 80-90%. EUR 28.5 million invested in R&D. Increase investments in R&D in line with business growth. EN6 Assess the existing QEHS procedures, As part of the new operational model one person appointed to Harmonize the QEHS systems in and for all units and locations with standards, forms and best practices. be responsible for QEHS systems globally. international certifications by 2013. 4.2 million tonnes CO2 emissions avoided (CDP 2010) through Over 5% annual increase in the amount of avoided CO2 emissions through EN26 use of three Outotec technologies use of Outotec technologies and solutions. New video conferencing systems installed in Finland and GerIncrease use of video conferencing globally and introduce 20 new EN18 many to reduce air travel. Emission reduction achieved through installations. use of video conferencing. Decision was made to review Outotec principles. Outotec signed Have a dialogue with employees about Outotec values, principles and code SO3 Social the United Nations Global Compact initiative. of conduct and redefine them. Long-term target is to provide training related to the code of conduct to all employees. Build a platform that enables harmonized Human Capital master data system was developed. Implement the HC master data system globally and develop it to include LA1-13 processes and effective utilization of all relevant personnel data needed to establish corporate wide indicators. personnel data globally. 86% of employees had a Performance Development Dialogue. 90-95% of employees have a Performance Development Dialogue. LA12 The new Supply function built the basis for the systematic Assess supplier base and update and develop sourcing policy. EC6, HR2 sustainable development of Outotec’s supply base across the corporation. 44 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Independent assurance Independent Assurance Report – Outotec Sustainability Report 2010 To the Management of Outotec Oyj Methodology Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy (hereafter Ecobio) has been commissioned by Outotec Ecobio based the assurance process on the following guidelines and standards: Oyj (hereafter Outotec) to perform a limited third party assurance engagement the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.0, the regarding the content of Outotec’s Sustainability Report for 2010. International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE3000) and Outotec’s internal reporting guidelines. The assurance process was performed utilizing Outotec’s Responsibility Ecobio’s internally developed GRI assurance tool, covering the principles, standOutotec was responsible for the collection, preparation and presentation of the ard disclosures and indicators of the GRI G3 Guidelines. All Standard Disclosures, information in the Sustainability Report (hereafter Sustainability Information) acManagement Approaches and reported Performance Indicators were assessed cording to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version 3.0) set up by the Globindividually. al Reporting Initiative (GRI). Ecobio, as an independent assuror was not involved Concerning limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures in the preparation of any Sustainability Information, apart from the Independent are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore Assurance in section 6.0. The Management of Outotec has approved the informaless assurance is obtained. This assurance engagement was conducted between tion provided in the Sustainability Report. March and May 2011. The assurance process included: • Interviewing employees responsible for data collection and reporting at Practitioner’s Responsibility ­Outotec’s group level. Ecobio’s responsibility was to present a conclusion on the Sustainability Informa• Evaluating procedures for gathering, analyzing, and aggregating quantitative tion subject to the assurance performed by Ecobio. data for the Sustainability Report 2010 as well as performing cross-checks on a The scope of work included assurance of completeness and correctness of sample basis concerning environmental data. information presented by Outotec in the Sustainability Report 2010. The assur• Checking the accuracy of the economical information from Annual Reports ance engagement was limited to the non-financial performance data disclosed in 2009 and 2010. the Sustainability Report for the reporting period of January 1st 2010 to December • Checking the internal guidelines of the data collection. 31st 2010. • Checking the sufficiency of the documentation of the data gathering process. The Sustainability Information assured included the Standard Disclosures (GRI; • Checking the consistency of the Sustainability Report 2010 compared to the GRI sections 1 to 4), and the reported Environmental and Social Performance IndicaG3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. tors. In addition, the level of the consistency of the Economic Performance Indicators reported was checked against the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Ecobio disclaims any liability or responsibility for any third party decision based upon this assurance report. © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Independent assurance 45 Conclusions Practitioner’s Independence and qualifications Based on the work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that Ecobio is an independent consulting company that specializes in Environmental, would cause us to believe that the information presented in Outotec’s SustainHealth and Safety management with over 20 years of history. Ecobio provides enability Report 2010 is not fairly stated, in all material respects, or that it would not vironmental consultancy services, combined with training, research and planning, comply with the Reporting Criteria stated before. for companies in the infrastructure, industry and service sectors. Ecobio’s team is Outotec claims that an Application Level of B+-level is achieved. We assessed skilled and experienced within non-financial assurance and has good knowledge the scope of Sustainability Information provided by Outotec for each Standard of industry related sustainability issues. Disclosure and Performance Indicator included and evaluated that an Application As an independent consultancy, Ecobio has no financial dependencies on Level of B+ is achieved. ­Outotec beyond the scope of this engagement. Ecobio has conducted this assurance independently, and there has been no conflict of interest. Observations and Recommendations Based on our limited assurance engagement we provide the following observations and recommendations related to GRI Sustainability Reporting principles. Helsinki, 6th of June 2011 These observations and recommendations do not affect the conclusions presentInsinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy ed earlier. • In general, the report is comprehensive, well-structured and claims are reported in a reasonable fashion. • Although Outotec has identified its technology solutions to have the largest potential in addressing sustainability issues, the scope of the report is limited Taru Halla Thomas Andersson to Outotec’s own operations. For future reporting periods we recommend the Managing Director Project Manager boundary of the report to be expanded to include, where possible, project execution as well as site and supplier performance. • For improved transparency, it is recommended that Outotec further improves its reporting on possible failures in the future. • As the social data gathering process is fairly new and to some extent still under development at Outotec, Outotec should emphasize on improving the accuracy and completeness for future reporting periods. 46 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Independent assurance GRI application level statement © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 47 Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact Based on its own assessment, Outotec has Report self-declared this report to comply with GRI Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ application level B+. The application level G3 Profile Report on: Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement has been checked by Ecobio Oy and the GRI. OUTPUT Disclosures 1.1 for Level C plus: for Level B 2.1–2.10 1.2 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED STANDARD DISCLOSURES G3 Management Not Required Management Approach Management Approach OUTPUT Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Disclosures Indicator Category Indicator Category G3 Performance Report on a minimun Report on a minimun of 20 Report on a core G3 and Indicators of 10 Performance Performance Indicators, Sector Supplement* OUTPUT & Sector Indicators, Including at at least one from each of Indicator with due regard Supplement least one from each of: Economic, Environmental, to the material Principle Performance Economic, Social and Human rights, Labor, Society, by either: A) reporting Indicators Environmental. Product Responsibility. on the Indicator or B) explaining the reason for its omission. * Sector Supplement in final version GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles Profile Disclosures 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO's statement CEO’s letter to stakeholders, p. 4–5 Fully 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Materiality assessment, p. 7–8 Fully Risks and opportunities, p. 29–31 Key targets, p. 43 2 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 48 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.7 Markets served Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully Economic impact, p. 37–38 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, strucOutotec in brief, p. 2 Fully ture, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Highlights 2010, p. 3 Customers, p. 20–21 Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 39–40 3 Report parameters 3.1–3.4 Report profile Report scope and profile, p. 42 Fully Contact information, p. 53 3.5 Process for defining report content Materiality assessment, p. 7–8 Fully Interaction with stakeholders, p. 20–23 3.6 Boundary of the report Report scope and profile, p. 42 Fully Data collection, p. 42 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Report scope and profile, p. 42 Fully 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Report scope and profile, p. 42 Fully outsourced operations, and other entities Data collection, p. 42 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Data collection, p. 42 Fully 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI Index and UN Global Compact, p. 47–52 Fully 3.13 Assurance Independent assurance, p. 44–45 Fully 4 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1–4.10 Governance Governance and sustainability, p. 18–19 Fully 1–10 Risks and opportunities, p. 29–31 4.11–4.13 Commitments to external initiatives Commitment to external initiatives, p. 23–25 Fully 1–10 Risks and opportunities, p. 29–31 © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 49 GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles 4.14–4.17 Stakeholder engagement Employees, p. 11–14 Fully Interaction with stakeholders, p. 20–23 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management approach to economic responsibility Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 1,4,6,7 Economic impact, p. 37–38 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic impact, p. 37–38 Fully EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Risks and opportunities, p. 29–31 Fully 7 organization’s activities due to climate change EC3 Employee benefit obligations Employee benefits, p. 13 Partly EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government R&D and innovation, p. 14–15 Fully EC6 Spending on local suppliers Supply chain, p. 39–41 Partly EC7 Procedures for local hiring Labor practices, p. 13–14 Partly 6 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Commitment to external initiatives, p. 23–25 Partly provided primarily for public benefit ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management approach to environmental responsibility Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 7,8,9 Ecological footprint, p. 35–36 EN1 Materials used Ecological footprint, p. 35–36 Partly 8 EN3–5 Energy consumption and energy saved Ecological footprint, p. 35–36 Fully 8,9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based R&D and innovation, p. 14–15 Partly 8,9 products and services EN8 Water withdrawal Ecological footprint, p. 35–36 Fully 8 EN11 Location and size of land holdings in areas of high biodiversity Not relevant 8 EN12 Description of significant impact of activities, products, and services Not reported 8 on biodiversity EN16–17 Greenhouse gas emissions Ecological footprint, p. 35–36 Fully 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Ecological footprint, p. 35–36 Fully 7,8,9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Not relevant 8 EN21 Water discharge Not relevant 8 50 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles EN22 Waste by type and disposal method Ecological footprint, p. 35–36 Fully 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Not relevant 8 EN24 Hazardous waste Ecological footprint, p. 35–36 Fully 8 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products R&D and innovation, p. 14–15 Partly 7,8,9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Not reported 8,9 reclaimed by category EN28 Compliance with environmental laws Code of conduct, values and principles, p. 16–17 Fully 8 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Labor practices and decent work Management approach to labor practices and decent work Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 1,3,6 Labor practices, p. 13–14 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Employees, p. 11–14 Fully region. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, Employees, p. 11–14 Partly 6 and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Employee benefits, p. 13 Partly temporary or part-time employees LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreeEmployee benefits, p. 13 Fully 1,3 ments. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes Not reported 3 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Employees, p. 11–14 Partly 1 and total number of work-related fatalities by region. Our manufacturing, p. 40–41 LA8 Education, training and prevention programs regarding serious Not reported 1 diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year Competence development, p. 12-13 Partly LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Competence development, p. 12-13 Fully LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Competence development, p. 12-13 Fully development reviews. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Employees, p. 11–14 Partly 1,6 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Not reported 1,6 © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 51 GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles Human rights Management approach to human rights Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 1,2,3,4,5,6 Code of conduct, values and principles, p. 16–17 HR1 Investment agreements with human rights clauses or that have unNot reported 1,2,3,4,5,6 dergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have underSustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 39–40 Partly 1,2,3,4,5,6 gone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Labor practices, p. 13–14 Fully 1,2,6 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of assoNot reported 1,2,3 ciation and collective bargaining may be at significant risk HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 39–40 Fully 1,2,5 labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 39–40 Fully 1,2,4 or compulsory labor HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous Code of conduct, values and principles, p. 16–17 Fully 1,2 people and actions taken. Society Management approach to society Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 10 Employees, p. 11–14 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that Commitment to external initiatives, p. 23–25 Fully asses and manage the impacts of operations on communities Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 39–40 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks Code of conduct, values and principles, p. 16–17 Partly 10 related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption Code of conduct, values and principles, p. 16–17 Partly 10 policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Code of conduct, values and principles, p. 16–17 Fully 10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development Principal international stakeholder organizations, p. 25 Fully 1–10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Economic impact, p. 37–38 Fully 10 politicians, and related institutions SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Code of conduct, values and principles, p. 16–17 Fully and monopoly practices SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Code of conduct, values and principles, p. 16–17 Fully sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 52 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles Product responsibility Management approach to product responsibility Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 1–8 Impact of our products and services, p. 32–34 PR1 Health and safety impacts of products and services Impact of our products and services, p. 32–34 Fully 1 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Code of conduct, values and principles, p. 16–17 Fully 1 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, Impact of our products and services, p. 32–34 Partly 8 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Code of conduct, values and principles, p. 16–17 Fully 8 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surCustomers, p. 20–21 Fully 8 veys measuring customer satisfaction PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes Not reported related to marketing communications PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Not reported regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services © Outotec 2010 Outotec sustainability report 2010 // Contact information 53 Contact information Dr. Ilkka Kojo Director – Environment and Sustainability Outotec Oyj e-mail: ilkka.kojo@outotec.com Corporate management PO Box 86, FI-02201 Espoo, Finland Harald Huppe Tel. +358 20 529 211 Sustainability Specialist e-mail: harald.huppe@outotec.com www.outotec.com/sustainability www.facebook.com/Outotec Eila Paatela www.linkedin.com/company/outotec Director – Corporate Communications www.twitter.com/outotec e-mail: eila.paatela@outotec.com Saija Kinanen Communication Specialist – External Communications e-mail: saija.kinanen@outotec.com Design: Miltton Oy Printing: Libris Oy Cover stock: Edixion 250 g/m² Text stock: Edixion 120 g/m² Outotec Oyj Riihitontuntie 7, PO Box 86 FI-02200 Espoo, Finland www.outotec.com
