Feilifu® Zhejiang Hent Electrical Co.,Ltd UN Global Compact reporting for 2011 The company In the past year,Hent has been keeping its leading position of floor-wiring system field in China, the key of maintaining Hent’s growth is that we have formed our own core principles under guidance of 10 principles from UN Global Compact, according to our own conditions, to let our staff learn their value and sense of belonging, also to deliver a better products and service to our clients, we are committed to following 3 principles: “Integrity,Pragmatic,Efficiency,” which are endorsed by our shareholders and all employees. We have been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2009. In common with other members, Hent reports every year on progress on the Compact’s ten principles. This is the Communication on Progress for 2011. Statement of support from Mr Yipong Zhou, Managing Director As a member of the UN Global Compact, Hent remains committed to its principles and goals. We have well implemented our commitment over last one year, include completing our welfare policy to our employees, and purchasing less-pollution equipment, holding night school for employees’ self-improvement, we are glad to keep supporting 4 areas and 10 principles in 2011 in local networks of China. And we also continue to work to embed the principles highlighted by the Compact into our business practice. Mr.Yipong Zhou, G.Manager Zhejiang Hent Electrical Co.,Ltd Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. ·Human Rights policy and public statement adopted by our company when our company set up. · Human rights considerations embedded in internal protocol for deciding where we should have business activities. · Active participation in international organizations and workshops seeking to promote business awareness and support for human rights. · Human Rights questions expanded in risk review process for projects, as well as in supply chain questionnaire and mergers and acquisitions process. Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. · Human Rights policy adopted in 1998 is designed to raise performance and avoid complicity · Training of management teams since 1998, attempts are being made to strengthen Feilifu® Zhejiang Hent Electrical Co.,Ltd awareness of human rights risks and opportunities among sustainability experts and key business unit members. · Emloyees were organized to learn about the spirit of human right annually since 2009. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. · We tried to improved workers’ working condition. F.g: In the 2010, we have equipped our workers with anti-dust mask in our painting workshop, and earplugs in our punching workshop, and a physical inspection is implemented for all our employees each year since 2010. · The CPI index has rised a certain degree in the past year in China, to keep improving our workers’ life condition, we’ve adjusted the wage by increasing 30% at the beginning of 2010. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. ·Any forms of forced and compulsory labour activities is illegal, defined by the law in China, and Hent has well trained her management staff to stand out of this “Warnning Line.” ·From the moment of our company foundation, we strictly follow National working time principles. · The principle of “no forced or compulsory labour” has been included in our company protocol for supplier audits. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. ·This is basic law requirement for workers in China. · The principle of “no child labour” is included in our company protocol for supplier audits. · Hent has a procedure to distinguish the real age of each applicant for job, and rejected 2 applicants in the past year due to this principle. Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. · About 45% of our employees are female in 2010, and 1/3 are female in our management. · We have employed HBV carriers in respect of Labour Law and society ethics. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. · We have reduced our carbon-emission by 30% in the past year via purchasing Intermediate frequency furnace,and by using hydropower instead of thermal power. · We organized our staff to plant trees on March 12,2010, the Arbor Day. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. · We have been modifying our work procedures according to the standards of ISO14000 System. · We implemented a new and strengthened protocol for auditing of suppliers’ environmental performance. Feilifu® Zhejiang Hent Electrical Co.,Ltd Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. · Our purchasing activities is concepted with “Green,Clean”,all device or equipments with these characteristics is preferable to us. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. · We keep transparency in every single cooperation with our clients,or project, we win the contract only by quality,service and price, we believe the fair competition will bring us more in future. · Our sales policy require us to complain to the superior of client once their purchasers or relevant persons ask for an unreasonable fee. Measurement of Outcome: · We have a paper testing annually for all our management on Human rights that defined by Labour law, the passman will win a score that included into the Year-Assessment. · We also do a yearly questionnaire to every employee in our company to estimate their satisfication status about Hent, and absorb their advices that are useful to Hent. Social commitment In 2010 and 2011, Hent keeps her commitment to the society, we’ve reached some achievements: F.g. In Nov. 2010, Hent sponsored 2 students’ education cost in High school due to their poor economy but strong spirit. In March,2011, Hent organized management to visit the local Retirement Homes, and bring daily necessities to them. As a professional manufacturers in trunking in China, we will always follow the 10 principles of UN Global Compact to develop our company. We will encourage more and more factories joint together to make better life for us and next generation.
