CDL Sustainability Report 2011 _Contents _02 Managing Director’s _32 Chapter 4 _65 GRI Content Index Message Managing our Environmental _65 ISO 26000 Clauses _04 Chapter 1 Footprint _66 UN Global Compact Index Embracing an Evolving _44 Chapter 5 Landscape Empowering our People _68 Independent Assurance Statement _12 Chapter 2 _52 Chapter 6 Towards a Sustainable Nurturing the Community _71 Glossary Business _62 About our Report & Scope We are always anticipating and _26 Chapter 3 Corporate Governance & _63 Summary of CDL’s Performance Economic adapting to meet the changing Risk Management Social Environmental needs of the communities we serve in the property industry. As a growth leader in our market, CDL is constantly evolving to About CDL create new benchmarks, renew our capabilities and sustain Singapore’s property pioneer since 1963, City Developments Limited In Singapore, CDL holds an impressive track record of over CDL’s global presence is led by our diversification into hospitality our commitments, to reach (CDL) is a listed international property and hotel conglomerate involved in real 22,000 luxurious and quality homes to its name. Globally, CDL owns over management and the acquisition of hotel assets through CDL’s Londonunparalleled heights of excellence. estate development and investment, 6 million square feet of lettable office, listed subsidiary, Millennium & hotel ownership and management, industrial, retail and residential space. Copthorne Hotels plc (M&C). As facilities management, as well as the The Group is one of the biggest one of the world’s largest hotel provision of hospitality solutions. landlords and also owns one of the groups, M&C owns, asset manages largest land banks amongst private and/or operates over 100 hotels in With an extensive network of more developers in Singapore, with over 17 countries around the world. The than 300 subsidiaries and associated 3.5 million square feet that has the Hong Kong-listed City e-Solutions companies under our wings, CDL also potential of being developed into Limited is another subsidiary of has 5 companies listed on notable over 7 million square feet of gross CDL that is dedicated towards stock exchanges in New Zealand, Hong floor area. providing management services Kong, London and Philippines. CDL and technology solutions for the currently owns and manages a strong Beyond establishing a distinctive hospitality industry. portfolio of residential and investment imprint on the Singapore cityscape, properties, in addition to hotels, across CDL’s local presence is matched In Singapore, CDL has about 350 Asia, Europe, Middle East, North by the strategic growth of our employees at our headquarters America and Australasia. international business. (excluding subsidiaries). 02 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 03 Message From More than just reducing our carbon in electricity will be saved annually from While our endeavour of aligning our footprint at the Company level, we also our 27 Green Mark awarded buildings existing management systems with the aim to influence our stakeholders to from 2008 to 2010 (estimated figure ISO 26000 framework is ongoing and The Managing Director support this goal. CDL first embarked on incorporating green innovation and upon completion of the new and existing buildings). Moving forward, we will continue into 2011 and beyond, we have nevertheless taken the affirmative technologies in our developments over a have raised the bar for ourselves and our step of addressing the ISO 26000 core decade ago and we remain committed to target is now to achieve a minimum BCA subjects and issues alongside the Global investing in initiatives that will encourage Green Mark GoldPlus rating for all new Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting capacity building and innovation to developments. Framework. This report is perhaps the help prepare the real estate industry for first sustainability report published by a greener economy. We will continue to On the international front, it is timely a Singapore corporation that seeks to leverage on our first-mover advantage for the ISO 26000:2010, Guidance on address the ISO 26000 framework. in this area and push ahead to further social responsibility, to be formally enhance energy efficiency and low In addition, we have continued to launched and I am glad that CDL is the externally assure our sustainability report carbon technologies in our properties. first company in Singapore to embark in accordance with the AA1000 (2008) on aligning our business operations with Assurance Standard, which evaluates the Testament to our sustained efforts in the internationally accepted Corporate building capacity in green building in reliability of our reported sustainability Social Responsibility (CSR) best practices performance. Our approach of Singapore, we are honoured to be the guidance. first developer to be accorded the Green subscribing to internationally accepted Mark Platinum Champion Award by the sustainability principles demonstrates This year, we have titled our Sustainability CDL’s commitment in working towards Building and Construction Authority Report “Evolve” to reflect CDL’s dynamic (BCA) this year. CDL first received the greater transparency and disclosure spirit and forward-looking ethos in through performance benchmarking. Green Mark Champion Award in 2008 embracing the challenges posed by the and the accord of this higher tier Award ever-changing social and environmental Indeed it is our very definitive spirit attests to our contribution towards landscape. of embracing change and continued shaping a greener built environment in pursuit of improvement that propels CDL Dear Stakeholders, Paving the way for a new era of global towards improving our environmental Singapore. towards continued sustainable growth eco-consciousness and environmental performance have resulted in an 11% As social responsibility takes greater prominence globally, we look forward to and business excellence. As encapsulated The year 2010 was one of recovery for the responsibility, the agreement was reduction in our total carbon intensity Since the BCA Green Mark certification by this report, even as we continue to global economy. In response to challenges designed to mitigate the impact of emissions from baseline year 2007. improving our CSR practices and since scheme for buildings was initiated in seek new breakthroughs in our corporate, arising from the financial turmoil of climate change through a paradigm October 2010, have embarked on an We remain committed to further 2005, we have to-date achieved over 50 environmental and social performance, 2008, many corporations worldwide shift towards building a low-carbon internal training and assessment exercise improve our environmental performance Green Mark buildings and developments we will grow and adapt in tandem with restructured their operations with society. An agreement was adopted by to evaluate our existing CSR strategies and in support of the Singapore’s – the highest number accorded to a evolutionary changes to the social and business sustainability in mind and geared leaders for a large “Green Climate Fund” and performance against the draft ISO government goal to reduce the nation’s single private property developer in environmental landscape globally. themselves for a new era of growth – one to assist poorer countries in financing 26000 framework. Through the course of carbon emissions by 16% below Singapore. This year, we are pleased defined by an increased awareness that emission reductions and adaptation, and this benchmarking exercise, the structure Kwek Leng Joo business-as-usual (BAU) levels by 2020(1), to welcome another 18 Green Mark business has to be conducted in a socially the setting up of a “Climate Technology of CDL’s CSR sub-committees has also Managing Director we have taken stock of our carbon properties to our fold, of which six are and environmentally responsible manner. Centre” and network, in addition to a been refined for greater alignment with June 2011 performance and are confident to set a of the highest tier Green Mark Platinum. second commitment period for the the seven core subjects identified under Beyond economic challenges, corporations carbon reduction target for our business We approximate that some S$12 million Kyoto Protocol. While a detailed action ISO 26000. have increasingly come to realise that plan is lacking, it holds promise for the operations moving forward. By 2020, climate change represents an urgent next climate conference to be held in our target is to reduce the Company’s and potentially irreversible threat to the carbon intensity emissions by 22% from “Climate change presents both challenges and opportunities to the South Africa this November. continuity of life and have taken steps to baseline year 2007, and to achieve a 25% building industry to mitigate its impact on the environment. As a minimise their carbon footprint. reduction by 2030. leading property developer and amongst Singapore’s largest landlords, I am pleased to share that for 2010, CDL CDL has embraced environmental responsibility as an integral Despite the lack of a global accord at the delivered record profits since inception In 2010, we also embarked on a voluntary strategy for continued growth and business excellence, conserving United Nations (UN) Climate Change for our investors and shareholders, initiative which saw the reduction of the Conference held in Copenhagen in while simultaneously continuing to annual carbon emissions of our corporate as we construct for over a decade. We are pleased to report that our December 2009, it is heartening that make headway in improving our social office operations and data centre, which sustained efforts towards improving our environmental performance international negotiations made some and environmental performance amounted to some 327 tonnes of carbon have resulted in 11% reduction in our total carbon intensity emissions headway at last year’s Cancun conference. and disclosure. Our sustained efforts dioxide, to net zero. from baseline year 2007.” (1) Subject to legally binding global deal that obliges all countries to cut emissions, and if other countries offer significant pledges (Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs). Sustainability Report 2011 05 Chapter 1: Embracing an Evolving Landscape CDL’S CSR STRATEGY CSR VISION Employees: At CDL, building sustainability into To be a leader in business and a champion To maximise their potential and care our operations is integral to our strive of CSR. for their personal well-being and career towards business excellence and laying development. the foundation for long-term growth. CSR MISSION To be a responsible corporate citizen who Contractors and Suppliers: The business, social and environmental landscape is ever-changing. believes in creating value for stakeholders, To select based on quality work and their Embracing this dynamism is integral to CDL’s evolutionary approach As a leading property developer in ability to complement our commitment to conducting sustainable business practices, towards sustainability. Singapore, we measure ourselves against environment, health and safety. caring for the community and protecting the triple bottom line, taking into the environment. Being inclusive at every level has enabled us to achieve sustainable account our economic, environmental Community: business excellence whilst addressing the interests of our stakeholders. and social performance. To serve the community we operate in so COMMITMENT TO STAKEHOLDERS As a responsible corporation, it is our goal as to create a better place for all, especially Our progress is determined by our ability to meld our business and Since the 1990s, CSR has been the caring for the less fortunate, enhancing to be transparent and accountable to our sustainability objectives and flow in partnerships for the future. bedrock of our business philosophy youth development, promoting the arts stakeholders who have an interest in our and is integrated into our corporate and conserving the environment. operations. These include: commitments. It is our goal to be transparent and accountable to our (For more details on CDL’s Stakeholder Customers: stakeholders. Engagement, please refer to Chapter 2.) To provide quality and innovative products, unsurpassed service and value for money. OUR CORPORATE VISION To maintain industry leadership in Investors: innovation, product quality, service To maintain profitability and achieve standards, profitability and CSR. optimum returns for their investment. With a track record of 48 years, CDL has established a distinctive imprint on the Singapore cityscape. 06 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 07 ENHANCEMENTS TO THE CSR management system, we believe that the initiative to integrate our CSR objectives COMMITTEE – ALIGNING framework provides essential guidance into our business operations, monitor and CDL’S CSR OBJECTIVES on critical CSR issues that can be best improve on our CSR performance. WITH ISO 26000 addressed by any organisation. Corporate On 1 November 2010, the CSR Since October 2009, we have taken • Raise awareness of CSR within and outside of the Company landscape was further strengthened To adapt to the changing CSR landscape proactive steps to use the draft ISO 26000 with ISO’s (International Organisation and to align ourselves with international guidelines progressively as a benchmark • Achieve industry leadership position in CSR in Singapore for Standardisation) launch of one of best practices, the Company has been framework to: the most highly anticipated International preparing itself over the last year, studying • Establish a business framework for sustainable management and innovation (1) Conduct internal training on ISO Standards of recent years, ISO 26000:2010 and applying these guidelines in a bid to Financial, Corporate Governance and Risk Management Guidance on social responsibility. 26000 for CDL’s management and CSR strengthen our CSR engagement. committee members • Maintain profitability and optimum returns for investors Since the development of ISO 26000 (2) Enhance our CSR committee structure which began in 2005, CDL has been CSR COMMITTEE to address ISO 26000’s core subjects • Ensure good corporate governance and sound risk management DEVElOPMENT ROADMAP watchful of the developments of the (3) Assess our compliance with ISO 26000’s • Create value for investors through financial and non-financial performance ISO 26000 framework. Although ISO CDL established our CSR Committee seven core subjects 26000 is not mandatory or a standard in 2008, led by our Managing Director (4) Assess our existing policies, identify • Ensure the maintenance of an internationally-based management system such as Singapore Quality Class for for certification, nor designed as a and senior management as a strategic gaps and define the best way forward business excellence Human Resource CDL’S JOURNEY IN ALIGNMENT WITH ISO 26000 (1) • Improve employees’ competencies, maximise their potential for career development • Create a work environment that supports a corporate culture of work-life harmony STAGE 1 Workshop on CDL’s social and environmental risks and opportunities for September 2008 • Improve employees’ health and well-being Track CDL’s management and CSR committee members Development • Achieve industry leadership position in Workplace Health and Work-life initiatives in Singapore Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) • Ensure the maintenance of an international management system for the environment STAGE 2 Internal Training on ISO 26000 for CDL’s management & CSR committee Internal Training members, alignment of existing structure to address seven core subjects October 2009 • Achieve industry leadership position in developing and maintaining green buildings in Singapore on ISO 26000 under ISO 26000 • Achieve ISO 14001 targets at both corporate and operational levels Product Responsibility STAGE 3 CSR committee worked on self-assessment analysis on each core subject, • Focus and reinforce on delivering quality and innovative products Review CDL including evidence and gaps January 2010 Performance • Focus and reinforce commitment on the development of green buildings • Create products that are value for money • Provide quality customer service STAGE 4 Following the third party’s performance assessment from the selfOctober 2010 Compliance assessment analysis exercise, CSR committee identified an action plan Supply Chain • Proactively engage contractors and suppliers on quality of work and commitment to EHS Community STAGE 5 Reviewing and setting of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), short term • Serve and create a better living environment for the community Alignment 2011 onwards and long term goals. Integrating into existing management systems (ongoing) • Proactively engage the community through synergistic collaborations and sustainable CSR programmes (1) CDL CSR Committee’s Development of our CSR Strategy and Advancement since 2008 08 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 09 STRUCTURAL ENHANCEMENTS ASSESSMENT ANALYSIS The relevance and significance of each performance strengths and gaps were TO CSR COMMITTEE USING ISO 26000 of the seven core subjects and their identified. respective issues were assessed in terms In 2010, the structure of our CSR sub-committees The CSR sub-committees conducted of self-determined importance by The Performance Matrix below was refined to better align and address the seven self-assessment to review the significance categories: High, Medium High, Medium, summarises CDL’s demonstration of core subjects of ISO 26000. of the core subjects and issues, plus Medium Low and Low. Based on the each ISO 26000 principle of behaviour, identify the gaps that exist with respect data collected through this series of mapped against the seven core subjects. to the items. structured internal assessments, current Fair Community Organisational Human Labour The Consumer advisor ISO 26000 Operating Involvement & Governance Rights Practices Environment Issues Managing Director Practices Development Accountability • • • • • • • advisory panel Transparency • • • • • • • Senior Management Ethical Behaviour • • • • • • • chairman Respect for Senior Management Stakeholder • • • • • • • Interests Respect for the Rule of Law • • • • • • • employee corp governance/ stakeholder environment community relations risk management relations Respect for the International Norms of • • • • • • • Behaviours Alignment with ISO 26000 Seven Core Subjects Respect for Human Rights • • • • • • • organisational governance community • Fully inculcated into CDL’s activities The Human Fair Operating Consumer • Work in progress involvement & environment Rights Practices Issues Development • Improvement needed Labour Practices Overall with respect to the application Transparency. These strengths are related core subjects, compliance in the subjects of the ISO 26000 principles, CDL’s areas to the current policies and disclosure of Consumer Issues, Organisational of strength lie in: Respect for the Rule of of activities already articulated in CDL’s Governance and Fair Operating Practices Law, Accountability, Ethical Behaviour and Sustainability Reports. With respect to the is highest. Original CSR Committee Structure Enhanced to Cover ISO 26000 Core Subjects 10 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 11 Commitment to External • Anti-Corruption and Compliance • United Nations Caring for Climate CSR SubRisks & Opportunities ASPECTs More Info Initiatives Declaration (since 2009) (since 2008) Committees (Under review) (Under review) • Carbon Disclosure Project (since 2008) • United Nations Global Compact (since As the CSR landscape continues to evolve, CDL shares this commitment • Employers’ Pledge for Fair Employment 2005) The Environment Regulatory risks & opportunities • Energy and water used at work sites Chapter 4 Singapore Government’s • Construction waste generated at work sites with like-minded organisations by Practices (since 2008) commitment to manage carbon • Energy and water used at CDL commercial and participating in many global and local • Global Reporting Initiative (since 2008) We keep abreast of our sustainability emissions has significantly industrial buildings initiatives and also being a signatory • ISO 26000:2010 (2011) rankings in our strive towards making impacted the building industry • Paper recycled at CDL buildings to various charters, to advocate the • Singapore Compact for CSR (since its concerted efforts to improve our Environmental risks • Tenants’ participation rate for paper recycling importance of CSR. These include: inception in 2005) scorecard. Impact of climate change • Energy and paper used at the corporate office • Total energy used • Total carbon emissions CDL’s Sustainability Rankings • All new developments to be certified BCA Green Mark GoldPlus and above 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Accident frequency rate at CDL work sites (number of workplace accidents per million AccountAbility Externally assured AA1000 Assurance Standard AA1000 Assurance manhours worked) AA1000 (Performance information 2008 Type 2 (AccountAbility Standard 2008 Type 2 • Injury rate at CDL work sites (number of fatal and only) with reference principles and performance (AccountAbility principles non-fatal workplace injuries per 100,000 persons to AA1000 Assurance information) and performance employed) Standard information)(1) Asian Sustainability 66.1% 74.5% 84.0% (2) Human Rights & Human Resource risks & • Annual employee turnover rate Chapter 5 Rating Labour Practices opportunities • Employee satisfaction Talent attraction and • Days of medical leave taken Carbon Disclosure Participation Participation Participation Participation development • Gender diversification Project Maintaining ethical values and • Average years of service per employee business standards • Total CSR and environment-related training hours • Health and safety at the corporate office (injury FTSE4Good Index Listed since 2002 rate and occupational disease) Series Consumer Issues Operating risks & opportunities • New developments to be well-ranked on Chapters Product and service quality Construction Quality Assessment System 1&2 Global 100 Most Ranked as #81 Ranked as #100 assurance (CONQUAS) Sustainable Design and product innovation Corporations in the World Fair Operating Operating risks & opportunities • CSR had been identified as potential business risk Chapter 3 Global Reporting Level C Level B+ Level B+ Level B+ Practices Formalised risk management Initiative framework ISO 26000:2010 Yes Operating risks & opportunities • Employee participation rate per year Chapter 6 Guidance on social Community Social and economic • Employee volunteer hours per year responsibility Involvement & Development development of the community RESPONDING TO CSR We have also made headway in our Development, Labour Practices, Human CHALLENGES IN 2012 AND commitment towards climate change Rights and Stakeholder Engagement. RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES These action plans will be aligned and Ultimately, the CSR Committee will and have pledged to reduce our carbon Currently at Stage 5, the CSR committee integrated into existing management utilise the ISO 26000 as an invaluable BEYOND emissions by 22% (please refer to Chapter CDL remains convinced that CSR is is reviewing the short term and long term systems including ISO 14001 tool to align our business operations 2010 will be remembered as a critical year fundamental for business excellence. We 4 for details). KPIs as well as risks and opportunities Environmental Management System, with a universal understanding of of review and reevaluation of CDL’s CSR will continue to seek better understanding identified previously. As of now, they Singapore Quality Class and CDL EHS internationally accepted CSR best strategy and performance as we prepared While we have made significant and application of the ISO 26000 framework are still relevant and applicable. The CSR Policy. Progressively, CDL seeks to practices and maximise our contribution the critical groundwork necessary for the improvements in our performance, to the Singapore context and environment committee is also evaluating action plans develop and implement a comprehensive towards sustainable development. integration of the ISO 26000 framework; our energies will be focused on as well as address and assess sustainability for improvement to complement and monitoring programme with the end an endeavour that will continue into areas that require improvements issues that are material to our business and add value to our business as well as serve goal of establishing an evolving cycle of 2011 and beyond. including Community Involvement & action for improved CSR performance. the interests of our stakeholders. data collection and gap analysis. (1) Refer to the Independent Assurance Statement. (2) The results of the Asian Sustainability Rating for 2011 are expected to be announced at the last quarter of the assessment year. Sustainability Report 2011 13 Chapter 2: Towards a Sustainable Business At CDL, we believe that the measure Anti-Corruption & Compliance Through our efforts, we are pleased to of a company’s success lies beyond its In support of this commitment, CDL report that there were no incidents of financial performance. Taking a holistic was amongst the 17 founding signatories corruption, anti-competitive behaviour, approach towards sustainable organic of the Anti-Corruption & Compliance anti-trust and monopoly practices, within business growth, we evaluate our Declaration, Southeast Asia’s first antithe Company in 2010. Additionally, there economic, social and environmental corruption declaration to stamp out graft were no incidents of non-compliance A business is like a man where every component works in tandem to function performance against our targets. in 2009. with laws and regulations for which physically. However, it is our human consciousness, like CSR to a business, which significant fines or non-monetary Within the organisation, this commitment sets us apart. At the very core of CDL’s corporate sanctions were issued to the Company. is also translated into cultivating the values CDL believes that CSR must be integrated into all aspects of our business. We value system is a firm commitment to of openness, integrity and accountability conducting business with integrity that is amongst all CDL employees. CDL has continuously seek to improve sustainable business excellence by strategising our consistent with the highest standards of a Whistle-blowing Policy to provide an Communication Channels to CDL best practices in a holistic way across the Company. business ethics and one that subscribes avenue for employees to raise concerns Ethics Officer to the principles of social responsibility, over a breach of these standards, highlight which include: Email cdl.ethics.hotline@cdl.com.sg incidents of malpractice or wrongdoings • Accountability within the Company. Mobile +65-9772 3876 • Transparency The Policy applies to any wrongdoing or Fax +65-6226 0781 • Ethical Behaviour • Respect for Stakeholder Interests suspected wrongdoing/fraud involving Post 36 Robinson Road • Respect for the Rule of Law employees as well as CDL’s business #02-01 City House • Respect for International Norms of associates including consultants, vendors, Singapore 068877 Behaviour contractors and/or any other parties with • Respect for Human Rights a business relationship with CDL. Various secure communication channels Our business activities, whether they Since 2002, CDL has established a formal to the Company’s appointed Ethics be products or business relations and risk management framework to enable Officer are available to all employees dealings must be aligned with our value significant business risks to be identified, and any parties involved in a business system as well as CSR vision and mission. assessed, monitored, managed and relationship with CDL. The Policy To this end, we have designed policies reviewed regularly. provides assurance that all information that integrate and manage the issues of reported will be regarded with the More details on CDL’s corporate sustainability and social responsibility strictest confidence. governance and risk management within our business operations. To reinforce CDL’s commitment to framework can be found in Chapter 3 of ethics and integrity in our business to this report. ORGANISATIONAL employees, communication sessions on GOVERNANCE CDL’s Whistle-blowing Policy are held for PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP As a responsible and prudent steward new employees on a regular basis. Full Backed by 48 years of experience, CDL has to one of Singapore’s largest companies details on the Policy and communication been a cutting-edge pioneer known for by market capitalisation, CDL strives channels are also easily accessible to all developing iconic and quality properties to uphold high standards of corporate employees via CDLNet, the Company’s which feature new lifestyle concepts and governance, transparency and disclosure. employee intranet platform. innovative technology. 14 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 15 Designing and Managing Sustainable to reduce the environmental impact of and outstanding achievements in in Singapore. With our sustained Quality Properties our developments. environmental sustainability. commitment towards developing and CDL’s Commitment to Environmentally Sustainable Development: As aligned with the triple bottom line managing green properties over the • Achieve a minimum BCA Green Mark GoldPlus rating for all new developments model, CDL develops properties that are Through this, we are able to improve our In 2008, CDL was also conferred the BCA years, we have received the highest • Invest between 2% and 5% of the construction cost of development on green sustainable, functional and financially business practices and CSR performance Green Mark Champion Award, and the number of Green Mark Awards amongst building design and features marketable. to provide value to our community where first and only recipient of the BCA Built private developers to-date. it is most needed. Environment Leadership Award in 2009, Our commitment to product in recognition of our role as a green Beyond a reduction in our carbon target of attaining at least a Green Mark committed to achieving a high-quality stewardship is embodied by our threeIn recognition of our sustained efforts pioneer and champion. footprint, CDL approximates that some Gold rating, for all new developments. development. As a measure of quality, we pronged approach. Beyond design and in driving green building in Singapore, S$12 million(2) in electricity will be saved make certain that our properties are wellmanagement of our properties with CDL became the first developer to be Since the BCA Green Mark certification annually from our 27 BCA Green Mark Through our investment in capacity placed on BCA’s Construction Quality environmental sustainability in mind, accorded the highest tier Green Mark scheme(1) for buildings was initiated in awarded buildings from 2008 to 2010 building initiatives, we aim to enhance Assessment System (CONQUAS)(3) we undertake engagement initiatives Platinum Champion Award by BCA in 2005, CDL has received over 50 Green (estimated figure upon completion of the built industry’s green expertise ranking chart. CONQUAS is a standard with stakeholders involved in the 2011. This honour is conferred upon Mark Awards, with 16 of them being the new and existing buildings). and encourage others to explore more assessment system on the quality of lifecycle of our properties with the aim developers who have demonstrated the Green Mark Platinum tier – the sustainable technologies. building projects in Singapore. of encouraging a shared responsibility a strong commitment towards CSR highest rating for green developments To consistently achieve a high level of Amongst our sustained initiatives quality and sustainability standards in developed to raise standards within our In 2010, two out of the top three ranked our properties, we continue to set and sphere of influence is the CDL 5-Star private housing projects were developed work towards improving our targets and EHS Assessment System, which was by CDL. To-date, six out of the 10 highest measurements. introduced in 2001. More details on this ranked private housing projects are CDL CDL’S BCA Green Mark Awards (since 2005) programme can be found from pages 19 developments. Moving forward, we have raised the bar to 21 of this report. Green Mark Platinum for ourselves and our target now is to • City Square Mall • Hundred Trees • The Oceanfront @ Sentosa • Tree House achieve a minimum BCA Green Mark Apart from a high level of sustainability • Cliveden at Grange • Quayside Isle Cove • Volari GoldPlus rating, upgraded from our 2010 standards in our properties, CDL is also • Cube 8 • 7 & 9 Tampines Grande • The Residences at W • W Singapore Sentosa • Fuji Xerox Towers++ • 368 Thomson Singapore Sentosa Cove Cove • H2O Residences • The Glyndebourne • The Solitaire National CONQUAS Score Green Mark GoldPlus RESIDENTIAL PROJECT CONQUAS YEAR OF • Buckley 18 • CDL Office – City Square Mall • Leonie Hill Condominium • St. Regis Hotel & SCORE COMPLETION • Buckley Classique Management Office (Green • Livia Residences, Singapore 1 The Arte 96.2 2010 • CDL Office – City House, Levels Mark for Office Interior) • NV Residences • 11 Tampines 2 City Square Residences 95.6 2008 2 & 5 (Green Mark for Office • City Square Residences • Pasir Ris Grove (Parcel 3) Concourse Interior) • King’s Centre • Plaza By The Park+++ • The Arte 3 Tribeca 94.8 2010 • Shelford Suites • Wilkie Studio 4 Pavilion 11 at Minbu 94.8 2010 Road Green Mark Gold 5 The Sail @ Marina Bay 94.8 2008 • Botannia • Central Mall (Office Tower)++ • Monterey Park • Residences @ Evelyn • CDL Office – Republic Plaza, • City House++ Condominium • Savannah CondoPark 6 Marina Bay Residences 94.4 2010 Level 36 (Green Mark for Office • City Square Shophouses at • New Tech Park • Tribeca 7 The Stellar 94.3 2008 Interior) Jalan Besar • One Shenton • The Sail @ Marina Bay • CDL Office – City House, Levels • Jean Nouvel Residences • Palais Renaissance++ 8 The Dakota Residences 94.3 2010 3, 4 and 22 (Green Mark for • Millennium Residences @ • Parc Emily 9 Parc Emily 94.1 2008 Office Interior) Sukhumvit, Bangkok • Republic Plaza+ 10 Savannah CondoPark 94.1 2005 Green Mark Certified • Butterworth 33 • Pantech 21+ • The Pier at Robertson Consistency in quality has always been a CDL hallmark over the years. Six out of the top 10 private housing projects on the CONQUAS ranking chart to-date were developed by CDL. Completed in 2010, The Arte sets a new benchmark in quality, topping the CONQUAS ranking chart with a score of 96.2 – the For more details on CDL’s environmental performance, refer to + Recertified in 2009 ++ Recertified in 2010 +++ Recertified in 2011 highest score amongst private residential projects to-date. Chapter 4 of this report. (1) The BCA Green Mark Scheme is an initiative by the Singapore government to move Singapore’s construction industry towards sustainable and eco-friendly (2) Savings estimated based on average electricity tariff in April 2011 released by Singapore Power. buildings by incorporating best practices in environmental design and construction and adoption of green building technologies. For more details on the BCA (3) For more details on the CONQUAS Scheme, visit www.bca.gov.sg. Green Mark Scheme, visit www.bca.gov.sg. 16 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 17 Product Communication breach of customer confidentiality will For close to a decade, CDL has been STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CDL is committed to upholding the be met with strict disciplinary action. incorporating community-friendly features CDL believes in maintaining an open principles of ethical marketing and and best practices in Universal Design two-way dialogue with our stakeholders fair competition. We have in place a Communication sessions on CDL’s Code within our residential and commercial of Business Conduct and Ethics are held that include our customers, investors and set of rigorous internal procedures to developments, over and above the media, employees, builders and suppliers, ensure factual accuracy of all marketing for new employees. All employees are mandatory requirements specified in the also provided easy access to the detailed and community (which represents collaterals. Our marketing and leasing Code on Barrier-Free Accessibility by BCA. a range of stakeholders with varied procedures are also guided by an Code via CDLNet. interests including Non-Governmental operations manual, which is reviewed on To-date, we are pleased to report that Taking a holistic life-cycle approach, we Organisations (NGOs), government and an annual basis. there has not been any valid case of apply Universal Design principles from the community-at-large). infringement of customer confidentiality ground zero during the architectural All marketing collaterals produced planning and carry them through the by the Company are compliant with by CDL employees. CDL’s engagement process is both formal construction and building operations and informal. It may be conducted advertising and promotion standards and maintenance phases. Universal Design Policy via surveys, focus group studies or in in Singapore, namely the Singapore Accessibility in the built environment a more personal setting with small Code of Advertising Practice(4) that Moving forward, we are committed to has become increasingly relevant to group meetings or even on-site visits. A is administered by the Advertising embracing Universal Design principles Singapore with the need to address proponent of establishing partnerships More than just being Singapore’s first eco-mall, City Square Mall is also designed as a communityStandards Authority of Singapore in the design and management of the trend of an ageing population and with local and international organisations, friendly mall. The 700,000 square feet Mall was a Gold Award winner of the Universal Design Award which is an Advisory Council to the all our residential and commercial conferred by BCA in 2010. increase in mobility difficulties in the CDL places key representatives in Consumers Association of Singapore. developments and formalised our years ahead. these organisations to learn, share and This self-regulatory code of conduct commitment with our Universal Design for advertisers has been endorsed by contribute meaningfully to benefit our A key enabler for enhancing the level of Policy in January 2011. This Policy which Bringing the Green into Our specially-customised Green Living Kit organisations representing advertisers, community. accessibility in the built environment is is endorsed by our top management, Customers’ Homes which contains a Green Living Guide – advertising agencies and media. Universal Design – which broadly refers provides us with a framework to achieve A key component of CDL’s engagement a book featuring green lifestyle tips and From what we learn through this active In addition, all advertisements placed to “design for all people”. Worldwide, our objective of creating an inclusive engagement process, we can better initiative with customers is a green a brochure listing all the eco-friendly with the local dailies published by the move towards universal design has built environment that caters to the prioritise and strategise to enhance our outreach programme, “Let’s Live Green!”. features provided for in their new home Singapore Press Holdings (SPH) are developed to meet the demands and needs of all age groups and people business and social performance to meet Launched in March 2004, CDL was and instructions for use and maintenance subject to copy vetting(5) by the media desire for independent living amongst a with different abilities, allowing them to the expectations of our stakeholders. the first private property developer as well as green features found in the owner prior to publication, with the growing populace with varying degree of live independently and enjoy access to This has also helped us understand the to showcase green features in new common areas. objective of ensuring compliance with abilities and advancing years. facilities. effectiveness of our activities and adapt residential developments to homebuyers. the rules and regulations stipulated or create new initiatives. Over the years, this initiative has been by the various Singapore government More than just educating homebuyers rolled out to over 3,000 CDL households bodies, Singapore Code of Advertising We hope to place more focus on this area on the green features within their and feedback solicited via surveys Practice and SPH’s company policies. to further strengthen our stakeholder new homes, this eco-home outreach has been positive. At a recent TOP relations, especially to improve in the initiative is also aimed at encouraging our Welcome Party held in April 2011 for To-date, there has not been any reported area of formal engagement for better customers to make lifestyle choices like homeowners of One Shenton, an iconic incidents of non-compliance with the accountability and transparency. purchasing energy-saving appliances and city residence located in the heart of Singapore Code of Advertising Practice. practicing eco-friendly habits to reduce the new Downtown, over 72% of the their carbon footprint. homeowners surveyed expressed their Safeguarding Customer Privacy OUR CUSTOMERS satisfaction for the “Let’s Live Green!” CDL takes our responsibility to protect CDL has to our name over 22,000 quality A special TOP(6) Welcome Party for CDL Exhibition showcase. the privacy and confidentiality of our homes and is one of the largest landlords homebuyers is often held shortly after customers’ information very seriously. in Singapore, owning over seven million the project has obtained TOP. The event In addition to internal policies and square feet of lettable office, industrial, provides an opportunity for homebuyers procedures designed to safeguard retail and residential space. to experience and view their new customer information, we do not divulge home, in addition to partaking in an or sell any personal information provided With such an extensive customer base, educational programme comprising by our customers to third parties for CDL is clearly focused on the provision talks and exhibitions on environmental their own marketing or promotional of uncompromised product quality and conservation. purposes. service excellence to all our customers, All employees are guided by CDL’s Code above and beyond what is expected of To encourage homebuyers to embrace of Business Conduct and Ethics, and any our industry. the green lifestyle, they are also given a (4) The Singapore Code of Advertising Practice is a fundamental part of the system of control by which local advertising regulates its activities. It seeks to (5) The Copy Vetting Guidelines administered by SPH can be viewed at www.sph.com.sg/vetting_guidelines.shtml. promote a high standard of ethics in advertising by self-regulation against the background of national law and international law and practice, including (6) In Singapore, the Commissioner of Building Control will issue the Temporary Occupation Permit (TOP) to a building project when it is completed. A building the International Code of Advertising Practice published by the International Chamber of Commerce. For more details on the Singapore Code of Advertising can only be occupied when a Certificate of Statutory Completion or TOP is granted. Practice, visit www.case.org.sg/advertising_code.html. 18 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 19 OUR EMPLOYEES in interviews, surveys, reports and oneThroughout the year, CDL maintains CDL’s goal is to strive towards being on-one meetings on topics such as our an active engagement with members In Focus: an employer of choice for our 350 business and environmental behaviour, of the media and is featured in the employees in Singapore. We believe in how we integrate climate change issues print, broadcast and electronic media Driving Continual Improvements creating a conducive work environment which empowers, nurtures and values in our business strategy, corporate governance, employee management and on topics including current global issues, the economy, government to the Customer Experience our employees. Initiatives such as talent management, development and community involvement. policies, industry trends, our business activities, stakeholder engagement and community involvement. employee welfare remain our focus. We continue to engage the investor Feedback from our customers is key handover process and management By leveraging on feedback from our community in an open and transparent to driving continual improvement of defects rectification. customers and the marketplace, More details on our employment manner using various communication OUR builders AND across the Company, from product we are able to respond more practices and employee engagement platforms. In our efforts to enhance SUPPLIERS refinement to operational process The average satisfaction level effectively and efficiently to the initiatives can be found in Chapter 5 of and improve communication channels, Working closely with our suppliers, CDL efficiency to service engagement. amongst all homebuyers surveyed evolving market demands and this report. we have also expanded information on endeavours to be a reliable and trusted was 86%. In addition, a large number also constantly evaluate and refine our environmental performance on our business partner. Various programmes We have introduced multiple of homebuyers also indicated our service standards to ensure a corporate website, www.cdl.com.sg, in OUR INVESTORS & THE and policies are in place to ensure that channels of communication and that they would recommend CDL satisfying customer experience. response to increased interest by our MEDIA these business relations are aligned feedback so that we can engage properties to their friends and stakeholders. CDL’s corporate mission is to maintain with our business values and standards customers formally and informally relatives. Recommendation to Friends and profitability and optimum returns for including EHS and Procurement. to ascertain their satisfaction on Relatives Apart from existing homebuyers, We have also ensured the timely the service experience, as well as our investors. With prudent stewardship, CDL also solicits for feedback release of our quarterly financial results, Beyond driving green building innovation to anticipate and respond to their 100% the Company has successfully remained from potential homebuyers who 80.8% conducted briefings for analysts and from a client perspective, CDL has also changing needs and preferences. 78.2% 78.6% in the black over the past few global visit our project Show Suites. The media during the half-year and fullbeen a strong advocate of sustainable 75% financial upheavals. For CDL homebuyers, an online respondents’ feedback on the year results and participated in various practices amongst our sphere of customer satisfaction survey is quality and finishes in the Show 50% investor conferences and one-on-one influence. As one of the largest companies in administered six months after the Suite, apartment configuration meetings which presents opportunities 25% Singapore by market capitalisation, TOP of each project to measure preference and service standards, are for active two-way dialogue with the Building Capacity in EHS CDL is of keen interest to the investor the customer’s service experience invaluable in our design refinement top management. Shareholders also have To raise our builders’ EHS standards, CDL community and media alike. We also across the various touch points and and project planning process. the opportunity to engage with the top developed the 5-Star EHS Assessment The Arte Tribeca The Oceanfront have a large number of shareholders to solicit feedback and suggestions @ Sentosa Cove management during the Annual General System in 2001 as an audit tool to assess which include international investors, on project design, features within Meeting (AGM) where the Company’s the level of management commitment to both private and institutional. their apartments as well as facilities operations are reviewed and business safety and occupational health at the work and amenities of the development. plans for the year ahead are shared. sites. The assessment is independently In line with our commitment to uphold high standards of corporate appraised and graded quarterly, on a In 2010, some 100 CDL homebuyers scale of one to five stars, by independent governance and embrace the values of The AGM is also attended by the participated in the survey. They auditors engaged by CDL. openness, integrity and accountability, Executive Directors, the respective comprise homeowners across the CDL has been voluntarily publishing Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration Following each audit assessment, a following residential developments: this dedicated report detailing the and Nominations Committees, including quarterly 5-Star EHS Seminar is held • The Oceanfront @ Sentosa Cove Company’s environmental and social the external auditors of the Company, to to present the results to the top • Tribeca performance, even though it is not field any investor queries raised during management of the builders and • The Arte required or widely practised in Singapore the meeting. Presentations from such consultants. The seminars provide Overall, our homebuyers surveyed to-date. events may also be easily accessed via the a platform for the promotion and expressed high levels of satisfaction SGXNET and our corporate website. sharing of best practices, while at the with their entire service experience, In response to stakeholder feedback same time, exert “peer pressure” on our which ranges from finishes and and increasing requests, CDL has Similarly, the media is kept updated of our builders to strive towards performance workmanship, overall construction been investing more resources in the corporate activities through press conferences improvement. quality, green features provided in engagement of the larger investor and press releases. We also avail ourselves to the home, facilities and landscaping community which includes sustainability various forms of media requests including In 2003, we expanded our assessment at communal areas, responsiveness analysts, rating agencies and the socially interviews and visits to our properties to scope to cover best practices in energy Amongst the CDL homebuyers surveyed, 80.8% of homeowners of The Oceanfront @ Sentosa of CDL employees throughout the Cove indicated that they would recommend CDL properties to their friends and relatives. responsible investment community. facilitate a better understanding of our business and water consumption, waste, noise and This includes dialogue and participation and operations. public health management. Thereafter in 20 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 21 2008, we integrated ConSASS, an audit employed by them at their work sites. and postgraduate students of tertiary tool developed by the Workplace Safety Our builders have the responsibility of institutions such as the National & Health Council (WSHC), into our taking all measures necessary to keep the University of Singapore, Nanyang In Focus: 5-Star EHS scoring system. work site safe and without risks to health Business School, Singapore Management Since 2005, we have held the annual for the workers. University and Networking Session for Green Club Teachers cum Training for A United Stand for Safety and 5-Star EHS Excellence Awards to recognise builders who have excelled For instance, there must be vector and pest control programmes, and site offices and toilets must be equipped with basic Green Club Students for North West Community Development Council. Health at the Workplace – in our 5-Star EHS scores over a oneyear period. In 2006, in support of the amenities such as electricity, water, adequate lighting and proper ventilation. We have also actively engaged other important stakeholders stemming from CDL 5-Star EHS Awards 2010 Government’s push for workplace safety and health, we introduced a monetary government agencies and NGOs on wide Green Procurement Guidelines award to motivate and reward our ranging issues including the economy, In 2008, CDL formalised our Green builders who have gone on to achieve a government policies, CSR, environment, Procurement Guidelines to influence our WSHC award for the same work site in labour and community. vendors and suppliers at our corporate the same year. We have since presented office to adopt green procurement a total of 16 excellence awards and seven More details on CDL’s community practices. Our guidelines include: monetary awards to our builders since engagement initiatives can be found in • Share the corporate EHS Policy with this award scheme was introduced. Chapter 6 of this report. new vendors and suppliers • Indicate preference for use of ecoAs part of our continued efforts to friendly/recycled materials and broaden our influence across the supply products chain, the 5-Star EHS Excellence Awards • Indicate preference for ISO 14001 has been extended to recognise our certified vendor architects who have undertaken an • Declare the use of eco-friendly/ important role in EHS management, recycled paper printed materials both in the design and supervision of Setting a new milestone for a “Safe and Green” culture, the top management of 27 of CDL’s builders and consultants affirmed their the projects, since 2010. The inaugural THE COMMUNITY commitment towards EHS Excellence at CDL’s project sites by endorsing the CDL EHS Excellence – CEO Pledge for Zero on 9 February 2010. recipient of the Award under this Strategically, CDL’s contributions towards category in 2010 was Architects 61. the larger community are concentrated In support of the WSHC’s initiative Consultants, Squire Mech, Parsons, four EHS Excellence Awards to CDL’s Moving forward, it is our intent to in four key areas: the environment, of signing the Pledge for Zero for amongst others. builders and consultants, as well as eventually extend this award to recognise youth development, the less fortunate workplace safety in 2008, the top one EHS Monetary Award. the outstanding efforts of our project and the arts. Since 2010, we have also management of some 27 of CDL’s Beyond setting a new milestone in engineers. This is in line with our goal widened our outreach to beneficiaries builders and consultants endorsed CDL’s commitment towards EHS The 5-Star EHS Excellence Awards of adopting a more holistic approach overseas through social and economic CDL’s CEO Pledge for Zero – Excellence, the initiative reaffirms is an extension of the CDL 5-Star towards EHS excellence throughout our development projects implemented by cementing their commitment CDL’s sustained commitment to EHS Assessment System which was supply chain, in addition to building our youth. towards EHS Excellence at CDL’s work closely with all our builders initiated in 2001, as part of CDL’s capabilities and promoting best practices development project sites. and consultants to raise EHS concerted efforts to encourage our In 2010, our management also continued builders to improve EHS standards in workplace safety and health at our standards for CDL and Singapore. to vigorously share our CSR experience at all our work sites. work sites – and across the industry. Signatories of the Pledge and strategy at various conferences, include builders Dragages Held on 9 February 2010 at City In recognition of CDL’s sustained Our influence has inspired our builders seminars and events including the Singapore, Hyundai Engineering Square Mall in conjunction with efforts towards championing and consultants to establish their own EU-ISEAS CSR Seminar, 2nd Annual & Construction Co Ltd, Kajima CDL’s 6th 5-Star EHS Excellence workplace safety and health at EHS management systems and more Global CSR Summit 2010, PATNI-ABCC Overseas Asia Pte Ltd, Poh Awards, the CEO Pledge for Zero our work sites and support of the than 50% have obtained the ISO 14001 Sustainability Roundtable, Singapore Lian Construction, Ssangyong Accident, Zero Injury, Zero Fatality WSHC’s bizSAFE programme, Mr and OHSAS 18001 standards. In addition, WSH Conference 2010 and Global Engineering & Construction Co and Zero Environmental Pollution Daipi presented CDL with the all the main builders of CDL projects are Entrepolis @ Singapore Summit amongst Ltd and Tiong Seng Contractors, was witnessed by Guest-ofbizSAFE Mentor certification – required to attain both certifications. others. as well as consultants such as Axis Honour, Mr Hawazi Daipi, Senior the first awarded to a developer. Labour Policy at Project Sites In our pursuit to further the CSR cause Architects, ADDP Architects, DP Parliamentary Secretary, Ministy of Since 2008, CDL has been the CDL stipulates that all our builders through education, CDL has also Architects, DLS Quantity Surveyors, Manpower (MOM) and Ministry first developer to be certified as a comply with the labour rights of workers been engaging with undergraduate Meinhardt Engineers, KTP of Health. Mr Daipi also presented bizSAFE Partner. 22 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 23 CDL’S CSR MILESTONES, AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Our journey towards sustainability has We will continue to drive change in the 2010 (cont’d) BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL been enriched by milestone initiatives sustainability landscape and shape a and achievements that have shaped our better living environment for the future. BCA Awards 2010 • • • performance and validated our efforts. Was conferred 7 BCA Green Mark Awards, 2 Design & Engineering Safety Awards, 3 Construction Excellence Awards and 2 Universal Design Awards. 2011* BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL Friend of the Arts Award (since 1997) • • • Presented with the Friend of the Arts Award at the Patron 2011 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the • • • of the Arts Award by the National Arts Council for the World promotion and development of the arts in Singapore. CDL The only Singapore corporation to remain listed in the 2011 has been on the honours roll for the 14th consecutive year Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World since 1997. ranking by Corporate Knights Magazine which is announced annually at the World Economic Forum. Global CSR Awards 2010 • • Received the Best Environmental Excellence Award at the BCA Awards 2011 • • • 2nd Annual Global CSR Awards 2010, for the successful Conferred the Green Mark Platinum Champion Award implementation of its innovative water recycling and silt by BCA, in addition to 18 BCA Green Mark Awards, 7 water treatment. This award recognises businesses for Construction Productivity Awards, 7 Construction Excellence successfully integrating environmental performance into Awards and 12 Universal Design Awards. its sustainable development strategy, and delivering proven business benefits. FTSE4Good Index Series (since 2002) • • • Amongst an elite group of companies worldwide listed ISO 26000:2010, Guidance on Social Responsibility • • • on the FTSE4Good Index Series. Since 2002, CDL has been CDL announced that it has embarked on integrating its included in the Series which is restricted to companies that CSR strategies based on guidelines set out in the ISO 26000 meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards. framework with the aim of strengthening its CSR engagement framework. * Information as at May 2011 LEED Gold Certification • • • 2010 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL 7 & 9 Tampines Grande received the LEED Gold certification 2010 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the • • • from the US Green Building Council – the first and highest World rating achieved by a completed Singapore project. LEED is One of only 13 companies from Asia to be listed in the an internationally recognised green building certification prestigious 2010 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations system, providing third-party verification that a building or in the World ranking. community was designed and built using strategies aimed at improving performance across all metrics that matter most: AA1000AS (2008) Assurance Standard • • • energy savings, water efficiency, carbon dioxide emissions First Singapore company to externally assure its sustainability reduction, improved indoor environmental quality, and report in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard. stewardship of resources and sensitivity to their impacts. Asian Sustainability Rating • • • Outstanding Sustainability Award 2010 • • In the Asian Sustainability Rating, a study on CSR disclosure, Awarded Outstanding Sustainability Award (Enterprise CDL was the highest ranked company from Singapore – and Green Adopter) for sustainable business practices and green was placed 4th amongst 542 companies, which includes the solutions at the inaugural Singapore Sustainability Awards largest listed corporate entities across 10 countries. 2010. bizSAFE Mentor Certification • Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) • • Received the bizSAFE Mentor Certification for sharing its The only private property developer in Singapore to Workplace Safety and Health system and practices with be conferred the RoSPA Gold Award for excellence in participating Small and Medium Enterprises. Occupational Health and Safety Management in the workplace since 2006. 24 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 25 2010 (cont’d) BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL 2009 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL Singapore Compact CSR Awards • • • Asian CSR Awards 2009 • • • Received the Green Champion Award from Singapore Compact Best Workplace Practices Category Winner at the Asian CSR for CSR in recognition of CDL’s best practices adopted in Awards 2009 for its Workplace Health programme “Healthy minimising business on the environment whilst encouraging Mind, Happy Life!”. others to benchmark against these practices. The inaugural Singapore Compact CSR Awards was held in conjunction with Asian Sustainability Rating • • • the International Singapore Compact CSR Summit. In the Asian Sustainability Rating, CDL was the highest ranked company from Singapore – 22nd amongst the 200 largest Singapore Environmental Achievement Award • listed companies in 10 Asia Pacific countries with an improved Presented with the Singapore Environmental Achievement score (66.1%: 2008, 74.5%: 2009). CDL was also ranked 2nd in Award (SEAA) Merit Award by the Singapore Environment the environment section. Council (SEC) and supported by the National Environment Agency (NEA) and Association of Small and Medium Enterprises First CarbonNeutral® Development in Singapore and • • • (ASME). CDL last won the SEAA award in 2004. Asia Pacific 11 Tampines Concourse is the first CarbonNeutral® Workplace Safety and Health Awards 2010 • • development in Singapore and Asia Pacific. Accorded the Developer Award honour in recognition of CDL’s active contribution in promoting Occupational Safety and City Sunshine Club – 10th Anniversary • Health practices at the work sites, and for assisting builders to Initiated by CDL Managing Director Mr Kwek Leng Joo in achieve Workplace Safety and Health excellence. CDL has been 1999, City Sunshine Club (CSC) celebrated 10 years of staff conferred this honour for the 4th time. voluntarism. Work-Life Excellence Award 2010 • CSR Recognition Award • • • Conferred the biennial Work-Life Excellence Award for the Received the CSR Recognition Award from Singapore second time by The Tripartite Committee on Work-Life Compact for CSR for its sustained commitment towards CSR. Strategy. The award is a reaffirmation of CDL’s efforts in creating a positive environment that places great value in maximising Employer Award for Disability Employment and • employees’ performance while helping them to harmonise Inclusion work and personal needs. Accorded Employer Award for Disability Employment and Inclusion in recognition of its contribution to the removal 2009 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL of barriers and improved inclusion of disabled people in the workplace. Singapore Environmental Reporting Awards 2009 • • • Accorded the Merit Award for its inaugural Social and Singapore Quality Class • • • Environmental Report 2008 – the first CSR report published by Achieved the Singapore Quality Class (SQC) certification, a Singapore company to be successfully checked by the Global attesting to CDL’s overall business excellence standard based Reporting Initiative (GRI) at Level C – by the Association of on the internationally-benchmarked business excellence Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Singapore Awards framework. for Sustainability Reporting 2008. The CDL Sustainability Report 2009 was independently assured and checked at Level B+ by BCA Awards 2009 • • • GRI. Only developer to be conferred the inaugural BCA Built Environment Leadership Platinum Award at BCA Awards Anti-Corruption & Compliance Declaration • 2009. Also received 8 BCA Green Mark Awards, 1 Green Amongst the 17 founding signatories of the Anti-Corruption & Mark for Office Interior Award, 3 Design & Engineering Safety Compliance Declaration, Southeast Asia’s first anti-corruption Excellence Awards, 2 Construction Excellence Awards and 1 declaration to stamp out graft. Universal Design Award. Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship Awards 2009 • • • Presented with the Green Leadership Award at the Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship Awards 2009 in recognition of its For a detailed list of CDL’s CSR milestones, awards and accolades from 1997 to 2008, leadership in sustainable and responsible business practices. visit www.cdl.com.sg/sustainabilityreport2011. Sustainability Report 2011 27 Chapter 3: Corporate Governance & Risk Management CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman and the Managing Director. assists the Board in the recommendation CDL is committed to maintaining good There is a strong and independent and review of all board and committee corporate governance and business element on the Board with 5 out of the appointments and re-appointments, integrity in all its business activities. The 6 non-executive Directors considered determination of independence CDL has built a successful company of integrity with an Company has adopted a set of internal to be independent, each viewed by the of each Director and review and established track record and the trust of our stakeholders. guidelines on corporate governance Board as being capable of maintaining recommendation to the Board of new Our resolve to the proper stewardship of the Company for (“Internal CG Guidelines”) based on the his objectivity and independence at all director appointments. The Nominating our stakeholders remains a constant. provisions of the Code of Corporate times in the carrying out of his duties Committee also evaluates the Board’s Governance 2005 (“the CG Code”) and responsibilities as an independent performance as a whole on an annual Our commitment to maintain good corporate governance aligned with the Council on Corporate Director. basis, using objective and appropriate and transparency remains unflinching. In spite of the Disclosure and Governance (“CCDG quantitative and qualitative criteria with rapidly changing business climate, our years of captaincy Code”). For more detailed information quarterly performance indicators which The responsibilities of the Board are on the Company’s corporate governance include comparisons of the Company’s puts us in good stead to steer against potential risks. carried out either directly by the Board practices, please refer to the Company’s performance (including segmented or through committees established by Corporate Governance Report as set out performance) for the financial period the Board, which include the following: in the Company’s Annual Report 2010 under review against the Company’s (pages 24 to 34). performance for the corresponding (i) The Board Committee, comprising period in previous years and also 5 Directors, the majority of whom are against industry peers and industry The Company recognises the importance non-executive, which deliberates on averages and other indicators such as of strong corporate governance in the operational matters requiring Board the Company’s share price performance pursuit of continued and sustainable review. over a historical period and against growth in the Group’s economic, social industry peers. and environmental performance, and to ensure effectiveness of the Company’s (ii) The Audit Committee, comprising CSR initiatives and activities. 4 non-executive and independent (iv) The Remuneration Committee, Directors, which assists the Board, comprising 3 non-executive Directors, inter alia, in providing an independent all of whom including the Chairman are The Board of Directors (the “Board”) review of the effectiveness of the CDL independent, which assists the Board has general oversight of the Company’s Group’s financial reporting process and in the review and recommendation business, with its primary functions material internal controls, encompassing for endorsement of the Board, a being the setting of broad policies, financial, operational, compliance and framework of remuneration and providing guidance and approving risk management controls. Such review specific remuneration packages for strategic direction and plans for the is undertaken through a monitoring each Director, including the Executive Company, reviewing Management programme involving internal and Chairman, the Managing Director and performance, establishing and overseeing external audits. also for the Group General Manager the framework for internal controls, risk management and financing reporting, (who is not a Board Member). The and assuming the responsibility for (iii) The Nominating Committee, Remuneration Committee in its review good corporate governance. The Board comprising 3 Directors, the majority role, also ensures that remuneration comprises 8 members, all of whom are of whom including the Chairman are policies of the Company are generally non-executive Directors, except for the non-executive and independent, which in line with the strategic objectives 28 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 29 and corporate values of the Company. policies of the CDL Group. Mr Kwek policy is communicated to all staff with a systematic and enterprise(“M&C”), includes within its internal systems and constant development Such remuneration framework, which Leng Joo also has charge of the overall company-wide and its scope includes wide view of the risks involved in control framework, processes for of human resource skills through includes both fixed and variable co-ordination of the Management team possible improprieties involving fraud property investment, development the management of key risks to the recruitment and training, are important components, takes into account, for the effective implementation of or deliberate error in the recording, and management activities. The RM success of the M&C group, which are elements of the risk management amongst other factors, the individual’s business strategies and policies. maintaining, preparation or audit Committee reports quarterly to the periodically reviewed by M&C’s audit framework, to mitigate risks relating to performance, the performance of the of the Group’s financial records and Audit Committee on the overall committee and board of directors. These product and service quality assurance Group and industry practices. statements, use of the Group’s assets, strategic and operational risks positions, processes include, but are not limited to, management, costs control management, The Company has adopted an internal funds or property for illegal, improper or including mitigating measures, risks relating to the protection of the design and product innovation, Code of Business and Ethical Conduct unethical purposes, acts of corruption treatment plans and the occurrence or M&C group’s brands and intellectual market intelligence, marketing/sales Mr Kwek Leng Beng is the Executive crystallising the Company’s business or bribery, and improper actions or potential occurrence of significant risk property rights, exposure to litigation, and leasing management, financial Chairman of the Company and the principles and practices with respect to omissions which are likely to endanger events. These processes are put in place market share and competition, human control management and regulatory Chairman of the Board. The holding of matters which have ethical implications. employees, customers, suppliers and/ or to manage and monitor the Company’s resource, customer satisfaction, compliances in the Company’s these dual roles by Mr Kwek Leng Beng, The Code provides a communicable members of the public. risk management activities on a regular health and safety issues, treasury and operations. The maintenance of together with the strengths brought and understandable framework for staff and timely basis. financial performance, acquisition adequate insurance coverage for the to these roles by a person of Mr Kwek to observe the Company’s principles opportunities, insurance, hotel and Company’s assets, and the protection Leng Beng’s stature and experience, such as honesty, integrity, responsibility information technology systems and of and continued investment in the has been considered by the Board. and accountability at all levels of RISK MANAGEMENT The RM Committee had, since 2002, infrastructure, and global and regional security and integrity of its information There are internal controls in place to the organisation and in the conduct Risk management continues to play established a formal risk management political, economic and financial market technology systems and database which allow effective oversight by the Board of the Company’s business, in their an important part in the Company’s framework to enable significant developments. The following types of are highly integrated with its business of the Company’s business to ensure relationships with customers, suppliers, business activities and is an essential business risks to be identified, assessed, risks are managed within the Company’s processes, are also part of the Company’s appropriate balance of power and competitors and amongst employees, component of its planning process. evaluated, monitored and managed. formal risk management framework: control processes for the protection of authority is exercisable by the Board including situations where there are The Board has overall responsibility for The procedures and processes its assets. to enable objective decision-making in potential conflicts of interests. determining the nature of its business within the formal risk management the interests of the Company. In view of risks and to ensure that risks in new framework, benchmarked against other Operating Risks the management structure in place, the and existing businesses are managed international standards and current The risk management framework Investment and Portfolio Risks The Company has in place a whistleBoard is of the view that it is currently and business plans and strategies risk management practices, enable is integrated into the management Risk evaluation forms an integral aspect blowing procedure where staff of the unnecessary to effect a separation of accord with the risks appetite that the the Company to regularly review its processes at operational levels, with the of the Company’s investment strategy. Company can raise in confidence, the role of the Chairman of the Board Company undertakes to achieve its significant strategic business risks; respective management at divisional and Balancing risk and return across asset whether anonymously or otherwise, from that of the Executive Chairman to corporate objectives. consider the effectiveness of the Group’s departmental levels being responsible types and geographic regions are primary concerns on possible improprieties facilitate the Group’s decision-making system of internal controls to limit, for identifying, assessing, mitigating and considerations to achieve continued relating to accounting, financial and implementation process. mitigate and monitor identified risks; managing the operating risks within corporate profitability and portfolio reporting, internal controls and To assist the Board in its risk management and consider the implementation of each of their functional areas. The growth. This risk assessment includes auditing matters without fear of oversight, the Audit Committee reports further action plans to manage strategic implementation and use of a system macro and project specific risks analysis As the most senior executive in the reprisals in any form. Under these to the Board on matters relating to the business risks which are reflective of of internal controls, and operating, encompassing rigorous due diligence, Company, Mr Kwek Leng Beng provides procedures, arrangements are in place risk management policies and systems changes in markets, products and reporting and monitoring processes financial modeling and sensitivity analysis overall leadership and strategic vision for independent investigation of such of the Company. A Risk Management emerging best practices. and procedures (including processes on key investment assumptions and for the CDL Group. He is assisted by matters raised and for appropriate Committee (“RM Committee”), whose his brother, Mr Kwek Leng Joo, the follow up action to be taken. The members comprise senior management, involving due diligence and collation variables. Each investment proposal is Managing Director of the Company, in Audit Committee has oversight is responsible for maintaining the The Group’s hotel arm, under of market intelligence and feedback), objectively evaluated to fit the corporate charting broad direction, strategies and responsibility of this policy. Such processes which will provide the Board Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc supported by information technology strategy and investment objective. 30 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 31 Potential business synergies, including basis. Credit evaluations are performed than the respective functional currency performance, maximise competencies, failure, the management has put in place employees with the emergency collaboration risks assessments, are on all customers requiring credit over of the Group’s entities. The Group increase staff commitment and retention, a companywide Business Continuity response and crisis management plans identified early to ensure business a certain amount. The Group does not manages its foreign exchange exposure and develop further an effective Plan (“BCP”) to mitigate the risks of of the Company. The plans to carry partnership objectives and visions are require collateral in respect of these by a policy of matching receipts and succession planning programme within interruption and catastrophic loss to its out periodic tests on BCP, results of the well-aligned and collaboration partners financial assets. Transactions involving payments, and asset purchases and the organisation. The management also operations and information database tests, as well as recommendations and are like-minded and compatible. financial instruments are entered into borrowings in each individual currency. supports work-life harmony programme arising from such potential threats. corrective actions are reviewed by the only with counterparties that are of Forward foreign exchange contracts are and family friendly policies as part of The RM Committee is responsible for RM Committee annually and reported Treasury and Financial Risks acceptable credit quality. Cash and used purely as a hedging tool, where an its efforts to help employees achieve a overseeing the maintenance of the to the Audit Committee. Further The Group is exposed to financial risks fixed deposits are placed with banks active market for the relevant currencies balanced life between work and family BCP. Procedures and processes of the enhancement during the year included arising from its operations and the use of and financial institutions which are exists, to minimise the Group’s exposure and at the same time create a quality BCP include identification of alternate the alignment of corporate BCP to financial instruments. The key financial regulated. to movements in exchange rates on firm workplace. recovery centers, operational procedures various departments’ environmental risks include credit risks, liquidity risks commitments and specific transactions. to enable communication, continuity of emergency procedures. and market risks, including interest rate Wherever necessary, the Group finances Crisis Risks critical business functions and recovery risks and foreign currency risks. Liquidity Risk The Group monitors its property, plant and equipment of database in the event of a crisis Operating in an environment with its liquidity risk and maintains a level purchases by using the relevant local incident. Periodic incident management potential threats of terrorism, epidemic The Group has a system of controls in of cash and cash equivalents, and currency cash resources and arranging drills are conducted to familiarise outbreaks and information systems place to create an acceptable balance credit facilities deemed adequate by for bank facilities denominated in the between the cost of risks occurring management to finance the Group’s same currency. This enables the Group and the cost of managing the risks. operations and to mitigate the effects to limit translation exposure to its The management continually monitors of fluctuations in cash flows. balance sheet arising from consolidation the Group’s risk management process of the Group’s overseas net assets. to ensure that an appropriate balance Interest Rate Risk The Group’s between risk and control is achieved. exposure to market risk changes in Risk management policies and systems Human Resource Risks interest rates relates primarily to its are reviewed regularly to reflect changes The Company recognises human interest bearing financial assets and debt in market conditions and the Group’s resource as an important contributing obligations. The Group adopts a policy activities. factor towards the stable growth of of managing its interest rate exposure the Company, and accordingly efforts by maintaining a debt portfolio with It is, and has been throughout the are taken to enhance the processes for both fixed and floating rates of interest. current and previous financial year, recruitment, compensation, training and Where appropriate, the Group uses the Group’s policy that no derivatives development of employees. Identification interest rate derivatives to hedge its shall be undertaken for speculative of core competencies is critical in the interest rate exposure for specific purposes except for the use as hedging employee selection and development underlying debt obligations. instruments where appropriate and cost processes, and the implementation efficient. of performance assessment and Foreign Currency Risk The Group management programme, coupled Credit Risk The Group has a credit is exposed to foreign currency risks on with career development and training policy in place and the exposure to sales, purchases and borrowings that programme, are part of the Company’s credit risk is monitored on an ongoing are denominated in a currency other human resource strategy to improve work Sustainability Report 2011 33 Chapter 4: Managing Our Environmental Footprint For over a decade, CDL has been Environmental Management System and manage CDL’s operational impact on the advocating environmental sustainability OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and environment and continual improvements in Singapore’s built environment. We Safety Management System in Property in environmental performance. The urgency of climate change demands immediate make it our business to take concerted Development and Project Management. action. With foresight, CDL anticipated this trend efforts towards preventing pollution on In 2008, we were awarded ISO 14001 in TRAINING, AWARENESS AND and strived to transform mindsets for change and the environment and striving to apply Corporate Management and Operations COMMUNICATION started investing in technology to mitigate impact of environmentally-friendly practices in our for all functions at our headquarters. operations. Constantly striving to improve our EHS EHS training and awareness programmes our operations on the environment for more than a are planned for all CDL employees. management performance, 15 CDL decade. Employees are also encouraged to attend EHS Policy buildings underwent an exercise to attain the OHSAS 18001 in Property external conferences and workshops to Our commitment to fight climate change remains The EHS Policy was established in 2003. strengthen their skills or knowledge related strong, but in the quest to improve our environmental Management certification and were This sets the strategic direction for all to EHS management. As for our builders, performance, our models have evolved to provide successfully accorded in January 2011. departments and employees towards CDL has been facilitating the quarterly CDL These 15 buildings also received the effective solutions. Our success only spurs us to creating a ‘‘Green & Safe’’ corporate 5-Star EHS Review Seminar since 2001 to re-certification of the ISO 14001 and explore even better ones for tomorrow. culture, conserving resources and increase our builders’ EHS standards and ISO 9001 Quality Management System preventing pollution. practices. Best practices and information which were first awarded in 2007. are shared during the review sessions to EHS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Management System, which is based encourage peer learning. In 2003, CDL set a new industry on a Plan-Do-Check-Act methodology, is benchmark as the first private property integrated into our business operations. CDL provides various modes of developer to receive the ISO 14001 It provides a systematic process to communication to engage our stakeholders and share our commitments, best practices and environmental performance and to solicit their feedback and suggestions for continual improvement. All CDL employees are encouraged to be forthcoming with reporting of EHS related accidents, complaints, incidents, non-compliance and non-conformity. At CDL work sites, we also provide a hotline number where the public can report to us and we are committed to take all necessary actions to prevent the occurrence of potential non-conformances or recurrence of nonconformances. COMPLIANCE CDL is committed to full compliance on all applicable EHS legal requirements 34 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 35 enforced by the local governing depends on past audit results as well establishing programmes and/or putting CDL’s Total Carbon Emission(3) authorities such as BCA, NEA, PUB, as the potential risks/importance in place work procedures and work tonnes CO2 WSHC, Singapore Civil Defence Force associated with the activity or operations. instructions. The guiding principle of 36,144 and other relevant enforcers where Typically, each project development is to the mitigating measures is to follow 34,367 34,221 appropriate. We actively ensure that all be audited at least once in its project the hierarchy of control, starting with 33,844 332 298 251 our activities and operations comply with cycle and each audit shall cover all three elimination, and then moving to 31,964 345 30,924 existing legal and regulatory requirements stages i.e. planning, procurement and substitution, isolation, use of engineering 2,196 323 280 through constant monitoring, evaluation construction. control, use of administrative control 3,192 5,450 5,159 and auditing of our implemented EHS and last of all, use of personal protective 1,834 4,137 management systems. In 2010, we had no ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS equipment. non-compliance with legal requirements. 29,771 30,220 30,283 28,778 26,429 31,693 As part of the ISO 14001 framework, CDL identifies significant environmental CDL has set specific environmental In addition, we are proactive in influencing objectives and targets at our work sites, 37 87 79 132 78 81 aspects for our business operations that and engaging our stakeholders, such can potentially have critical negative investment buildings and corporate as the architects, builders, designers, office. Management review is conducted 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 environmental impacts. The risk level engineers and surveyors to embrace of environmental aspect is determined annually to review the environmental Business Air Miles Property Projects Corp Office safe and environmentally-friendly using a risk assessment technique performance for continual improvement. designs and plans at the initial planning consisting of the likelihood of the For more information on the stage. CDL continues to follow through occurrence, severity of the impact and environmental objectives and targets, Management Division’s business total reliance of imported oil and legislation has no impact on CDL the compliance status during the control measures. please see pages 43. operation is property management of piped natural gas from neighbouring operations as we have been an early construction and operational phase. This CDL’s investment buildings. countries. Facing various constraints, adopter of the BCA Green Mark scheme is done through regular quarterly audits CDL actively evaluates the key significant ENVIRONMENTAL AND Singapore has limited potential to adopt since its inception in 2005 and CDL has and our CDL 5-Star EHS Assessment environmental aspects at our work sites, SAFETY DATA CARBON EMISSIONS renewable energies. This is the reason set a higher minimum target for all new system. investment buildings and corporate Significant environmental aspects are Low-lying and densely populated, why improving energy efficiency is still developments to be certified BCA Green office. From our assessment, energy use, identified and measured by respective Singapore’s key strategy to mitigate Mark GoldPlus. Singapore is particularly high risk for the EHS AUDITS water use, waste generation, carbon business divisions and include key data climate change for all business sectors. adverse impacts of climate change(4) and The Company is subjected to annual emissions and safety management are of Projects Division, Property & Facilities the possible impacts include coastal land CDL has been harnessing renewable external EHS audits, conducted by an our most significant environmental Management Division and Corporate loss, flooding, water resource impacts, In line with the Singapore’s Sustainable energy for our developments through the accredited third party auditor during aspects. We also cover other aspects Management and Operations. This heat stress, public health impact from Development Blueprint targets to implementation of solar panels. Our new renewal and surveillance visits. such as noise, biodiversity, paper use and data(2) highlights the environmental and resurgence of diseases and impact on achieve a 35% reduction in energy generation green office, 7 & 9 Tampines waste paper recycling. safety performance of our developments island and marine biodiversity. intensity (consumption per dollar GDP) Grande and Singapore’s first Eco-Mall, CDL has put in place internal audits to in Singapore. ensure the Company’s EHS management CDL regularly implements and evaluates from 2005 levels, BCA announced that City Square Mall have generated a total Climate change continues to be one of from December 2010 onwards, all new of 170,229 kWh of renewable energy in systems conform to the ISO 14001 and measures to mitigate all significant Projects Division’s key activities are in the top global challenges that require buildings will have to comply with a 2010. OHSAS 18001 international standards. environmental aspects. This is done Property Development and Project concerted international efforts. Singapore higher BCA Green Mark standard, which The actual frequency of internal audits through setting objectives and targets, Management. Property & Facilities accounts for less than 0.2% of global essentially translates into an additional By adopting such green innovations greenhouse gases and its key strategy to 10% of energy savings in buildings from into CDL properties, it is our aim to tackle carbon emissions is to push for the current standard. The minimum help develop the industry’s expertise energy efficiency in all sectors – transport, efficiency standard is also 28% higher and capabilities in sustainable solutions CDL’s Carbon Commitment: development in Singapore and Asia an increase in absolute carbon emissions households, industry and buildings. than in the first building code released for our built environment and in so Buildings contribute about 16% of Pacific in 2009. We have also carbon due to our expansion, we have reduced in 2005 when the Green Mark was doing contribute to Singapore’s goal of Singapore’s national carbon emissions neutralised our corporate office CDL’s total carbon intensity emissions In 2009, Singapore pledged to a reduction launched. becoming a global solar energy hub. and CDL is committed towards operations including the data centre measured in tonnes CO2/m2 by 11% of greenhouse gas emission by 16% below addressing climate change in our by some 327 tonnes of carbon dioxide from baseline year 2007. In other words, 2020 BAU levels, contingent on a legally business operations and reduce our for 2010. we produced less carbon per square Buildings account for about one-third CDL uses electricity directly from the binding agreement, in which all countries of national electricity consumption. power grid supply through a sub-station carbon footprint further. metre of leased area. implement their commitments in good In 2010, CDL’s total carbon emissions The efficient use of energy will reduce at the construction stage whenever faith. electricity consumption and carbon possible. This significantly reduces For instance, CDL voluntarily reduced have increased due to the inclusion of We pledge to reduce our carbon our annual carbon emissions to “net three new commercial buildings (City intensity emissions by 22% by 2020 emission. CDL remains committed to the use of diesel generator sets and zero” (1) in Tampines Concourse which Square Mall, 11 Tampines Concourse from baseline year 2007 and 25% by ENERGY improving our energy performance promotes better utilisation of electricity became the first CarbonNeutral® and 7 & 9 Tampines Grande). Despite 2030. Singapore is a small city-state with across our entire business operations. from a cleaner energy source. The use of negligible energy resources and almost The higher BCA Green Mark Standard electricity grid power supply generates (1) ‘‘Net zero’’ or carbon neutralise refers to achieving net zero carbon emissions by balancing a measured amount of carbon released with an equivalent amount (3) Carbon conversion ratio: 1 kWh electricity = 0.52307 kgCO2 (2005-2007 data), 1 kWh electricity = 0.5233 kgCO2 (2008 data), 1 kWh electricity = 0.5016 kgCO2 offset. (2009 data) and 1kWh electricity = 0.4761 kgCO2 (2010 data). Source: NEA. (2) The energy data for the buildings includes (but is not limited to) the Mechanical and Electrical services provided in the building, e.g., lifts, air-conditioning and (4) National Climate Change Secretariat – Singapore vulnerabilities to climate change (March 2008). ventilation fans (where applicable), pumps and lighting in all common areas of the entire building. Tenants are charged individually for the use of electricity within their office. The data from Projects Division has been provided by our main builders. 36 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 37 lower emissions of greenhouse gases, water) despite its lack of natural water to an increase in the number of work CDL’s Total Energy Used(6) sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides and resources. Recognising this challenge and sites. However, we have continued to kWh particulates to the environment as limitation, our new developments are maintain an efficient use of water at our 68,948,060 71,708,488 compared to using a generator. conceptualised with a strong focus on investment properties and work sites. 64,535,995 65,421,737 527,972 ensuring water sustainability right from 61,038,378 634,198 61,495,674 Over the years, significant energy the design stage and construction process In 2010, CDL conserved approximately 659,397 569,640 557,718 reduction of 20% has been achieved at to the building’s water efficient features. 163,974 m3 of potable water at all our 616,966 4,612,856 10,419,658 our corporate office from 2006 to 2010, work sites and used some 123,344 m3 3,506,156 6,102,082 9,859,522 8,248,047 mainly contributed by installing energy CDL’s water management strategies are of NEWater for operations that do not 66,567,660 efficient fittings and equipment such based on the principles of reducing, require potable water in our investment 56,915,256 57,774,516 57,894,204 54,992,575 52,689,909 as Nanoflex Reflectors, timers, motion reusing and preventing water pollution buildings such as cooling towers and sensors, LED lights, VAV Smart Cooling into our waterways by incorporating sprinkler water tanks. Since the start of 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 diffusers and central air-con system. All water-efficient features on site as well as this initiative in 2007, we have expanded Property Projects Corp Office new purchases of office equipment are in the new developments. For instances, it to five buildings connected to the certified with the Energy Star label. the standard water recycling system used NEWater supply. Projects Division for general cleaning across all work sites Total Energy Used at Work Sites CDL has introduced various energy and water-efficient fittings including kWh Energy Used Per Square Metre of GFA(7) at Work Site conservation projects to reduce energy sensor taps or self-closing taps, waterless kWh/m2 10,419,658 consumption in our buildings. A good urinals and automatic flush and dual 9,859,522 71 55 6,102,082 8,248,047 46 example is Fuji Xerox Towers, which flush systems for toilets approved under 44 43 3,506,156 4,612,856 27 has reaped savings of 20% to 25% the Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme through implementing various energy (WELS) by PUB. conservation initiatives over the last three years. These include upgrading the chiller To further reduce our water needs, plant, installing motion sensors for all strategies deployed on some work sites staircases, ultrasonic sensors for all toilets, include using open rainwater harvesting 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 carbon monoxide monitoring system to for water recycling. For instance, control car park ventilation, heat pipe Tampines Concourse used zero potable Property & Facilities Management Division system for three pre-cooled AHUs pipe water throughout the construction Total Energy Used(8) at all Commercial and Industrial Buildings Energy Used at 13 CDL Commercial Buildings to reduce relative humidity without phase of the development in 2009. kWh/month/m2 kWh 66,567,660 consuming energy, and replacement of Some projects when completed will also 57,894,204 19.901 T8 fluorescent fitting to T5 lighting for have a rainwater harvesting system for 57,774,516 19.823 18.856 both common and car park areas. landscape irrigation and water-efficient 56,915,256 18.839 17.704 54,992,575 16.727 fittings with NEWater used for flushing 52,689,909 CDL also assists in monitoring the of all water cisterns and urinals. This will individual electricity bills of our tenants. help to conserve fresh potable water. If electricity usage fluctuates more than 10%, the building manager will duly A variety of Silt and Earth Control investigate the increase together with Measures have been implemented on all 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the tenant to follow-up on the cause. work sites. The water discharged into the Since 2007, our “1°C Up Programme” waterways remains significantly below Corporate Office has become a standard BAU practice at the legal limit of 50 mg/litre, in the range Energy Used at 5 CDL Industrial Buildings Total Energy Used at the Corporate Office 13 CDL buildings and puts our indoor of between 10 and 15 mg/litre for Total kWh/month/m2 kWh temperature at an average of 24°C. Suspended Solids. 659,397 634,198 11.401 11.983 10.443 616,966 9.745 569,640 WATER In 2010, CDL’s total water used across 9.364 9.012 557,718 527,972 Singapore has built a diversified and our investment properties, work sites sustainable water supply from four and corporate office increased by 27%. different sources known as the Four This was due largely to the inclusion of National Taps (water from local catchment three new commercial buildings (City areas, imported water, reclaimed water Square Mall, 11 Tampines Concourse known as NEWater(5) and desalinated and 7 & 9 Tampines Grande), and in part 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (5) NEWater is treated used water that has undergone stringent purification and treatment process using advanced dual-membrane (microfiltration and reverse osmosis) and ultraviolet (7) The Gross Floor Area (GFA) is defined as all covered floor areas of a building, except otherwise exempted and uncovered areas for commercial uses are deemed the GFA of the building technologies. for purposes of plot ratio control and development charge. The GFA is the total area of the covered floor space measured between the centre line of party walls, including the thickness of (6) Energy conversion ratio: 1 kWh = 0.0036 gigajoules (GJ). The electricity data includes both direct and indirect energy generated from non-renewable energy sources. external walls but excluding voids. GFA built per year is the product of percentage of completion (POC) for the year and total GFA. POC is the value of work done for the year divided by the total construction cost. (8) The energy and water data for 2005 were collected from mid-2005. As a result, the full-year 2005 data from Property & Facilities Management Division is an estimate, derived from the data available. From November 2009, we have included the electricity and water data of three new buildings (City Square Mall, Tampines Concourse and Tampines Granade) in the reporting. 38 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 39 CDL’s Total Water Used(9) m3 764,640 In Focus: 632,636 7 & 9 Tampines Grande – Leading the 603,558 182,859 560,916 594,233 154,273 546,736 Way in Energy and Environmental Design 130,263 150,176 123,348 79,012 437,568 467,724 463,970 478,363 453,382 581,781 electricity required to power the lighting for the building’s basement car park, which is 55% of the overall 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 electrical lighting loads of the Property & Corp Office Projects common areas (including lobbies, Projects Division corridors, staircase and toilets). Total Water Used at Work Sites Water Used Per Square Metre of GFA at Work Sites In addition to highly efficient lighting m3 m3/m2 fixtures, the building also features 154,273 182,859 1.5 1.1 light sensors that automatically 150,176 123,348 130,263 0.9 0.8 monitor perimeter lighting levels 79,012 0.7 0.68 for typical office spaces. There are also motion detectors to ensure 7 & 9 Tampines Grande is the first completed development in Singapore to achieve the LEED Gold certification under the Core & Shell Category. lights are turned off when they are not needed. Other sensors monitor temperatures, CO2 levels in offices, 7 & 9 Tampines Grande (TG) is a Integrated Photovoltaic (BIPV) and CO levels in the basement car 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 cutting-edge and new generation panels as part of the building’s park. green office. The building has facade. 40 customised large-sized Property & Facilities Management Division achieved an Energy Efficiency Index 152 Wp amorphous silicon thinTaking a holistic life-cycle approach, Total Water Used at all Commercial and (EEI) of 122 kWh/m2/year (compared film panels have been installed on TG is an exceptional showcase of a Water Used at 13 CDL Commercial Buildings Industrial Buildings to the norm of 200 kWh/m2/year its facade across an area of 140 m² sustainable green building – from m3/month/m2 m3 0.188 design, to construction, maintenance 478,363 581,781 0.161 for buildings) and moving forward, to give an output of 6 kWp. The 467,724 0.147 is expected to achieve a minimum customised BIPV panels form part and use. An effective twin-strategy 463,970 453,382 0.142 0.142 437,568 0.140 energy-efficiency of 30% higher than of the facade cladding, replacing of utilising passive low energy that of a standard commercial office conventional glass that would architectural design and energybuilding. otherwise have been used. efficient features has led to significant overall energy savings amounting TG features one of the largest The building also maximises the use to 2.7 million kWh per year and an and most extensive use of solar of its two rooftops, with 101 kWp overall reduction in CO2 emission of polycrystalline silicon Photovoltaic 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 technology in a commercial property approximately 1,400 tonnes per year in Singapore. It contains the first Solar (PV) panels across a total area of 780 for the entire building. Air-Conditioning System to generate m². The estimated annual energy Water Used at 5 CDL Industrial Buildings sufficient air-conditioning for the generated from the roof PV panels LEED Gold Certification m3/month/m2 Atrium. The system uses 1,160 m² of is 113,000 kWh. The rooftop system CDL Commercial NEWater used (m3) solar thermal panels to heat water also doubles as a shading device for 0.095 0.089 Buildings 2010 2009 0.094 up to 88°C which is in turn used by water tanks and reduces the heat 0.088 0.088 Republic Plaza 54,202 58,779 transfer through the roof by shading 0.082 the absorption chiller to produce Fuji Xerox Towers 19,371 18,183 chilled water to generate enough airit from direct sunlight. Plaza By The Park 14,950 15,469 conditioning to cool the atrium. Palais Renaissance 8,536 8,981 Together, the BIPV and roof PV OTHER NOTABLE AWARDS The development is also the first panels generate a total clean Tampines Grande 26,285 • BCA Green Mark Platinum (2008) commercial project in Singapore energy of 115,000 kWh/year. This is • Solar Pioneer Award (2009) Total 123,344 101,412 to incorporate the use of Building equivalent to the annual estimated 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (9) The water data includes the total amount of water used in 18 buildings for 2010 including CDL’s corporate offices located at Republic Plaza and City House. 40 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 41 WASTE & RECYCLING have become a standard green feature in and cultivate the recycling practice. The SAFETY result of our various safety promotions This is in line with WSHC’s initiative of Singapore has limited space for landfills and all CDL new developments. participation rate in this programme has CDL remains committed to achieve the and engagements with our builders and signing the Pledge for Zero for workplace all incinerated waste that is not recovered, increased from 68% in 2005 to over 90% vision of a safe and healthy workplace their workers at the work sites. safety in 2008 and reaffirms our sustained reused, or recycled is disposed off at the CDL has also utilised recycled materials as in 2010. for everyone and uphold a good safety commitment to work closely with all In 2010, CDL encouraged its builders four waste-to-energy incineration plants. an environmentally friendlier alternative record. Over the years, CDL’s Accident our builders and consultants to adopt and consultants to sign a CEO Pledge The waste heat energy recovered from the wherever feasible in the construction At CDL corporate office, we have Frequency Rate and Workplace EHS best practices and raise the EHS for Zero(12), in declaration of their incineration process is used to generate of our developments. For example, we achieved a 14% reduction in paper usage Injury Rate continue to be below the standards in Singapore. commitment towards EHS Excellence electricity which is about 2% of Singapore’s have started to use Green Concrete exceeding our target of 5% reduction in construction industry average value as a for the development of our projects. total energy demand. which comprises of copper slag, recycled 2010. Every department and employee concrete aggregates and ground blast has taken conscious effort to use less CDL implements sustainable construction furnace slag at 11 Tampines Concourse paper by utilising e-mail, e-filing, double Accident Frequency Rate(13) at Work Sites Workplace Injury Rate(14) at Work Sites and environmentally site practices at and recycled pre-cast concrete kerbs, sided photocopying/printing and to Number of workplace accidents per Number of fatal and non-fatal workplace our work sites. Efficient construction drains and wheel stoppers. reuse paper. Posters and stickers are million manhours worked injuries per 100,000 persons employed methods, such as eco-friendly predisplayed around the office serving as fabrication and pre-cast construction In 2010, the construction waste generated an effective communication tool for 3.00 3.50 3.00 831 796 innovations are used at the work sites to at all our work sites is 46.5 kg/m2 of GFA. our employees to conserve paper at 2.90 2.70 741 2.20 improve on-site management as well as all times. We also promote using ecofriendly paper for MarCom publications, 1.86 273 to promote environmental conservation For many years, CDL has established preference being for paper certified by 0.4 0.52 118 and reduce material wastage. Most of the a paper recycling programme for our 0.39 0.38 0.23 100 63 construction building components are tenants in all CDL buildings. All new the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). precasted or fabricated and tested offtenants are presented with a Project EcoFor example, our Annual Report and site, then transported to the work site to Office Kit to promote the 3R practices, Sustainability Report are printed on FSC 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 be assembled systematically. For instance, namely reuse, reduce and recycle. certified paper. use of pre-fabricated bathroom units Recycling corners are strategically located CDL Construction Industry Average CDL Construction Industry Average designed to reduce construction waste and accessible to tenants to promote (Source: MOM) (Source: MOM) Construction Waste(10) Generated Per Square Metre of GFA at Work Sites BIODIVERSITY NOISE was on noisy activities at the work site kg/m2 CONSERVATION In Singapore, NEA regulates noise limits for at night and the issue was immediately construction sites, which vary depending addressed and resolved by our builder 65.9 As Singapore is a highly urbanised and with the resident. A fourth complaint was 59.87 61.7 on the time of the day and by the types of densely populated country and with a on construction noise at the work site 52.6 premises nearby. Construction noise limits 49.2 46.5 limited land space of 710 square kilometres, protect nearby residents from any noise during weekend and our builder resolved the Singapore government needs to pay the issue with the resident. particular attention to land use planning impacts. to ensure that every piece of land is used CDL is committed to comply with the efficiently. As a result of prudent planning, Complaints on Construction Noise at noise limits at all our work sites and ensure Singapore is able to dedicate a significant Work Sites 11 Tampines Concourse is the first building in Singapore constructed with our builders take all necessary action to 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 10% of land to parks and nature reserves Number of complaints on construction extensive use of recycled materials for structural building components. address and resolve the complaints due to and achieve an overall green cover to almost noise received at work sites construction noise. Total Volume of Paper Recycled(11) Total Volume of Paper Used at the Corporate Office 50% of total land area. 14,184 kg kg 12,000 In 2010, our work sites received four 5,410 None of CDL’s projects are located within 9,228 complaints due to construction noise 6,160 417,074 5,142 protected areas. CDL has incorporated 5,051 from residents in the neighbourhood. The 402,443 4,796 a standard practice to assess all our sites 384,047 first complaint was on construction noise 365,416 374,050 4,395 during the planning stage to determine if 3,774 at our work site and was investigated and 320,233 any existing mature trees can be conserved found to be within the permissible noise on-site or transplanted at a later stage to or levels. The second complaint was on noisy 0 1 2 3 4 from another CDL site. activities at our work site. Our builder 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 In 2010, we conserved 10 existing matures followed up with the resident to assure trees on-site and transplanted four mature that action has been taken to minimise CDL Number of Complaints 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 trees to other CDL sites. the noise impact. The third complaint Received (Source: NEA) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (10) Construction waste is generated from construction, renovation and repair and is made up of wood, steel. concrete, gypsum, masonry, plaster, metal and (12) “Pledge for Zero – A CEO Commitment Charter” is an initiative by the WSHC and MOM. The Charter will require concrete actions on the part of signatories, asphalt. who must put in place an appropriate governance structure, resource allocation, communication and safety strategies to achieve a zero injury workplace. (11) The data presented in this report includes only paper recycled from CDL commercial buildings. (13) AFR refers to the number of workplace accidents per million manhours worked. Figures used are incident based. For details, please refer to www.mom.gov.sg. (14) Workplace Injury rate refers to the number of fatal and non-fatal workplace injuries per 100,000 persons employed. Figures used are victim-based. Construction Industry Average figure for 2010 has not been published by MOM. For details, please refer to www.mom.gov.sg. 42 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 43 2010 Environmental Performance and 2011 Targets In Focus: CDL Corporate Management and Operations Living in Harmony EHS Policy Key Pointers Objectives 2010 Targets Performance in 2010 2011 Targets with Nature To use eco-friendly paper in MarCom publications To achieve 70% use of ecofriendly paper for MarCom Achieved 99.6% use of eco-friendly paper To achieve 80% use of ecofriendly paper for MarCom publications publications To promote green a) To reuse at least 50% of Achieved To purchase/use eco-friendly Surrounded by lush greenery, Tree carbon footprint by filtering When it came to the internal procurement practices office furniture, fittings and office furniture, fittings and House is a nature and eco-inspired pollutants and carbon dioxide components of the project, the equipment or use sustainable equipment development that comprises 429 out of the air. The sloped design architects incorporated many “Green” Corporate products in all CDL newlyCulture renovated offices units. also creates a “bio-shelter”, aiding technologies and effective designs, rainwater collection for landscape including shading and special (b) To purchase eco-friendly office equipment Designed with environmental irrigation elsewhere in the glazing for windows, careful sustainability in mind, the development. Effectively, this green planning for natural ventilation To promote ecoTo organise three eco-related Achieved To organise four eco-related project’s architects took the element acts as a giant tree and and breezes, and specification for consciousness and a awareness event/campaigns awareness event/campaigns ‘green’ culture among staff for staff for staff local environment into careful helps reduce heat load, influencing energy efficient air conditioning. consideration when designing the naming of the development as To reduce the use of paper To achieve 5% reduction in Achieved 14% reduction To achieve 5% reduction in the project’s “shell”. A complex “Tree House”. CDL invested approximately paper usage for in-house in paper consumption paper usage for in-house photocopying and printing photocopying and printing biodiversity impact assessment 2.7% of the total construction from 2010 figures was also conducted for the project. To build in additional green spaces, cost into the development of the To reduce the use of (a) To achieve 5% reduction Achieved 10% (a) To achieve 5% reduction The main principle for the design the development also has floating condominum’s green innovations, electricity in electricity usage (excluding reduction in electricity in electricity usage from 2010 of Tree House was biomimicry (or sky terraces on each block at which is expected to result in computer room) consumption and figures (excluding computer copying natural systems). common areas to bring green, social energy savings of over 2,442,347 (b) To monitor power monitored power room) spaces into the building. Some 99 kWh per year and total water utilisation of computer room utilisation of computer (b) To monitor power room The eye-catching expansive vertical native animal and 32 plant species savings of 28,968.22 m3 per year. utilisation of computer room green walls on the west facades of were identified and the tree and Resource Conservation To reduce the use of water New objective for 2011 To monitor water usage by the four 24-storey towers are more plant species for landscaping were The development was awarded the & Pollution floor than just a unique architectural carefully selected to attract native BCA Green Mark Platinum in 2010 Prevention To dispose waste paper To monitor collection of waste The total yearly Objective excluded for 2011 structure. A natural insulation, wildlife, and were among a long for its careful planning and use of responsibly paper, segregation of office collection of waste the green wall serves as a vertical list of other recommendations to green technologies. used paper and other used paper is 7,346 kg and green lung and reduces the estate’s protect biodiversity. paper for recycling the office used paper constitutes about 23% of the total To dispose end-ofTo ensure all end-of-life Achieved life computer related computer related products products through ecoare recycled under HP Planet friendly methods Partners and Recycling Programme Projects Division Property & Facilities Management Division Objectives 2010/2011 Targets Performance in 2010 Objectives 2010/2011 Performance in Targets 2010 Electricity 45 kWh/m of GFA 2 Achieved 27 kWh/m 2 Consumption of GFA Average Electricity 9.9 kWh/m2/ Achieved 9.012 Consumption of 5 CDL month kWh/m2/month Water 2 m /m of GFA 3 2 Achieved 1.1m /m of 3 2 Industrial Buildings Artist’s impression Consumption GFA Average Water 0.09 m3/m2/ Achieved 0.082 Waste Generation 75 kg/m2 of GFA Achieved 46.5 kg/m2 Consumption of 5 CDL month m3/m2/month Designed as a green oasis, the numerous green innovations at Tree House is expected to result in of GFA Industrial Buildings energy savings of over 2,442,347 kWh per year and total water savings of 28,968.22 m3 per year. Sustainability Report 2011 45 Chapter 5: Empowering Our People CDL’s greatest asset is our employees. Through active involvement and engagement, we have cultivated a CDL ensures our people processes, positive and inclusive work environment. including the recruitment process, We aspire to be the employer of choice and towards adhere to strict guidelines on nonthis, listen to our employees who play a determining discrimination and fairness. There is no preference of gender, ethnicity, religion or role in decisions and policies directing their career age in our recruitment procedures. We development and work-life balance. offer fair and competitive remuneration packages based on employees’ competencies and expected roles and responsibilities. Our employees’ rewards and recognition policies emphasise on merit and performance as we value their contributions towards achieving success A family that plays well together, works well together. CDL believes in creating a positive and dynamic workplace where our employees can work together in an inclusive environment and are rewarded fairly. in our business. CDL began to monitor and track incidences of discrimination in 2008 and CDL believes that employees need to such commitment into our day-to-day there have been no reported incidences. achieve wellness in physical and mental HR operations and policies where we health, and also harmony between work, continually seek ways to ensure a better Early implementation of the family and personal commitments. With quality of life for the employees, and also Retirement and Re-employment a harmonious and healthy corporate the community and environment where Policy culture, employees are able to achieve we live, work and play. The Retirement and Re-employment Act total wellness, resulting in a healthier, will take effect from 1 January 2012 to more productive and engaged workforce CULTIVATING A FAIR enable more people to continue working who contributes positively to our AND INCLUSIVE WORK beyond the current statutory retirement business. age of 62, up to 65 in the first instance EMPLOYMENT and, later, up to 67. The law will require With this strong belief, coupled with By empowering, nurturing and valuing employers to offer re-employment to management support, proper feedback our people, we strive to be an employer employees with satisfactory performance systems and communication channels, of choice and create an environment our and who are medically fit, to continue CDL has in place comprehensive employees can call a second home. We working beyond the age of 62, till age strategies on employee retention, have about 350 employees in Singapore 65. If employers are unable to find training and development, work-life and and are a signatory of the Employers’ suitable jobs for eligible employees, they work-health policies and initiatives, and Pledge of Fair Employment Practices should offer the employees a one-off we constantly innovate to implement with The Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Assistance Payment (EAP) creative programmes to increase Employment Practices (TAFEP) that to help employees tide over a period of employee engagement and participation. works with employer organisations, time while they look for another job. unions and the Government to create We also advocate our employees to awareness and facilitate the adoption of At CDL, we have been and will continue be socially responsible, integrating fair employment practices. to practice re-employment. Even though 46 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 47 the current Singapore Retirement Age implementation of the Retirement and Departments) of the workforce in the Age Group Non-Managerial Act gives employers the discretion to Re-employment Policy, CDL is fully same cohort. reduce the salary of those beyond 60 by supportive of the government legislation Female Male 10%, CDL continues their employment to help older employees remain Age 3.2% based on the existing permanent economically productive and providing 61.7% of our workforce falls between 2% Above 62 years 8.2% 24.2% employment terms. However, at the age valuable working opportunities for our the ages of 31 and 50, representing the Above 62 years 11.3% 51-61 years 51-61 years of 62, employees who meet CDL’s reemployees whenever possible. majority of our workforce. 29.1% 30 years & below 17.7% employment criteria, such as satisfactory 41-50 years 30 years & below In addition, CDL will be providing a oneGEN Y 22.6% 38.7% performance, remaining medically fit, off EAP(1), as stipulated by the Retirement Understanding our next generation, Gen 43% 41-50 years 31-40 years with the availability of a suitable role, would be converted to a yearly contract and Re-employment Act, should any Y is critical to our business growth and 31-40 years term with no change in existing benefits employee reach the age of 62 and does development so as to ensure business Total = 158 Total = 62 and salary as well as eligibility to all not meet the necessary criteria for resustainability. Gen Y is the fastest bonus payouts. However, if they do not employment regardless of reasons. growing segment of our workforce and Education profile is also emerging as a potential customer 72.6% of our employees hold tertiary Education Profile meet the criteria, re-employment will not be extended and there will be no PROFILE OF OUR WORKFORCE group. 59.3% of new employees hired in qualifications and above (this includes holders 6.57% Gender 2010 were born in 1978 or later. 2010 also of diploma, degree and Masters qualifications). Others (Certificate) 7.14% compensation provided. Master CDL recruits based on the principles of witnessed 28.8% of employee promotions CDL believes in developing our employees and 1.14% Further to the above, CDL has plans competencies and appropriate fit within going to GEN Y employees and 5.4% of helping them achieve their potential so that PSLE & below to implement the Retirement and Rethe Company. Equal opportunities are our managers are 30 years old and below. they can better contribute to the success of the 4.29% employment Policy with effect from 1 given to all employees to develop and In other words, these GEN Y employees Company. Sec School/NTC-3 July 2011 before The Retirement and grow. are injecting into CDL, the GEN Y 1.14% Re-employment Act takes effect on 1 creativity, thinking and philosophy of life CDL has in place policies that provide GCE ‘N’ Level January 2012. There will be a positive At CDL, we have more female employees and bringing about continual renewal of employees with opportunities for professional development and skills improvement. For 11.71% 43.71% impact as implementing the changes than male employees across the ranks. people asset to the Company. GCE ‘O’ Level Degree 6 months in advance will benefit In 2010, female Heads of Departments example, CDL has been sponsoring the partmore of our employees. With an early represented 54.5% (12 of 22 Heads of time Masters programme of an officer that is 2% still on-going. GCE ‘A’ Level Gender of Heads of Department Age Group of Total Workforce Total workforce by employment type and 21.71% Diploma/ 2.0% Advance Diploma employment contract Above 62 years Understanding that some employees need 19.1% 17.1% time to attend to special family needs, some 51-61 years 30 years & 45.5% below employees have over the years converted to Male 54.5% a part time work schedule (and back to full 37.4% time) on a need be basis. In 2010, there were Employment Type Female 24.3% 31-40 years three female employees working on a part time 41-50 years Full Time Part Time arrangement. 66.7% Total = 22 Total = 350 Talent from the local community Managerial The majority of senior management employees (Assistant General Managers and above) are Age Group Managerial hired from our local community. In 2010, all of Female Male them were Singaporeans or Permanent Residents 4.2% in Singapore. 36.9% 6.1% 30 years & below Managerial 4.2% Employee Relations 20.7% 30 years above 62 years 18.7% We believe in developing employee engagement 51-61 years & below 31-40 years strategies to drive the message of connectivity 45.8% and commitment into the hearts and minds 63.1% 33.3% 36.6% 51-61 years 27.1% Non-Managerial 36.6% of employees. Our employees have access to Non-Managerial 31-40 years 41-50 years 41-50 years various constructive dialogue mechanisms within the Company to voice their concerns Total = 347 Total = 3 Total = 82 Total = 48 and advance their interests. (1) The EAP amounts are 3 months salary (with a minimum of S$4,500 or maximum of S$10,000) or 2 months salary (with a minimum of S$3,000 or maximum of S$7,000) for those who are re-employed for at least 18 months. 48 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 49 i) Freedom of Association The employment contract offered to CSR Training for Employees (hours) benefits exceeding the requirements eligible female CDL employees extended i) Work-Life Harmony and Pro-Family At CDL, we respect all employees’ part time employees are on a case-to3,694 while extending the benefits to both their maternity benefits and all are still Culture fundamental rights to freedom of case basis and benefits such as annual 3,000 managerial and executive employees currently employed by CDL as at May We strive to create a work-life harmony association and the right to be members leave may differ from full time employees. who are not covered under the Act. One 2011. Paternity leave is not legislated corporate culture and implement sound of trade unions. example would be provision of annual in Singapore but CDL extends one work-life strategy to help our employees We have adopted the internal parity and leave that are better than that stated day of paternity leave to eligible male manage both their personal and 1,193 market alignment approach at the same 1,075 Although CDL is not a unionised in the Act. Other benefits include the employees. professional commitments. company, we are guided by the time without compromising the right provision of various insurance plans for people in the right jobs. We have successfully attained the Work Industrial Relations Act which allows employees. TALENT ATTRACTION AND – Life Excellence Award in 2010 conferred representation of employees by trade Talent Management and Engagement 2007 2008 2009 2010 RETENTION from the Tripartite Committee on Workunions for collective bargaining. This CPF Scheme and Retirement CDL aspires to be the employer of choice CDL has in place employee engagement Life Strategy. provides our employees an avenue to Recognising the importance of WhistleCPF is a comprehensive social security for our employees with a corporate and retention strategies that seek to seek redress on their disputes. Blowing Policy, communication sessions savings plan which aims to provide philosophy to care for employee’s wellThis has reaffirmed our efforts to create a focus on employees’ potential while are organised regularly for new employees working Singaporeans and Permanent being while helping employees realise positive work-life harmony environment sustaining their career aspirations. As part of our efforts to recognise to ensure that all CDL employees are Residents with a sense of security their potential. that places value on maximising our Each year, employees will undergo an employees’ participation in professional familiar with this policy. and confidence in their old age. CDL employee performance and also open performance appraisal exercise CDL hopes to help employees achieve bodies, CDL supports employees’ assists employees to make monthly reinforces our corporate philosophy as a which provides 2-way communication work-life harmony and wellness in subscription to these professional Working in Singapore contributions which are deductible caring and responsible employer that is on employee performance and career physical and mental health. Through bodies. MOM has 14 divisions and three from their monthly gross salaries into concerned for our employees’ well-being. development. The appraisal also provides satisfying employee needs for work-life statutory boards, governing the their CPF accounts as required by law. a platform to establish employee KPIs harmony, CDL also benefits from high ii) Workplace Health – Total Wellness, ii) Resolving Grievances employment of local and foreign workers acceptable to both employee and retention, positive employee morale and Physical Health & Mental Health We have policies and procedures in place in Singapore. One example is the Foreign The CPF contribution is a percentage of supervisor. more productive and capable workers Recognising that a happy and healthy to manage employee grievances, if any, Manpower Management Division the monthly salary and varies according for the Company and community. workforce eventually leads to the to ensure that the matter is assessed in Training (FMMD) that was set up to facilitate the to the employee’s age. These savings engagement of a more motivated a fair and impartial manner. Employees’ CDL has a comprehensive strategy well-being of foreign workers during their earn a minimum risk-free interest of Furthermore, a well-developed work-life workforce, our employees enjoy a wide disciplines are guided by a set of Code that focuses on talent retention and employment in Singapore. FMMD works 2.5% guaranteed by the Government and workplace health policy is a valuable array of benefits and programmes of Conduct and Whistle-blowing Policy cultivation. We nurture our employees closely with other departments within while a portion of the savings will earn recruitment strategy to attract talent. throughout the year. that deals with the receipt, retention and fulfill their potential through the Ministry, including the Workplace a guaranteed minimum of 4% interest. and treatment of complaints regarding continual self assessment with strong CDL’s annual turnover in 2010 was 13.7% CDL has a dedicated work-life committee Policy and Strategy Department, the Company’s accounting, financial emphasis on training and development. which is significantly lower than the which includes employee representatives Work Pass Division, Occupational Pro-Baby Legislation reporting, internal controls and auditing national turnover of 25.2%. Our average across all departments to plan and Safety and Health Division and Labour In support of the Government’s matters, as well as the protection of the We believe in designing development length of service of each employee has execute these activities. Relations & Workplaces Division, in the initiatives towards encouraging higher confidential or anonymous reporting and improvement programmes for increased from 8.1 years in 2008 to 8.8 enhancement of workplace standards birth rate in Singapore, CDL has adopted Each year, we have a theme to focus our by employees of legitimate concerns employees as they have a positive impact years in 2010. This is a positive indicator for foreign workers and enforcement of measures in line with the Government’s efforts and programmes. The theme in regarding these matters. on employee satisfaction and retention. of our employees’ commitment and foreign workforce policies. pro-baby legislations, which were 2010 was “My Health, My Responsibility” In support of this, CDL encourages loyalty to the Company. 53.7% of our passed and made effective from 31 to demonstrate to our employees the REWARDING OUR employees to further their studies by employees have been with us for more Besides governing bodies, there are also October 2008. The revisions were made importance of healthy living for both sponsoring part-time academic or than five years, another clear indicator of EMPLOYEES accredited training programmes. numerous statutory legislations that one to enhance pro-baby benefits such as body and mind by adopting fitness At CDL, we value our people and firmly must abide with when in employment extended maternity leave, childcare and employee satisfaction. exercises. believe that employee engagement is the Through conducting a training needs in Singapore. Key requirements such as infant care leave. key to driving the organisation ahead analysis, we also identify the training the Singapore Employment Act, Central Employee Turnover (CDL vs National Average) and are committed in retaining our needs and desires of our employees. Provident Fund (CPF) scheme and As per the legislation, paid maternity 25.2 talents through performance and reward Retirement and Pro-Baby Legislation are leave stands at 16 weeks for mothers 25% 23.7 21.3 opportunities. In 2010, 3,694 hours was dedicated to highlighted below. with Singapore Citizen births. Employees 20.4 CSR and environmental-related training. with Singapore Citizen children will be 20% 17.1 16.8 Fair Remuneration This includes Carbon Disclosure Forum, The Employment Act entitled to six days of paid childcare leave 15% 13.7 10.7 We constantly seek to offer fair and Achieving Workplace Safety & Health The Employment Act provides the per year if they have at least one child statutory requirements that must be 10% competitive remuneration packages Excellence in Construction, ISO 26000, under the age of seven years. Employees based on the potential and capabilities of Ecology & Green Initiatives for Building, adhered to when hiring employees with Singapore Citizen children may 5% our employees. Employees are eligible for etc. On average, each employee has also in Singapore. CDL not only complies apply for up to six days of unpaid infant completed more than four training days strictly with the Employment Act, care leave per year to care for their child 2007 2008 2009 2010 overtime compensation as in accordance with the Employment Act. in total. but also provides our employees with of two years or below of age. In 2010, 12 CDL National Average 50 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 51 To promote total wellness, employees CDL’s senior management is committed We will continue to develop innovative enjoy a free basic health screening to facilitate employee communications and meaningful ways to bring out the best each year during working hours. Their which helps to break barriers and build in our employees, nurture team spirit and a In Focus: family members may also participate in bonds. The Managing Director and sense of belonging to the CDL family. the health screening programme at a discounted price. senior management team holds dialogue sessions with new employees regularly. HUMAN RIGHTS “My Health, To promulgate the importance of health and fitness, we launched various health Other internal platforms to encourage feedback and open communication To date, Singapore has ratified 20 International Labour Organisation My Responsibility” include e-VoiceBox, a dedicated Conventions, including five Core campaigns in 2010. For instance, the “I e-suggestion box for suggestions and Conventions. They encompass the four Take Charge Challenge” is a pre-andcomments to be sent electronically and key areas of employment standards that CDL has a dedicated Workpost health assessment programme to CDL Insight which is a monthly forum include child labour and forced labour. Life committee which includes identify potential health and weight organised to enhance understanding and employee representatives across issues of employees through a BMI (Body Singapore has legislations in place exchange of ideas amongst departments. all departments to plan activities Mass Index), body fat etc, assessment. such as the Singapore Employment focused on an important work-life Other activities include partnership Act, Retirement Act, Workplace Safety Through the dissemination of City theme. with a fitness centre for employees and & Health Act, Factories Act, etc that News, City Dynamix and Staff Circular, their family members to enjoy attractive imposes legal restrictions to mitigate employees are informed of the latest “My Health, My Responsibility”, corporate membership rates. risks and incidents of child labour and updates in the Company. the theme for 2010, encouraged Since 2008, CDL has made available the forced labour. For example, the Singapore our employees to adopt a healthy Our intranet portal houses which Employment Act imposes restriction on Employee Assistance Programme to lifestyle that places emphasis on not information such as employment terms, the employment of children below 13 years employees on issues concerning work, just the body but the mind as well. benefits and practices, Code of Business of age and stipulates a clear set of laws for interpersonal relations, family, etc. It The Work-Life Committee organised stretching demonstrations conducted at each level of our and Ethical Conduct is also available to employment of children who are between corporate office where a trained instructor showed employees simple stretching exercises that provides confidential help, with initial Each quarter, there was a planned all employees. 13 to 15 years of age, their working hours can be done at the work desk. consultation fees borne by the Company. campaign launched which was in To foster interaction and to build and the type of work that they can be line with the adopted theme for There was a pre-and-post health In addition to the annual basic At the corporate office, we had zero camaraderie amongst employees, CDL engaged in. The Commissioner for Labour the year. For instance, between May assessment to identify potential health screening provided to occupational diseases in 2010. There organised several social and volunteering must be notified if they are engaged in and July, the campaign focused health and weight issues of the each employee for free which is were no lost days due to work-related activities through employee-managed industrial undertakings or have obtained on “Nutrition”, highlighting the employees through a BMI, body conducted during work hours, fatalities. The average medical leave committees such as Work-Life Committee, permission to work on their rest days. importance of eating a healthy and fat, personal questionnaire check CDL also continues to make taken per employee per year remains at C-Base Committee, StaffConnect (SC) balanced diet to reduce the risks of and individualised targets were set available (since 2008) the Employee four days or less. In addition to the current Singapore and CSC. health concerns such as Coronary after. Priority for this programme Assistance Programme which is a legislations, CDL ensures that all employees heart disease, Type 2 diabetes, was given to employees with a BMI counselling hotline service provided iii) Employee Engagement The Work-Life Committee focuses on are issued employment contracts Hypertension and Obesity, which of over 24. to employees who need to speak CDL has a proper process of organising workplace health related stipulating clear employment terms and are on the rise in Singapore. to someone regarding issues understanding and responding to activities while the C-Base Committee conditions. employees’ work-life needs. We have The activities organised to help concerning work, interpersonal promotes interaction and engagement The activities organised to promote different channels of identifying Moving forward, our operation employees reach their goals relations, family, etc. This among employees by organising activities good nutrition included monthly employees’ work-life needs such as departments comprising Project Division included exercise workouts during programme provides confidential at the employee lounge. SC, a task force healthy diet tips and quizzes, employee surveys, evaluation forms and Property & Facilities Management lunchtime and after work like help, with initial consultation fees comprising representatives from various nutrition exhibition held at C-Base, submitted after each work-life event and Division are planning how to work with aerobics, kickboxing, Pilates and paid for by CDL. departments, plans and coordinates healthy cooking demonstrations through the Work-Life Committee. our first level contractors/suppliers to put training focused on the abdominals, activities such as Annual Staff Day to and talks on nutrition by experts. in place a process of monitoring, auditing health talks, healthy cooking Other sustained benefits for reinforce employee team spirit and CDL strives to foster open and grievance procedures to ensure that demonstrations and even a food employees include a partnership bonding. CSC, CDL’s employee volunteer The August to October campaign communication and has adopted their human rights are not infringed trail outing! with a fitness centre to extend club, promotes the spirit of voluntarism was the “I Take Charge” Challenge internal platforms to establish and and that there is strict adherence to the attractive corporate membership by organising community activities with to raise awareness of the health encourage opening communication. All terms and conditions stipulated in their To further motivate the employees, rates for employees and their family. beneficiaries such as Assisi Hospice, Man consequences of being overweight new employees undergo an induction contracts and compliance to the local prizes for best improvement was Employees are also constantly Fut Tong Nursing Home and Children’s and to motivate employees to take programme to be familiarised with CDL’s legislation. Should there be incidences given. A lucky draw with attractive reminded to eat healthy with the Aid Society. charge of their weight and to lose or culture and policies. Employees are also of non-compliance, there should also be prizes was also held each quarter provision of a monthly healthy briefed on the Company’s various policies CDL strongly believes in creating a work channels to obtain feedback from the maintain their weight in a safe and for employees who attended a snack/fruit. including the ISO 14001 Environment environment that promotes team spirit, employees of these first-level contractors/ healthy way. minimum of eight events. Management System. engagement, passion and achievement. suppliers to CDL. Sustainability Report 2011 53 Chapter 6: Nurturing the Community No man is an island and as part of the community, we can only be truly successful if our community is thriving and vibrant. As a long-standing advocate of the Active Employee 60% in 2010. The extraordinary employee Government’s 3P model which calls volunteer manhours and employee CDL’s community efforts focus on four key areas Volunteerism for synergistic partnerships between volunteer participation rate achieved in of the environment, youth development, the the People, Private and Public Stemming from CDL’s conviction that 2009 was due to the significant addition disadvantaged and the arts. Our dedication Sectors, CDL continued to contribute strategic efforts for the community should of community activities organised in to the community in the four key extend beyond philanthropy, we have revolves around what matters most extending celebration of CSC’s 10th anniversary. areas of the environment, youth continued to employ a model of engaging assistance where most needed and nurturing our development, the less fortunate and our stakeholders beyond such acts of Since 2008, CSC has been gathering community in hope that our beneficiaries will philanthropy, with employee volunteerism feedback on its community outreach reciprocate by paying it forward. the arts. being a key driver. programmes for the elderly. This feedback is used to identify areas where Beyond sustaining and strengthening improvements can be made. There are established programmes and Through CSC, CDL’s staff volunteer also plans to extend such surveys to other retaining active working relationships platform, CDL employees were beneficiaries and programmes in the near with long-term partners and meaningfully engaged in helping the needs future, to better assess the impact of its beneficiaries, we also identified and of the less fortunate through befriending, other community related initiatives. supported new beneficiaries and youth mentorship, sharing of expertise and partners. In addition, we embarked pooling of resources to help community Through active employee volunteerism, on innovative programmes for partners and beneficiaries. In maintaining initiating and implementing community the community, which included a culture of active volunteerism and outreach programmes and tapping providing assistance locally and dedicating their time to helping those on our wide network of resources and extending resources to various in need by engaging in a wide range of contacts, CDL hopes to collectively aid economic and social development community programmes and events, we and effectively serve and nurture the projects in countries such as have achieved a total of 2,894 hours of community we operate in. Indonesia and Cambodia. community work, with participation rate of Employee Volunteer Manhours Employee Volunteer Participation Rate Total Manhours % 5,572 85 80 66 60 60 2,894 50 2,575 2,644 2,242 40 33 20 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009(1) 2010 (1) The extraordinary employee volunteer manhours and employee volunteer participation rate achieved in 2009 was due to the significant addition of community activities organised in celebration of CSC’s 10th anniversary. 54 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 55 Action for the Geography Challenge 2010 jointly increased interest from companies which employees to raise awareness of the rich instalment of CDL’s Beauty of Nature to business associates and employees to Community organised by the National University of have decided to go green over the years. biodiversity found in Singapore. Winning Series Calendar 2011 titled “Celebrating impart CDL’s CSR philosophy. Singapore (NUS) Geographical Society Since its launch in 2005, 70 offices have photos were featured in the 14th Web of 13 Million”, which was distributed On the business level, City Square Mall, and the Department of Geography. been certified with the Green Office Label Singapore’s first eco-mall, engages with as at the end of 2010. This affirmation of the community-at-large through its Held for the 14th year, the theme of support has spurred both SEC and CDL dedicated space for community events. 2010’s national geography quiz for to grow the programme further, with The Mall was the first corporate partner secondary school students focused on ORGANISATION INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTION constant dialogues to improve make the to join the Central Singapore Community “Sustainable Development”. Through the programme even better. China Exploration Corporate Patron • Sustained support for the organisation’s nature Development Council’s Partnership to competition, students from more than Activate the Community to Treasure the & Research Society and cultural conservation projects. 80 schools nationwide were encouraged In addition, we also lent our support (CERS) environment or P.A.C.T. when it opened to engage their critical thinking skills to to a myriad of programmes initiated its doors in late 2009. redefine limitations faced by Singapore and organised by environmental Environmental Earth Hour @ The Heartlands • Eco-activities held at City Square Mall to and the planet to promote sustainable organisations and government agencies. Challenge promote community support for Earth Hour. In an affirmation of its commitment to development. Organisation (ECO) organise and host green community As the issue of climate change grows Singapore events, events held in 2010 include the CDL was also the Corporate Partner for increasingly dire, CDL’s environmental National Youth EnvirOlympics Challenge the NUS Chancellor’s Challenge Shield outreach efforts have been expanded, National Corporate and School Partnership • CDL has been a stalwart supporter of CASP 2010, collaboration with radio station 2010, one of the foremost tertiary-level especially in targeting the youth. Environment Programme (CASP) since 2005. Class 95FM on World Environment Current Affairs and General Knowledge Agency Held in conjunction with Clean and • CDL’s six adopted schools, namely Maris Quiz competitions in Singapore. In celebration of Earth Day, CDL initiated Green Singapore (CGS), this initiative is Stella High School (Primary and Secondary), Day, Muscular Dystrophy Association The theme for the competition was the CDL E-Generation Challenge, an ecoaimed at encouraging the private sector CHIJ St. Nicholas Girls’ School (Primary and (Singapore) Eco-challenge and Project “Singapore 2061: What do you want it themed “Amazing Race” style national to play an active role in grooming young Secondary) and Catholic High School (Primary Pebbles which was jointly organised by to be?”, crafted in consideration of the competition. By utilising an eco-tainment leaders from educational institutions, and Secondary) once again showcased notable Temasek Polytechnic student volunteers Singapore Government’s upcoming platform in the form of a fun green rally, initiating environmental programmes and environmental projects during the CGS Schools’ and Gardenasia to engage youths in transferring their technical knowledge Carnival. Catholic High School (Primary) Concept Plan 2011. Over 200 students the annual competition aimed at raising nature-related activities. through a mentoring system in developing received honours coming in third place with participated in the competition. eco-consciousness amongst the youths in Singapore. the partner school’s environmental their submission. Inspiring Green Thought projects. • CDL also sponsored the Climate Change Stepping Up For The Photography Competition at the event which Leadership Over 260 youths came together to pit Environment their strength and wit in overcoming was attended by over 10,000 students, teachers CDL and BCA jointly launched the BCAAs Singapore’s green pioneer, CDL’s green challenges focusing on green and parents from 230 schools. CDL Green Sparks Competition to raise ongoing efforts in promoting transportation and highlighted awareness and engage tertiary students Nature Society Nature Watch magazine • Sustained sponsorship of the society’s quarterly environmental conservation amongst environmental issues including resource in the greening of the built environment. (Singapore) magazine. the community-at-large has seen conservation, climate change and action. This first-of-its-kind public-private an increased interest, support and SEC Singapore Green One (G1) • Participated in inaugural event, with Team CDL initiative provides future practitioners The inaugural Challenge was supported by participation by public and private A Green Race aimed at raising awareness placing third in the Buggy Race. with a real-life scenario where best National Environment Agency and Clean organisations alike. on alternative transport modes and green building practices and solutions and Green Singapore and event partners can be implemented. For the inaugural promote sustainable lifestyle choices. An example of our green initiatives included innovators of green transporters competition, students were presented includes Project Eco-Office, which CDL in Singapore such as GoGreen Holdings, Project Eco-Office • A total of 23 offices certified with the Ecowith the challenge of enhancing the initiated with the SEC in 2002, with The Green Car Company, Greenlots and Initiated and launched jointly by CDL Office Label (previously known as the Green environmental performance of Fuji the aim of helping businesses to go Hybrid Motors, along with Singapore and SEC in June 2002, this outreach Office Label) in 2010. Xerox Towers, an existing 38-storey green in the office. Companies are also Polytechnic, Environmental Challenge programme promotes green resource office building owned by CDL. The encouraged to participate in an online Organisation (Singapore), Singapore management amongst the business Competition was well-received and green office audit and when ready, a Motor Sports Association and City community in the work place. saw interesting submissions from 152 formal office audit is conducted by an Square Mall. For details on this CDLstudents, making up some 20 teams. For World Wildlife Earth Hour • Sustained participation from 11 CDL independent auditor, with successful initiated green challenge, please refer to more information on this competition, Fund commercial properties. companies awarded the Eco-Office Label pages 60 and 61. • Rallied support from 99% of office tenants. please refer to pages 59 and 60. (previously known as Green Office Label) certification. In celebration of 2010 as the International To promote an interest in sustainability Year of Biodiversity by the United Nations, amongst the youth, CDL was also This programme has gained much CDL held a “Biodiversity: Connecting the Presenting Partner for the NUS momentum, as evidenced by the with Nature” photo competition for its 56 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 57 Supporting Youth activities, as well as conducted English staff and academics, through studentIn December, excited children from elderly at Indus Road in its ongoing full force as a show of support. Together Development lessons in tandem with the overall plan to initiated environmental projects that Dreams @ Kolam Ayer experienced a befriending programme. In June 2010, with our sister hotels in Singapore, we create alternative income source for the promote energy conservation, recycling truly unforgettable lesson in marine these beneficiaries received an additional took up a 37-metre long pavilion offering CDL continued our support of studentvillagers of Konleng Phe village via ecoand the uptake of other green habits. discovery when they embarked on a bonus when they were treated to a delectable delicacies and hotel specialties led environmental, social and economic tourism. As a Founding Partner, CDL had been unique sleepover programme with 7-course lunch at Copthorne King’s for the young and old. The event was an developments projects both in Singapore supporting the annual student-led sharks, rays and other ocean inhabitants Hotel. In celebration of the Mid-Autumn overwhelming success, attracting over and abroad. Moving forward, the team plans to carry environmental event since 2008. swimming above them as they slept! The Festival, CSC volunteers helped to 10,000 visitors and raising over S$800,000, In 2010, CDL supported four studentout additional skills training for the facility sleepover programme gave these children spread the festive spirit by distributing well over the Hospice’s target of led overseas expeditions of which three staff (including honing their English Helping The an opportunity to observe and learn mooncakes, in addition to the usual food S$600,000. In response to feedback from groups were students from Singapore proficiency, levelling their expectations Disadvantaged about the ocean in the safe sanctuary supplies. Assisi Hospice which expressed the need Management University (SMU) and with that of the visitors in terms of of Underwater World Singapore. Over for more manpower for other booths as 2010 was a busy year for CDL volunteers one from NUS. The projects, based hospitality, living conditions, hygiene, 45 volunteers from CDL participated In addition, CDL also lent its support well as additional logistical support for as they embarked on a plethora of in neighbouring countries including etc.) together with further trials, to ensure in this one-of-a-kind activity. The same to a wide range of fundraising activities the event, CDL volunteers stepped up to community activities benefiting those Indonesia, Philippines and Cambodia, the successful operation of the guest month, CSC volunteers brought a group organised by its community partners. extend the needed assistance. in need including the young, elderly and focused on promoting education, skills house when it officially opens its doors in of under-privileged children from the One such partner is the Assisi Hospice, sick. development and infrastructure. 2012/2013. Family Service Centre & Student Care a charity organisation that provides Each year, we make it a point to engage CSC also helped organise various exciting Centre at Jurong to City Square Mall palliative care to adults and children Assisi Hospice in evaluating the efforts In line with CDL’s commitment towards Amongst various events spearheaded activities for its young beneficiaries where they enjoyed the Santa Bubbles suffering from cancer and other lifefor the year and discuss possible sustainable programmes, it was CDL’s by university students which CDL throughout 2010 as part of the club’s Musical Live Show. limiting illnesses, which CDL has been a collaborative efforts for the coming year, second year of involvement in Project supported was the 11th Annual NUS ongoing youth development activities for supporter of since 1999. making the relationship more productive, Aphireak in Cambodia. This community Youth Volunteerism Camp, designed to less privileged youths in society. Not forgetting the elderly in our greying and our contributions more meaningful. service expedition by students of promote volunteerism, nurture student population, each month, CSC volunteers At the Assisi Hospice Charity Fun Day SMU, with the support of SMU Office participants to become better volunteers These included an excursion for 24 continue to distribute supplies to the in May, CDL employees turned up in of Student Life and National Youth as well as to help needy beneficiaries children from the Children’s Aid Society Council’s Youth Expedition Project, during the four-day camp attended by 65 (CAS) during the June school holidays aimed to assist Community Capacities participants and 45 children beneficiaries. to an exclusive Behind-the-Scenes tour for Development in the development of the Singapore Zoological Gardens. In ORGANISATION INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTION of eco-tourism in Konleng Phe Village CDL also supported the NUS Green September, over 30 children from CAS (located about 91 km north of Phnom Carnival 2010, presented by NUS Assisi Hospice Assisi Hospice Charity Fun Day • The event was co-organised by CDL and its subsidiary also celebrated the Mid-Autumn Festival company CBM Pte Ltd. Penh in Cambodia), as a new source environmental group Students Against at City Square Mall participating in fun• CDL, along with its sister hotels – M Hotel, Grand Copthorne of income and natural resource Violation of the Earth (SAVE), to drive filled activities including an Eco-Lantern Waterfront Hotel, Orchard Hotel, Copthorne Orchid Hotel conservation, given the dwindling fishing the urgent message of environmental workshop, City Green Lantern Tour and and Copthorne King’s Hotel – took up a 37-metre pavilion harvests for the local community due to conservation to NUS undergraduates, story-telling. selling multi-racial delicacies and hotel specialties. excessive environmental degradation in the area. Café Diplo Asia Humanitarian Forum (AHF) • CDL was a Gold Sponsor of the inaugural AHF. A public educational platform • CDL also co-presented a photography exhibition by Ernest Phase 1 of the project comprised of the to promote both humanitarian Goh titled “Altered Land”, a chronicle of black and white building of a home-stay facility for tourists and environmental causes to the photographs of the destruction wrecked by the tsunami at and co-training the community members community. Banda Acheh in 2004, and the reconstruction and rebuilding in the planning, running, and management efforts which followed. of the facility to ensure a new sustainable alternative source of income, coupled with “Haiti Haiti” and “Haiti Haiti 2” • CDL was a joint organiser and venue sponsor of two charity Charity Concerts concerts, held at City Square Mall and Chinatown Point, community training sessions to impart aimed at raising funds towards humanitarian relief efforts in natural resource management knowledge earthquake-stricken Haiti. and application to the local community • CDL also launched a donation drive amongst employees, to enable them to design a tourist trail in which was matched dollar for dollar by the company, raising the conservation areas. a total of S$30,000 for World Vision’s Haiti Earthquake Relief In Phase 2 of the project, the team Fund in just three days. gathered eco-tourism information for Dedicated CDL volunteers chalked up a total of 2,894 hours of community work in 2010, extending the publishing of the Tourist Information friendship to the needy and disadvantaged. During the March school holidays, CDL volunteers Guide, and also mapped the village, organised a special outing for over 70 underprivileged children to City Square Mall, where they were experienced the proposed tourist treated to a magical performance, “World of Toys”. 58 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 59 ORGANISATION INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTION TOUCH shareURmeal • CDL donated S$3 for each submission that went In Focus: Cultivating Environmental Community This novel initiative first started in the towards TOUCH Community Service’s Meals-on Services United States. The project called for the Wheels programme which delivers meals to the elderly, Consciousness Amongst public to send in photos of their meals especially those living alone. to generate donations for local food • The project received overwhelming response, well programmes. The project is chaired by a exceeding the target of 1,000 photographs. SMU undergraduate. Singapore’s Youths The Boys’ Brigade BB CARES 2010 (Community Activities to • CDL was a Gold Sponsor for the Highlight Special held (BB) Rally Everyone to Serve) programme at the Sky Deck @ Singapore Flyer. • Over 70 beneficiaries from the Asian Women’s Welfare Association (AWWA) and Dreams @ Kolam Ayer enjoyed a scenic ride on the Singapore Flyer, followed by a mini funfair with exciting games and entertainment. 29 CSC volunteers lent their support as chaperons for the event. Sustaining The Arts Chosen from some 90 concept photography clubs and freelance 2010 was a high point for CDL as it submissions based on the Olympic photographers. actively supported key national initiatives themes of Peace and Sport, Culture and in promoting the arts in Singapore. Environment received from 30 local This biennial national photography artists, both artists were exhibited open competition was initiated by CDL in 2006, To commemorate Singapore’s hosting category finalists of the CDL Singapore in partnership with five major photo of the first ever Youth Olympic Sculpture Award, a biennial competition clubs, the National Arts Council and the NUS team, “Green Wednesday”, clinched the top prize at the finals of the inaugural BCA-CDL Green Sparks Competition Games (YOG), two specially-designed held since 2003. National Youth Achievement Award 2010. Presiding as Guest-of-Honour was Dr Mohamad Maliki Bin Osman, Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of National Olympic-themed public artworks were Council. To nurture young local talents, Development (centre). He is joined on-stage by Mr Lim Tow Fok, CDL’s General Manager, Property and Facilities commissioned by CDL for installation at The idea to commission the artworks was the SYPA features a junior and youth Management (fourth from left) and Mr Benedict Tan, BCA Academy’s Managing Director (fifth from right). the Marina Bay waterfront promenade first mooted by SYOGOC in 2009 who category – The CDL Young Architectural before the start of the YOG in August approached CDL as a partner of choice Photographer Award recognises those 2010. given our active promotion of sculptural with a creative eye for architecture and In championing the green cause, consumption. Existing buildings, effort to green the built environment art through the CDL Singapore Sculpture building. CDL not only focuses on engaging in particular, are responsible for and to raise awareness of best green The two sculptures are the first Award. its stakeholders and the wider the consumption of a third of our building practices and solutions public art sculptures to be showcased community through various national end-use electricity. amongst future practitioners. under the Marina Bay Public Art CDL’s support of the sculptural arts is in platforms – but also in cultivating Programme, and made possible line with our corporate vision to provide environmental consciousness and One of the greatest challenges the Participants were presented with through a collaborative effort between space that is conducive for better living, action amongst the next generation. built environment faces is the need the challenge of enhancing the the Singapore Youth Olympic Games playing and working, as sculptures to reduce the carbon footprint environmental performance of Fuji enhance spaces and as a developer, CDL To reinforce CDL’s sustained of existing buildings by adopting Xerox Towers, an existing 38-storey Organising Committee (SYOGOC), does not just construct buildings, but efforts toward youth development innovative green building features office building owned by CDL CDL and Urban Redevelopment it is also our aim to incorporate artistic and environmental outreach that are cost effective and energy which attained the BCA Green Authority (URA). touches where appropriate. in Singapore, we launched two efficient. Mark Gold award in 2008. They inaugural competitions targeted at were tasked to submit a proposal In the spirit of engaging the wider Held for the 3rd time, the biennial youths in 2010. A first-of-its-kind initiative designed to improve the energy efficiency arts community for the YOG, Mr Edmund Cheng, Chairman of National Arts SYOGOC, URA and CDL wanted Singapore Young Photographer Council (2nd row, second from left), RADM to raise awareness and engage of Fuji Xerox Towers, so that the Award (SYPA) aims to nurture young Lui Tuck Yew, Acting Minister for Information, BCA-CDL Green Sparks tertiary students in the greening retrofitted building could qualify to provide an opportunity for the local arts community to take part by photographic talents and elevate the Communications and the Arts (2nd row, third Competition 2010 of Singapore’s built environment, for the Green Mark Platinum rating, from left) and Mr Kwek Leng Joo, Managing In Singapore, buildings and conceptualising artworks that would standard of photography in Singapore. the BCA-CDL Green Sparks the highest accolade under BCA’s Director of CDL (2nd row, fourth from left), with encapsulate the artistic expressions of It attracted some 1,000 submissions winners of the Singapore Young Photographer households account for about Competition aims to engage local Green Mark Scheme. the Olympic ideals. from schools, youth organisations, Award and the CDL Young Photographer Award. half of the nation’s total electricity tertiary students in the national 60 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 61 “BCA is pleased to collaborate with CDL, our Green Other interesting innovative ideas including resource conservation, Mark Champion and Built Environment Leadership proposed by the other winning climate change and action. teams included the use of vertical Platinum Award recipient, to hold this first green building axis wind turbines to leverage on the With “Green Transportation” as competition to raise awareness of the need to improve building’s orientation and unblocked the theme, all travel during the energy efficiency in existing buildings. We hope that the facing. CDL plans to conduct competition was designed to be ecofriendly. Beyond moving on foot and competition will inspire future architects, designers and feasibility studies for the most viable ideas with its consultants, for public transport, CDL also included engineers to join the industry and contribute to the green innovative electric and hybrid forms possible implementation as part of cause upon graduation.” the retrofitting plans for Fuji Xerox of transporters in the Competition as Towers. an important message that our choice Dr John Keung of transportation has a significant Chief Executive Officer In line with BCA’s 2nd Green Building impact on our environment. Building and Construction Authority Masterplan, which places special Event partners comprised innovators emphasis on greening existing The CDL E-Generation Challenge 2010 Champion team, Solar Energy. The group of students of green transporters in Singapore from various tertiary institutions walked away with S$1,800 cash – and a fun eco-learning buildings, this first-of-its-kind green such as GoGreen Holdings Private The first public-private initiative They had proposed a detailed building competition in Singapore experience. Ms Esther An, CDL’s Head of CSR (extreme left), presents the cheque to the by BCA and CDL, the competition plan and analysis of viable and Limited (Segway and Sanyo Eneloop jubilant students. was designed to inspire green ideas e–Bikes), The Green Car Company was well-received, with a total practical green building solutions and thought in the retrofitting of of 20 teams from NUS, Nanyang for Fuji Xerox Towers, which takes a Pte. Ltd. (electric car model NO More existing buildings with the aim Gas), Greenlots (Electric Scooters) Apart from the race, participants and Following the success of the inaugural Technological University, Ngee Ann holistic life-cycle approach, from the of reducing the building’s energy Polytechnic, Singapore Polytechnic implementation of energy efficient and Hybrid Motors Pte. Ltd. (Prius and the community-at-large also enjoyed CDL E-Generation Challenge which consumption and lowering its carbon Estima hybrid cars from Toyota and a programme of green exhibits, games reinforces CDL’s sustained efforts and Temasek Polytechnic, made up infrastructure such as regenerative footprint, which could also translate of 152 students, submitting their motors for lifts to sustainable the Insight hybrid cars from Honda). and eco-quizzes at the CSM Fountain towards youth development and into greater cost savings for building Square and City Green. environmental outreach in Singapore, proposals, out of which, eight teams building management practices and owners. were selected for the final round by stakeholder engagement initiatives, Other supporting organisations the eco-themed rally was held for the a pre-judging panel from BCA and such as a green portal for tenants. included Singapore Polytechnic, The “greenest” teams walked away second year in 2011, centred on the CDL. The teams then presented Their proposal was clear and well CDL E-Generation Environmental Challenge Organisation with S$1,800 as the 1st prize, S$1,200 theme of Sustainable Living. their proposals to a panel of five thought-out, reflecting the maturity Challenge 2010 (Singapore), Singapore Motor Sports for the 2nd prize and S$600 for the 3rd judges made up of experts from the of their understanding towards the Association as well as CDL’s own City prize, with all participants receiving CDL initiated the inaugural CDL industry. green cause. Square Mall, Singapore’s first-eco mall. goodie bags. E-Generation Challenge, an ecothemed “Amazing Race” style At the finals of the BCA-CDL Green national competition targeted at Sparks Competition 2010, “Green youths, in celebration of Earth Day Wednesday”, a team from the NUS “BCA-CDL Green Sparks 2010. By utilising an eco-tainment pipped the 19 other teams to clinch Competition is a great platform in the form of a fun green the top prize of S$10,000 cash and opportunity for our rally, this competition aimed to help a plaque. students to exercise raise the level of eco-consciousness While all the teams showed creative and critical amongst the youths in Singapore. commendable efforts and thinking while applying enthusiasm in the research of what they have learnt Supported by National Environment sustainable solutions for Fuji Agency and Clean and Green Xerox Towers, the winning team from the classroom in an Singapore, the inaugural competition Over 260 youth stood out with their insightful industrial setting.” saw some 260 youths in 22 teams participants aged and comprehensive presentation, taking on a series of eco-challenges 15 to 25 covered Mr Chan Kim Kai in the form of brain teasers, physical 2,300 km using and displayed a keen awareness of green transport innovative and practical ideas that Course Manager, Diploma of tasks, quizzes and activities, that were via the inaugural were also cost-effective and suitable Green Building & Sustainability not only fun but also showcased a CDL E-Generation for real life application. Temasek Polytechnic range of environmental-related issues Challenge 2010. 62 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 63 About our report based on the AA1000 Assurance Standard. The audit report including management systems such as ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, Summary of CDL Report & Scope the findings is summarised in the Independent Assurance Statement Singapore Quality Class and the Audit Commitee that determines material Performance Data which can be found on pages 68 to 70. issues of the Company. Through these The CDL Sustainability Report 2011 working groups, relevant targets and key ECONOMIC is an annual publication dedicated performance indicators are established, to providing economic, social and Accessibility tracked and disclosed within this 5-Year Financial Highlights environmental information and data CDL continues to print only limited Sustainability Report. This year, with CDL’s on CSR activities and performance copies of this report as part of our initiative to integrate ISO 26000:2010, Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 pertinent to CDL’s business in 2010. CDL environmental conservation efforts. the Company has identified more areas Revenue S$2,547m S$3,106m S$2,945m S$3,273m S$3,129m is voluntarily disclosing the information Current and previous copies of the which are material to its operations. Profit before tax S$692m S$955m S$834m S$832m S$1,032m as we believe in upholding the principles reports are available online at We are pleased to state that we have of corporate transparency, disclosure and www.cdl.com.sg. included significant information in the Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company S$352m S$725m S$581m S$593m S$749m communication with our stakeholders. areas of – the environment, human rights, Net gearing ratio 0.40 0.48 0.48 0.40 0.29 Standards of labour practices, product responsibility The report covers solely our Singapore Return on equity 7.4% 13.9% 10.7% 9.9% 11.7% and society – as clearly reflected in the operations and focuses on our principal Measurement/ additional GRI Performance Indicators Net asset value per share S$5.21 S$5.72 S$5.97 S$6.57 S$7.03 business as a property developer Application of External this year. Basic earnings per share 37.0 cents 78.3 cents 62.5 cents 63.8 cents 80.9 cents comprising operational functions such Guidelines as project development, property and The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) For this report, there were no significant Dividends facilities management of both residential as well as commercial developments Reporting Framework including the changes to the measuring methods a) Ordinary dividend (gross) per share in Singapore. It also encompasses our GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines applied. Increasing the scope of • final 7.5 cents 7.5 cents(1) 7.5 cents(1) 8.0 cents(1) 8.0 cents(2) activities that have a material impact on Version 3.1 (including ‘Guidance on data collection and compiling more • special interim 7.5 cents 10.0 cents the community and the environment in Defining Report Content’, the associated comprehensive data on our environmental which we operate. Where possible and Principles and the Technical Protocol and social performance of our business • special final 10.0 cents 12.5 cents (1) 10.0 cents(2) material, we have included performance Applying the Report Content Principles) operations in Singapore remains a priority b) Preference dividend (net) per share 3.90 cents 3.90 cents 3.90 cents (1) 3.90 cents(1) 3.90 cents(1) data from 1 January 2005 to 31 December released in 2011 has been used to prepare to improve the management of our 2010. CDL’s Sustainability Report 2011. Based data and to achieve for more consistent Notes: on the GRI Application Level Criteria for reporting for accountability. (1) Dividends declared were tax-exempt (one-tier). (2) Final and special final tax-exempt (one-tier) ordinary dividends proposed for financial year ended 31 December 2010 had been approved by the ordinary Our subsidiary, M&C, reports on their reporting, the CDL Sustainability Report shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 20 April 2011. CSR activities in their Annual Report 2011 is a Level B+ report which has been The GRI Application Level Check which is available online at www. verified by GRI. CDL has also taken the Statement can be found on pages 67 of Capital Management Net Gearing millenniumhotels.com. It comprises initiative to integrate the ISO 26000:2010, this report. CSR issues pertinent to M&C’s business Guidance on social responsibility into its As at As at 60 including Responsible Hospitality, CSR strategies as well as in this Report. 31/12/10 31/12/09 Responsibility to Employees, a Healthy In addition, references have also been Feedback Channel Cash and cash equivalents S$1,874m S$981m 50 We actively seek and value the feedback Net Gearing (%) Workplace, Responsibility to the made to the United Nations (UN) Global Net borrowings S$2,346m S$3,053m Environment and Responsibility to the Compact’s 10 Universal Principles. extended by our stakeholders as an 40 important way of improving our CSR Net gearing ratio(a) 0.29 0.40 wider Community. In each reporting cycle, the CDL CSR practice. Net gearing ratio if fair value gains on 30 investment properties are taken in 0.20 0.27 Assurance Committee reviews the contents of the If you have any views, comments or Average interest rate of borrowings 2.1% to 2.2% 2.2% to 2.5% For the third year, the CDL Sustainability report to determine its relevance to feedback, please send them to: 20 Report has been externally assured to our business as well as to ensure that validate the accuracy and reliability of its current and emerging material issues of Ms Esther An Interest cover ratio 20.7 times 14.5 times 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 content. The assurance engagement was significance pertaining to sustainability Head of CSR City Developments Limited Notes: conducted by Ere-S, a CSR consulting and the interests of our stakeholders (a) Excludes fair value gains on investment propeties as the Group’s accounting policy is to state If fair value gains on investment properties are taken in. company, and it covered all figures and are addressed. CDL adopts several 9 Raffles Place its investment properties at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. statements found in the report that are processes to determine materiality #36-00 Republic Plaza related to the sustainability performance. issues across its operations. Besides Singapore 048619 CDL’s financial information is described in more detail in our Annual Report 2010. Current and previous reports are available online at Republic of Singapore www.cdl.com.sg. Ere-S reviewed all underlying systems and the CSR Commitee, operationally, the processes that support the sustainability Company also has various other existing or e-mail: csrenquiries@cdl.com.sg 64 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 65 GRI Content Index SOCIAL 2007 2008 2009 2010 GRI INDICATORS ISO 26000 REPORT PAGE GRI INDICATORS ISO 26000 CLAUSES+ REPORT PAGE Annual employee turnover rate 13.7% CLAUSES+ 16.8% 17.1% 10.7% DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS DMA EC 6.2, 6.8 6, 29-30, 63 Employee satisfaction N.A. ≥ 90% ≥ 90% ≥ 90% 1.1 6.2 2-3, AR (6-12, 46-53) DMA EN 6.2, 6.5 6, 8, 33, 43, 64 Days of medical leave taken ≤4 ≤4 ≤4 ≤4 1.2 6.2 9-10, 28-29, 30-31, AR (54-55) DMA LA 6.2, 6.4, 6.3.10 6, 8-9, 30-31, 45 Gender Diversification: % of females as Heads of Department 55% 57% ≤4 54.5% ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE DMA HR 6.2, 6.3 8-9, 13, 48, 50 2.1 1 SMA SO 6.2, 6.6, 6.8 6, 8-9, 13, 53 Average years of service per employee 8.3 8.1 8.4 8.8 DMA PR 6.2, 6.6, 6.7 13-14, 16 2.2 1 Total CSR and Environment-related training hours 1,193 1,075 >3,000 3,694 2.3 6.2 1 ECONOMIC 2.4 1 Economic Performance New developments to be well-ranked on CONQUAS Yes Yes Yes Yes 2.5 1 EC1 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 63 All new developments to be certified BCA Green Mark Gold and above Yes Yes Yes Yes* 2.6 1 EC2 6.5.5 6, 10, 14-15 Employee participation rate per year 60% 2.7 1 EC3 48-49 50% 66% 85% Market Presence 2.8 1, AR (2-3, 85, 184, 186) Employee volunteer hours per year 2,242 2,644 5,524 2,894 EC7 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 45,47 2.9 1, AR (22) Indirect Economic Impacts Health and Safety: 2.10 11, 14, 22-23 EC8 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.5 54-55, 58 At the Corporate Office: 0 0 0 0 REPORT PARAMETRES 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Injury rate and occupational disease 3.1 62 ENVIRONMENTAL 3.2 62 Energy At CDL work sites: 0.4 0.52 0.38 0.23 Accident Frequency Rate at CDL Work Sites 3.3 62 EN3 6.5, 6.5.4 35, 37 (Number of workplace accidents per million manhours worked) 3.4 62 EN4 6.5, 6.5.4 35, 37 3.5 62 EN5 6.5, 6.5.4 15, 36-37 Injury Rate at CDL Work Sites (Number of fatal and non-fatal workplace injuries 118 273 100 63 3.6 62 EN6 6.5, 6.5.4 36, 38 per 100,000 persons employed) 3.7 62 EN7 6.5, 6.5.4 35-36 3.8 62 Water *All new developments to be certified BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS and above in 2011 3.9 62 EN8 6.5, 6.5.4 39 3.10 62 EN10 6.5, 6.5.4 36, 39 ENVIRONMENTal 3.11 62 Biodiversity EN11 6.5, 6.5.6 41 3.12 65-66 EN12 6.5, 6.5.6 41 2007 2008 2009 2010 3.13 7.5.3 62, 68-70 EN13 6.5, 6.5.6 41 Energy Used at Work Sites kWh/m 2 55 43 46 27 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT EN14 6.5, 6.5.6 41 4.1 6.2 27-28 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Water Used at Work Sites m3/m2 0.7 0.68 0.8 1.1 4.2 6.2 27-28 EN16 6.5, 6.5.5 35 Construction Waste Generated at Work Sites kg/m2 65.9 59.87 61.7 46.5 4.3 6.2 27-28 EN17 6.5, 6.5.5 35 4.4 6.2 27-28 EN18 6.5, 6.5.5 35-36 Energy Used at all CDL Commercial Buildings kWh/month/m2 18.856 18.839 17.704 16.727 4.5 6.2 27-28 EN21 6.5, 6.5.3 36 Energy Used at 5 CDL Industrial Buildings kWh/month/m 2 10.443 9.364 9.745 9.012 4.6 6.2 27-28 EN22 6.5, 6.5.3 40 Water Used at all CDL Commercial Buildings m /month/m 3 2 0.142 0.161 0.188 0.14 4.7 6.2 27-28 EN23 6.5, 6.5.3 36 4.8 6.2 5, 13, 27-28 Products and Services Water Used at 5 CDL Industrial Buildings m /month/m 3 2 0.088 0.089 0.088 0.082 EN26 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6, 6.7.5 14-15, 20 4.9 6.2 27-28 Paper Recycled at CDL Buildings kg 417,074 384,047 320,233 374,050 4.10 6.2 27-28 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 4.11 6.2 28-30 Employment Tenants Participation Rate for Paper Recycling at CDL Buildings % 81 88 >90% >90% 4.12 6.2 11 LA1 6.4, 6.4.3 46-47 Energy Used at the Corporate Office kWh 634,198 569,640 557,718 527,972 4.13 6.2 11 LA2 6.4, 6.4.3 49 Paper Used at the Corporate Office (Number of A4 reams) 5,410 4,796 4,395 3,774 4.14 6.2 17, 19-20 LA3 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 48 4.15 6.2 5, 17, 19-20 LA15 49 Total Energy Used kWh 68,948,060 65,421,737 61,495,674 71,408,788 Labour/Management Relations 4.16 6.2 17-18, 19-20, 50 LA4 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.3.10 48 Total Carbon Emissions tonnes CO2 36,144 34,367 30,924 34,221 4.17 6.2 17-18 66 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 67 GRI Content Index (con’td) UN GLOBAL Compact Index GRI INDICATORS ISO 26000 CLAUSES+ REPORT PAGE 10 PRINCIPLES OF REPORT Occupational Health and Safety THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE LA7 6.4, 6.4.6 50 LA8 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 51 principle 1: Businesses should support 11, 50 6.8.8 and respect the protection Training and Education of internationally proclaimed LA10 6.4, 6.4.7 48 human rights. LA12 6.4, 6.4.7 48 Diversity and Equal Opportunity principle 2: Make sure that they are not 11, 50 LA13 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3 46-47 complicit in human rights HUMAN RIGHTS abuses. Non-Discrimination HR4 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 45 principle 3: Businesses should uphold the 48 Child Labour freedom of association and the HR6 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 50 effective recognition of the right 6.3.10 to collective bargaining. Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 50 principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced 50 6.3.10 and compulsory labour. Remediation HR11 13 principle 5: Effective abolition of child 50 SOCIETY labour Corruption principle 6: Elimination of discrimination 45 SO2 6.6, 6.6.3 13, 28 in respect of employment and SO3 6.6, 6.6.3 13, 48 SO4 6.6, 6.6.3 13 occupation. Anti-Competitive Behaviour principle 7: Businesses should support a 10, 14-15 SO7 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 13 precautionary approach to Compliance environmental challenges. SO8 6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.7* 13 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY principle 8: Undertake initiatives to 10, 14-15, 34 Customer Health and Safety promote greater environmental PR1 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 14, 16 responsibility. Product and Service Labeling PR5 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 18 principle 9: Encourage the development 10, 14-15 6.7.9 and diffusion of environmentally Marketing Communications friendly technologies. PR6 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 16 PR7 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 16 principle 10: Businesses should work 13, 27-28 Customer Privacy against corruption in all its PR8 6.7, 6.7.7 16 forms, including extortion and Compliance bribery. PR9 6.7, 6.7.6 16 + For the purpose of this Index table, we have included (for reference only) the corresponding ISO 26000 Clauses as stated in the publication “GRI and ISO 26000: How to use the GRI Guidelines in conjunction with ISO 26000” which may be downloaded from www.globalreporting.org. * Indirectly relevant 68 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 69 Independent Assurance Statement Enhancements of the CSR framework include the alignment of the CSR with channels for feedback. Inclusivity is stronger for employees, investors been reported and a clause on labour regulations has been included in all new Committee’s structure with the core and customers, with regular surveys, tender agreements with suppliers. subjects of the standard, the addition diverse information channels, group of dedicated human resources, such as discussions and dialogue session with top Additional initiatives aimed at formalising the Ethics officer and a CSR manager in management. Engagement mechanisms material targets within the company To the Management and Stakeholders all or part of the organisation profile, classified according to the relevant charge of stakeholder engagement. also exist for suppliers, but they are policies will reinforce the confidence of City Developments Limited (CDL) corporate structure and corporate data owners and the type of evidence limited to environment and health & in CDL’s commitment to extend its financial and economic performance, required for the verification process. Evaluation of reported safety issues. For community partners, sustainability scope. Ere-S Pte Ltd was commissioned by technical descriptions of buildings, sustainability engagement is still on a project basis and CDL to undertake external assurance equipment and production processes. one-to-one meetings. Responsiveness How the organisation We interviewed 21 managers and performance responds to stakeholder issues and of their Sustainability Report 2011. The data owners from the departments In our opinion, the performance feedback through decisions, actions, assurance engagement was conducted at of Corporate Social Responsibility, For the reporting period, most significant Ere-S did not assure the Sustainability information disclosed in the Sustainability performance and communication. the corporate headquarters in Singapore Environment Health & Safety, Projects, improvement can be seen in the Report for the GRI Application Level Report is fair and accurate. Through between April 25 and May 31, 2011. Property & Facilities Management, engagement with government agencies check but did evaluate new indicators the interviews with the data owners, CDL is found to be responsive to and other relevant information found in Human Resource, Corporate evidence for all reported elements could on projects related to green policies and stakeholders concerns and offers the GRI index table. Communication, Corporate Secretarial be collected. We have found only a small education campaigns. Interaction with multiple interaction and communication Scope and objectives Services, Internal Audit, Marketing, commercial tenants was also improved number of minor inaccuracies, which mechanisms. These include annual The assurance covered the operations Leasing, Management and Customer were immediately corrected by the with enhanced surveys and individual or We provided a moderate level of meetings, post-survey group meetings, of CDL in Singapore and its overseas Service & Administration. sustainability reporting team. group meetings. assurance with desktop review, comprehensive information on CDL’s activities on the community and management-level data verification intranet and web site, contact points, the environment, as indicated in the We also found that the report content and evidence gathering from internal Specific questions on the adherence to Inclusion of external stakeholders in frequent newsletters and reports. Sustainability Report and for the period fairly satisfies the requirements of GRI sources. We did not execute multi-level AA1000 principles were asked during the decision making still represents an area from January to December 2010. G3.1 quality principles. With indicators research to determine materiality and interviews and evidence of the relevant for improvement. However we have We have found evidence of actions taken data, collection and calculation methods and information on human rights, found signs of CDL’s efforts in that in response to concerns of employees, stakeholders relevant to the company. The assurance engagement was as well as information on the underlying product responsibility and customers direction. investors, residential customers, executed in accordance with the processes were collected and evaluated. satisfaction, which were not covered commercial tenants, government AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS Responsibility and Verified information included internal in previous versions, the scope of agencies and key contractors. 2008) to verify whether the content publications, data sheets, certificates, the Sustainability Report has been Materiality How the organisation Responsiveness is less evident for other independence expanded. Despite some difference in recognises issues that are relevant and of its Sustainability Report is accurate, emails, policies, reports, press releases stakeholder groups, such as communities reliable and supported by solid data The responsibility of Ere-S was to execute and web sites of external parties. the report format, the content is clear significant to it and its stakeholders. and the supply chain in general. collection systems. Following a Type 2 the assurance engagement, prepare the and performance is still comparable with assurance of the standard, we evaluated assurance report and this assurance previous versions. statement for the management of CDL After each interview, we provided CDL has several processes to determine Conclusion the sustainability systems and processes recommendations to allow immediate key material issues across its operations. alone and for no other purpose. The Room for improvement lies in balancing On the basis of our review, nothing using the inclusivity, materiality and amendment by the sustainability These are constantly reevaluated at the management of CDL was responsible the report content with more disclosure has come to our attention that causes responsiveness criteria of the AA1000 reporting team. We checked the final top management level through working for the preparation of the Sustainability of gaps and negative performance. us to believe that the sustainability AccountAbility Principles (AA1000APS version of the Sustainability Report to groups, such as the CSR Committee and Report and all statements and figures framework of CDL does not adhere to 2008). We also assessed the disclosed confirm the actions taken following the Audit Committee. Elevation of issues contained within it. the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. performance information and the those recommendations. Evaluation of the related to environment and stakeholder In addition, the findings of the assurance relevant data collection processes using Ere-S was not responsible for any prior the GRI G3.1 quality principles. work on the Sustainability Report. The adherence to AA1000 engagement to the top tier of the risk engagement provide confidence, within AccountAbility register shows the importance given to satisfactory limits, that the reported activity of Ere-S is independent to CDL Findings and material issues. performance information provides a and contains no other financial interest observations Principles We verified figures and statements reliable and fair representation of CDL in their business operation. Inclusivity How the organisation on CSR initiatives, strategy, policies, Through the assurance engagement, we Most significantly, the work done to sustainability profile and is supported by procedures, key performance indicators, Methodology have seen evidence of work undertaken engages with stakeholders and enables align CDL sustainability framework with comprehensive and verifiable data and management systems and associated by CDL during the reporting period to their participation in identifying issues ISO 26000 has highlighted materiality underlying management processes. We reviewed the Sustainability Report processes. Information not related to align its sustainability framework with and finding solutions. areas in which the company needs content and the company’s CSR sustainability and already supported by framework, procedures and policies the ISO 26000. Some new policies have to improve, namely human rights Moving forward, we recommend existing documents, such as the Annual already been formalised and rolled out in CDL has processes to engage with its and labour practices. Additional GRI continued efforts during the alignment to identify the relevant elements to be Report, was not covered. This includes CDL’s operations and activities. key stakeholders and provide them indicators covering these areas have of the CSR framework with ISO 26000 to audited. Statements and data sets were 70 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 71 formalise more structured processes and KPIs for stakeholder engagement. In the GLOSSARY areas of environment, labour conditions and human rights, these processes should comprise detailed guidelines for suppliers to implement adequate data collection and reporting procedures within their operations. AGM Annual General Meeting BAU Business-as-usual The above findings and additional suggestions for improvement have been BCA Building and Construction Authority presented to the management of CDL in BIPV Building Integrated Photovoltaic a more detailed assurance report. BMI Body Mass Index CPF Central Provident Fund CSC City Sunshine Club CSR Corporate Social Responsibility EAP Employment Assistance Payment EHS Environmental Health and Safety FMMD Foreign Manpower Management Division Jean-Pierre Dalla Palma, Director FSC Forest Stewardship Council ISO International Organisation for Standardisation KPIs Key Performance Indicators Ere-S Singapore MOM Ministry of Manpower 16th June 2011 NEA National Environment Agency NGO Non-Governmental Organisation NUS National University of Singapore PUB Public Utilities Board Ere-S Pte Ltd is a consulting company specialising in business sustainability PV Photovoltaic and provides services in the domains of sustainability reporting, sustainability report assurance, stakeholder engagement and CSR training. ROSPA Royal Society for Prevention of Accidents SC StaffConnect SEC Singapore Environment Council SMU Singapore Management University SPH Singapore Press Holdings SYOGC Singapore Youth Olympic Game Organising Committee SYPA Singapore Youth Photographers Award TAFEP Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices TG 7 & 9 Tampines Grande UN United Nations URA Urban Redevelopment Authority WELS Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme WSHC Workplace Safety and Health Council YOG Youth Olympic Games 72 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2011 73 This report may contain forward-looking statements that involve assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements as a result of a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Representative examples of these factors include (without limitation) general industry and economic conditions, interest rate trends, cost of capital and capital availability, availability of real estate properties, competition from other developments or companies, shifts in customer demands, customers and partners, expected levels of occupancy rate, property rental income, charge out collections, changes in operating expenses (including employee wages, benefits and training costs), governmental and public policy changes and the continued availability of financing in the amounts and the terms necessary to support future business. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on the current view of management on future events. Published by City Developments Limited. Company registration number: 196300316Z www.cdl.com.sg MICA (P) 193/06/2011
