breathe life into the future UN Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) & Corporate Social Responsibility Summary Report 2011 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) & Corporate Social Responsibility Summary Report 2011 INDEX 1 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 14 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR 33 Supporting Researches 15 Workplace 34 Inspiring Wellness 2 MESSAGE FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 17 Equal Opportunities 35 Encouraging Volunteerism 17 Employee Rights 36 Supporting children's activities 3 ABOUT THIS REPORT 18 Training & Development 37 Promoting Cultural Heritage Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 18 Anti-Corruption 38 Promoting Tourism Development 18 Health & Safety 4 DKG GROUP AT A GLANCE 39 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT 5 Company Profile 19 ENVIRONMENT 40 Human Rights 6 Our Vision 20 Benefits for the Environment 41 Labour 6 Our Values 21 Benefits for Food Safety 42 Environment 7 This is DKG Group 22 Sustainability 43 Anti-corruption 23 Good Agricultural Practices 10 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 24 Certificates & Awards 44 INFORMATION ON THE REPORT 11 Approach 45 Closing 11 The Board of Directors 25 SOCIETY 45 Feedback 12 Group’s Structure & Management 26 Promoting Healthy Products 45 Reporting period 13 Stakeholders 27 Promoting Sustainable Practices 46 How we intend to make this CSR & 13 Code of Business Conduct & Ethics 28 Promoting Greening to Life COP available to our Stakeholders 13 External Standards 29 Advancing Knowledge Transfer 46 Abbreviations 31 Creating Associations 47 The committee of CSR & COP Report The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT I am proud to report that we are able to strengthen our commitment to Global Compact Principles, environmental sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility, as well as the transparency with which we report on our worldwide eﬀorts and impacts, greatly beneﬁting our customers, employees, stakeholders and global community. Conducting business in accordance with the principles of Global ComOur dealings with all our stakeholders are characterized by trust, pact and Corporate Social Responsibility is a perpetual goal for the DKG respect and integrity. We aim to earn and cultivate this trust by working Group, as it helps achieve sustainable development. At the same time, it in partnership with all those who have a stake in the crucial sphere of is also the basis for creating long-term business value, which is achieved inﬂuence. by taking eﬀective actions in order to attain our business goals and always in full respect to our Human resources, the environment and It is our pledge, our mission and our future to be the best Group of Comsociety. panies we can be for stakeholders, our consumers, our employees and for the people and communities we serve around our sphere of inﬂuAs a Group of Companies and Initiatives with strong growth ambitions, ence. we will continually strive to improve out performance, based on the belief that creating value and making a positive impact in society. We hope that this report gives you a good insight into DKG Group's performance and progress and inspires you in your daily life. Sincerely Sinc Eva Evagelos N. Drimtzias President Pres 1 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 MESSAGE FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR This integration of Global Compact Principles and Corporate Social Responsibility into business management is one of the projects that DKG Group has implemented, with the aim of forging a new corporate culture in which the fundamental principles that govern our relations with all interest groups (stakeholders) are shared. At DKG Group, we are convinced that social responsibility is the best way to do business, living up to ethical criteria and respecting people and the environment. This Global Compact and Corporate Social Responsibility report is • in the environment, by strengthen our commitment to environmental created to provide an integrated overview of the environmental and sustainability, social aspects of DKG Group's business activities and services. This report is the external reflection of DKG Group's Code of Business • in the community, by supporting quality and values of life, Conduct and Ethics. Impeccable Ethics is a fundamental corporate • in the marketplace, by encouraging our business partners to act consistbelief that requires us to demonstrate that we act with integrity, comently with our values. municate openly and honestly and treat everyone with respect and fairness, including: Being socially responsible is at the very core of our business and our successes. Without our strict code of ethics and great sense of responsi• In the workplace, by placing a high value on diversity and inclusion, bility, we could not have grown and succeeded the way we did. taking action against all forms of harassment or improper labour practices and promoting the health and well being of our employees, Sincerely, Sin Christos D. Katsanos Chr Executive Director Exe 2 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 ABOUT THIS REPORT Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility For DKG Group, Corporate Social Responsibility For every of our companies, CSR has a particular This report provides a reliable and adequate presen(CSR) is about how we manage our impacts on meaning which relates to that company’s operations tation of the policy of the DKG Group for Global society and the environment. We strive to operate and impacts. For DKG Group, the key issues which Compact values and Sustainable Development, or of responsibly and act with integrity and thus make a we address through our CSR program are: the activities, events and performance of the Group positive contribution to the economy, our people relating to sustainable development during the • meeting the expectations of our clients for the delivand our local communities. We seek to eliminate or reporting year (September 2010 – September 2011), ery of high quality services and products mitigate CSR risks, where identified, in partnership in accordance with DKG Group's reporting criteria. with our employees, and other stakeholders through • understanding and minimizing the environmental the application of good practices. Equally, we seek impacts of our business operations opportunities in respect of CSR, including ways to • helping our people to realize their potential in a reduce our environmental impact, or develop supportive and stimulating environment employees during their career in the Group. • working with our business partners to foster sustainable practices in our supply chain. 3 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 D K G G R O U PAT A G L A N C E p. 05 Company Profile p. 06 Our Vision p. 06 Our Values p. 07 This is DKG Group 4 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | DKG GROUP AT A GLANCE Company Proﬁle DKG Group is a diversiﬁed international group of companies and initiatives with operations in diﬀerent divisions. The activities of the Group conducted principally in Balkan and Southeast Mediterranean Countries (Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia, FYROM, Bosnia, Montenegro, Albania, Cyprus, Egypt and Turkey). Maintaining business success for more than ten years is not easy. But each of DKG Group's companies has proven its ability to adapt and prosper in ever-evolving needs and deliver long-term growth. The group's success and its unique business model, based on sustainability, innovation and ﬂexibility, have made DKG one of the biggest consulting, inspection and training facilitator body, oﬀering specialized sustainable solutions to individuals, professional groups and corporations within the fresh produce and agro supplies trade industry creating value through people, and for people, all driven by a brand-centric philosophy. breathe life into the future 5 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | DKG GROUP AT A GLANCE Our Vision To add true quality of life to our collaborators customers & stakeholders Our Values via our sustainable way of working. The DKG Group focuses steadily on increasing the • We value fair and transparent business practices. values it represents for all stakeholders and continu• We deliver reliability throughout the supply chain. ously improving its performance in every sector of • We contribute to society where we work and live Group activities. while respecting the local customs and cultures. • We promote diversity, accountability and human Our supply chain network is the focal point of Group rights. activities through constant pursuit of methodologies • We continue to grow healthy & safety products – to improve all its products and services. Thus the taking that extra step. Group builds strong long-term relationships with its • We acknowledge the seriousness of global environclients and associates. mental issues and act to protect the environment. In order to be a Group of companies and initiatives • We continue to approach all issues in a professional trusted by all, we formulated our CSR strategy in line manner. We take care to always provide high quality with the guiding principles and the core values of services & products, being accurate in terms of our Group. content and prompt with deadlines. 6 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | DKG GROUP AT A GLANCE This is DKG Group C ONSULTING O NS UL TING s u s t a in a b l e INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH food c h a in & TRAINING CENTRE s ol u t ion s FOR SUSTAINABILITY DKG Consulting Ltd oﬀers specialized sustainable The International Research & Training Centre for solutions to individuals, professional groups and Sustainability (IRTC) is a training facilitator organicorporations within the fresh produce industry sation that provides a greater understanding of creating value through people, and for people, all key issues for the agriculture industry and provide driven by a brand-centric philosophy. solutions for those with an interest in the sector, through top quality speakers and presentations DKG Consulting services are focused on greenfrom industry leaders and researchers. house and farm activities include general advice regarding hydroponic techniques, crop or Training Programs product selection, cultivar (variety/ies) selec• Total Greenhouse Management tion, plant propagation processes, general • Total Farm Management cultivation practices, distance crop monitoring, • Hydroponic techniques feeding solutions recipes, harvesting, packaging and post-harvest practices based on Total • Greenhouse personnel technical skills Greenhouse Management® and Total Farm • GLOBALG.A.P. protocol Management® methodologies. • AGRO 2-1&2-2 standard Hellenic certification scheme for agriculture enterprises DKG Consulting Ltd is also a service provider for • ISO 9001:2008 quality, environmental & food safety systems and Quality brand building. • ISO 22000:2005 Food safety • Total Quality Management and logistics In corporation with DKG Consulting Ltd, TUV Hellas (TUV NORD) SA, GreenQ B.V and University of Macedonia. http://www.dkggroup.com http://www.irtcs.org 7 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | DKG GROUP AT A GLANCE DKG +0.0;(3 256>3,+., +0--<:065 Hydroponics.gr® is a web tool where all the experience and practical application of knowledge of DKG on hydroponic cultivation will be available for its customers and to the public. More speciﬁc, this knowledge and experience is based on rockwool substrates (Grodan products) and DKG’s Know How. The website www.hydroponics.gr will include general advice regarding hydroponic techniques, tailor-made cultivation practices, plant propagation processes, manuals and information about the right use of rockwool products. This digital knowledge diﬀusion will ensure that our growers/customers can make the optimum use of its products and services by interpreting the company’s knowledge of and experience with substrate cultivation in terms of up-to-date, crop-oriented advice. http://www.hydroponics.gr 8 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | DKG GROUP AT A GLANCE Askme. ® TRANSLATIONS LOCALIZATIONS FOLIAGE BASED ARCHITECTURE & MORE The AskMe Translation and Localisation DepartIQ CROPS Ltd (member of DKG Group) provides IQ GREENING Ltd (member of DKG Group) ment of the DKG Group was formed with the intelligent agricultural supplies to the agricultural provides foliage base architecture practices for a objective to undertake complex translation sector. healthier and more sustainable urban living projects, oﬀering a complete range of translaenvironment. tion and localisation services in the Greek In general, IQ CROPS Ltd promotes innovative market. Over these years, it has specialised in solutions based in new technologies and scientiﬁc The following green design practices such as: the development and implementation of results oﬀering safety to the consumers and the • Vertical Green Walls, advanced quality-driven Greek-speciﬁc localisaenvironment towards natural systems and biological solutions that promote plant health and • Urban Farming, tion techniques and the provision of turn-key localisation solutions (from planning to postgrowth. • Roof Gardening, production) for the Information Technology • Green Sound absorbent Walls, sector. have increasingly become an important compoMore speciﬁc: As a result, signiﬁcant framework-contracts and nent of sustainable urban development in the 21st long-term collaborations have been established • Trade (wholesale – retail level) and distribution of century. between DKG and FOODPLUS, GRODAN GROUP various agricultural products such as special types and EUROPEAN COMMISSION DIRECTORATE. of fertilizers, growth agents and pesticides for professional growers as well as hobby market. Today AskMe oﬀers a full range of technical translation and localisation services almost 6 • Alternative forms of energy solutions (e.g. photoman-years in total greenhouse management, voltaic systems, geothermal heat, alternator of inspection –certiﬁcation and Project Manageheat, wind generators, etc.) ment tasks. http://www.iqcrops.com http://www.iqgreening.com 9 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE p. 11 Approach p. 11 The Board of Directors p. 12 Group’s Structure & Management p. 13 Stakeholders p. 13 Code of Business Conduct & Ethics p. 13 External Standards 10 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE contribution to sustainability integrity values transparency strategic direction responsibility Approach The Board of Directors Our corporate governance consists of a sum of The Group conducts its business through its employees, the President and the Executive Director under the values, regulations and practices which govern the direction of the Board of Directors, all with a view toward enhancing the long-term value of the company. DKG Group's Administration. These are ensuring transparency of Group operation and protection of The Board of Directors comprises the President, the Executive Director, the Finance Director, the Quality stakeholders interests. Executive and the Project Manager. The Board is primarily responsible for the following: • the strategic direction of the Group and the operations, Our desire is that DKG Group achieve a high level of corporate governance, we recognize the importance • the integrity of financial statements and accounting practices, of, and we committed to high standards of corpo• the contribution to sustainable development, rate governance. • the Human Resources. The Board of Directors holds regular quarterly meetings in order to review the Group's strategy, approve its business plan and budget, act on the Group's annual proxy statemen CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 11 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group’s Structure & Management Finance & Accounting EU Projects & Studies Quality Management DKG Consulting Ltd IQ Crops Ltd IQ Greening Ltd IRTC Drika Farm Agroconsultants Ltd Ask Me 12 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stakeholders Code of Business Conduct & Ethics External Standards For DKG Group is essential the commitment to its DKG Group has adopted a Code of Business Conduct DKG Group is guided also by a series of International stakeholders. In order to achieve this objective, the and Ethics that applies to all employees and direccodes and principles. The Group recognizes the DKG Group has laid the groundwork by applying a tors and reflects the Group's belief that ensuring principles enshrined in the UN Universal Declaraseries o methods and practices (such as surveys meascompliance and integrity is a never-ending process. tions of Human Rights and is a participant in the UN uring the satisfaction of clients, employees and associThe Group is continually making sure its standards Global Compact, promoting its ten principles that ates, regular meetings) through which it aims at are high, expectations are clear and that have the support human rights, labour rights, environmental enhancing its communication with interested parties. tools and processes in place for meeting them. protection and anti-corruption. In addition, the company has adopted internationally standards for The code describes the company's requirements of its Quality Management System. employee conduct and clarifies expectations in the event of dilemmas or sensitive situation details. The The DKG Group is committed to reporting the Code details how employees and Directors must impacts of its business in a transparent and compabehave in the following situations: rable way as it is an organizational stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). • Conflicts of interest and protection of sensitive information • Financial integrity including inside information • Protecting health, safety, security and the environment. 13 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR p. 15 Workplace p. 17 Equal Opportunities p. 17 Employee Rights p. 18 Training & Development p. 18 Anti-Corruption p. 18 Health & Safety 14 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR DKG Group conducts its business in regions where rules and regulations governing basic human rights, for instance, working conditions, freedom of associations, and forced labour. The Group strives to be a good corporate citizen by always adhering to laws, regulations and good practices Visit DKG Group’s profile that are in accordance with human rights in the countries in which it operates. In taking this in Linkedin action, DKG Group hopes to identify potential problems, reduce the risk inherent in our supply and learn more about: chain and help assure sustainable practices. > DKG Group’s employees > Some insightful statistics Workplace The DKG Group's labour practices and policies are Our Policy Fair Workplace intended to attract, motivate, and retain top talent in the highly competitive supply chain. To this end, our There is a general acceptance in the Group for the We aim to comply with all applicable employment policies are focused on making DKG an employer of value of human rights and our management and and labor laws. We expressly prohibit child labor, choice. Our position on key human rights issues such employees agree that, the respect to these social, forced or compulsory labor in our operations. We as harassment, discrimination, working hours, forced economic and cultural rights is important for creatrespect and protect our employees' right to freedom / compulsory labour, compensation and freedom of ing a better work environment and securing dignity of association and engage in collective bargaining association are addressed in DKG Groups' Standards and equality for all. In this way we believe that we thought periodical meetings between the manageof Business Conduct and Ethics. ensure the respect of human rights within our ment and the employees. workplaces for the benefit of all. 15 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR Employees by Gender Employees by Age Educational Level Age: <25 [7%] Female [36%] 2010 / 2011 Number Age: >45 [27%] Educational Level of emploeeyes Post-graduate degrees (Master’s, PhD) 8 University Graduates 5 Age: 26-35 [27%] Graduates of Technical Educational Institutes 2 Secondary education (Lyceum) graduates 0 Male [64%] Age: 36-45 [39%] Total 15 16 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR Employment policy The key elements of our employment policy include: Equal Opportunities Employee Rights DKG Group is committed to equal opportunity in all The Group respects and promotes worker's rights, areas of our operations, all business activities and decent employment opportunities and channels of employment-related activities will be administered communication between employees. We develop and without regard to race, color, region, age, sex or maintain a working environment whereby all employdisability. It is the Group's policy to aﬀord equal ees have the right, and the ability to work in an employment opportunities to all qualiﬁed employees atmosphere where they are treated with dignity and and applicants. These employment opportunities are respect. based solely upon an employee's or applicant's qualiﬁcations, skills and abilities without regard to any We comply with all applicable national labor laws condition or characteristic that is not job-related. In regarding wages and work hours and we recognize addition, every Group location is required to have each employee's right to associations, so our policy prohibiting discrimination, including harassFinancial/Accounting department communicates ment, and an accompanying set of policies establishfrequently with the Labour Inspectorate and the ing procedures for reporting and investigating Employees' Union insurance Fund in order to complaints. continue to be updated about ﬁnancial and other obligations to the employees. On April, 2011 during the selection of 2 new employees for the same position, no gender distinction was made as we selected both a man and a woman. 17 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR Training & Development Anti-Corruption Health & Safety DKG Group is committed to learning. All employees According to our Code of Business Conduct which sets Protection of the health and safety of the people who have access to the IRTC library that consists of more out guiding principles in its ethics and business are aﬀected by DKG Group’s activities is such an importhan 1,000 books articles, oﬀering diversity of knowlconduct as adopted and approved by the Management tant issues that has deﬁned as one of the Group's core edge. of the Group. The Code of Business Conduct discusses values. DKG Group is committed to creating safe and in detail the ethical practices which DKG Group expects healthy work environment, aims to have zero injuries, Employees enjoy extensive internal technical and from all employees, including conﬂicts of interest, zero occupational ill health and zero accidents. All of business skill training. External programs and semibribery, policies on corporate entertainment and the Group's employees have medical insurance accordnars are also provided to develop employees in their acceptance of giﬅs and the integrity of our record ing to the Greek Law. current roles, and to prepare for future roles. keeping and reporting. Training in this area has been carried out and will be refreshed on an on going basis. The Group's occupational health and safety manageWe aim to create an environment where everyone is ment system tracks four key performance indicators: encouraged to give their best and realize their full For a series of years, cases of corruption have not been the number of injuries, the number of fatalities, the potential, through the provision of learning and develrecorded, neither allegations for suspected fraud, number of illness due to work and the number of other opment opportunities. bribery or market abuse have been reported. illness (e.g. ﬂu). There was only a small increase in sickness absences compared to 2009-2010, the other From May, 2011 up to August, 2011 the Group indicators was and still 0. provided 80 hours of formal technical training to the 2010 / 2011 Number Days lost due new two employees and more than 200 hours for Health & Safety indicators of incidents to incidents practical training, apart, The Board of Directors memNumber of persons injured 0 0 bers had more than 100 hours of attendance to external seminars. Number of fatalities 0 0 Illness due to work 0 0 Other illness 1 3 Total 1 3 18 ENVIRONMENT p. 20 Benefits for the Environment p. 21 Benefits for Food Safety p. 22 Sustainability p. 23 Good Agricultural Practices p. 24 Certificates & Awards 19 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | ENVIRONMENT Hydroponics Produce Beneﬁts for the Environment DrikA Far M fresh hydroponic products DRIKA Farm, a member of The DKG Group that produces greenhouse hydroponic mini cucumber as well as all the Greenhouse clients of DKG Consulting Ltd are committed to environmental sustainable practices by applying the following: Integrated Pest Management Practices Water conservation Land & Soil conservation (IPM) Drika Farm and all of our Greenhouse clients apply Hydroponic growing saves an incredible amount of Since the soil is not used in the growing procedure the Integrates Pest Management (IPM), a system water, it uses as little as 1/20 the amount as a there is no depletion of soil nutrients and soil that uses beneﬁcial organisms like predatory insects regular farm to produce the same amount of food. erosion is impossible. Instead, the plants are grown and mites to battle bad bugs that damage crops and The water table can be impacted by the water use in clean and steerable stone wool substrates which vegetables. By using these methods, the growers are and run-oﬀ of chemicals from farms, but hydroponare the ultimate sustainable solution for the profesable to keep pesticides at a minimum or not use ics may minimize impact as well as having the sional horticulture sector. them at all. advantage that water use and water returns are easier to measure. 20 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | ENVIRONMENT Beneﬁts for food safety Here is how DRIKA Farm and all of our clients grow in greenhouses the safest produce you can buy: No dirt No Animal Waste Fertilizers No Acid Rain, No Nasty Weather Without dirt, plants cannot get soil-born diseases, Plants receive just the right amount of nutrient-rich Greenhouse protects the produce from the rain that cannot be invaded by grubs or other soil-based water that gives them everything they need. The carries pollutants or weather damage that ranges insects, and cannot absorb toxins and bacteria found plants are not in contact with ﬁelds where runoﬀ from from bruises, marks and nicks to the loss of an entire in soil. animals can carry bacteria. So no chemical residues crop. Greenhouse growing ensures optimal environor bacteria from animals can ever reach a plant. mental conditions by using high-tech computer systems that replicates the best natural growing No Pests conditions where temperature, humidity and light are No Disease just at the right level. By applying an intensive Integrated Pest Management (IPM) program that uses beneﬁcial insects to Culture faces no such challenges since the plants control pests and stimulate healthy plant growth. grow in the perfect environment, by eliminating the Outdoors, plants are more vulnerable to various dirt, the pests and the animal waste fertilizers, are types of diseases and insects whereas in a controlled unaﬀected by many diseases that plagues the open environment have the ability to keep a lot of these ﬁeld grown. pressures at bay, so we are able to keep our plants healthy by using also bees for pollination and beneﬁcial predator insects. 21 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | ENVIRONMENT Sustainability Sustainable production houses have limited environmental impact. Plants at bay we use biological controls. We’re leaders in are grown in Grodan rockwool. Growing in this mateIntegrated Pest Management (IPM) to protect plants Basalt, the raw material for stone wool, is extracted rial means our plants can stretch their roots, and we from bad bugs and diseases. Our growers introduce according to strict environmental regulations and in can feed them water and nutrients directly where predatory insects – like ladybugs – and mites to non-protected areas. The volcanic rock is turned into they need it – on their roots – rather than on their eliminate harmful pests. stone wool substrate by means of a certiﬁed process. leaves or on other parts of the soil. Growing hydroRecycling stone wool aﬅer use means that less new ponically means we feed our plants only as much basalt is required. nutrients as they need for optimum growth. Our Sustainable recycling growing methods mean we don’t use herbicides. A plastic sheet, which suppresses weeds from growing A sustainable end of life solutions. Used substrate up through our crops, covers the soil in our greenslabs, blocks and plugs are recycled into new stone Sustainable cultivation houses. At the end of each growing season, the wool products or used in the production of bricks, DRIKA Farm and all of our clients have a responsibilplastic sheet is removed to allow for a proper cleancement, potting compost, or soil improvers. The ity to practice sustainable cultivation. These sustaining of the greenhouse. This cleaning ensures no plastic sheet is separated from the stone wool and able growing practices and compliance with Good pests or plant diseases from the previous crop are used in the plastics industry to manufacture Agricultural Practices (GAP) ensure that greencarried into the new growing season. To keep pests dashboards for the automotive industry. 22 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | ENVIRONMENT Good Agricultural Practices (G.A.P.) DKG Group is an associate member of GLOBAL G.A.P.®, the global partnership for We are in the forefront with regard to the interpretation of the GLOBAL G.A.P.®, the safe and sustainable agriculture. Its recommendations are intended to fulﬁll Group's department AskMe oﬃcially translates in Greek language documents GLOBAL G.A.P.® demand for consultancy and comply with Good Agricultural related to Fruit and Vegetables Certiﬁcation (Integrated Farm Assurance). Also Practices (G.A.P). Group's Executive Director Mr. Christos D. Katsanos is Oﬃcial GLOBAL G.A.P.® trainthe public trainer and in cooperation with the Training Department of TUV HELLAS GLOBAL G.A.P.®, a non-governmental organization intends to alleviate consumers’ (TUV NORD) S.A. & IRTC, DKG Group oﬀers training programs for corporations and growing concerns about the safety of agricultural produce by developing a single individuals in the areas of: standard for the certiﬁcation of agricultural produce supplied by farmers and horti• GLOBAL G.A.P. protocol culturalists who assign high priority to environmentally-friendly entrepreneurship. This standard, which serves as a global reference system for other standards, is • AGRO 2-1 & 2-2 standard suitable for simple and immediate implementation by all parties in the food sector. Greek certification scheme for agriculture enterprises • ISO 22000 standard HACCP Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point 23 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | ENVIRONMENT Certificates and Awards Grodan (a member of the Rockwool Group) has received a wide range of system, quality and environmental certifications, ranging from ISO 9001 and 14001 to Kiwa Keur and the renowned European Ecolabel. As environmentally responsible Group of companies, Rockwool has developed an Environmental Policy that aims to promote the sustainable production and use of insulation products and substrates for horticultural use by minimising waste, ECOLABEL Certificate is delivered preventing pollution and operating an ISO14001:2004 accredited environmental to Mr. Kees Struijk / management system. Grodan Marketing Manager Substrates The fact that these products have been awarded those quality and environmental marks is testament to the importance that DKG Group places on sustainable business practices and ensuring that its substrate solutions comply with the most stringent environmental criteria. Read more for Certificates and awards: http://www.grodan.com/environment/certificates http://www.rockwool.com/environment/production/green+awards 24 SOCIETY p. 26 Promoting Healthy Products p. 27 Promoting Sustainable Practices p. 28 Promoting Greening to Life p. 29 Advancing Knowledge Transfer p. 31 Creating Associations p. 33 Supporting Researches p. 34 Inspiring Wellness p. 35 Encouraging Volunteerism p. 36 Supporting children's activities p. 37 Promoting Cultural Heritage p. 38 Promoting Tourism Development 25 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY GREENHOUSE TM EXCELLENCE SERIES Promoting Healthy Products The global consumer demand for high quality foods that are fresh tasting, safe and nutritive has created pressure for the development of new and improved production and processing technologies and services. We are focusing on a multidisciplinary approach, identifying key innovative sustainable solutions along the food chain by providing a greenhouse excellence series solutions, the hydroponic Marouli Best and Fraoula Best . Healthy, nutritious, tasty and safe products every day which are good for both people and the environment is the aim of DKG. The hydroponic MarouliBest solution has been applied in greenhouses in the Greek market in the last 7 years and has achieved in some cases the vision of producers, 8 crop cycles per year. The products are ready for consumption without need washing. The result is a perfectly normal process and most importantly, from producers fully qualified, who comply with strict procedures. The hydroponic FroulaBest solution has also applied in greenhouses mostly in the Cypriot market and has achieved 3 times more production with excellent flavor, great taste and long shelf life. 26 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Promoting Sustainable Practices & Products DRIKA Farm and all of our clients are encouraged to adopt sustainable agricultural cucumbers), Ostrovit S.A./Romania (Domeniil Ostrov wines), V& VGD Ltd/Bulgaria practices, in order to increase the quality, the taste and quantity of their crops, and (V tomatoes & cucumbers), Jasmin Agro Ltd /Bulgaria (Jasmin superior tomatoes), to promote safe and eﬃcient working practice. Hellenic Greenhouses S.A./Greece (Best crispy lettuce), ORCHARD Horticulture Development Co/Egypt (Top peppers) etc. Prima Greenhouses S.A was the ﬁrst hydroponic greenhouse in Greece, in which Christos D. Katsanos had given the opportunity to the Greek market to know about All of our clients embrace a strong commitment to growing sustainable products branded juicy sustainable hydroponic tomatoes (Prima tomatoes). by applying an intensive Integrated Pest Management (IPM), by using bumblebees to help encourage natural plant pollination, by practicing strictly water manageOur people’s twenty years of experience is followed by many signiﬁcant projects ment to feed the water and nutrients directly to plants' roots (or even collect that DKG Group took an active part in order to create branded products, through rainwater and use it in the irrigation systems), and lastly by using all used mediums sustainable practices, such as Agritex Energy S.A./Greece (Lucia tomatoes), of the cultivation in a sustainable end-to-life way. Wonderplant S.A./Greece (Drama tomatoes), Hortifruct SA/Romania (tomatoes & 27 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Promoting Greening to Life IQ GREENING Ltd (member of DKG Group) provides The Green Design Hydroponic Practices contribute to • doubling the lifetime of roofs due to protection green design hydroponic practices for a healthier the sustainable development of the environment by: against UV radiation and considerably reduced and more sustainable urban living environment. • reducing urban pollution temperature ﬂuctuations • addressing micro-climate • binding dust and particles Green Design Hydroponic Practices are: • increasing the biological diversity • evaporating from the plants improving the air • Vertical Green Walls quality and reducing the eﬀect of “heat islands” in • Urban Farming • absorbing and reducing the level of outdoor noise urban areas getting into the building • Roof Gardening • bringing health and economic beneﬁts through • providing a better indoor climate because of insula• Green Sound absorbent Walls urban farms tion eﬀect towards especially heat during summer, leading to less energy consumption for cooling • creating goodwill and image. 28 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Advancing Knowledge Transfer DKG Group is also specializes through its Organization IRTC (International In cooperation with the Training Department of TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) S.A. & Research and Training Centre for Sustainability) in the ﬁeld providing cost eﬀecIRTC, DKG Group also oﬀers training programs in the areas of: tive quality training to corporations and individuals to help them achieve higher • GLOBALG.A.P. protocol standards and greater rewards. • AGRO 2-1 & 2-2 standard Greek certification scheme for agriculture enterprises The training programs provide a greater understanding of key issues for the agriculture industry and provide solutions for those with an interest in the sector, • ISO 22000 standard through top quality speakers and presentations from industry leaders and • ISO 22000:2005 researchers. Finally, in cooperation with the University of Macedonia, Thessaloniki, GREECE and The training programs are in the areas of: The Logistics Group consulting company, DKG Groups oﬀers training in the area of • Total Greenhouse Management & Operation Total Quality Management and Logistics. • Total Farm Management & Operation For more visit the following website and blogs: • Hydroponic techniques IRTC: http://www.irtcs.org/ • Greenhouse Personnel technical skills Total Farm Management Seminars: http://total-farm-management.blogspot.com/ • Integrated Pest Management strategies Agrisystems Seminars: http://agrisystems.blogspot.com/ 29 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Advancing Knowledge Transfer TOTAL FARM MANAGEMENT TOTAL GREENHOUSE MANAGEMENT Total Farm Management® is DKG’S experience and know how methodolTotal Greenhouse Management® is DKG’S experience and know how ogy on Farm management. It represents a collection of various managemethodology on 16 greenhouse hydroponic grown crops. This integrated ment strategies and methods that are employed to keep a farm productive service covers the whole chain form the farm to tha fork (vase) from: and proﬁtable. The process of TFM® is associated with large commercial • Market research farms, although many of the same methods can be utilized with equal • Feasibility study success on a small family-owned farm. • Greenhouse design In many respects, TFM® is similar to the management processes that are • Selection of Suppliers employed with any type of business. There are decisions that must be made • Project Management on a daily basis, as well as operational guidelines that must be observed by everyone who is involved with the operation. • Investors & Executives Education • Staﬀ training & Crop Support Total Farm Management® is making and implementing of the decisions involved in organizing and operating a farm for maximum production and • Hydroponics proﬁt in a sustainable way. TFM® draws on agricultural economics for • Certiﬁcation information on prices, markets, agricultural policy and economic institutions to Branding of the ﬁnal product such as leasing and credit. It also draws on plant science for information on soils, propagation material, fertilizer; on control of weeds, insects, and disease; on agricultural engineering for information on farm buildings, machinery, irrigation, drainage, and erosion control systems; and on psychology and sociology for information on human behavior. DKG’s specialization is on Viticulture, Wine making and Arboriculture. http://total-farm-management.blogspot.com Total Greenhouse Management Presentation 30 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Creating Associations The Green Club® CottonBest.eu ™ The Green Club®, a Reputation Management Growers Association is CottonBest.eu is a Certiﬁed traceability program based on the a consists of 21 member companies. These growers who are located Pioneer Hi-Bread Hellas protocol and as a reliable, realistic and ﬂexible all over Greece grow hydponically a number of diﬀerent vegetables system promotes the cooperation among all cotton market “players” in greenhouses. They have perfected the growing environment for without binding any of them. It, allows the enhancement of quality and tomatoes, cucumbers, peppers and lettuce by giving the plants services delivered through a special complaint/recommendation exactly what they need the perfect climate, the right amount of system to be completed by the product recipients. It is a “live” system light, the right amount of nutrition, exact amount of water and designed and implemented based on the particular Greek market carbon dioxide and the proper ventilationwhich means that plants conditions, and providing farming and marketing options adapted to can grow strong, healthy and big. By those practices they have the particular conditions of each occasion. achieved a high reputation in the market. DKG has contributed in this idea and its implementation since the All members are certiﬁed against Integrated Crop Management inception. processes (GLOBALGAP, AGRO 2-1&2-1) and Food Safety Management Systems (ISO 22000:2005). DKG Consulting is a founding member and has been appointed as the Coordinator of The Green Club. http://www.greenclub.gr http://CottonBest.eu 31 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Creating Associations CRETACERT The Friends of Xinomavro CRETACERT, is a non profit organization created for managing the Mr. Katsanos (co-founder of DKG Group) along with Dr Spinthiropouhigh Reputation of the quality agricultural products of Crete,Greece. lou and Mr. Georgiadis founders of Argatia wineryduring a wine All sectors involved in the process of production and marketing of tasting conversation decided to coordinate a group of people who Cretan agricultural products (producers, agronomists, processors, share the same philosophy about life, love Xinomavro (a special wine packers, traders), the chambers and government are participating in from an indigenous Greek vine variety) and like to collaborate and this organization. share their experiences. These people have been grouped in 2010 under the name of “The Friends of Xinomavro“. DKG Consulting is involving in this project since its inception. Members keep regular meetings for various events and activities, such as: • Viticulture activities (pruning the vines, stretching the wires and straightening of the piles, harvesting) • Wine testing and lunches • Wine exhibitions • Creative activities in nature (vine and wine paintings by children). http://www.cretacert.org http://filoitouxinomavrou.blogspot.com 32 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY INTERNATIONAL GreenSys CONGRESS Supporting Researchers Advanced Technologies & Management Towards Sustainable Greenhouse Ecosystems 5-10 June 2011, Halkidiki Greece DKG Group through its division IRTC (International Research & Training Centre For Sustainability) strongly supports research and development. DKG Group was sponsor the International GreenSys 2011 Congress on «Advanced technologies and management towards sustainable greenhouse ecosystems», that comprised scientiﬁc sessions about innovative and eﬃcient systems and technologies, greenhouse design, crop substrates and hydroponics, greenhouse climate control, culture practices and plant protection as well as education and training., organized by The University of Thessaly and the Center for Research and Technology-Thessaly, Greece. The Total Farm Management theme was presented by Mr. Evagelos Drimtzias (President at The DKG Group) who was among others speaker at the congress. http://www.greensys2011.com/18.sponsors.html 33 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Inspiring Wellness DKG Group believes it is a vital to encourage wellness. The Group promotes a wide range of physical activities, from sailing to scuba diving and from badminton to ultra-marathons, and almost each employee participate at least one activity. But the most remarkable event of the year, in which some members of DKG Group take active part as participants, volunteers and supporters of the event is the Rodopi Ultra Trail (ROUT), which is a tough adventure footrace strictly for experienced runners who compete in semi-autonomy conditions a distance of 100 miles running along abandoned paths and trails through the tremendous scenery of the Rodopi Mountains National Park in Northern Greece. Apart, all employees in the workplace are treated with respect, dignity and understanding, so, the workforce is happier, more motivated and more aware of the benefits that dialogue can bring, because wellness means a healthy balance of the mind-body and spirit that results in an overall feeling of well-being. 34 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Encouraging Volunteerism DKG Group supports and promotes volunteerism Rodopi Ultra Trail (ROUT) ECOMARATHON Rodopi Ultra Trail (ROUT), as we have already mentioned before is a tough DKG in collaboration with its client OSTROVIT S.A. supported the ECOMARATHON adventure footrace running along abandoned paths and trails through the Trail Run in Romania by sponsoring the winners’ trophies. tremendous scenery of the Rodopi Mountains National Park in Northern Greece. The Rodopi forest has exceptional ecological interest, with unique flora and fauna www.ecomarathon.ro and that the forest constitutes a complicated ecosystem, mainly characterized by the relations of interaction and interdependence both between plants and animals and in relation with the environment. A lot of volunteers help in order to carried out this 100 miles running race by cleaning the paths under strict directions to keep the natural beauty untouched, by protecting the flora, fauna and animals like brown bears and roes. Apart, during the running race, volunteers incessantly stand for more than 42 hours close to participants by covering any of their needs. www.rout.gr 35 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Supporting children's activities DKG Group supports children development by encouraging them take active part in physical, creative and entertainment activities and helping them to be equipped with creativity, imagination, self esteem, passion, perseverance and patience. Such activities like the Olympus Kids Trail Run, Agios Georgios Orienteering or Entertainment Painting Event (during the Friends of Xinomavro meeting) are some of them. 36 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Promoting Cultural Heritage The Cultural Foundation Orizontas & En Xoro Methexis TV Programs The Cultural Foundation Methexis“ (in which DKG Group is co-founder) founded in Two television programs, the Orizontas and En Xoro , through the image, speach, order to meet the needs and beliefs of founders and its members who place as and the filing of personal experiences of the producers and interlocutors, aims to protractor the quality, culture, participation and cooperation. The last remarkable bring and share beautiful places of the world we live. Natural beauty sides, villages event which was organized by the Methexis Foundation was a photo exhibition and cities of Greece are mainly what Orizontas show. The En Xoro program seek to entitled Syrrako: Stone and Memory and Light , a journey of images -literature and preserve and exploit the rich cultural heritage of Epirus. art to travel to the historical village Syrrako,Greece to be viewed, be loved and For more please visit: become tourist and cultural destination. www.orizontas.org For more informations please visit: www.enxoro.gr www.m-f.gr www.youtube.com/user/enxoro www.ekthesisyrrako.blogspot.com SoluKhumbu Trail 2011 by GO-MRP Team SoluKhumbu Trail is a race that approaches mountain running with a completely new angle, unfolds the magic of Nepal, while revealing the culture and lifestyle of its people Gastronomy Club in a unique way. This unique experience has a price. It requires all of the strength, the of Epirus soul and breath of each participant and the people who stands beside them like the The Gastronomy Club of Epirus through various events such as conferences and photographer Babis Giritziotis of GO Mountain Running Photos Team , who has tastings, highlights the local great products of Epirus in a wider audience and shows immortalized this moments by the minimum moral support of the DKG Group. the way how the dinner table of Greeks should be for those who have forgotten or For more please visit: have no idea. www.go-mrp.com www.youtube.com/user/gomrp 37 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | SOCIETY Promoting Tourism Development DKG Group is sponsor of the sailboat Limoncello for many years. Limoncello & Protecting Marine Ecology helps the local tourism development since it participate to water sport events like the Aegean Regatta race that is held in diﬀerent islands every year. Apart from the tourism development, also encourage close relationships, teamwork, solidarity and understanding among various people who join the crew. 38 U N G LO B A L C O M PA C T C O M M I T M E N T p. 40 Human Rights p. 41 Labour p. 42 Environment p. 43 Anti-corruption 39 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT For us, it’s a matter of principles The Global Compact as the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative, is committed to aligning the operations and strategies of all types of organizations with the universally accepted principles of the UN, covering human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. In September 2008 the DKG Group signed the UN Global Compact, signifying our commitment to operate in a responsible and sustainable manner. We will continue support and promote the Global Compact’s principles and report our progress toward implementing them. HUMAN RIGHTS pages 15-18 DKG Group is committed to operating in accordance with all applicable national Principle 1 and international regulations and laws with reference to human rights. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; DKG Group has not been complicit nor does ever expect to be complicit in violation of human rights abuses whether through direct involvement (through beneficial involvement via third party), nor assisting other parties by remaining silent. Principle 2 Throughout our history, we have enjoyed a high reputation in fair dealings by keepMake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ing our transactions fair and ethical. Targets for 2011-2012 Our Human Rights Commitment will continue act as a foundation to build upon and expand awareness within our spheres of control and influence. 40 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT LABOUR page 15 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 The eﬀective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. DKG Group respects and supports the Global Compact’s four Labour Standards principles. > We assure compliance with national standards and regulations. We apply human rights in the workplace, so Group's overarching aim of conducting all business, including with (or through) our partners, honestly, fairly and with > We do not allow the use of any form of forced or compulsory respect for people, their dignity and their rights also applies to these four princilabour. ples. > We have established a clear policy regarding the minimum age for DKG Group is committed to providing impartial treatment, equal opportunities employment, which complies with national law. and no discrimination policy to all its employees by applying all relevant national regulations and laws. > We are committed to ensuring equal treatment and opportunities for all our employees. Targets for 2011-2012 • Update and organize the workplace assessment survey • Increase the average training hours per employee 41 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENT pages 20-24, 27-30, 36 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. DKG Group has long recognized the importance of protecting our environment for future generations and of addressing the challenges from increasing demands for healthy and safety products. At DKG Group, maintaining high standards of environmental accountability is a cornerstone of our commitment to corporate responsibility, which state that: • We exercise utmost vigilance in protecting the environment • We will always meet, and where possible exceed, regulatory requirements in our environmental performance Targets for 2011-2012 • Further improve the data collection system based on selected G3 indicators • Feed our green news and activities more oﬅen on the internet 42 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION page 18 Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. DKG Group fundamentally opposes any kind of corruption and bribery. It becomes acceptable that corruption in DKG Group has never existed. However, we continue our eﬀorts in order to ensure that this situation will not change. We use ethical management, transparency of information and open procedures. We increased the awareness of our employees on core subjects to give them a clear understanding of our intentions and their obligations that should follow. We also requested them to undertake personal responsibility for confronting corruption and bribery by adopting strong position and refusing, resisting and reporting any possible attempt or oﬀer. Targets for 2011-2012 Continue uphold high moral and ethical principles and the basic norms of behavior. 43 INFORMATION ON THE REPORT p. 45 Closing p. 45 Feedback p. 45 Reporting period p. 46 How we intend to make this CSR & COP available to our Stakeholders p. 46 Abbreviations p. 47 The committee of CSR & COP Report 44 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | INFORMATION ON THE REPORT Closing Feedback Reporting Period In this report, DKG Group describes its eﬀorts, As part of our commitment to open and honest This report focuses on the results of activities in progress and plans in relation to sustainability and dialogue with our stakeholders, we invite feedback ﬁscal 2010 and 2011(from September, 2010 to Global Compact Principles. All information in the on the contents of this report, or any other COP or September 2011) but includes some activities Report is reliable and properly reﬂects the CSR issues of importance that we have not covered. continuing from before and more recent ones. feasibility of Group's targets, expectations and ambitions. Please address all feedback to Dimitra Notiou, at notiou@dkggroup.com DKG Group will continue to be guided by its core values and its unwavering focus on ethical operation and service to its stakeholders. In 2012, we look forward to improving on the things we can control and continuing to lead the right way every day. We invite you to join us in our sustainable world, and welcome your continued support in this journey. 45 The DKG Group COP & CSR Report 2011 | INFORMATION ON THE REPORT How we intend to make this SCR & Abbreviations COP available to our Stakeholders • DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the UN Global Compact website AGRO 2.1 & 2.2 Standard http://www.unglobalcompact.org Hellenic certification scheme for agriculture enterprises COP Communication on Progress • DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the DKG Group website http://www.dkggroup.com CSR Corporate Social Responsibility GRI Global Reporting Initiative • DKD’s COP & CSR will be published on the Group’s profile on linkedin http://www.linkedin.com/company/the-dkg-group ILO International Labour Organization IPM Integrated Pest Management • DKG’s COP & CSR will be sent via e-mail to all our employees IRTC International Research and Training Centre for Sustainability ISO International Organisation for Standardisation G.A.P. Good Agricultural Practices ROUT Rodopi Ultra Trail UNGC United Nations Global Compact 46 The committee of CSR & COP Report Editors Proof reader Creative design Christos D. Katsanos Evagelos N. Drimtzias Elena Gadona Executive Director President Group Visual Communication Executive Dimitra Notiou Management Assistant Publication Current issue: September 2011 Next issue: Scheduled for September 2012 Most photographs belong to the property of The DKG Group. The rest of them (the sources are indicated) have been legally granted to DKG Group for this report. So, we have to thank for this concession the following people and organizations: ORGANIZATIONS OSTROVIT S.A., ROUT (Rodopi Ultra Trail), ECOMARATHON, EN HORO, ORIZONTAS, GO-Mountain Running Photos, Gastronomy Club of Epirus, Methexis Foundation, Olympus Marathon, The Friends of Xinomavro, Limoncello, V&A Studio Photography, CRETACERT, Pioneer Hi Bred Hellas S.A., TUV HELLAS S.A., GREEN Club, Grodan Group, Agritex S.A., Wonderplant S.A. PERSONS Oana Belu, Lucian Velciu, Toni Ilinca, Babis Giritziotis, Cornelia & Sylvia David, Mike Styllas, George Brovas, Elias Spyridopoulos, Lazaros Rigos, Elias Gartzonikas, Dimitris Gartzonikas, Vassilis Loupas, Vagelis Giotopoulos, Ioannis Kritsotakis, Vasilly Haitas, Theodore Alexiou, Loukas Skretis, Christina Papaioannou, Andreas Kiziris. 47 breathe life into the future DKG Group Ltd: 5 b, Ioustinianou street, 551 34, Thessaloniki GREECE • Tel: +30 2310 488.915 • Fax: +30 2310 488.916 • E-mail: welcome@dkggroup.com • www.dkggroup.com
