SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 ALTERNATIVE IS TRANSFORMATIVE SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Over the years, Alternative Thinking has been ingrained in Processes, Products and People all at Mahindra. It is helping us, not only in rising to emerging Mahindra are driven by Alternative Thinking. challenges but also in translating them into opportunities. This transformative power stems from our commitment towards the Group's purpose This ability to think fresh, travel hitherto unexplored mind to enable people to Rise. spaces and develop innovative solutions that enhances resource efficiency has helped us transform the lives of Alternative Thinking is one of the three millions in India. brand pillars in our new brand mantra Rise. The other two being Accepting No We empower farmers through innovative agri prosperity Limits & Driving Positive Change. initiatives, lend support through financial products, provide IT solutions that help our clients adapt to changing The goal is to deploy this powerful tool to environment, create green and innovative urban living affect a shift in the basic premises of spaces and invest in new automotive technologies and thought, feelings, and actions. factories that leave a lighter carbon footprint. A U T O M O T I V E D I V I S I O N State-of-the-art green manufacturing plant with a phased investment of over USD 1 bn and vision to Enhanced product offerings beyond be among the world's most eco-friendly auto plants SUVs to boost self employment Introduced Asia's 1st in semi urban and rural India Fully integrated R&D facility Mahindra Research 100% Biodiesel SUV & Valley (MRV) in Chennai India's 1st hydrogen India's 1st compact low maintenance, powered three wheeler high mileage and affordable trucks Acquired Reva Electric Vehicles Ltd. one of the 1st Mahindra Gio and Maxximo companies in the world to introduce electric vehicles Development of HCNG (Hydrogen + CNG mixture) Entry in construction equipment and Expanded global reach through acquisition of commercial vehicles heavy vehicles manufacturing Ssangyong Motor Company Challenging Old Empowering Small-scale Becoming Technologies Enterprises Future-ready From Alternative Technologies to Alternative Markets F I N A N C I A L S E R V I C E S S E C T O R Introduction of hand-held devices to reach rural customers at their doorsteps Entered retail financing of Wind and solar tractors, commercial vehicles Opening 88 new branches in one year to increase installations at and construction equipment the reach to 547 branches mainly in semi-urban various rural and and rural area semi-urban Foray in insurance broking, branches facing rural housing finance and Easy finance for our Utility Vehicles (UV) chronic power loans against gold for rural prosperity shortage Investing in Widening Renewable Energy Inclusive Growth Rural Reach Projects From Financing Vehicles to Generating Livelihoods 01 F A R M D I V I S I O N Swaraj 843 XM, A tractor powered by 42 HP engine Introduction of an array of farm-tech products for greater power and that help transform rural productivity, income, better fuel efficiency Mahindra Samriddhi Centres empower and living standards farmers with agri-support information, B5 tractor that runs on counselling and services at every stage Yuvraj a revolutionary 15HP tractor for small Eco-friendly biodiesel from planting to selling and marginal farmers Enhancing Going Beyond Providing Technology Fuel Efficiency Tractors for Prosperity From Farm Equipment to Enhancing Farm Prosperity T R A N S F O R M A T I I T S E C T O R Instituted in 1986, Tech Mahindra (Tech M) is the fifth largest software exporter in India today Tech Mahindra Foundation facilitates Presence in over Integration of our IT and Business Services quality education and vocational 25 countries Group (BSG) capabilities training for the disadvantaged sections of the society Official sponsor and Joint venture (JV) with Motorola Inc. and IT provider for the iPolicy Networks Private Limited Mahindra Satyam Foundation is a FIFA Football World CupTM, fierce advocate of education, livelihood maintaining end-to-end Acquiring Satyam to be a leader in opportunities, healthcare and logistics requirement the broader IT services space disaster management of the event Expanding Social Global Horizons Change Agents Footprint From an IT Player to a Game Changer 02 S Y S T E C H S E C T O R Since inception in 2004, it has become a leading supplier to global OEM's and Substantial acquisitions in India and Foray in aerospace with acquisition tier-1 suppliers overseas viz. Germany, UK, Italy of two Australian companies, one for component manufacture for A diverse mix of 24 manufacturing plants Technological collaborations with airplanes and the other for in India & Europe with 12,000 employees Indian and American universities for manufacture of small aircrafts R&D in steel making Leadership statistics: 5th largest forging Patent filed and business initiated company in the world; largest Indian Capacity expansions in to manufacture electrode-less lamps ductile iron foundry casting and forging for energy-efficient lighting solutions Strategic ‘Design to Widening Alternative Delivery’ Supplier the Radius Opportunities From Core Competencies to Exploring New Frontiers O N A L J O U R N E Y R E A L E S T A T E S E C T O R Mahindra Splendour India's 1st Platinum pre-certified residential green building under IGBC Green Homes Rating system Mahindra World City, Chennai Mahindra World City Jaipur (MWCJL) is corporate India's 1st operational in being developed to meet the highest Recognition of all projects being Special Economic Zone (SEZ) benchmark in infrastructure development IGBC pre-certified green buildings with a key focus on sustainability Successfully deployed the Initiated a host of green features 'Work-Live-Learn-Play' concept which MWCJL is one of the 16 new developments in the building that protect the has made Mahindra World City Chennai in the world identified by the Clinton health of not only the residents a preferred business destination for Climate Initiative under its Climate but also the planet world-class companies Positive Development Program Pioneering Sustainable Creating India's 1st Developing a Carbon Construction Integrated Business City Efficient Township From Green Buildings to Healthy Lifestyles 03 T W O W H E E L E R S S E C T O R Introduced power scooters a mix Product promotions that blend 1st Indian Motorcycle of style and substance creativity with a cause to enhance manufacturer to enter a the responsibility quotient of our team into MotoGP Enhanced fuel efficiency and reducing consumers which are mainly the prestigious FIM Riad emissions on 'Rodeo' and 'Flyte' the youth Racing World Championship Engineering for Responsible Fast-track Indian Roads Marketing Growth From Roads to Racing Tracks L E I S U R E & H O S P I T A L I T Y S E C T O R 1st in the industry to be awarded an Ecotel certification for resorts; and Leadership in Energy & Environment Design (LEED) pre-certification of World's 1st vacation ownership company Club Mahindra was one of the greenfield projects to receive the COPC -2000® CSP Global 1st vacation ownership companies Standard certification for its Member in India and is today offering a CHEERS a unique stakeholder Relations Centre bouquet of 35 beautiful resorts engagement program involves tourists and a family of 125,000+ in environmental and social activities Series of recognitions: happy members while on holiday The coveted Bird Express Travel World Award for 'Excellence in Operations; Addition of exciting new 'Homestays' offers a flavour of Indian offerings from leisure boats to living and 'Terra' brings people closer Resort Condominium International (RCI) corporate retreats to nature Gold Crown Award for 7 Resorts Introducing Vacation Leading by India's no.1 Ownership Sustainability Holiday Brand From Early Adopters to Market Leaders 04 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Executive Speak CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS It was in the financial year 2007-08, that the Mahindra Group produced its first Sustainability Review, and I am really delighted to see that the strategic journey of 'Alternative Thinking' is growing in spirit and strength, adding more and more businesses into its fold, year on year. It is therefore with great pleasure that I present the fourth Sustainability Review of the Mahindra Group. From this report it is evident that, our businesses are harvesting visible competitive advantages that accrue as a result of responsible and transparent business practices; the advantages that cascade across the entire stakeholder chain benefiting our investors, employees, suppliers, dealers, customers and communities. In spite of the turbulent business environment; Mahindra, through the application of 'Alternative Thinking' in rigorous cost restructuring exercises, process efficiencies and product innovations, turned in a remarkable financial performance. As we delve into the challenges of climate change, it gets clearer that the future is fraught with uncertainties and it is increasingly obvious that incorporating sustainability into the business vision is prudent risk management. It is the strategic equivalent of creating financial reserves and investing in the long-term viability of not just our business, but of the employment it generates and of the social contribution it makes. Through ‘Alternative Thinking’, our businesses are harvesting visible competitive advantages that accrue as a result of responsible and transparent business practices; the advantages that cascade across the entire stakeholder chain benefitting our investors, employees, customers, suppliers, dealers, and communities. Keshub Mahindra Chairman, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Moreover, the importance of integrating a triple bottom-line approach in business is of greater relevance to a developing nation like ours, where the economic growth and the woes of poverty, illiteracy, ill health, discrimination and social biases coexist. We therefore see ourselves as providers of an improved quality of life, rather than providers of goods and services. It is this philosophy that has prompted Mahindra to design products and services which sport a greater amount of consciousness towards the environment and are sensitive to the needs of the large portion of our population that needs to be included in India's economic growth. Emerging from this approach is our rearticulated brand promise RISE. While it reiterates our existing core values of Dignity of Individuals, Professionalism, Good Corporate Citizenship, Quality Focus and Customer Centricity, it also encourages us to accept no limits in whatever we endeavour, drive positive change among all those under our sphere of influence and practice alternative thinking, that is transformative. Mahindra will continue the responsible practices of corporate governance, transparency and accountability that have become the hallmarks of the Group and will go beyond maximising profits to address the interests of all stakeholders simultaneously. 05 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Executive Speak MESSAGE FROM VC & MD The year 2010-11 was both eventful and successful. As a Group, we diversified into new businesses, consolidated the existing ones, and made forays into new geographies, taking our aggregate revenues to US$12.5 billion as on March 31, 2011. The Group's net turnover for the year grew by 16.85% and the profit before tax and exceptional items registered an increase of 13.07% over the previous year. However that is only a part of our story. While we generated profits, we had our eyes trained on the targets we had set for ourselves in the Sustainability Roadmap charted out in 2008-09. These targets include improving energy and natural resource efficiencies in our operations and enhanced commitment to our own people, our customers, our suppliers, as well as to society in general. Like every year, this year too we have enhanced the scope of the Group Sustainability Report which now encompasses 96.5% of the Group's gross annual turnover from Indian operations. While there were many reasons that contributed to this financial growth and increased resource efficiencies, the one underlying factor that has consistently guided us on our growth path is the deep rooted belief we have in our age old core values, which will always be our North Star, no matter how much we grow. Our redefined brand identity “RISE”, unifies the varied perception of brand Mahindra across our Group companies and promises to empower our stakeholders to achieve their aspirations and create a better future for themselves, their families and their community. Anand Mahindra Vice Chairman & Managing Director, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. So, as we continue with our commitment for technological improvements for sustainable mobility solutions through alternative fuels, we also continue to create vehicles that boost self employment for semi-urban youth. As we produce tractors designed to address the requirements of high-end farming operations the world over, we also design products for the marginalized farmer in India that help transform rural productivity and living standards. As we design financial products for fostering asset creation, we also penetrate deeper into rural India to offer micro-finance and thereby boost rural growth. We continue to provide IT solutions for large multi billion corporations, and, at the same time, our employees and foundations devote much of their time and energy to addressing the health and education needs of the urban and rural poor. During 2010-11, while on the one hand we acquired a majority stake in Korea's leading manufacturer of Utility Vehicles (UV) Ssangyong Motor Company Limited, which will enhance our global prominence in the UV segment, on the other our commitment to achieve farm prosperity was reiterated by acquiring a sizeable stake in Micro-irrigation Technology of EPC Industries Limited. While all this is an intrinsic part of what we call the 'Mahindra Way', there were two outcomes that made us really proud. 06 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Executive Speak This year marked the first anniversary of a successful collaboration between Tech Mahindra and Mahindra Satyam. With the strong systems of corporate governance that were brought in and the restructuring of the Board, Mahindra Satyam re-emerged post crisis as a resurgent, vibrant powerhouse of energy and ambition. This collaboration also reinstated confidence in the clients encouraging them to extend their contracts or partnerships with Mahindra Satyam. For its 'Associates', Mahindra Satyam continued to be a great place to work in with good career prospects and ample scope for fun at work. At the end of it all, Mahindra Satyam made the country proud by being the official IT service provider for the FIFA World CupTM, 2010 in South Africa by servicing their IT needs and offering proactive solutions that enhanced the World Cup experience for viewers around the world and demonstrated the company's technology prowess. It gives me great pleasure to note that Mahindra Satyam is also included in the scope of this year's sustainability report. The second fulfilling event was, building 'Nav Nirman Dham' for the flood affected Pattori village in Bihar, which was the outcome of the joint efforts of the entire Group. This self sustaining village with ecoefficiency features is now providing comfortable housing to villagers, who had never dreamt of owning their own home. This social initiative, is also showing us a path towards a sound business proposition where Mahindra Consulting Engineers, Mahindra Finance, Mahindra Solar One, Farm Division etc. can together play a major role in transforming rural India with benefits to the recipients and themselves. As they say, When giants transform themselves from impersonal machines into human communities, they can transform the world . Perhaps it is this holistic approach to business which has prompted us to redefine our Group brand identity RISE which promises to empower all our stakeholders to achieve their aspirations and create a better future for themselves, their families and their community. Our core purpose is to facilitate this by 'Accepting No Limits', practicing 'Alternative Thinking' and 'Driving Positive Change' in the lives of our stakeholders. 'RISE' is currently driving an internal business transformation which will enable us to consistently deliver on our core purpose and achieve the business goal of becoming a leading global player. This is the 4th Group Sustainability Report a culmination of the hard work and commitment displayed by all our people in achieving economic growth, without compromising the Mahindra ethos of good corporate governance, transparency and accountability to all stakeholders. Needless to say that, this approach will continue to light the way and guide us as we aspire to a sustainable and profitable future. 07 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Reporting Process MATERIALITY Materiality is the cornerstone which defines our sustainability initiatives. It shows us the avenues where we can rise and drive positive change. We periodically identify emerging trends, interpret their business relevance and integrate the insights into our material issues to ensure that they are contemporary and in-step with our current business and emerging business environment. We have continually enhanced the breadth and depth of our analysis because we strongly believe that the sharper we define our materiality the better is the efficacy of our sustainability program. 2009-10 2010-11 Last year a detailed exercise was conducted This year the consultation was at a higher level in to identify the nodes of each of the business the management, i.e. with the heads of Sectors sectors and list the material issues under each (Presidents/MDs/CEOs), whereby the material issues and node. This was done in consultation with the key stakeholders were reviewed and vetted. This exercise business heads of individual locations. reconfirmed the material issues associated with the (For more details refer CSR 2009-10) individual sectors. A further exercise of segregating material issues having a direct linkage to the core values and other material issues was done with a medium term perspective, to enable insightful analysis, chalk out definitive roadmaps and implement meaningful changes. The medium term view lends continuity to programmes and sustained focus results in concrete improvements. THE INNER LAYER The inner layer consists of material issues which are non-negotiable for us as per our core values that help to maintain the sanctity of the outer layer. THE OUTER LAYER The outer layer consists of material issues that help maintain the sanctity of the inner layer and help us in realising our long term goals. 08 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Reporting Process REPORT SCOPE LIMITATIONS This report is India-centric and excludes: International operations Following companies / plants of manufacturing sectors: Businesses which were acquired or commenced Mahindra Navistar Automotives Limited operations in FY 2010-11 Mahindra Navistar Engines Mahindra Retail Pvt. Limited Pvt. Limited Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited Mahindra Aerospace Aftermarket Sector Ssangyong Motor Company Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited Swaraj Engines Limited (Sale & Purchase of Pre-owned Cars) Mahindra First Choice Services Limited Mahindra Gujarat Tractor Limited (Multi-brand Service Chain) Mahindra Shubhlabh Speciality businesses like Media & Entertainment, Defence Services and Special Services Group Mahindra Powerol Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited Bhopal Office buildings, out-station depots and dealerships REPORT BOUNDARY The reporting period for Mahindra's fourth sustainability report is 1st April 2010 to 31st March 2011. As mentioned in our first Sustainability report in 2007-08, we remain committed to report our triple bottom-line performance on an annual basis. The previous web-based Corporate Sustainability Report was uploaded in the public domain in November 2010. We continue to follow the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting G3 Guidelines, which is the most widely adopted non-financial reporting framework in the world and is used to help communicate sustainability performance and encourage transparency and accountability. As in previous years, this year too we enhanced the scope of the report to cover 96.5% of our Group's gross annual turnover from Indian operations as against 93.8% last year. The report includes: Automotive & Farm Sectors Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Automotive Division Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited (MVML)* Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Farm Division 09 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Reporting Process Two Wheeler Sector Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited (MTWL) Real Estate Sector Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited (MLDL) Mahindra World City Developers Limited (MWCDL) Mahindra World City Jaipur Limited (MWCJL) Leisure & Hospitality Sector Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited (MHRIL) Mahindra Partner Division Mahindra Intertrade Limited (MIL) Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited (MSSCL) Mahindra Logistics Limited (MLL) Financial Services Sector Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited (MMFSL) Information Technology Sector Tech Mahindra Limited (Tech M) Mahindra Satyam (MSat)* Systems & Technologies Sector (Systech) Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Limited (MUSCO) Mahindra Forgings Limited (MFL) Mahindra Hinoday Industries Limited Mahindra Composites Limited Mahindra Gears & Transmissions Private Limited (MGTPL) This report has been externally assured by Aftermarket Sector Ernst & Young (India) Mahindra Spares Business (MSB)* Private Limited. *Companies added in the scope this year We encourage and appreciate feedback from all our internal and external stakeholders. Your suggestions are vital and will help us improve not only the quality of our reporting but also the quality of our products and services. Call our toll free number Please email your Location of the organisation's headquarters: suggestions / views / opinions to: Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., sustainability@mahindra.com Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai 400 001. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT S & Ernst & Young Pvt. Ltd. 22 Camac Street, 3rd Floor, Block 'C', Kolkata-700 016, India, Tel: +91 33 6615 3400 Fax: +91 33 2281 7750, www.ey.com/india The Management and Board of Directors Mahindra Group Mumbai, India OUR ENGAGEMENT The Mahindra Group ( Group ) retained Ernst & Young Pvt. Ltd. ( EY ) to provide an independent assurance on its Corporate Sustainability Report for the financial year 2010-11 ( Report ). The Group's management is responsible for the contents of the Report, its presentation, identification of key issues, engagement with stakeholders and its presentation. EY's responsibility is to provide independent assurance on the report content as described in the scope of assurance. Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the management of the Group only and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the Group. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organization. Any dependence that any such third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. The assurance report should not be taken as a basis for interpreting the Group's overall performance, except for the aspects mentioned in the scope below. LEVEL OF ASSURANCE AND CRITERIA USED The assurance engagement was planned and performed in accordance with International Federation of Accountants' International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000). Our evidence-gathering procedures have been designed to obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which to base our conclusions. Moreover, for sustainability performance indicators our work employed the criteria of the reporting principles and indicators of GRI 2006 guidelines (GRI-G3). WHAT WE DID TO FORM OUR CONCLUSIONS Within the scope of our engagement, we requested evidence on a sample basis based on risk and materiality criteria to obtain a limited level of assurance on the contents of the Report. The performance of our engagement mainly involved the following key steps: Interviews at the Group's corporate office to understand the sustainability commitment, management of key sustainability issues and review of stakeholders' engagement process; Visits to sample 18 sites covering the Group's 9 sectors amongst those mentioned in the Scope below; Interviews and analytical considerations with employees from select departments at the Group's corporate office, at sector level and at the sites visited as well as review of relevant documents and systems for gathering, analyzing and aggregating sustainability performance data in the reporting period; Review of material qualitative statements in the Report with regard to consistency and plausibility and review of select underlying documents; Appropriate evidences to support the conclusions in this assurance report were obtained. Most of the information and data reviewed were supported with documentary evidence; wherever such documentary evidence could not be collected on account of confidential information, our team reviewed the documents. 11 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 SCOPE OF OUR ENGAGEMENT The scope of assurance covers the following aspects of the Report: Data and information related to the Group's sustainability performance for the period 1st April 2010 to 31st March 2011; Sustainability specific data and information related to energy, water and waste management, workforce and safety; Review of the GRI-specific core performance indicators and information reported from the following business sectors, companies and locations: Automotive & Farm Sector Mahindra & Mahindra Limited-Automotive Division-Zaheerabad (Andhra Pradesh) & Kandivali (Maharashtra) Mahindra & Mahindra Limited-Farm Division-Rudrapur (Uttarakhand), Kandivali (Maharashtra) Two Wheeler Sector Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited (MTWL)-Pithampur (Madhya Pradesh) Real Estate Sector Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited (MLDL)-Faridabad(Haryana) Mahindra World City Developers Limited (MWCDL)-Chennai (Tamil Nadu) Leisure & Hospitality Sector Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited (MHRIL)-Puducherry (Tamil Nadu) and Goa Mahindra Partner Division Mahindra Intertrade Limited (MIL)-Mumbai (Maharashtra) Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited (MSSCL)-Mumbai (Maharashtra) Mahindra Logistics Limited (MLL)-Bengaluru (Karnataka) Financial Services Sector Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited (MMFSL)-Mumbai (Maharashtra) Information Technology Sector Tech Mahindra Limited (Tech M)-Bengaluru (Karnataka) Mahindra Satyam (MSat)-Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) Systems & Technologies Sector (Systech) Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Limited (MUSCO)-Rudrapur (Uttarakhand) Mahindra Hinoday Industries Limited-Bhosari (Maharashtra) Mahindra Gears & Transmissions Private Limited (MGTPL)-Rajkot (Gujarat) Aftermarket Sector Mahindra Spares Business (MSB)-Kanhe (Maharashtra) Visits to 18 sample sites across 9 sectors amongst those listed above where our work comprised review of the above mentioned indicators for these locations. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 LIMITATIONS The assurance scope excludes: Operations of the Group outside India; Aspects of the Report other than those mentioned above; Data and information outside the defined reporting period (1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011); The Group's statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention provided by the Group; Data and information on economic and financial performance of the Group. OBSERVATIONS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT Our observations and opportunities for improvements were communicated to the Mahindra Group management. Selected key observations are indicated below: The Group has established an online system for improved management of sustainability data across its various sectors. The Group completed an internal materiality exercise in 2010; however, it may consider seeking views from external stakeholders as well. While the Group has been monitoring its carbon footprint, there is an opportunity for improvement of monitoring and disclosure on GHG emissions due to business travel. The Group may consider further strengthening the monitoring of its social initiatives, especially with respect to volunteering hours and tree plantation. Due to the diverse nature of the sectors and businesses therein, training related information may be centrally aligned. OUR CONCLUSIONS Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that: The Report contents are presented fairly, in material respects, in keeping with the stated reporting principles and criteria; The systems and procedures applied by the Company for collection, collation and interpretation of data on sustainability performance parameters for inclusion in the Report are reliable. OUR ASSURANCE TEAM Our assurance team, comprising of multidisciplinary professionals, was drawn from our climate change and sustainability network and undertakes similar engagements with a number of significant Indian and international businesses. For Ernst & Young Private Limited Sudipta Das 8 December 2011 Partner Kolkata 13 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile THE MAHINDRA GROUP Mahindra is many companies bound together by one purpose: to enable people to RISE. It strives to achieve the same by developing cost effective utility vehicles that assist rural entrepreneurs in their business; by manufacturing passenger cars that incorporate the latest in automotive technology; by providing IT solutions that help some of the world's largest companies to increase their productivity. Mahindra seeks to inspire innovation and drive positive change in all its thoughts and actions. Since its inception in 1945, Mahindra has traversed many milestones. Today it has metamorphosed in to a USD 12.5 billion multinational group employing more than 119,900 people in over 100 countries with a presence spanning over 18 key industries. With its mainstay businesses being Automotive and Farm equipment manufacturers, the businesses of Mahindra today cover IT, Vacation ownership, agribusiness, aerospace, consulting services, defence energy, financial services, industrial equipment, logistics, real estate, retail, steel and two wheelers. With our foray in Solar domain, we aim to enable every Indian business, household and individual to rise with clean and affordable solar energy. The Mahindra Group follows a unique business model of creating empowered companies that enjoy the best of entrepreneurial independence and Group-wide synergies. This model has led to an exponential growth over the years. The year 2010 saw Mahindra being named among the Forbes Asia's Fab 50 and the Credit Suisse's Great Brands of Tomorrow. Its flagship company Mahindra & Mahindra Limited earned the distinction of being the only Indian automobile manufacturer to feature in the Top 10 list of the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index in India 2010, created by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). and the Standard & Poor ESG India Index 2010. It also secured a second place in the Green Business Leadership Awards 2010-11, instituted by The Financial Express and Emergent Ventures India. Mahindra added more laurels to its mantle in 2011. It featured on the Forbes Global 2000 list, an index of the biggest and most powerful listed companies in the world. Dun & Bradstreet also ranked Mahindra at No.1 in the automobile sector in its list of India's Top 500 Companies. In 2011, Mahindra also increased its global footprint by acquiring a majority stake in Korea's Ssangyong Motor Company. This acquisition provides both the companies with opportunities for significant synergetic benefits in the areas of global distribution, joint product development, sourcing and best practices. This acquisition is a significant step towards realising Mahindra's global ambitions. The Group has always been sensitive to the needs of the community and the environment. It also respects the fact that means are as important as the final goals. Beginning from its first Sustainability Report for the period 2007-08, Mahindra has been receiving an A+ GRI checked rating for three consecutive reporting cycles. 14 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile THE MAHINDRA GROUP Shareholding Pattern Mutual Funds / UTI | 4.96 Promoters and Promoter Group | 24.9 The Bank of New York Mellon (for GDR holders) | 5.94 Indian Public | 8.57 Private Corporate Bodies | 10.17 Foreign Bodies | 3.24 FIIs | 22.94 NRIs / OCBs / Foreign Nationals | 0.58 Banks, Financial Institutions, Insurance Companies, Central and State Government | 18.7 * All figures are as on 31st March 2011 *NRIs category does not include shareholding aggregating 73.2 million shares representing 0.12% of the paid up share capital of the Company held by NRI as the same is included under the category of Promoters and Promoter Group. Changes in share capital structure during the reporting period Upon sub-division of the face value of Ordinary (Equity) Shares that happened in the year 2009-10, the authorised share capital of the Company is INR 6,250 million divided into 1,200,000,000 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of INR 5 each and 2,500,000 unclassified shares of INR 100 each. The issued, subscribed and paid-up share capital of the Company as on 31st March, 2011 is INR 3,069.7 million comprising of 613,940,109 Equity Shares of INR 5 each. Note: Information on the shareholding pattern and Share Capital structure pertains to M&M. Similar details of the other Group Companies covered in this Sustainability Report are available in the M&M Annual Report >> BUSINESS VERTICALS AUTOMOTIVE PARTNER SYSTEMS & INFORMATION LEISURE & REAL FINANCIAL TWO AFTER DEFENSE & FARM DIVISION TECHNOLOGIES TECHNOLOGY HOSPITALITY ESTATE SERVICES WHEELERS MARKET SYSTEMS SECTOR SECTORS INCLUDED SECTORS NOT INCLUDED 15 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile AUTOMOTIVE & FARM SECTORS AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION Overview The Mahindra Automotive Division (AD) is in the business of manufacturing and marketing utility vehicles and light commercial vehicles, including three-wheelers. In 1947, Mahindra introduced India to the utility vehicle. More than 65 years later, Mahindra is still India's premier Utility Vehicle (UV) company and accounts for about half of India's market for utility vehicles. It also has the distinction of designing India's first hydrogen threewheeler and India's first hybrid vehicle. Mahindra vehicles are exported throughout Europe, Africa, South The Automotive Division has America, South Asia and the Middle East. developed a large product portfolio which caters to diverse In addition to making groundbreaking UVs like the Scorpio and customer segments such as Bolero, Mahindra offers cars, pickups, and commercial vehicles rural, semi-urban, urban and that are rugged, reliable, environment-friendly, and fuel-efficient. defence. Its product development Besides launching two new products during the year Thar and process in this sector has been Genio, AD entered the construction equipment sector with the acknowledged internationally and launch of the Mahindra EarthMaster Backhoe Loader. This entry it also has an active alternative into the construction equipment sector has been made with the propulsion technology purpose of providing support to India's infrastructure development. development programme. THAR GENIO EARTHMASTER The Automotive Division has also forayed into heavy commercial vehicle space with Mahindra Navistar Automotives Limited. (MNAL), a joint venture between Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and International Truck and Engine Corporation. MNAL manufactures Mahindra Navistar trucks at Mahindra's state-of-the-art greenfield plant at Chakan, near Pune. Mahindra Navistar Engines Private Mahindra's Automotive Division Limited (MNEPL), the second joint venture agreement signed became the first Asian OEM to receive by Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, focuses on producing diesel the EPA certification for light duty engines for medium and heavy commercial vehicles in India. diesel trucks in August 2010. (MNAL and MNEPL are not in the scope of this report) Highlights of the Year 1 Three new products launched. Mahindra Thar designed for off-road enthusiast with unique design features that blend legendary past with modern design and technology. 16 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile The Genio 1.2 Tonne pickup with safety feature which is the first in the Pickup category in India. Mahindra Earthmaster Backhoe Loader, geared to carry out the toughest of operations, coupled with comfort and ease. 2 Acquisition of majority stake in the Ssangyong Motor Company of Korea. 3 The Bolero continued to occupy its No.1 position for the fifth consecutive year in the domestic utility vehicle market. 4 Awards & Recognitions: The Mahindra Maxximo, the world's first mini truck with C2 CRDe technology won the LCV of the Year Award at the annual CV award. Mahindra Auto Division awarded 1st place in the Automotive Supply Chain Excellence category during the 4th Express, Logistics and Supply Chain Conclave. Mahindra & Mahindra Limited received the Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) Rolta Corporate Award 2010 being placed at No. 1 in the Automobile Sector in the list of India's Top 500 companies. Mahindra Auto plant at Nashik was awarded the CII National Award for 'Excellence in Water Management 2010' for the fifth consecutive year. For more information visit: http://www.mahindra.com/OurBusinesses/automobile-manufacturer.html FARM DIVISION Overview For over two decades now, Mahindra Tractors has been the undisputed leader of the world's largest tractor market-India. Mahindra's journey in tractors began as a joint venture with International Harvester and with that began a new era in power, control and reliability in farm equipment manufacturing. Today, with the largest manufacturing set up in India, Mahindra Tractors is among the top three players in the global market having a product range from 15 hp to 125 hp. The Farm Division (FD) has six state-of-the-art manufacturing plants (including two plants of Swaraj) in India, two plants in China, three assembly plants in USA and one assembly plant in Australia. FD has its presence in around 25 countries across six continents with more than 1,000 dealers world-wide. Mahindra acquired Punjab Tractors Limited in 2008 to form the Mahindra is the only tractor Swaraj Division. The combination of Swaraj's longstanding manufacturing company in the reputation with Mahindra's cutting edge design and world to win both the Deming manufacturing has made Swaraj a leader. It today has over 600 Application Prize and the Japan dealers across the country and has achieved ISO 14001:2004 & Quality Medal, two of the highest OHSAS 18001:2007 Certifications. FD also has a subsidiary quality accolades that can be won agricultural tractor manufacturing company in India known as by any company. Mahindra Gujarat Tractor Limited (MGTL). 17 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Maintaining its leadership position in the Tractor industry, a new product Arjun MAT was launched and existing products were upgraded during the year. All these initiatives will bring about an improved value proposition to the customers. Today, FD products are making farms more prosperous in more Over the years, more than 133 than forty countries on six continents. Following Mahindra's vision Mahindra Samriddhi Centres have of farm-tech prosperity, Mahindra has also expanded into farmbeen made operational. These support services, including agri-mechanisation solutions under centres offer innovative farming Mahindra AppliTrac; seeds, crop protection and market linkages technologies for improving and distribution through Mahindra ShubhLabh; and agri-support productivity thereby transforming information and counselling through the Samriddhi Initiative. the lives of farmers. ARJUN MAT POWEROL GENSETS Besides being the leading tractor maker for close to three decades now, the Company has diversified in power generators and is now a leading player in the powergen space under the brand, 'Mahindra Powerol'. Swaraj Engines Ltd., Mahindra Powerol, Mahindra Shubhlabh & MGTL and the plants in China are not in the scope of the report. Highlights of the Year 1 New Product launch / Upgrades of existing products Arjun MAT The first multi application tractor for agricultural and other applications. Updated version of Mahindra Arjun, Sarpanch, Bhoomiputra provides superior performance and added safety features. 2 External recognition received in the form of: Golden Peacock Award for Innovation in the year 2010 for Mahindra Samriddhi. Golden Peacock Award for Occupational Health and Safety for the year 2011. Award for 'Overall Brand Leadership' from Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) council in November 2010 for excellence in Branding and Marketing. For more information visit: www.mahindratractorworld.com 18 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile MAHINDRA PARTNER DIVISION Mahindra Intertrade Ltd. (MIL) Overview Mahindra Intertrade is the trading arm of the Mahindra Group primarily focussed on steel and steel related services. It has specialised domain knowledge in imports and exports of commodities, domestic trading, marketing and distribution. Apart from steel, its portfolio includes steel raw materials, ferro alloys, This year, MIL technical and applications-oriented products, non-destructive testing consolidated its position instruments, analytical and diagnostic systems, compressors for special as the largest player in the applications and even consumer products such as toys and apparel. It is processed electrical steel also the only independent automotive facility for blanked skin panels in segment in the country. India and has an international reach of over 300 customers with principals in over 15 countries. Highlights of the Year 1 Mahindra Intertrade Limited Vadodara won the Mahindra Innovation award in the Process Innovation Category. 2 'Street Mahindra Intertrade Limited Nashik received the Esops Jury Award for Electrification with Energy Saving Lamps'. 3 Mahindra Intertrade Limited Nashik and Mahindra MiddleEast-Sharjah successfully implemented IMS (Integrated Management System). For more information visit: www.mahindraintertrade.com Mahindra Steel Service Centre Ltd. (MSSCL) Overview The Company seeks to provide high quality raw material and just-in-time deliveries for the Mahindra Group's Automotive Division. It has diversified its product portfolio to include home appliances, electronic and transformer industries. In 2005, MSSCL expanded its electrical steel service network Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited, to Sharjah in the Middle East. This year, the Company added subsidiary of MIL pioneered the setting up Bhopal to its list of Steel Service Centres. The Bhopal facility of India's first Steel Service Centre in will address the requirements of processed electrical steel collaboration with its Japanese partners from transformer majors located in Central India and is equipped with best-in-class processing lines sourced from Mitsubishi Corporation and Nissho Iwai Heinrich Georg of Germany and Nittetsu Denji Corp. of Japan. Corporation (now Metal One Corporation). For more information visit: www.mahindrasteelservicecenter.com 19 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Mahindra Logistics Ltd. (MLL) Overview Formed in 2000, Mahindra Logistics is an integrated logistics service provider specialising in both supply chain management and people transport solutions. It serves a diverse cross section of industries, providing solutions that span the supply chain and are both customised and technology enabled. Mahindra Logistics offers end-to-end supply chain solutions Mahindra Logistics caters to over 200 and people logistics solutions. Mahindra Logistics supply major corporate clients and is a market chain solutions focus on key industry verticals of Automotive, leader in People Logistics segment with Retail, Telecom, Pharmaceutical and Express Logistics. dominance in the ITES and BPO industry. Highlights of the Year 1 MLL became an INR 10000 Million company in March'11. 2 Abreed major initiative was launched to automate all the business processes using best of the technology and provide excellent customer service: Oracle Transport Management (OTM) OTM was launched to cater to the automotive segment of MLL business to optimise the resources, provide visibility and automate billing. Transaction Management System (TxMS) TxMS was launched in people transportation solutions to optimise and manage the resources, provide visibility and automate billing. Feedback Management System (FMS) FMS was launched to capture the Customer Voice at a central place with escalation capability for a time bound complaint resolution. For more information visit: www.mahindralogistics.com SYSTEMS & TECHNOLOGIES SECTOR (SYSTECH) Mahindra Systech is a fully integrated 'Art to Part' manufacturer with capabilities ranging from design, sourcing and manufacturing to engineering components and full assembly. Its strategy entails building a global network of partners to create comprehensive capability and thereby catering to a global customer base. Systech consists of a range of businesses which together ensure full service supply from design to delivery. The sector comprises: Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Ltd. (MUSCO) Overview Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Limited is one of the leading manufacturers of alloy steel and specialty steel products and has a steel plant in Khopoli, Maharashtra. MUSCO is also a leading player in the business of Stampings (Pressed Sheet Metal & Components) in India. MUSCO Stampings operates from three plants Kanhe (Near Pune), Nashik and Rudrapur. It has a wide range of presses (both hydraulic and mechanical category) under one roof and supplies assembled components in a powder coated/painted condition. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile This Division is a leading manufacturer of stamping components for the automotive, defence, railways, consumer durables and general engineering sectors. The company currently has three manufacturing facilities which are strategically located in close proximity of the automotive and autocomponent manufacturing hubs, facilitating just-in-time supplies. The core strength of the Stamping Division lies in tool maintenance and providing value-added services to its customers. For more information visit: www.muscoindia.com Mahindra Composites Ltd. (MCL) Overview Mahindra Composites is a leading engineering composite solutions provider specialising in the manufacture of sheet moulding and dough moulding compounds. It manufactures highly complex and intricate components for the electrical, automobile, medical, defence and construction industries. Additional areas of expertise include handling specialised products in resin transfer moulding and hand lay-up reinforced plastics. For more information visit: www.mahindracomposites.com Mahindra Hinoday Industries Ltd. (Formerly Mahindra Castings Ltd.) Overview Mahindra Hinoday Industries Limited (MHIL) specialises in ductile iron castings and ferrites. MHIL offers a wide range of castings to the global automotive market, including turbo charger and axle components for commercial vehicles and motor magnets for cars and motorcycles. It also manufactures magnetic cores for industrial and automotive applications. For more information visit: www.hinoday.com Mahindra Forgings Ltd. (MFL) Overview Mahindra Forgings Limited, Chakan, the Indian unit of Systech's forging business, manufactures components ranging from 0.5 kg to 45 kg. A market leader in forging, it accounts for over 40% of the steering knuckle and crankshaft market. 21 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Mahindra's latest acquisition is a company with a history of over Through this acquisition, Mahindra 140 years in forging. Schöneweiss GmbH is one of the hallowed has created the fifth largest forging institutions in forging and is one of the five companies in the company in the world in two years. world that can produce front axle beams. For more information visit: www.mahindraforgings.com Mahindra Gears & Transmissions Private Ltd. (MGTPL) Overview Mahindra Forgings Limited, is a leading manufacturer of quality gears and other transmission components in India. Set up in 1987, its products conform to German specification DIN 8 to DIN 9 class of accuracy. It obtained ISO/TS 16949:2002 Certification from TUV Suddeutschland, in the year 2001. For more information visit: www.mahindragears.com INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Mahindra has a leading presence in the global Information Technology (IT) industry, offering a full range of IT solutions and support through four outstanding companies with special expertise. As globalisation intensifies competition and drives companies to focus on their core competencies, a knowledgeable and capable IT partner becomes critical to success. The sector designs industry-specific IT solutions to help clients take advantage of the new opportunities and adapt to the new challenges of a changing world. In two decades, it has partnered with several Fortune 100 and Fortune 500 companies to deliver outstanding solutions that have helped drive their success. Tech Mahindra Ltd. Overview Tech Mahindra is a leading global systems integrator and business transformation consulting organisation focused primarily on the telecommunications industry. What began, as a joint venture between Mahindra and British Telecom (BT), in 1986 is the fifth largest software exporter in India today and is ranked No. 1 in the Telecom Software Category (Voice & Data 2009). For over two decades, it has been the chosen transformation partner Tech Mahindra's capabilities are for wireline, wireless and broadband operators in Europe, Asia-Pacific spread across a broad and North America. Tech Mahindra operates in more than 25 countries spectrum, including Business through 17 sales offices and 13 delivery centres, working with major Support Systems (BSS), players like British Telecom, Vodafone, and many more. Operations Support Systems Tech Mahindra has successfully implemented more than 15 Greenfield (OSS), Network Design & Operations globally and has over 126 active customer engagements Engineering, Next Generation mostly in the Telecom sector. The company has been involved in about Networks, Mobility Solutions, eight transformation programs of incumbent telecom operators. Security consulting and testing. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Tech Mahindra has recently expanded its IT portfolio by acquiring the leading global business and information technology services company, Mahindra Satyam (formerly Satyam Computer Services Limited). Highlights of the Year 1 Award' AT&T, a premier global communications company, awarded Tech Mahindra the '2011 AT&T Supplier for its superior products and services, enhanced cost structures and best-in-class approaches that contributed to their overall success during the past year. 2 Research 'System Integrator of the year in the Telecom Sector' Award by a leading global Analyst and firm as a part of the India, IT & Telecom Excellence Award for the exceptional business performance of the year. 3 with Winner of CMAIs 5th National Telecom Awards 2011 for 'Excellence in Innovation Rural Telecom focus'. 4 management Ranked 12th in Garteners annual ranking of worldwide telecom operations and systems. 5 (by Tech Mahindra's BPO is amongst India's top ITES and BPO companies employee strength) Dun & Bradstreet 2010. 6 Global Tech Mahindra Limited is positioned in the strong performer's category in Forester Wave for IT Infrastructure Outsourcing 2011. For more information visit: www.techmahindra.com Mahindra Satyam (formerly Satyam Computer Services Ltd.) Overview Mahindra Satyam is a global player in Information, Communication, and Technology (ICT). Mahindra Satyam provide enterprise business solutions, infrastructure services, industry native solutions, integrated engineering solutions, consulting services, application development and management services, and business process outsourcing to more than 350 clients in 35 countries. Mahindra Satyam's development and delivery centres in the US, Canada, Brazil, the UK, Hungary, Egypt, UAE, India, China, Malaysia, Singapore and Australia serve numerous clients, including several Fortune 500 companies. Mahindra Satyam expertise has made them the choice of three of the top five companies in food products, two of the top five in pharmaceuticals, four of the top five in networking and communication equipment, two of the top five in chemicals, three of the top ten in aerospace and defence, four of the top ten in electronics and electrical equipment, five of the top ten in automotive and automotive parts, one of the top five in industrial and farm equipment, three of the top ten in gas and oil, and one of the top three in semiconductors. 23 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Mahindra Satyam is a leader in quality Mahindra Satyam were the first company in the world Third to be BS 25999 certified to receive ISO 9001:2000 certification on business continuity Among the first ten to attain AS9100/EN9100 for CMM Level 5 Engineering Solutions Certified at Level 5 in both our CMMI for Development Version 1.2 for more Payment Card Industry than ten business units and our certification (PCI-DSS Automotive SPICE PATHFINDER Maturity 1.1) for banking vertical Mahindra Satyam have received ISO 27001 Global Certification ISO/IEC 20000 for Networks and Systems and ISO 9001:2000 for all services Highlights of the Year 1 Technology Mahindra Satyam was one of the four main sponsors and the official Information TM provider for the FIFA World Cup , 2010 in South Africa. It not only maintained the end-to-end logistics requirement of the event but also managed an eight language customer support centre which was the first of its kind for the FIFA World CupTM. It has received Gold Award in the Event Services category at the 'International Sports Event Management Awards' for its stellar TM contribution to the FIFA World Cup . 2 Outsourcing Mahindra Satyam BPO awarded in the 'BPO Contract of the Year' category at the National Association (NOA) Awards 2010. 3 Mahindra Satyam received Oracle APAC FY10 OPN Enterprise 2.0 Partner of the Year Award from Oracle (October 2010). 4 Resurgent Mahindra Satyam was honoured by Pitch India's Top-50 Marketers Award, under the category of Marketers for 2010. 5 atMahindra Satyam BPO honoured as India's Most Customer-Responsive BPO Company the AGC (Avaya Global Connect) Networks Customer Responsiveness Award 2010. For more information visit: www.mahindrasatyam.com LEISURE & HOSPITALITY SECTOR Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Ltd. (MHRIL) Overview Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited is a leading player in the leisure hospitality industry offering quality holidays designed for the discerning and differentiated needs of families. In offering such services and facilities, the Company has steadily changed the way India holidays. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile It offers complete holiday solutions to its customers, drawing on its wide range of products and services. These are: Club Mahindra Holidays, which is the Company's flagship brand, Zest, Club Mahindra Fundays, Mahindra Homestays, Club Mahindra Travel, and the newly launched TERRA. The membership base continued to grow, and stood at 125,169. Mahindra Holidays currently has a pan-India and International presence It became the first vacation ownership company in India to receive through its extensive network of the prestigious ECOTEL® certification for two of its resorts. resorts. At the end of the year, the It also became the first vacation ownership company in the world Company had 35 resorts across a to receive the COPC-2000® CSP Global Standard certification by cross-section of destinations: hill the Customer Operations Performance Centre Inc for its Member stations, beach, backwater, wildlife, Relations Centre. fort and heritage. Highlights of the Year 1 help MHRIL has launched rugged camping vacations called TERRA. This new campsite product will our customers engage with nature. 2 MHRIL has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Government of Gujarat in January 2011 to build seven new Club Mahindra Resorts in the State. 3 Mahindra Holidays won the Bird Express Travel World Award for 'Excellence in Operations'. For more information visit: www.clubmahindra.com REAL ESTATE SECTOR Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd. (MLDL) Overview The Group began its foray into real estate and infrastructure development in 1996, with the aim of participating in the creation of urban infrastructure for a developing India. MLDL, today has a development footprint of over 2 million square meters of residential space, spread across multiple regions in India. 25 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Mahindra Lifespaces has taken a lead role in the Real 'Green Design' is MLDL's selfless way of Estate industry in India to protect the environment by giving back to the environment and the promoting sustainable construction practices. It has a same is splendidly showcased in MLDLs continuous focus on building environmentally friendly and residential projects such as Aqualily, energy efficient Green Buildings in line with the standards Splendour, Royale, Chloris, Eminente, etc. of Indian Green Building Council's (IGBC) green home rating systems. Highlights of the Year 1 Construction Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited ranked 'One of India's Top 10 Builders 2010' by World. 2 Mahindra Lifespaces entered into Two MoUs with the Government of Gujarat marking its foray into the state for the development of a new Integrated Business city of 3,000 acres and an Industrial park of 500 acres. 3 Received The Economic Times ACETECH 2010 Real Estate Award, in the category 'Excellence in Mid segment' for its first phase for Mahindra Eminente. For more information visit: www.mahindralifespaces.com Mahindra World City Developers Ltd. (MWCDL) Overview Mahindra World City, New Chennai, is India's first integrated business city and corporate India's first operational Special Economic Zone (SEZ). Mahindra World City, New Chennai is promoted in a public-private partnership between Mahindra Group and TIDCO (a Government of Tamil Nadu undertaking). Mahindra World City is spread over 1,550 acres and offers the perfect synergy between life and work-a holistic WORK-LIVE-LEARN-PLAY environment. It has clearly demarcated business zones three sector-specific SEZs (IT/ITES, Auto Ancillary, and Apparel & Fashion Accessories) and a Domestic Tariff Area. It also has a residential/commercial zone which incorporates all modern conveniences as part of its social infrastructure. MWCDL currently has 57 clients and 35 companies operating out of Mahindra World City, Chennai, including such corporate giants MWCDL in partnership with IGBC as BMW, B Braun, Infosys, Wipro, Capgemini, Renault-Nissan, has started work on making the Timken Bearings, TVS Group of Companies, Lincoln Electric, first Green township in India. Parker Hannifin, Tesa Tapes, among others. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Highlights of the Year 1 Mahindra World City, Chennai won the Best Integrated Township of the Year Award at the Realty plus Excellence Awards in 2010. For more information visit: www.mahindraworldcity.com Mahindra World City Jaipur Ltd. (MWCJL) Overview Spread over an area of 3,000 acres, MWCJL provides corporate India with a world-class platform to expand their businesses to compete globally. MWCJL is a Special Economic Zone on the format of an 'Integrated Business City' and is a 74:26 joint venture between Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited and Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Limited (RIICO, an agency of the Government of Rajasthan). The SEZ includes exclusive zones for IT/ITES Companies, Light Engineering companies including Auto and Auto Component manufacturers, Handicraft Companies, Gems & Jewellery Companies and Apparel companies. 35 companies have already signed-up with MWCJ which includes names like Infosys, Wipro, Tech Mahindra, Deutsche Bank, State Bank of India, ICICI Bank, EXL, Connexions, Truworth, Nucleus Software, Nagarro Software, Girnar Soft, QH Talbros, Dynamic Cables, Poly Medicure, Genus, etc. MWCJL has been identified as part of a list of 16 projects globally, which are being supported by the Clinton Climate Initiative (CCI), a foundation for sustainable development promoted by Former US President Bill Clinton. Only 2 of these projects are India-based, and MWCJL is one of these. For more information visit: www.mahindraworldcity.com 27 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile FINANCIAL SERVICES Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd. (MMFSL) Overview Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited is one of India's leading MMFSL's unique business non-banking finance companies. Through a vast network of branches, model is socially inclusive MMFSL provides personalised finance for the widest range of utility as we help customers who vehicles, tractors and cars, focusing on the rural and semi-urban sector. are at the bottom of the MMFSL's rural financing is considered as the cornerstone of poverty income or social pyramids reduction, rural development and inclusive growth in many parts of the to grow by providing them country. Mahindra Finance currently has a significantly large network of loans based on their future over 500 branches, 86 out of which are located in low-populated or earning capacities. It is also economically disadvantaged areas. MMFSL's loans to over 1,000,000 our continuous endeavour customers in the rural hinterlands have proved to be a catalyst in helping to facilitate development of rural India surge ahead in a big way. skill sets at the local level. We currently provide employment to over 10,000 people who belong to the areas in which we serve, ensuring that our employees truly understand their customers. Highlights of the Year 1 Mahindra Finance won several awards including the IDC Enterprise Innovation Award, 2010 (IDC is the leading provider of data-driven research and analysis) and EDGE (Enterprise Driving Growth & Excellence through IT) 2010 Award, the SKOCH Financial Inclusion Award, in addition to winning 13 awards in various categories at Asia's Best Employer Brand Awards by the World HRD Congress. 2 Corporation Mahindra Finance also received the AIMA-IOCL (All India Management Association Indian Oil Limited) Award for Best Motivational Practice in Manufacturing and Services 2010 Service Industry and CSR Awards INDYs Star of the Industry Award for Best Practices in Corporate Social Responsibilities For more information visit: www.mahindrafinance.com TWO WHEELERS SECTOR Mahindra Two Wheelers Ltd. Overview Mahindra Two Wheelers' Power Scooters cater to a wide range of consumer segments. The Mahindra Rodeo with its very innovative, contemporary features is popular amongst the Indian youth, while the Mahindra Duro is positioned as a family scooter. The Flyte is the Indian woman's two-wheeler of choice, the stylish Stallio has created a niche for itself in the motorcycles category. Stallio and Mojo motorcycles made their debut at a high voltage launch in Mumbai on September 30, 2010. These bikes are worthy additions to the Mahindra Two Wheelers product portfolio and are part of their commitment to establish a robust, end-to-end two wheeler business in every segment of the industry. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Mahindra MotoGP Riders Danny Webb from the UK and Marcel Schrötter from Germany, Mahindra Two Wheelers Ltd. already well known in MotoGP, will ride for Mahindra Racing in the is the first Indian motorcycle 125cc category for the 2011 season. manufacturer to enter a team into the prestigious FIM Road Each Grand Prix race brings together the world's best motorcycle talent and is a superb spectacle featuring technologically advanced highRacing World Championship speed machinery from the world's leading motorcycle manufacturers. (MotoGP). Highlights of the Year 1 advertising Mahindra Two Wheelers won an ABBY Silver at the sixth edition of Goafest, India's biggest and awards festival, for the Best and Innovative use of Cinema. 2 inTheAutomotive Mahindra Rodeo Website, www.mahindrarodeo.com was awarded the Gold in the Best Website Category at the prestigious Campaign India Digital Media Awards 2010. For more information visit: www.mahindra2wheelers.com AFTERMARKET SECTOR Overview Realising that there was vast untapped potential in the aftermarket for sales, service and spare parts of multibrand pre-owned vehicles, Mahindra established an Aftermarket Sector. The aim was to create a business ecosystem for the growing population of vehicles in India (6 million cars currently, expected to grow to 17 million by 2015) which replicates the existing ecosystem for new vehicles. 29 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Mahindra aftermarket services also extend to financing and exchange platforms, building and distributing spare parts for Mahindra vehicles, and providing maintenance services through Mahindra First Choice Services Limited (MFCSL). The Business Units in the Aftermarket Sector includes: Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited (Sale and Purchase of Pre-owned Cars) Mahindra First Choice Services Limited (Multi-brand Service Chain) Mahindra Spares Business (for Mahindra products) For more information visit: www.mahindrafirstchoice.com GLOBAL FOOTPRINT INDIA 30 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile INTERNATIONAL Afghanistan Japan Taiwan Ghana Saudi Arabia Congo New Zealand Australia Kuwait Thailand Guinea South Africa Denmark Norway Belgium Mozambique Uganda Iran Sri Lanka El-Salvador Paraguay Brazil Malawvi USA Italy Switzerland France Qatar China Nepal Algeria Jordan Tanzania Greece Senegal Costa Rica Nicaragua Bangladesh Latvia Tunisia Hungary South Korea Ecuador Oman Bhutan Morocco UK Iraq Sudan Ethiopia Peru Canada Mali Yemen Ivory Coast Tahiti Germany Rwanda Columbia Czech Netherlands Angola Kenya Tchad Guatemala Singapore Republic Nigeria Bahrain Madagascar UAE Indonesia Spain Egypt Panama Botswana Malaysia Zambia Ireland Sweden Finland Philippines Chile Namibia INDIA Andaman & Nicobar Delhi Karnataka Orissa Uttar Pradesh Andhra Pradesh Goa Kerala Puducherry Uttarakhand Arunachal Pradesh Gujarat Madhya Pradesh Punjab West Bengal Assam Haryana Maharashtra Rajasthan Bihar Himachal Pradesh Manipur Sikkim Chandigarh Jammu & Kashmir Meghalaya Tamil Nadu Chhattisgarh Jharkhand Mizoram Tripura CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Overview At Mahindra, we believe that good corporate governance is the foundation for maximising shareholder returns, optimising operational performance, attracting talent, clients, and partners, and making a positive impact on the lives and businesses we touch. Our superior corporate governance practices are derived from the exceptional composition of our Board of Directors, and the strong strategic direction and rigorous management focus they provide. Bringing together extensive experience and achievement across many industries, our Board helps guide Mahindra to adhere to the highest benchmarks of transparency and accountability with an aim to contribute positively to our stakeholder prosperity. At Mahindra, our Core values and ethical business practices are sacrosanct and central to whatever we do. We have never been daunted by limitation and have always strived to go beyond compliance. We have an impeccable record of participation in voluntary reporting and disclosure programs. The Company has formally enunciated its own governance practices by way of a Code of Corporate Governance. This Code seeks to serve as a reminder of the underlying principles governing the conduct of our businesses. They are a reiteration of the fundamental precept that good Corporate Governance must, and will, always be an integral part of the fabric that makes up our beliefs, values, culture and ethos. It is indeed a matter of great pride that over the years different organisations have acknowledged and awarded the corporate governance systems and practices adhered by us. This year was no different. Mahindra was awarded the 6th Social and Corporate Governance Awards 2010. 31 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Shareholder Value Maximising shareholder value and enhancing investor trust is not a new ideology for Mahindra. This commitment has earned us a Level 1 rating for five consecutive years for Governance and Value Creation from CRISIL, India's leading ratings, research, risk and policy advisory company. The rating indicates our unfaltering capability to generate wealth for our stakeholders; while adopting strong Corporate Governance practices. Shareholder Interaction By opening communication channels for our investors we have attempted to minimise the possibility of trust gaps. At Mahindra, shareholder dialogue takes place at multiple platforms, through multiple managerial levels on multiple occasions. 1 The Chairman, along with the entire board, addresses the investors and provides clarifications at least once each year during the annual general meeting, which is the principal forum for face-to-face interaction. 2 The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) regularly reaches out to investors across the globe during investors and analyst interactions (twice a year) along with senior management. In addition there is a dedicated Investor Relations Cell to meet visiting investors. 3 Our corporate website www.mahindra.com provides comprehensive information and an exclusive 'Investor Relations' section which informs and addresses shareholder needs. An exclusive email ID 'investors@mahindra.com' has been designated for the investors to registering complaints and the same has been displayed on the Company's website. 4 Furthermore, the quarterly, half-yearly and yearly results are published in national and local dailies. Presentations are also made to international and national institutional investors and analysts which are uploaded on the website of the Company and available to all stakeholders. 5 We also regularly post information relating to its financial results and shareholding pattern on Corporate Filing and Dissemination System viz. www.corpfiling.co.in, the common platform launched by BSE and NSE for electronic filing by listed companies. Governance Framework One of the reasons behind the rise of Mahindra Group is the robust corporate governance framework which extends across all its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures across the globe. Our governance framework serves as the backbone which sets the Group's objectives, monitors performance and drives operational excellence. The Group is categorised into eleven verticals. As required by law, companies in the Group have their own M&M Limited the flagship company directly runs independent Board of Directors, governance structure and two businesses: The Automotive Division and policies which are in line with those of M&M Limited. If they do The Farm Division; and is the chief shareholder not have their own specifically defined policies, then they are in all the other entities. expected to follow the Mahindra policies. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors of M&M Limited is the apex governing body and is headed by Non-Executive Chairman, Mr. Keshub Mahindra. The Board reviews and approves strategy and oversees management results to ensure that the long term objective of enhancing stakeholder value is met. The Vice Chairman & Managing Director and one Executive Director are whole-time Directors. The Chairman and the Vice Chairman & Managing Director, though professionals in their individual capacity, belong to the Company's Promoter Group. The remaining Non-executive Directors are Independent Directors who bring to the table years of experience and expertise in their respective fields varying from general corporate management, to finance, banking, insurance and allied fields. This expertise is especially valuable for an organisation like Mahindra which has presence in a wide spectrum of sectors. Directors are appointed and reappointed with the approval of the shareholders. As per the Articles of Association of the companies, one-third of the total number of directors, subject to a minimum of two directors, has to retire by rotation. These retiring directors are allowed to offer their candidature for re-appointment. This provides the shareholders an opportunity to vote against the candidature of a retiring Director if they are of the view that the incumbent has not added value to the working of the board. Board of Directors of M&M Limited PROMOTER DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Keshub Mahindra • Arun Dasgupta • Arun K. Nanda Bharat Doshi Chairman (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director) • Ashok Ganguly • Deepak Parekh • Nadir Godrej • Anupam Puri Anand G. Mahindra Vice-Chairman & • Ravindra Kulkarni • Narayanan Vaghul Managing Director • M.M. Murugappan BOARD COMMITTEES The Committees of the Board are constituted to ensure operational independence, timely direction and supervision, which are essential for day-to-day functioning of the organisation. Currently, the Board has the following Committees: Audit Committee Remuneration/Compensation Committee Share Transfer & Shareholders / Investors Grievance Committee Research & Development Committee (a voluntary initiative of the Company) Strategic Investment Committee (a voluntary initiative of the Company) Loans & Investment Committee (a voluntary initiative of the Company) 33 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD (GEB) The Group Executive Board (GEB) comprises the Vice Chairman & Managing Director, President of the business Sectors as well as heads of certain key corporate functions. The Board provides strategic direction and enterprise leadership, facilitates synergistic and symbiotic relationships, and creates a shared vision and value-system, across the various business units and companies that make up the Mahindra Group. The Group Executive Board displays the breadth and depth of our talented human capital. Made up of people from all segments of industry, the GEB explores synergies between all our businesses to unite our goals and forge strategic plans. Working together, we create value while staying true to our common purpose and values. The composition of the Group Executive Board NAME DESIGNATION Anand G. Mahindra Vice Chairman & Managing Director Bharat N. Doshi Executive Director & Group CFO Rajeev Dubey President Group HR & Aftermarket Sector Pawan Goenka President Automotive and Farm Division Hemant Luthra President Systech Sector Anoop Mathur President Two Wheeler Sector Uday Phadke President Finance, Legal and Financial Services Sector Ulhas N. Yargop President Information Technology Sector & CTO Anita Arjundas CEO Real Estate Sector and Managing Director, Mahindra Lifespaces Developers Limited Zhooben Bhiwandiwala Executive Vice-President & Managing Partner Mahindra Partners C.P. Gurnani CEO, Mahindra Satyam Ramesh Iyer Managing Director Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited Rajesh Jejurikar Chief Executive Automotive Division Harsh Kumar Managing Director Mahindra Intertrade Limited Romesh Kaul Global CEOGears Business, Systech Sector Bishwambhar Mishra Chief ExecutiveFarm Division Ruzbeh Irani Executive Vice President Corporate Strategy & Chief Brand Officer, Mahindra Group V.S. Parthasarathy Group CIO, Executive Vice President Finance, M&A Rajiv Sawhney CEO, Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited Pravin Shah Chief Executive International Operations, Automotive & Farm Sectors Rajan Wadhera Chief Executive -Technology, Product Development and Sourcing, Automotive & Farm Sectors Shriprakash Shukla President Special Group Projects 34 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile SPECIAL PURPOSE COUNCILS AND COMMITTEES Apart from mandatory committees of the Board, other committees and councils have been formed to assist the GEB whenever deemed necessary for special focus and attention to critical issues. They currently include the following: Sustainability Council Complaints Committee on Sexual Harassment CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Council Information Security Apex Committee Apex Talent Council Corporate Governance Cell (supported by the Sector Talent Councils and Functional Talent Councils) Alternate Fuel Committee Corporate Risk Committee Central Safety Council Additionally, wherever necessary, dedicated departments are set-up to handle specific issues. For example, a corporate sustainability cell coordinates activities across Group companies and maintains participation in related programmes such as the UN Global Compact and the Carbon Disclosure Project. A corporate social responsibility team manages all social and philanthropic activities throughout the Group and oversees the Employee Social Options (Esops) Programme. CORPORATE CENTRE The parent company continues to have a 'Corporate Centre' which creates broad frameworks and guidelines to ensure that all Group companies operate in a synergistic manner. The Corporate Centre has numerous departments including Corporate HR, the Office of Strategy Management, Corporate IT, Corporate Communications, Corporate Sustainability Cell, Corporate Legal, Corporate Finance, Corporate Affairs, Internal Audit and Corporate CSR. SECRETARIAL SERVICE GROUP CENTRE BPO SUSTAINABILITY INFRACORPORATE STRUCTURE HR / BRAND SERVICES INDUSTRIAL COUNCIL INFORMATION RELATIONS FINANCE & TECHNOLOGY ACCOUNTS OFFICE OF STRATEGY MANAGEMENT GROUP CORPORATE SECURITY CENTRE CORPORATE LEGAL RELATIONS PROJECT ENGINEERING CORPORATE CSR COMMUNIM&A MAHINDRA CATIONS INSTITUTE OF QUALITY 35 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Core Purpose Core Purpose is to Mahindra what the Preamble is to India. It is a beacon of light that inspires us to chart diverse growth paths yet move ahead towards a common goal. Our first core purpose was enunciated in 1997. But since then a lot has changed across the globe be it the climate, the business environment or the very own presence of Mahindra. From being one flagship Company, 13 subsidiaries, and about 8 Joint Ventures, today the Mahindra Group has transformed into a multinational with more than 120 companies having a footprint in all continents. This year, we articulated a new, more inclusive core purpose that binds the whole of Mahindra workforce across the globe and inspires them to build a new company of tomorrow. It reflects the new face of our diversified federation of companies with its increasingly global ambitions. The transformed Core Purpose of Mahindra Group isTo challenge conventional thinking and innovatively use all our resources to drive positive change in the lives of our stakeholders and communities across the world to enable them to Rise. Core Values This year, while the Mahindra Group released its new brand position and core purpose, the core values consciously remained the same because they have become a way of life for the Mahindraites. The Group's core values, beliefs and ethics are infused in to our DNA. These values form the basis on which stands the Mahindra Ethos and drive the Mahindra Group in enabling the world to rise. They are also in line with our commitment to sustainability social, economic, and environmental. Our Core Values are an amalgamation of what we have been, what we are, and what we want to be Good Corporate We will continue to seek long term success in alignment with the needs of the communities Citizenship we serve. We will do this without compromising on ethical business standards. We have always sought the best people for the job and given them the freedom and the opportunity to grow. We will continue to do so. We will support innovation and well Professionalism reasoned risk taking, but will demand performance. We exist and prosper only because of the customer. We will respond to the changing Customer First needs and expectations of our customers speedily, courteously and effectively. Quality is the key to delivering value for money to our customers. We will make quality a driving value in our work, in our products and in our interactions with others. We will Quality Focus do it 'First Time Right.' We will value individual dignity, uphold the right to express disagreement and respect Dignity of the time and efforts of others. Through our actions, we will nurture fairness, trust, and the Individual transparency. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Codes of Conduct Our values form the basis on which we have drafted our Codes of Conduct. These codes are a vehicle of our occupational identity and permeate across all the actions taken by the employees across the organisation. This comprehensive document also lays down guidelines on to insider trading and disclosures to be made while handling Company shares. These codes are in line with the requirements of SEBI. The CGC oversees the adherence to both the Codes, and in order to ensure that these are followed in letter and spirit. The Board has established two detailed Codes of Conduct one for board members and the other for senior management and employees of the Company. The codes of conduct are an integral part of the induction of new employees and have been posted on the Company's website. All board members and senior management personnel affirm compliance with these codes annually. At the corporate level, there is a Corporate Governance Cell (CGC) comprising four members of the Group Executive Board, who represent business Sectors as well as the Corporate Centre. The CGC reports to the Board of Directors. In order to see that the Code of Conduct is well understood and practiced within the organisation, a formal mechanism has been put in place in form of Corporate Governance Coordinators at the business level and Corporate Governance Officers' at the plant level. In a bid to actively discourage unacceptable conduct, MMFSL has introduced a concept of 'Insaaf' (Justice) for such redressals. The procedures of 'Insaaf' are structured on the lines of 'Principles of Natural Justice' that states, the judgement cannot be biased and no judgements can be passed without hearing both sides of the argument. These coordinators/officers Members of the Corporate Governance Cell (CGC) are like 'listening posts' where employees can report NAME DESIGNATION irregularities noticed at the work place or get clarification with Uday Phadke* President Finance, Legal & Financial Service Sector regard to policy compliance etc. The irregularities reported Rajeev Dubey President HR, Aftermarket & Corporate Services are then conveyed by the coordinators/officers to the Pawan Goenka President Automotive Division CGC who would take the Anoop Mathur President Two Wheelers matter forward as deemed fit. *Uday Phadke is also the Convener of this cell. Compliance At Mahindra, we remain in compliance to high standards of corporate governance, business integrity and professionalism across business operations. We have an active compliance committee to ensure adherence to all regulatory framework applicable to the Group. We also abide with Competition Act 2002 which is a mandatory legislation that deals with anti competitive behaviour. The company is in accordance with all the requirements of regulatory authorities. During the last four years, there were no instances of non-compliance by the Company and no penalty or strictures were imposed on the Company by Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authority, on any matter related to the capital markets. We incurred no fines from any regulatory authority for non-compliance of laws and regulation in year 2010-11. Regulatory Compliance The audit committee is responsible to ensure 100% regulatory compliance across various sectors. We undertake regular audits to ensure strict adherence. Wherever related observations exist, they are immediately brought to the notice of the site senior management and corrective actions are taken to resolve the issue. Regulatory compliance is periodically reviewed by the Group Executive Board (GEB). 37 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Policies Our Corporate Governance policies continue to be comprehensive and forward-looking. We have been appreciated and felicitated in various forums by numerous industry bodies. These policies cover areas ranging from corporate communications to e-business security to insider trading. All the policies are reviewed on an annual basis. These policies are released by M&M Limited and are adopted by other Group companies as they deem fit. For further details about our Corporate Governance Policies, please refer last year's report. Anti-corruption Policies and Procedures We expect the employees to exhibit the highest level of integrity and ethics in every sphere of activity. We deem any act of Corruption to be non-negotiable and take strict action against anyone found indulging in such unethical acts. Corporate Governance & Business Ethics are mandatory part of our induction process. No incidents of corruption were found during the reporting period. Public Policy Advocacy We actively contribute to public policy by being corporate members/signatories to several trade and industry associations and organisations such as CII, BCCI, FICCI and UNGC etc. A number of Directors and Senior Executives represent Mahindra on governing councils, executive committees and various other committees of these organisations. Some of the major participations in public policy advocacy and industry fora by our top management are listed below: M&M LIMITED is an active partner in the various national and international consortium projects on alternative fuel and fuel efficiency IIT Delhi For development of Hydrogen Engine & Hydrogen 3 wheeler Saskatchewan Research Council, Canada For developing Hydrogen Technologies UNIDO / IHECT For Development of Hydrogen 3 Wheeler Indian Oil Corporation For HCNG demonstration project Ministry of Renewable & New Energy, Govt of India For Sponsoring 3 projects on Hydrogen Technology KESHUB MAHINDRA member of the of the following organisations & committees Apex Advisory Council ASSOCHAM Founder Member Indo-Hellenic Friendship League Founder Member of Governing Council, Integrated Research & Action for Development (IRADe) New Delhi President Centre for Research in Rural & Industrial Development Society, Chandigarh 38 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Chairman Governing Body, Centre for Research in Rural & Industrial Development, Chandigarh President Emeritus Employers' Federation of India Deputy Chairman & Trustee Employers' Federation of India, Social & Labour Research (SOLAR) Foundation President of the Governing Council University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India, New Delhi Hon. Fellow All India Management Association, New Delhi Member The United World Colleges (International), U.K. ANAND MAHINDRA member of the following Boards and Committees Asia-Pacific Advisory Board Harvard Business School Advisory Committee Harvard University Asia Centre Member Asia Business Council Council and Executive Committee National Sports Development Fund (NSDF), Government of India Executive Committee The Nehru Centre, Mumbai Member National Council of Applied Economic Research Member India Council for Sustainable Development Member Board of Trustees of the Asia Society, New York RAJIV DUBEY member of the following Boards and Committees Serves on CII National Committee on Leadership & HR, CII National Committee of Leadership and HR, the CII Apex Council on Affirmative Action and the CII Western Regional Council Member National Board of NHRDN Chairperson Employer's Federation of India (EFI) Western Region Member of the Executive Committee of TERI Business Council for Sustainable Development Serves on Boards of Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management and Technology (LBSIMT), Magic Bus an NGO that works with youth and children and the School of Inspired Leadership (SOIL) 39 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile PAWAN GOENKA member of the following Boards and Committees Current President Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) BHARAT N. DOSHI member of the following Boards and Committees Member SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India) Committee on Disclosures and Accounting Standards (SCODA) Member of the Working Group constituted by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to examine a range of emerging issues pertaining to regulation of the NBFCs (Non-Banking Financial Companies) Sector BEROZ GAZDAR member of the following Boards and Committees Member, Advisory Board the United Nations Global Compact for Supply Chain Sustainability Member CII National Environment Council and the CII Climate Change Sustainability Western Region Sub Committee Member Sustainability Committee of The Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry Awards By challenging conventional thinking and knowing no boundaries our aim has always been to create solutions that drive a transformative change and create a sustainable future. This is why, today, from being a steel trading company that gradually entered the automotive manufacturing Awards give us space; we have grown as a responsible business and achieved many a milestone. We are the world's largest tremendous inspiration, tractor company in terms of volume sold; one of India's recharge our desire for leading telecom software services exporters; the distinction and raise largest non-banking financial services provider in rural the bar higher. India; the first to design multi-utility tractor in India. 40 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile These achievements have time and again been lauded by some of the most recognized and respected businesses, media and government institutions. Although we take great pride in the awards that we win, we keep ourselves grounded by treating these awards and recognitions as milestones; milestones that tell us how far we have come and how far we need to go to achieve our long-term goal. AWARDS 2010-11 ECONOMIC M&M Limited was recently awarded the Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) Rolta Corporate Award 2010 for the Automobile Sector. M&M was placed at No. 1 in the Automobile Sector in this prestigious listing. Dun and Bradstreet is the world's leading provider of global business information, knowledge and insights and these awards felicitated 54 of India's leading corporate across sectors. Mahindra Powerol has been chosen by the Indian consumers as a 'Power Brands 2010-2011'. Power Brands, an initiative undertaken by Planmann Media, is a consumer driven research activity of India's most powerful brands based upon research conducted by ICMR (Indian Council of Market Research). M&M Limited has featured in the latest edition of the Forbes Global 2000, a listing of the biggest and most powerful listed companies in the world. Mahindra Powerol won two prestigious Frost & Sullivan 'Voice of Customer' awards for the 'Most Preferred Genset Brand in the Telecom Segment' and in the 'Best Bang for the Buck' segment. ENVIRONMENT M&M was ranked second at the prestigious FE-EVI Green Business Leadership Awards 2010-11. The winners were shortlisted and selected from 591 companies, each with a revenue of INR 10000 million, on the basis of the impact their initiatives have made in areas like climate change & environment, natural resources management, and governance for sustainability. Realty Plus, a leading monthly real estate magazine, adjudged Mahindra World City, New Chennai, the winner of the 'Best Integrated Township of the Year' award. The award was presented at the Realty Plus Excellence Awards 2011 event, held in Bangalore, on February 3, 2011. These awards recognise individuals, organisations and projects that have created and delivered new benchmarks for excellence in the Indian real estate industry. The 'Integrated Township of the Year' Award is conferred on a township which has created a self sufficient and sustainable development to become a city in itself, with provisions for physical and social infrastructure, and by adopting environmental initiatives. The AD Kandivali Plant bagged Tata Power Company's Energy Conservation Award in the 'HT Industrial Segment'. This prestigious award was presented at Tata Power's Industrial Customer Meet. 41 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile For the third consecutive year, Mahindra Lifespaces' The Woods project in Wakad, Pune, was awarded the First Prize for tree plantation and conservation by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. M&M Limited's automotive plant at Nashik was awarded the CII National Award for Excellence in Water Management 2010' for the fifth consecutive year. SOCIAL At the first 'CSR Thought Leadership Conclave' organized by Wockhardt Foundation, the CSR arm of the Wockhardt Group, M&M bagged an award recognising the company's outstanding contribution to society through its CSR programs. Industry leaders emphasised the need for corporate India to have focused CSR initiatives, as well as the need for Public Private Partnerships, capacity development and sustainable development, to ensure effective growth in the social sector. Winners were selected from various development sectors on the basis of the impact and sustainability of the CSR programmes. Mahindra Samriddhi initiative, bagged the prestigious 'Golden Peacock Innovation Award 2010'. Mahindra Holidays & Resorts's Club Mahindra Tusker Trail (CMTT) in Thekkady, was selected for the ROTARY BINANI ZINC CSR AWARD, in association with NIPM Kerala Chapter. This award was presented to Mr. Silju Joseph, Resort Manager, CMTT and Mr. Nishad Khan, Sr. Manager-HR, CMTT by Dr. Ananda Bose, IAS, Principal Secretary, Govt. of India. GOVERNANCE Mr. Anand Mahindra featured in Fortune magazine's (US edition) inaugural global ranking of Asia's 25 Most Powerful People in Business. Dr. Pawan Goenka received the prestigious 'Automotive Man of the Year' Award at the annual NDTV Car & Bike Awards, in recognition of his contribution to the Indian automotive industry. M&M Limited bagged the Top 100 CISO Awards 2011 . A 100 CISO's were honoured with the Award bases the assessment carried out by distinguished jury members comprising of eminent personalities, both from Government as well as Industry. M&M Limited was awarded The 'Top 100 CISO Award' for excellent contributions done in this area. In March 2011, Bharat Doshi was honoured as one of the Founding Members to the 'CFO India Hall of Fame' by CFO India. Mr. Uday Phadke was honoured with the CFO Manufacturing Sector of the Year Award by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). Ms. Roma Balwani was honoured as the 'Corporate Communication Professional of the Year 2011' by Exchange4media Public Relations, at its India PR & Corporate Communication Awards 2011 Summit, held in Delhi. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile Ms. Roma Balwani, Sr. VP & Group Head, Corporate Communications, M&M Limited, was recognized as 'Corporate Communication Professional of the Year' at the 5th INDY'S Awards, for her 'outstanding contribution to the field of marketing and branding'. The award was presented on February 9, 2011 and recognises excellence in Mass Communication, Marketing Communication, Advertising, Branding and Public Relations. PEOPLE In recognition of his sterling contribution towards the cause of Human Resources, Prince Augustin, Executive Vice President Human Capital, AFS, M&M Limited, was honoured with the Best Alumni of the Year for 2011 Award by the Symbiosis Institute of Business Management (SIBM), Pune. The award was presented by SIBM's Founder Director on SIBM's Annual Management Day. Mr. Rajeev Dubey received the prestigious 'HRD Excellence Seasoned HR Professional Award 2010' from the National HRD Network. Mahindra Lifespaces won the Economic Times ACETECH award in the 'Excellence in Mid Segment (Exterior Architectural Design)' category for the Vervian & Veronica wings of its Eminente project. These awards recognize excellence and felicitate leading professionals from the world of Architecture, Construction and Infrastructure. M&M Limited's Farm Division has been selected as the winner of the 'Golden Peacock Award for Occupational Health & Safety for the year 2011'. QUALITY & INNOVATION Anand Mahindra, VC & MD, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited was awarded the prestigious Indian Merchant Chamber (IMC) Juran Quality Medal for 2010. He received the award from the Governor of Maharashtra, Shri K. Sankaranarayanan.The awards for the 14th cycle of the IMC Ramkrishna Bajaj National Quality Awards and the IMC Juran Quality Medal 2010 were announced by a panel of judges, headed by Mr. Mukesh Ambani, Chairman and Managing Director, Reliance Industries and winner of the 2009 IMC Juran Quality Medal. Team Mahindra Navistar bagged the CV of the Year Award for the MN25. The awards were presented at a ceremony in Mumbai, to a team from Mahindra Navistar, led by Dr. Pawan Goenka, Mr. Rakesh Kalra and Mr. Nalin Mehta, along with Mr. Nandu. These awards are a culmination of the excellent work that Team MNAL put in for over five years. Farm Division's Mumbai, Nagpur and Rudrapur plants were awarded the TPM Excellence Award. This award, instituted by the Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance, is given to companies which have show significant improvement in their manufacturing processes and systems. Nashik Plant bagged a coveted CII National Award for Most Innovative Best Practices 2011, in the category of 'Most Innovative Project', for its initiative on Green SCM. For the second consecutive year, Mahindra Forgings Limited (MFL) was declared the winner in the category of 'New Part Development in Forging, Machining and Barstocks for the year 2010-11' by Volvo-Eicher Commercial Vehicles (VECV). 43 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Group Profile The Swaraj Division team was awarded the prestigious 7th North-West Qual Tech Award on February 26, 2011, emerging the winner from among 10 renowned companies in the manufacturing sector. Swaraj Division's DOE (Design of Experiment) Project to design an effective Draft Control Sensing Mechanism for a light weight Tractor was presented and was judged upon various parameters by an eminent jury. Mahindra Powerol won two Excellence awards from Indus Towers in 2011 for Quality Excellence (Infra Equipment Category) and for Best Delivery Performance (Subject Matter Expert category for delivering best uptime). The Awards, based on the theme Together Towards Tomorrow Partnering for Excellence,' were presented during the Indus Towers partners' meet in New Delhi. Mahindra Engineering Services (MES) received the Runner-up Award in the Process Innovation category at the NASSCOM Innovation Awards 2011. This award was received for 'Process Improvement to Leverage Virtual Validation at Early Stages of Product Development', an innovative solution for speeding up the simulation time in the automotive design validation process. M&M Limited bagged the CSI 2010 Award for Excellence in IT, in the Product Manufacturing Category, for Project Harmony. This INR 0.1 Million award, along with a trophy and citation was presented to Mr. V S Parthasarathy, Group CIO, EVP Finance and M&A, and the Harmony project team, during the 45th Annual National Convention of the Computer Society of India CSI 2010 held in Mumbai. It was the 9th award won by Project Harmony in 2010. Project Harmony is one of the largest big bang SAP projects in the world. M&M bagged two awards at the prestigious SAP ACE 2010 Awards for Customer Excellence, Best Run Award for Conglomerate and Best Run Award in Business Intelligence for Project Harmony. PUBLIC RELATION The Mahindra Group was awarded the 'Champion of Champions' Trophy at the Annual Public Relations Council of India (PRCI) Awards Night, for winning the maximum number of awards (12 nos.) Mahindra World City participated in the World Free Zone Convention at Ras Al Khaima. The company bagged the Joint Runner-up position in the category 'Best Website of a National / Regional / Local Government / Association. Mahindra Finance received an Information Week Edge award from UBM (Information Week) EDGE the Enterprise growth and excellence through IT publication. Over 240 projects were submitted by various organisations, of which 147 projects were short listed. The winners were felicitated at the EDGE awards function in Mumbai. 44 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT Progressive businesses the world over are increasingly seeing sustainability as a competitive edge. From being an optional 'expense', the paradigm on sustainability is shifting to being a 'future-ready investment'. Sustainability is being mainstreamed. Evident economic benefit, stakeholder protests and government policies are accelerating the process. At Mahindra, we have transformed well-meaning intentions into well-established roadmaps; our alternative acts have resulted into transformative impacts as well. Sustainability has been strategically integrated in all our business operations and decision-making processes. Almost all our workforce is sensitised and aligned to the cause. Today, Mahindra views sustainability not only as a responsibility but also as an opportunity to create lasting value across economic, environment and social bottom lines. As we complete our fourth reporting cycle we are proud to report that our businesses are harvesting visible competitive advantages of sustainability; advantages that cascade not just across our operations, but across the entire stakeholder chain benefitting our investors, suppliers, vendors, customers and communities. MAHINDRA RISE This year we at Mahindra embraced a new brand position 'Mahindra Rise' to energise our diversified federation of companies and bind them with a singularity of purpose. Formulated with an underlying ethos of sustainability, Mahindra Rise and its power to spark transformations internally within our group and externally across society is best captured in the following words of Anand Mahindra, Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited. “Rise isn't just a word. It is rather a rallying cry which enables people to unify around shared ideas, values, principles, a way of life or a common goal. It is a call to see opportunities where others can't and to set an example for the world. For Mahindra, Rise means achieving world-class standards in everything we do, setting new benchmarks of excellence and conquering tough global markets.” Rise is a simple yet powerful verb which amplifies the millions of farmers through our agri-prosperity initiatives, strong common desire of all our stakeholders to succeed creating green and innovative urban living spaces or and create a better future for themselves, their families investing in new automotive technologies and factories and their communities. Through Mahindra Rise we are that leave the lowest carbon footprints, Mahindra is providing the enabling factors and the platform to many companies with just one purpose: Enabling each perform. Whether transforming the lives of and every one of our stakeholder to Rise. 45 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us CORE PURPOSE We will challenge conventional thinking and innovatively use all our resources to drive positive change in the lives of our stakeholders and communities across the world, to enable them to Rise. BRAND PILLARS ALTERNATIVE DRIVING ACCEPTING NO LIMITS THINKING POSITIVE CHANGE CORE VALUES PROFESSIONALISM I GOOD CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP CUSTOMER FIRST I QUALITY FOCUS I DIGNITY OF THE INDIVIDUAL ‘Alternative Thinking' has been and continues to be In conjunction with Alternative Thinking, it motivates Mahindra's central unifying theme to build a sustainable each individual in Mahindra to optimise the limited organisation and a sustainable society. 'Accepting No bounty of nature that we have inherited and still Limits' is an articulation of our ambition to create achieve limitless outcomes. 'Driving positive change' exponential economic value and fuel accelerated growth. amplifies our mission to transform society. ALTERNATIVE THINKING The Mahindra approach to Sustainability Alternative Thinking can be found at the very genesis of sustainability in Mahindra. Over the years Altenative Thinking has evolved from native to transformative and it is now being wielded as a powerful tool to seed and affect positive change in multiple areas. Tracing the Progression In 2007, when world over, businesses were slashing expenses and shelving programs to cope with the economic meltdown, we at Mahindra were thinking alternative and kick starting our formalised journey to measure and manage sustainability. 46 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us When sustainability meant just When renewable energy Over the past four years, the Alternative green and environment to most was the sustainability Thinking movement has gained traction in of our stakeholders, we chose flavour of the month, we Mahindra across organisational hierarchy to think holistically and included chose to power our from policy makers to implementers and economic and social initiatives with we are now bringing in its folds important stakeholders in our inexhaustible energy external stakeholders such as our supply sustainability initiatives. the energy of our people. chain and distributor network. Alternative Thinking is now second nature to Mahindra and is being deployed to go beyond mere incremental change to seed and cascade radical and lasting transformations. Alternative Thinking continues to be a It is also no surprise that this year As we progress ahead on value driver which is helping Mahindra when we redefined our core our journey, it is Alternative reinforce reputation, enhance brand purpose as 'Rise' to make it more Thinking which shall equity, fortify strategic relationships, relevant to contemporary and future transform on-ground realities augment human & intellectual capital business scenarios, Alternative and help us 'Rise' above the and catalyse innovation. Thinking was an obvious pillar. expectations of a new world. THE ROADMAP Our journey of sustainability started with the cascading of sustainability awareness across the entire organisation. This was followed by the formulation of a structured roadmap tailor-made for each sector's individual materiality. The next logical step was to undertake strategic initiatives at business and unit level towards the achievement of the long term goals that we have set for ourselves. The comprehensive group roadmap, along with the customised roadmaps for individual sectors, articulates goals on a three year and five year timeline. We regularly keep track of our progress and report it as well. The present report covers the second year of the three year timeline and the progress charted out across all the goals has been very encouraging. In fact, most businesses have surpassed these targets. Target for Actual Commitments Progress 2011-12 2010-2011 Sectors have taken various initiatives to reduce specific Electrical, Thermal Energy Consumption. The projects are mainly focused on innovation, automation, process improvement, alternate fuel, REDUCTION renewable energy. Corporate Sustainability Cell IN ENERGY facilitated to conduct preliminary Energy Audit at CONSUMPTION 2% 20.11% Systech plants, MTWL and MMFSL. In the current reporting year the group has shown a reduction in specific water consumption and in devising a methodology to capture variation in paper and waste. To reduce specific consumption of the above resources sectors like AD, FD, MTWL, Systech, MLDL, MHRIL, MIL, AM-MSB, Tech M, MSat have adopted the 3R (Reduce/Recycle/Reuse) methodology. MLL and MIL have taken special projects to reduce REDUCTION wood consumption for packaging and material handling. IN RESOURCE MIL Nashik and Vadodara have started replacing CONSUMPTION (PAPER/ WASTE) 2% 7.78% wooden pallets with metal pallets and saved 578 & 138 tonnes of wood per annum respectively. 47 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us Policy MTWL has devised Green Procurement Released. & Green IT Policy. Implemented Green IT Policy have been adopted by AD, FD, by some MHRIL, MMFSL. GREEN IT companies. Draft / Target will be Green Procurement Policy released by AD, FD. & GREEN PROCUREMENT release & met by Action plan set up for the implementation of POLICY implement 2011-12 Green Procurement & Green IT policy. In the year 2010-2011 three plants of Systech (MUSCO Khopoli / MUSCO Rudrapur/ Mahindra Forging Chakan) certified for ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001. MSB Kanhe plant certified for ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001 integrated system. 18 MTWL Pithampur plant has been certified for ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001. CERTIFICATIONS certifications (ISO / OHSAS in current MHRIL Goa and Coorg resorts have certified for ECOTEL. / GRIHA / year Five sites of MLDL have received IGBC rating. ECOTEL ETC.) 10 2010-2011 Faridabad Chloris received platinum rating. SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Awareness will be a continuous process AWARENESS for employees, shareholders. Structured interaction FOR SIGNIFICANT with suppliers is in progress. The awareness was also STAKEHOLDERS 50% Achieved carried out in community areas like schools, colonies. REDUCTION IN AD, FD, Systech, MMFSL, MLL, MHRIL, MLDL have GHG / CO2 shown reduction in Specific Co2 emissions. MIL have EMISSIONS 2% 18.62% shown increase. ENHANCE 10% EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT year Employees were motivated to participate in the Esops IN ESOPS on year Achieved activities by empowering them to choose the initiatives. For the roadmap review MWC's performance has not been considered owing to their dynamic nature of business of expansion and new developments. Tech M data is also not considered because there is a significant improvement in the data collection process for the past two years compared to base-line year. Companies added in the scope in FY 2009-10 and FY 2010-11 are not a part of the roadmap, because they do not align with the already set baseline year for the above reasons. In the future, we plan to alter the roadmap to address the same. 48 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us CARBON FOOT-PRINTING Last year we enhanced our depth of reporting to include scope 3 emissions concentrating on Inbound / Outbound Logistics, air travel, paper consumption, employee commutation and CO2 fire extinguishers and undertook a comprehensive review of our carbon-footprint as per the GHG protocol developed by WBCSD/WRI and laid the foundation of our carbon strategy. Scope 3 Emissions included in the reporting Inbound / Outbound Air Paper Employee scope Logistics Travel Consumption Commutation The maturity of this process is at different levels in different businesses, and efforts to increase the depth and width of capturing this data will be a continuous process. Nevertheless, this exercise has resulted in a renewed focus on reducing GHG emissions and we are in a position to: 1 Identify and address GHG intensive areas Unearth and harness opportunities for reducing Emissions & Costs 2 3 Develop strategies whereby we would be prepared for impending new national and international regulations and be better placed to reap business benefits 49 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE We continue to build on our successful 3 tier structure which lends a top-down approach to enable strategic context towards sustainability & a bottom -up approach to enable strategic action through data monitoring & analysis. Comprises of the Corporate Sustainability Council ; which is a cross THE TOP TIER sector committee of senior executives chaired by a member of the Group Executive Board THE MIDDLE TIER Comprises Corporate Sustainability Cell ; which is the backbone of the group sustainability initiatives THE THIRD TIER Comprises Sustainability Champions at each sector & company within the sectors For more information on our sustainability structure refer last year's report. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In an increasingly complex and ever-changing business environment, the scope of the term 'stakeholder' has increased manifolds. In order to align our businesses to the needs and expectations of the our key stakeholders, we continue to have a structured process which helps the senior management to identify, review and prioritise key stakeholders, as well as issues and concerns that are material to each of them. Based on this the engagements with each stakeholder groups are designed to achieve the desired results. Each sector/business ensures that their individual communication department engages in an active dialogue with internal & external stakeholders through formal & informal mechanisms. Many of the engagements continue although there may be some additions or deletions based on the annual review process. For a detailed view of our ongoing stakeholder engagement initiatives, refer our Sustainability Report 2009-10 on www.mahindra.com. We are committed to strengthen our ongoing dialogue with our employees and stakeholders and create greater awareness among them on sustainability related issues. To accomplish this goal we flagged-off a host of initiatives round the year, across various sectors: Key stakeholders identified for the Mahindra Group include EMPLOYEES The Mahindra Group has always given importance to the nurturing and all-round development of its employees these include sharing of knowledge and sharpening of logical and statistical ability. Following are some of the initiatives that various sectors have undertaken for engaging the employees. Great ideas from Great Conversations (Fireside Chats) The Group HR (corporate centre) has started organising an initiative known as Fireside Chats . The Fireside Chats first came into existence in the 1930's during the Great Depression, as a series of interaction between the President of USA and the American public going through a financial downturn. They were known as Fireside Chats to connote the warmth and friendliness accompanied at an informal chat around a roaring fire in the comfort of one's home. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us In the context of the Mahindra Group, the Fireside Chats are informal meetings held at every quarter where top management engage with young talent in small groups in a freewheeling discussion about the company's vision, mission, and strategic direction and objectives for the future. The Executives participating will also be free to ask questions / clarifications on any issue that confronts them which is not individual or personal in nature. There is live telecast of the Fireside Chats across the group, so that every member of the Mahindra family is able to derive value from the interaction. The objectives of the fireside chats are: To establish a regular and informal channel of communication To enable managers to gain visibility with the leadership 'The Mahindra STAT Club' In our journey towards becoming a world-class company, we have set for ourselves a milestone of infusing quality in everything we do. And one of the most important components of a good quality control system is sound knowledge of statistics. Towards this objective we have established 'The Mahindra STAT Club'. 'The Mahindra STAT Club' Chairman Members For effective functioning of Mahindra STAT club the structure is divided into two layers and supported STAT Club Secretariat by STAT Club Secretariat. STAT Club Secretariat will be in rotation. The tenure of Secretariat will be for one year. (Body of 5 Members) Activities of the Mahindra STAT Club include Building the Statistical Conduct training on STAT Query resolution competency advanced Statistical tools On call basis help on of STAT Club members & techniques Statistical Analysis Facilitate learning session on Organise seminars Participate in National Excellence day On call basis on various Statistical topics & International forums The idea of the club initiated in November 2010 and implementation is in progress. Shadow Board Drushti A Shadow Board consists of Mahindra Intertrade Limited, bright, young executives working Nashik launched a 1-day together to deal with key priorities employee wellness program called and examine strategic issues of 'Drushti'. The program included the Sector and provide an topics on managing stress and 'alternative' point of view to the pressure, positive thinking, senior management. They enable achieving focus and increased vibrant engagement of young mind concentration, and managing through direct interaction with top personal and professional life. management on strategic The program received an excellent business issues. feedback from the participants. 51 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us CUSTOMERS From connoisseurs of blues music and the adventurous die-hards to the farmer of rural India this year the Group interacted with customers from very diverse background. Following are some of the initiatives undertaken by different sectors for the customers. Coalesce The Coalesce is a quarterly customer meet conducted between Mahindra World City and operational heads / facility heads of operational companies within MWC. The objective of the meeting is to understand and address the operational issues that the customers might face. It also serves as a forum to address customers' feedback on operational issues. Home User Guide MLDL's Home User Guide is a manual that helps the customers be familiar with their home. This guidebook also introduces one with the green features installed in the home providing technical help and practical tips on energy saving and recycling. Green Book Green book is designed to describe how MLDL develops Green Buildings as an integral part of Sustainable Development Initiative. Responsible Developments for Sustainable Living It includes energy efficiency measures taken during and after construction and activities leading towards savings or cost reduction. The objective is to get more output from the future-friendly systems implemented in the building. Going to the Grassroots Kisan Mela FD took part in the Kisan Mela The Kisan Mela was a huge draw and saw more than 1.76 lac visitors. (Farmer Fair) at the Punjab The stall provided the ideal platform for interaction and knowledge Agricultural University (PAU) sharing with the farming community. It resulted in over 1200 enquiries on September 14 15, 2010. and over 11 tractor bookings in just two days. 52 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us The Mahindra Great Escape Mahindra FD at CII AgroTech 2010 The Mahindra Great Escapes are FD displayed its complete range of GREAT organised by AD to give customers ESCAPE Tractors, Farm Mechanisation an opportunity to fully explore the offSolutions and Specialised Agri ADVENTURE services at the CII Agro Tech 2010 roading capabilities of their vehicles. The event was supported by Ministry When they were first initiated in 1996, the Mahindra of Agriculture, Government of India. Great Escapes used to be small one-day events, but now they have evolved into spectacular weekend events. The routes are meticulously chosen to ensure excitement without compromising on safety. In addition, there are experts along the route who guide the drivers through difficult terrains that may require skilful driving. From the hills of Coorg and the tea estates of Munnar to the undulating sand dunes of Mandawa in Rajasthan, the Great Escape has blazed a unique trail across the length and breadth of India. E-engagements To keep in line with the growing popularity of social networks, we regularly engage with our internet savvy customers via Facebook, Tweeter etc. Some of our key e-communication initiatives include: Contests E-mailers Logan Unique India Contest are sent to existing and advertising probable customers Xylo Xperience Contest about launch of User new products Generated Feedback Forums Content Scorpio Xtream an online competition conducted on Facebook received a phenomenal response Facebook presence of Mahindra Brands Brand Updates Club Mahindra Applications 94,000 fans Mahindra Great Escape Two Wheelers Game witnessed more 54,000 fans than 0.1 Million downloads on Facebook and Orkut Auto 750,000 fans 3,000 fans have reached to 0.75 The role of e-engagement in the success of promoting million within one year Mahindra Retail (Mom & Me) among young parents has been remarkable 53 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us SUPPLIERS From a sustainability framework point of view, as we progress further into scope 3 emission and endeavour towards a greener supply chain, it becomes imperative for us to keep our suppliers abreast on the organisation's business plans and expectations. Supplier Meet 2010 This year, a first-of-its-kind combined Supplier Meet 2010 was organised by Automotive and Farm Divisions. The aim was to share the current and future scenario of automotive and tractor industry, Mahindra's business plans and expectations from suppliers on QCD. Furthermore, FD also honoured suppliers through Commodity Awards and Panchratna Awards. DEALERS Dealers are the backbone to our sales structure and we appreciate their inputs on our products and always encourage an interactive dialogue. This year, we entered the construction equipment business and decided to engage the dealers in following manner. FD Dealers meet the Force 500/1000 Dealers Meet Mahindra Backhoe Loader FD organised the Force 500/1000 Dealers Meet in In order to interact with the dealers from Mumbai, where thirty dealers, with sales of more than the construction equipment business and 500 or 1000 tractors in a year, were felicitated to capture their feedback, an interactive with mementos. The top ranking officials from FD session was organised at Mahindra's conducted seminars on wide ranging topics like Chakan Facility. Over 65 FD Dealers alignment of purpose, identity and values between the attended the meet to understand and Company and its channel partners, value proposition in evaluate the new business opportunity. the coming year and the key challenges. 54 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us Dealer Advisory Committee The objective of the committee is to form a common platform between Mahindra Finance and Mahindra's dealers by making them a strategic Mahindra Mahindra Finance & partner in the group. The aim is to create a sustainable future for both, in their respective core businesses. Mahindra Ltd. The committee helps Mahindra become a more customer-centric organisation since process improvement initiatives are undertaken by soliciting the voice of dealers, the customers and the market. LOCAL COMMUNITY Mahindra Group has always strived bring about a positive change in the local community that resides around its manufacturing facilities as well as the society in general. This includes educating the farmer about agri-technology as well as enabling health check-ups in remote parts of rural India. Mahindra Samriddhi has been setting up Samriddhi centres in rural India since 2007. Samriddhi Centres educate farmers about various technological inputs that keep them abreast with world-class solutions to farming issues. In the endeavour to deliver Farm Tech Prosperity (Farming Technology for Prosperity) and impact the life of the Indian farmer, Mahindra Samriddhi signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the following three Agricultural Universities for Innovative Farming Technology Development and Dissemination Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture Tamil Nadu Agricultural Junagadh Agricultural & Technology (MPUAT), Udaipur University (TNAU), Coimbatore University (JAU), Junagadh Sapno ka Bharat Project Sapno Ka Bharat (Dream India) was initiated at Rudrapur with the aim to conduct Education, Health & Environmental activities targeting the present & future generation under one umbrella. In a Sapno Ka Bharat , we expect to see everyone enjoying good health. If the youth of today is fit & healthy then Bharat will be healthy. When our Esops team found that the remote area of Rudrapur lacked basic medical facilities it decided to take up the following initiatives: Health check up of Pulse polio AIDS awareness for Ongoing free mobile School students camp & rally transporters coming dispensary for school inside the Plant children & villagers 55 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us case study REWARD REWARD Agriculture, which Mahindra's 'Samriddhi India Agri provides livelihood to Awards' recognises farm professionals almost 65% of India's on a national platform labour force, is yet to get its due. Overexploited and under-appreciated, To transform the perception of farming as a this 'basic for survival' profession; and empower enterprising individuals industry has never been and institutions in the field of agriculture to rise and rewarded like the other take center stage, Mahindra FD has instituted the 'basic' industries. prestigious Mahindra Samriddhi India Agri Awards. Mahindra Samriddhi India Agri Awards recognise exemplary farm professionals who think alternatively, and rise above the legacy farming practices and drive a positive change in the agricultural sphere. The Mahindra The objective is to bring glory to these sons Samriddhi programme of the soil and create a national awakening aims to increase whereby agricultural enterprise and agricultural industrial enterprise are recognised as productivity and equals and success in any sphere, be it in enhance rural agrispace or aerospace, is celebrated alike. prosperity. 56 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Sustainability and Us The India Agri Awards 2011 These National Awards recognise and reward excellence across six felicitated eight national and categories at the national & regional level. fourteen regional / runner-up 1 MAHINDRA SAMRIDDHI FARMER OF THE YEAR AWARD (MALE) winners. These exemplary individuals from the agri Recognition for Farmers who have been instrumental in driving innovation by leveraging modern technology in agriculture, thus changing the sector were titled as the agriculture scenario in their region. Heroes of Indian Agriculture for having played an 2 MAHINDRA SAMRIDDHI FARMER OF THE YEAR AWARD (LADY) instrumental role in driving Recognition for lady farmers who have broken established stereotypes, to innovative, sustainable and be instrumental in driving innovation by leveraging modern technology in scalable farming agriculture, thus changing the agriculture scenario in their region. technologies. 3 MAHINDRA SAMRIDDHI KRISHI SANSTHAN SAMMAN The awards were judged by an Recognition for Public Sector organisations committed to a broad policy on eminent and illustrious jury that agriculture that has become instrumental in changing the lives of hundreds included luminaries like: of farmers. Mr. P. K. Basu Jury Chairman Secretary (Agriculture and Cooperation), 4 MAHINDRA SAMRIDDHI KRISHI SHIKSHA SAMMAN Ministry of Agriculture Recognition for Agriculture Universities who have made a noteworthy Dr. Ishar Ahluwalia Judge contribution in the field of agriculture, impacting the lives of Indian farmers. Chairperson, Planning Board, Punjab Dr. Pawan Goenka 5 MAHINDRA SAMRIDDHI KRISHI SAHYOG SAMMAN President Automotive & Farm (NGOs / SHGs working in field of Agriculture) Equipment Sectors, M&M Limited Recognition for NGOs / SHGs for purposeful contributions in the field of Dr. Gurbachan Singh agriculture, thus impacting the lives of farmers. Commissioner Agriculture Machinery Dr. M. S. Kang 6 MAHINDRA SAMRIDDHI KRISHI SHIROMANI SAMMAN Vice-Chancellor (Lifetime Achievement) Punjab Agricultural University Recognition for lifetime achievement in the field of agriculture; presented to Mr. Barun Das a renowned personality in the agri space whose contribution is recognised C.E.O ZEE News Limited at national and international levels. Mr. Gokul Patnaik Chairman Global Agri Systems Broadcast on a leading national television channel, these first-of-its-kind awards Pvt. Limited not only encourage innovative farming technologies but establish farming as a Dr. K. D. Kokate proud profession. The awards are in the form of citations and cash rewards. Director ICAR 57 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People ALTERNATIVE ENERGY Overview At Mahindra, our people are our transformation agents who move beyond limits, think alternatively and drive positive change. Thus a well-defined talent management strategy is an integral part of Mahindra's winning business strategy. We nurture and channelise the inexhaustible energy of our people by a continuous loop of growth, performance, feedback, training and motivation. We make it a priority to empower every team member with authority and responsibility and provide challenging projects which translate their potential into performance. 'Professionalism' and 'Dignity of the Individual' are two of our five Core Values. We celebrate their achievements, appreciate and acknowledge their efforts, reward their commitment and talent, and take care of not only their needs but also the needs of their family. MANAGEMENT APPROACH Human Rights At Mahindra, human rights are indivisible and non-negotiable. Dignity of the Individual is one of our 5 core values. Discrimination, forced & compulsory labour and child labour are strictly prohibited. We also denounce bribery or corruption in any form and our processes ensure that such negative practices are strictly discouraged. Our Human Rights policy released in May 2009, formally adopted the 10th Principle of UNGC. We adhere to the following UN Global Compact principles on human rights which state: Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Ensure that businesses are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Labour Practices We practice and endorse equal opportunity employment and do not discriminate on the basis of caste, religion, gender or handicap. We are committed to provide a safe & healthy work environment and ensure adherence to all labour legislations. To ensure that all business entities of our Group are aligned to a common approach which fosters a transparent, fair and growth oriented work culture, we have a 'Corporate HR Cell' which sets out norms, policies and initiatives for all to imbibe. This cell also looks at standardised Industrial Relations policies. Occupational Health & Safety of our employees is given prime importance and all our manufacturing units in Automotive, Farm Equipment, Systech sector & Mahindra Intertrade are either OHSAS 18001:2007 certified or in the process on obtaining the certification. Training and education of our employees is a part of our structured employee up-gradation process. We support the right of collective bargaining by our employees. 58 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People In 2001; Mahindra was one of the first Indian In addition, we have also incorporated the following ILO companies to be a signatory to the United Nations core labour conventions into our policies since 2009: Global Compact (UNGC) and we are committed to operate in line with the UN Global Compact principles on labour standards as mentioned below: Freedom of Association and the right to collective bargaining Principle 3 Right to organisze and collective Businesses should uphold the freedom of bargaining convention association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Forced labour convention Abolition of forced labour convention Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Minimum Age convention Principle 5 Worst forms of child labour convention The effective abolition of child labour Equal remuneration convention Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in Discrimination (Employment and respect of employment and occupation Occupation) convention TALENT MANAGEMENT Human Capital At Mahindra, our biggest wealth is our human capital. We constantly invest in the sustainable growth and development of our employees. We provide a With a global vibrant work environment where equal emphasis is given to professional and footprint spanning personal growth. A plethora of enabling mechanisms helps individuals as well 25 countries in as businesses to perform at their peak potential. five continents and a team Through our well-established Integrated Talent Development Process (ITDP), strength of over emphasis is given to attract, nurture, revitalize and retain some of the finest 100,000, talent talent. The ITDP helps identify business leaders who would fulfill critical roles management is and trains them in efficient decision-making and drawing effective strategic a priority area for business plans. The process ensures that we always have a strong repository Mahindra. of leaders to fill critical vacancies that arise due to fast paced growth, diversification, promotions and attrition. Enduring organisations, those that prosper through good and bad economies and major market changes, share an important commonality they develop long-lasting and powerful talent strategies” Rajeev Dubey I President Group HR & Aftermarket Sector, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. 59 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People IDAP LEADERSHIP INTERNATIONAL 3600 DEVELOPMENT EXPOSURE FEEDBACK INTEGRATED DCS ROTATION DEVELOPMENTAL STRATEGY FIRESIDE E-LEARNING COACHING & MENTORING CHATS This rigorous and comprehensive talent management and leadership development process is ably supported by state-of-the-art management development centers like Bodhivriksha & Mahindra Institute of Quality. Thus it is no surprise that for the reporting year: 70% of our positions were filled through the internal talent Successors for 75% of positions in all sectors were identified and designated pool against 54% in the previous year. against 66% in the previous year. During the reporting year, we carried out planning and implementation of cross-sector rotations for senior positions in the Group. Succession planning continued to be an important aspect of the process. To enhance the effectiveness of ITDP, we conducted development workshops for top executives on how to chalk out Individual Development Action Plans and engage in fruitful development conversations with employees. Developing Leadership To equip existing and potential leaders with new skill sets, Mahindra has in place an efficient and effective program that builds a strong leadership culture through a series of well-aimed training interventions and ensures a robust and sustained Leadership Pipeline. These global programs are offered as a part of the Group Learning & Development Calendar Ascend and they include: 60 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People Ongoing Programs Senior Leaders Program Global Leaders Program Formulated to sharpen the skills of senior Created to inculcate an international working skill executive managers in the organisation. set amongst executives working in the upper strata of the organisation. Global Management Development Program Leadership Lifecycle Program A three tiered leadership program to ensure Global Program consisting of creating global consistency across leadership levels to achieve strategies, organising outsourcing platforms, long-term objectives. developing global products as well as managing joint ventures and alliances. Capstone Business Simulation Advanced Program for Strategic Planning Simulation based program to help participants acquire a strategic and holistic mindset towards business Designed for senior leaders to infuse strategic through cross-functional simulations in which 4 teams thinking into planning process and decision making. ran a $100 million company for 8 virtual years. Aligning HR to Business Strategy A plethora of strategic programs aimed at ushering in a new rung of HR leadership in the organisation. Pragati F&A up-skilling Program I Account Employees up-skilling Program Interactive e-modules to foster management skills for new and experienced management professionals to address a spectrum of leadership challenges E Learning Initiative: Harvard Manage Mentor Intercultural Sensitivity A three day program designed to provide senior executives at Mahindra with a strategic mindset for recognising the potential of diversity and how they can support the development of inter-cultural competence. It provided participants with practical tools for recognising cultural differences and for predicting specific cross-cultural misunderstandings. For details of the above mentioned programs, refer our previous year's CSR Report. Employee Engagement It is well documented that employees who have had an emotional connect with their work perform better and derive a higher satisfaction from their job. In response to the findings in our annual Gallup Employee Survey, that we need to engage employees beyond just their jobs we implemented various initiatives. The aspects covered were employee health, managing their daily chores through a workforce service provider, fun at work, various women centric programs and community development activities. 61 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People Attracting Future Talent “It's time to recognise that financial performance increasingly comes from returns on talent, not on capital.” Rajeev Dubey I President Group HR & Aftermarket Sector, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. The War Room The Mahindra War Room reigned as India's biggest B-school event for the third year in a row. This strategy contest has become a cult Brand in India's top B-school campuses, with students awaiting the entire experience right from the launch on campuses till the Grand Finale. This year, this event witnessed a participation of 914 teams vis-à-vis 852 teams in the previous year. The winning team was awarded a cheque worth INR. 150,000/where as the runners up team received a cheque of INR. 75,000/-. In the post event feedback survey, participants awarded it a rating of 4.6 which improved from 4.3 in previous year on a scale of 5. watch video http://www.moneycontrol.com/video/special-videos/mahindra-war-room-10-who-willlead-indiathe-future_499209.html?utm_source=Article_Vid Prefer to Refer This year under the Mahindra concept of Prefer to In order to get an in-depth analysis of the war room and Refer , 53.8% of all employees have been the prefer to refer concept of Mahindra; you can refer to recruited through employee referrals. previous CSR Report for the year 2010-2011. Nurturing Existing Talent Effective training reduces staff turnover and absenteeism, improves motivation and increases productivity, which in turn helps boost customer satisfaction. By focusing resources on nurturing existing talent, Mahindra reaps significant benefits. Our wide-ranging training programs address soft skills and hard issues topics such as positive attitude, stress management, creativity, team effectiveness, employee engagement, safety and environment, quality tools, TPM, dexterity and technical capabilities. 62 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People ASSESSMENT CENTRES DEVELOPMENT CENTRES PRAVARTANA As a part of building a This year the 'Development 'Pravartana An inter company mobility culture of identifying and Centre' program was initiative happens when a full-time nurturing talent, an conducted for 32 executives in executive on the payroll of one Mahindra Assessment Centre has E band The band created for Group Company moves to the payroll of helped Mahindra to bring Senior Management another Mahindra Group Company with in a scientific dimension to Executives. The positive continuity of service which protects the the Career Progression response is evident from the overall tenure of employment of the process, for the middle fact that it received a feedback executive. This shift facilitates cross management. rating of 4.5 on a scale of 5. learning and seeding of best practices. Implementation Structure In order to get an in-depth analysis of the implementation structure and how strategic implementation leverages individual and team strength to create value addition in the organisation, you can refer to our previous Sustainability Report for the year 2009-10. The talent Management process of Mahindra received huge external recognition through the below mentioned highlights: The success of our strategic talent management initiatives can be gauged from the fact that succession cover of our in-house talent at the top three levels of management has improved from 33% to 100% over the past 5 years Ranked 12th as preferred recruiter in 2010 AC Neilsen Campus Track Survey, from being 33rd in 2009 and 48th in 2008 Featured in Tomorrow's Company Global Talent Publication Featured in the CII Compendium of Corporate Case Studies which was circulated globally Transformational Work Culture At Mahindra, we value diversity in our work folio and promote a high performance, high ethics culture. 63 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People While we remain rooted to these two core fundaments, we are well aware that the global paradigms are changing and we need to lead this change. The Transformational I.R. Initiative embarked upon in 2004 continues to promote selfrealisation and encourage all employees, regardless of their cadre or rank, to proactively engage in achieving organisational goals. The basic aim is to unleash human potential, and create a sense of ownership for one and all in the organisation. Cross-functional teams across business and locations work on this initiative. POLICIES Overview Mahindra believes in employee empowerment and we make sure that every policy is created keeping that in mind. Our policies are created to ensure that work for every employee remains a pleasant and enriching experience. A central HR council composed of business sector HR heads is responsible for handling all matters concerning labour practices. Each Group company adheres to the following policies. HUMAN RESOURCE Mahindra follows a strategic HR Policy to ensure that ample opportunities are provided to people of the right caliber and maintain the dignity of the employees irrespective of their seniority. Moreover, Mahindra conducts employee surveys to gain valuable feedback from the employees. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Below is the list of employee relationship objectives followed by Mahindra Achieve organisational goals with the active involvement of employees Focus on attracting, retaining and nurturing people with relevant skill-sets and competencies Create a mutually beneficial and productive industrial climate Manage employees fairly and transparently In order to get details of HR and Employee relations Policies; you can refer to previous Sustainability Report for the year 2009-10. EMPLOYEE ASSOCIATIONS Employee Associations and Collective Bargaining Agreements Majority of the employees who come under the Mahindra wing are free to choose the union of their choice and thereby encourage collective bargaining agreements leading to substantial developments within the organisation. Discrimination is prohibited under the unionised employees since it is stated that Mahindra does not advocate the use of favoritism for any specific employee group. a majority of the employees are members of: 64 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People Bhartiya Kamgar Mahindra & Mahindra Mahindra & Mahindra Centre of Indian Sena (BKS) Workers Union Employees Union Trade Unions (CITU) Employees who are covered under the collective Bargaining Agreements for FY 2010-11 Non-unionised | 2.32% Unionised | 97.68% Break-up of unionised employees for FY 2010-11 Total: 14,085 Maharashtra Rajya Rashtriya Kamgar Sangh | 425 Mahindra & Mahindra Employees' Union | 3,364 Maharashtra Rajya Rashtriya Kamgar Sanghtan | 172 Mahindra & Mahindra Workers Union | 1,851 Mahindra Two Wheelers Workers' Union | 575 MHRIL Workers' Union | 1,590 Pune Zilla Mazdoor Sangh | 582 Swaraj Foundry Division Worker's Union | 1,271 AITUC | 242 Mahindra & Mahindra Kamgar Sangh | 747 Kamgar Utkarsha Sabha | 40 Bharatiya Kamgar Sena | 3,226 Minimum Notice Period of Operational Changes During the reporting period all our companies that employ unionised labour followed all pertinent regulations in letter and intent. The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 is one such statute that applies to labour relations. It specifically mentions a three-week notice period for all operational changes. There are consultation and negotiation opportunities during the notice period. If consent is given, only then can the agreement be signed to reflect the changes. In order to have a clear idea about the various types of changes that are inculcated in the following act, please refer our previous Sustainability Report. 65 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY Occupational Health & Safety At Mahindra, ensuring employee safety and health is a universal value that is unaffected by the time. We have a team of professionals who constantly persevere towards the occupational health & safety of all the employees of the organisation. We have articulated a Health and Safety Policy in accordance with the provisions of the Factories Act 1948 and Maharashtra Factories Rule 73-L. The policy outlines Mahindra's commitment to strengthen a safety & health oriented culture that is conducive to the mental and physical well-being of employees. SWINE FLU AWARENESS CAMPS In comparison with last year Mahindra conducted counselling sessions Swine flu was under control in for female employees on serious diseases the current year. The initiators like Breast cancer & cervical cancer. at Mahindra made sure that These diseases are becoming more and Our previous enough education, training more common in females and such report gives an and counseling on Swine Flu counseling sessions were highly analysis of our policy highlights, was provided to the appreciated by them. Along with such objectives of the employees, their family sessions, the initiators also understood policy, additional members and neighboring that 'Prevention is better than Cure.' health and communities. During trainings, Arrangement of fat and bone checkups, safety topics protection gear including health camps for diabetes, cardiac health, and awareness masks and disinfectant stress management, ergonomics etc were campaigns and solutions were also distributed conducted in sectors like Mahindra initiatives taken as a precautionary measure. Satyam, Tech M, Mahindra Finance, etc. to tackle diseases like AIDS. C A S E S T U D Y ENABLING A NEW LEASE OF LIFE At Mahindra, our employees are powered by passion in their professional as well as personal lives. While Esops our volunteering program continues to undertake developmental initiatives for the community, our employees also proactively lend a helping hand to the ones in need. A case in point is our compassionate team of MTWL employees who helped Rakesh in his most critical phase to life. Rakesh Singh our employee got seriously injured in a road accident on Pithampur-Mhow road when a fully loaded mini truck crossed over his body. He suffered multiple injuries with four broken ribs, dislocated shoulder, punctured lungs, damaged liver and kidney. His condition was so critical that even the nearby hospitals refused to admit him. 66 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People It was then that our MTWL employees came to the rescue and rushed him to C.L. Gurjar Hospital. Though his pulse rate had collapsed, the hope of his survival had not. After all due efforts, he started breathing again. This was followed by several surgeries to put him back on his feet. One of our employees also donated blood to Rakesh At Mahindra, we contributed our bit by giving him INR 50000 from MTWL Benevolent Fund as well as the benefits of ESIC (Employee State Insurance Corporation). But the real support came from our employees whose timely rescue and helpfulness has given Rakesh a new lease of life. Today he has not only found his original health and but has also resumed his work. C A S E S T U D Y TRANSFORMING THE LIFE OF AN ABANDONED GIRL CHILD Every cloud has a silver lining. When a newborn girl child was abandoned under the gloomy skies, Mr. Sushil Choudhary, an MMFSL employee from Karnal came to her rescue and ensured that she saw sunshine again. On a particularly rainy day of August 27, 2010, when Sushil and his colleague Mr. Mohnish Jaiswal were on a collection visit near Rumala village, they took refuge under a tree. To their horror, there they found an abandoned newborn wrapped in a plastic sheet. After searching in vain for the child's parents and contacting the Sarpanch of Rumala village, they filed an F.I.R. at the nearest police station and got the news published in a local newspaper. Infant on the day she was found by us. Infant with her foster family. While the search was still on for the girl's biological parents, Sushil decided to take her home so that his wife can give her a mother's care. After hearing the news about the infant, a number of families came forward to adopt the child, but Sushil decided to do thorough background checks of the interested couple in order to ensure that the girl's future is not jeopardized in any way. Among the interested families, Sushil entrusted this infant to Mr. Shiv Kumar and his wife, a childless couple married since 20 years. The adoption took place in letter and spirit with all legal formalities duly fulfilled. This once abandoned girl child has now found love and affection from her foster parents. It is because of such passionate employees like Mr. Sushil Choudhary that Mahindra has been able, and will continue, to usher a positive change in the society. 67 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People WORKFORCE SNAPSHOT Overview In view of the significantly enhanced scope of this report the workforce covered is 112,816 as against 73,536 covered last year. TOTAL WORKFORCE ATTRITION RATE 73,536 13.33 2009 -10 112,816 18.11 2010 -11 Note: # All figures as on March 31st, 2011. # In the previous year, the turnover was calculated based on the number of separations/ 31st March Headcount. This year, in consultation with Corp HR, we have changed the formula applied to number of separations/average headcount of 1st April, 2010 & 31st March, 2011. Talent Sustainability Highlights 19.70% of work force (Under officer's 97.68% of the employees were covered under the category) is female. Total number of Collective Bargaining agreements for Fiscal year 2010-11. employees under officer's category is 65,789. Only 2.32 % of employees were non-unionized. Employement Distribution Group Wide Total: 112,816 MIL | 448 Tech M | 35,886 MVML | 4,494 MLDL | 251 FD | 15,288 MTWL | 1,729 MWC | 80 AD | 18,181 Systech | 9,327 MHRIL | 1,136 MLL | 1,464 MMFSL | 4,303 MSat | 20,092 AM-MSB | 137 68 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People Employment Grade and Type Sector Permanent FTC TPC Others Total Officers Workmen Jr. Mgmt Mid. Mgmt Sr. Mgmt AD 2,305 1,246 113 6,047 2,322 6,148 18,181 MHRIL 111 209 20 309 487 1,136 MIL 31 60 11 36 1 272 37 448 MLDL 54 141 27 29 251 MLL 338 120 30 976 1,464 MMFSL 3,990 301 12 4,303 AM-MSB 33 50 6 48 137 MSat 9,301 6,947 390 197 726 2,531 20,092 MTWL 540 187 41 575 386 1,729 MVML 346 18 2 1,337 10 338 2,443 4,494 MWC 26 21 9 3 12 9 80 FD 1,356 651 226 4,019 3,192 3,468 2,376 15,288 Systech 1,162 322 63 1,784 2,839 3,056 101 9,327 Tech M 29,955 4,409 609 112 759 42 35,886 49,548 14,682 1,559 Total Officers 65,789 14,110 Total Permanant 79,899 10,611 8,628 13,678 112,816 FTC: Fixed Term Contract, TPC: Third Party Contract. Age Composition and Turnover Sector <30 30-50 >50 Turnover (%) <30 30-50 >50 AD 1,505 1,916 243 2.49 1.07 0.00 MHRIL 76 242 22 33.59 34.80 26.09 MIL 26 66 10 24.00 6.40 0.00 MLDL 74 138 10 26.87 19.77 10.00 MLL 179 283 26 35.21 36.96 18.52 MMFSL 1,487 2,797 19 18.00 12.78 10.81 MSB 23 59 7 15.00 12.84 0.00 MSat 8,512 7,971 155 29.39 26.46 17.42 MTWL 207 448 113 31.94 10.75 6.06 MVML 300 57 9 5.66 0.00 0.00 MWC 15 36 5 14.81 23.68 0.00 69 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People FD 676 1,209 348 24.87 15.19 7.48 Systech 664 630 253 28.26 22.02 8.35 Tech M 24,608 10,257 108 46.16 32.5 14.85 Total 38,352 26,109 1,328 Gender Composition and Turnover Sector Female Male Turnover (%) Female Male AD 191 3,473 1.71 1.58 MHRIL 70 270 26.67 36.05 MIL 15 87 0 12.2 MLDL 39 183 21.33 21.64 MLL 46 442 39.13 34.72 MMFSL 135 4,168 13.49 14.72 MSB 9 80 13.33 12.33 MSat 3,556 13,082 32.98 26.44 MTWL 27 741 12.77 14.51 MVML 21 345 0 5 MWC 8 48 23.53 12.5 Systech 17 1,530 20 22.67 FD 65 2,168 24 16.39 Tech M 8,766 26,207 39.64 42.16 Total 12,965 52,824 Employment Category Turnover Sector Jr. Management Mid. Management Sr. Management Turnover (%) Turnover (%) Turnover (%) AD 2.02 0.79 0.96 MHRIL 43.48 29.28 27.27 MIL 6.90 14.04 0.00 MLDL 19.61 24.24 11.76 MLL 30.71 44.54 40.68 70 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People MMFSL 15.24 5.80 18.18 MSB 25.00 4.71 0.00 MSat 29.81 25.36 23.78 MTWL 4.97 45.16 10.00 MVML 4.99 0.00 0.00 MWC 16.00 22.22 11.11 Systech 19.94 29.38 34.92 FD 20.14 12.50 7.37 Tech M 45.72 18.30 15.40 Training TRAINING MAN-DAYS TRAINING MAN-DAYS SECTOR OFFICERS WORKMEN AD 13,535.00 10,473.00 MHRIL 2,178.00 3,830.00 MIL 486.75 35.44 MLDL 94.00 NA MLL 335.00 NA MMFSL 4,711.20 NA AM-MSB 455.00 NA MSat 52,382.00 NA MTWL 2,109.00 1,865.00 MVML 1,393.00 2,839.00 MWC 241.00 NA Systech 1,802.64 12,188.45 FD 14,605.65 25,158.40 Tech M 190,144.00 NA The total number of training man-days for HR Personnel employed under Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited was 370 days and the total number of training man-days for HR Personnel employed under Mahindra Satyam was 2,920 days respectively 71 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People HEALTH AND SAFETY 23 LOST TIME LOST DAY SECTOR INJURY RATE RATE AD 0.287 16.873 MTWL 0.551 35.846 MLDL 0.147 883.121 Systech 2.841 77.168 During the reporting period, (Without Gears) there were no lost time Systech 0.198 4.96 injuries in sectors like MSat, (Gears) MVML, MHRIL, MLL, MIL, AM-MSB, MWC and Tech M. FD 0.35 24.47 Lost time injuries considered whereas defined in the Factories Act, 1948. The factor of 1,000,000 is used in calculation of above rates is derived from 50 working weeks @ 40 hours per 500 employees to ensure that the resulting rate is related to the number of employees and not the number of hours. To further ensure the safety of our employees, all our plants are equipped with a state-of-theart fire fighting system and as part of ongoing activities we provide fire safety awareness and training to our employees. C A S E S T U D Y PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS IS BETTER THAN CURING INJURIES According to International Labour Office statistics, 120 million occupational accidents occur annually at workplaces worldwide. Such occupational accidents and resulting injuries have become a new business challenge. At Mahindra, we believe that for a business to remain in the pink of health, pivotal importance must be given to safety, security and health of employees. That is the reason why our Nasik automotive plant goes beyond the conformation of statutory requirements to collect and analyse data pertaining to any previously occurred accidents. This process is carried out by our SH&E Dept keeping in mind below parameters: • Year wise Accident • Organ wise accident analysis • Agency wise accident analysis • Department wise accident analysis • Unsafe material or physical • Type of accident wise analysis condition wise accident analysis This analysis gave us an opportunity to introspect our past actions and inspect our present processes to make them accident proof. The impact of this documentation is visibly clear from the overall decline in accident cases witnessed this year over previous year. 72 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People 63% reduction in 61% reduction in accidents 72% reduction in total accidents requiring first aid non-reportable accidents CELEBRATION OF WINNING THE GOLDEN PEACOCK FIRE PEVENTION WEEK AWARD FOR OHS IN AUTOMOBILE BY AUTO DIVISION INDUSTRY FARM DIVISION All manufacturing plants of the M&M's Farm Division has once again division observed Fire Prevention won the prestigious Golden Peacock Week from 14th to 20th April 2010. Award for Occupational Health and Safety in the Automobile Category. Our three plants located in Maharashtra viz., Kandivali, Nasik & The Award was presented to the Farm Igatpuri participated in Industrial Fire Division team by Mr. P. Chidambaram, Drill competitions conducted every Hon. Home Minister, Govt. of India, in year by the Govt. of Maharashtra to the presence of Justice P.N. Bhagwati, create awareness amongst citizens, Former Chief Justice of India and especially in industries. Chairperson of Golden Peacock Awards, India. Out of the seven events; Kandivali Fire Team won 6 prizes The Farm Division plants have come a long way towards improving safety Igatpuri and Nasik teams won 1 prize practices. each in the Four Men Hydrant Drill Kandivali Plant won the Overall Excellent progress has been made Maharashtra Fire Championship Trophy in Frequency Severity Index Ratings across all the plants in Farm Division. The results achieved on It is matter of great pride ZERO Accident have been that in the last 14 years commendable. Mahindra has singularly won these awards 12 times. 73 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People case study INTEGRATION INTEGRATION When an organisation expands, the At Mahindra, we seek unity in the diversity of not operational complexities expand just our people, but also our products and processes. exponentially. What often goes amiss is the integrity in thoughts, actions and To unite all our companies through one common thread, we harmonised the intentions. communication of 60 Group Companies via the unique SAP platform. Communication gaps, supply chain slacks, global integration, This integration of processes across core functions knowledge management, will channelise inter-company expertise, enhance policy fulfillment are efficiency and optimize resources. some of the challenges that arise. To maintain integrity more often than not diversity is restricted. Project Harmony, is an initiative by Mahindra to This is a project of interlink all the departments of the organisation epic proportions through a central database. The aim is to leverage which covers 42 the interconnectivity to realise real time reporting, Mahindra Group streamline communication and automate various Companies. business practices using SAP as a platform. In view of the magnanimity of the whole exercise, it was decided to implement the project in a 3 phased manner Phase I Phase II Phase II Business Process Implementing Rollouts / Implementation of This project is the largest big Harmonisation Common SAP ERP to new businesses bang project in the world that Workshops Processes and and New Modules & harmonisesconsolidation of functionalities for existing all SAP systems implementations. 74 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Driven by our People 60 Group Companies Key benefits 1. One Mahindra experience to employees 50,000+Users 2. Increasing efficiencies through harmonisation and automation. 450+ Locations 3. Uniform spread of global industry best practices 4. Making available homogeneous analytics & reports across the group. 40+ Harmonised Processes 5. Faster and more effective decision making. 6. Leverage benefits from economics of scale. + Strong 500 Project Team 80% reduction in IT costs Decrease in the per user cost + 5,000 Man Month Effort Great reduction in implementation time reduction Significant decrease in costs of integration and maintenance of 1Common Platform that integration piece. Huge savings through centralised contracting and vendor base rationalisation. 7. Improve service levels to the internal customers (On-time & Error free) 8. Faster consolidation and declaration of results. 9. Social & environmental benefits: The employees will have a single window for all employee services, which will result in enhanced employee relations. Sustainability benefits due to reduction of Paper based processes for employee transactions Among the most coveted accolades received, both internally and externally, include: AWARD CATEGORY SAP ACE Award Best Run Award for Conglomerate SAP ACE Award Best Run Award for Business Intelligence Diamond Edge Award for driving growth UB Media Edge Award and excellence through IT Indian Express Intelligent Enterprise Award for Group Award the most innovative IT Initiative Cyber Media Group Award Best IT Implementation Lakshya Award NITIE On the Job Achievers International Data Group Best Storage Infrastructure Award CIO 100 Exemplary use of IT to Deliver Business Value Indus BI Champions Trophy C.S.I. 2010 Awards for Excellence in IT 75 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance OVERVIEW World over demands on products are increasing. Consumers want product choices that integrate environmental improvements, but will switch their purchasing decisions only when the product retains the performance they require and the value they need. Eco-efficiency has to jog along with cost efficiency across the entire product life cycle to witness mass adoption. At Mahindra, we are conscious of the fact that our products and services touch many lives and livelihoods in more ways than one. By synthesising sustainability with Alternative Thinking we have adapted a transformative approach throughout our production processes. We don't just build products; we build possibilities by accepting no limits. Management Approach We continually challenge ourselves to improve the environmental performance of our products and reduce the total cost of ownership to our customers and environment. We develop solutions that support the transformation to a fair, inclusive and low-carbon economy thus truly driving positive change. We are augmenting our product portfolio in the area of sustainable mobility, alternative propulsion technology, environmentally responsible world cities, green homes, green data centres and inclusive rural finance. Meeting and exceeding the high expectations of our stakeholders is a collaborative effort at Mahindra. Our R&D and strategy departments work in tandem with our execution team to achieve environmentally and socially responsible products which comply with all statutory regulations and voluntary codes throughout the product life cycle. We seek to enhance the sustainability score of our products through adoption of prioritised, systematic and scientific development at every juncture. The Mahindra Quality Way ensures that this is done by integrating management technology, process technology and product technology in manufacturing, vendor management, product development and marketing. Mahindra Group, being a conglomerate, has diversified business sectors. Though we do not have a single customer privacy policy encompassing all our sectors but we do follow local and national legislation. We have not received any complaints related with customer privacy. We provide accurate and appropriate information through strict compliance with required disclosures and product labelling warranted by procedures including product & service labelling, marketing & communication requirements and laws inclusive of promotions, sponsorships and advertising. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Combating Climate Change O In line with the UNEP framework, Mahindra has assumed adherence of a 360 approach that aims to reduce the stress on the environment at every stage of product management right from the product design, procurement of raw materials, manufacturing, distribution, to responsible end-of-life disposal. This approach is embedded into our production processes, products and services. Around the globe, as issues pertaining to climate change and carbon footprint take center stage, we at Mahindra understand that eco-friendly transportation has become the need of the hour. Last year, we re-launched Bolero Pickup, Bolero Maxx Maxi Pickup and the three wheeler Champion with superior technologies that reduce CO2 76 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance emissions, to meet Bharat Stage IV emission norms. This year, we added value to our alternative mobility approach by introducing a plethora of initiatives from incorporating green features in existing products, developing new fuelfriendly products to acquiring an electric car company. Our Approach We continue to focus on mitigating CO2 emissions by research and development in conventional power-train technologies, fuel-efficient engines, low friction transmissions and drivelines. The overall strategy is to build sustainable mobility solutions through multi-dimensional initiatives which include: Reducing CO2 footprints by making our Ensuring reduced emission levels against those conventional fuel engines more fuel efficient and prescribed by National & International Emission increasing use of alternate fuels like CNG, LPG, norms. The current vehicles emission for domestic is & Bio fuels etc. A target to reduce CO2 footprint BS-IV compliant for 12 cities and BS-III for rest of the by about 8% by 2014 from the base year of 2009. country. Export vehicles are either EURO IV or EURO V compliant. Reducing fossil fuel consumption by substituting Working towards the elimination of hazardous it with non-fossil fuel alternatives materials and increased use of recyclable material like Bio diesel, hydrogen cell on the vehicles. Our target to meet recyclable etc. We have already developed material standards of EEC 2005/64/EC by 2012. few concept vehicles with Hydrogen fuel and Bio-Fuels. Downscaling our engines and using light weight Some vehicles with Hydrogen materials to reduce CO2 emissions. This is a & CNG mixture are in the continuous improvement programme which is demo phase. adopted in most of the vehicle platforms. New Developments Farm Division Development of fuel-efficient conventional diesel engine continues to be our top most priority. On 12th May 2010, Swaraj 843 XM was launched by the Swaraj Division of FD in Ahmedabad. This new tractor is powered by a 42 HP engine for greater pulling and load carrying capacity while the branding XM defines Xtra Mileage and highlights the new fuel efficient engine used in this series of products. Swaraj 843 XM has recorded the Specific Emissions of 843XM (gm/kW.h) Max. Limit 843XM Fuel Consumption as 169 g/hph (power take off), among the lowest in its class, under stringent testing conditions at 7.50 Central Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute 5.81 5.50 (Budhni, M.P.). The emission and noise levels of this engine are also much below the 1.21 0.60 stated requirements. 0.23 Emission levels of Swaraj 843XM vis-à-vis Hydrocarbons & Carbon Particulate Nitrogen Oxides Mono-Oxide Matter the permissible limits 77 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance Two Wheelers Mahindra Duro Mahindra Stallio Duro, one of our best selling family On 30th September 2010, the very stylish Mahindra Stallio scooter, uses light weight panels marked its debut in the Indian market. This bike sports LED tail and components to ensure better lamps and pilot LED lamps which not only enhance front and rear fuel efficiency. visibility but are also more resistant to failures from vibration, generate almost no heat and consume very little power. Automotive Division All Scorpio variants & 20% of Bolero variants were enabled with micro (start/stop) hybrid system and they now deliver enhanced fuel efficiency. Mahindra's Pickup trucks (TR-20, TR-40) received Federal Tier-2 BIN-5 & OBD II Compliance Certificate from Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), USA Mahindra Group acquired the Reva Electric Car Company in May 2010. Today, Mahindra Reva has one of the largest deployed fleets of electric car in the global market and has accumulated data for more than 100 million km of user experience. In harmony with our Indian and international partners, our R&D team Vehicles that run on the comprising 1,200 passionate professionals explores trajectories to introduce HCNG (Hydrogen + CNG future-friendly technologies. We have been working on different platforms of mixture) platform successfully driveable full hybrid vehicles, bio-fuel vehicles, an electric passenger vehicle, completed 10,000 km demo a hydrogen combustion engine vehicle and many recyclable materials and trials and long distance trials reusable technologies. We made significant progress on these fronts. for 50,000 km are underway on 2 vehicles. Once on the Vehicles developed on HCNG (Hydrogen + CNG road, these vehicles will mixture) platform were displayed during further bring down CO2 the last commonwealth games at New Delhi. emissions as compared to CNG vehicles. 78 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance AD and Mahindra Hinoday The technical knowledge of AD and the material knowhow of Mahindra Hinoday came together to develop a high pressure casting for crankshaft. Special material with less machining allowance was used for this project. Automotive Division who is OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) helped in developing and co-designing a GC Casting that resulted in a reduction in weight from 22 kg to 16.8 kg. Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Ltd. TERRA, the new camping & adventure holiday product from Club Mahindra combines nature at its pristine best with recreational & adventure activities that ensures a cherished experience for its patrons. TERRA's tented campsite is designed to take one closer to nature at its best. TERRA at Panchgani, the first of many campsites to come, is now open. It's a 5 acre campsite with 10 tents situated just 20 km from Blue Country, a Club Mahindra managed resort. Explore more >> http://www.terracamps.com/ Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd. Electrical failures in rural areas result in insufficient charging and down time of Handheld Devices (HHD) and mobile phones of our field agents. In order to mitigate this, MMFSL started the implementation of bike chargers and solar charger for mobiles and HHDs respectively. The bike charger is simply attached with the battery of the bike and enables the field executives to charge their HHD & mobile anywhere during field visits. The solar chargers for HHD make them independent of grid power and prove to be extremely useful during power shortages. LOGAN CLOCKS RECORD MILEAGE In the month of December 2010, M&M organised the 'Logan Mileage Rally' in Kochi, Kerala. It was a unique customer centric initiative aimed at creating a platform for customer interaction and highlighting the vehicle's superior mileage. Over 80 Logan customers and their families attended the event. The rally was flagged off at the Renaissance Hotel in Kochi and the participants were handed over the route map for navigation. Before that the vehicles had to fill up to full fuel capacity in the presence of neutral marshals to prevent any misreporting in mileage figures. 79 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance The winning Logan recorded a The vehicles travelled on the National mileage of 34.33 kmpl, followed Highway no.47 till Thuravoor and covered by an average of 34.01 kmpl and a distance of approximately 62 km, on 34.3P3L 32.63 kmpl. For a car that has returning to the starting point the amount covered over 59,000 km, this of fuel consumed by each vehicle was record was a great achievement. KM measured and mileage was determined. End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling End-of-life vehicles have the potential to release harmful substances into the environment if they are not stored, treated and disposed of properly. As a result of concerns about the environmental and economic impacts of these vehicles, the European Union has adopted the End of Life Vehicles (ELV) Directive (2000/52/EC). Mahindra is committed to minimize the environmental impact of its vehicle and we have instituted special processes to ensure compliance with the European Union Directive 2005/64/EC. Our objective is to restrict the amount of waste produced from ELVs and increase the recovery and recycling of ELVs that arise. Below is a list of European Export models for which RRR procedure has been performed and approval received. Scorpio Scorpio Bolero SUVs Thar Pickups Pickups Pickups Double cab Single cab We follow the ISO 22628:2002, to calculate the recyclability rate, the recoverability rate and the reusability rate (RRR) of our new road vehicles. For an elaborate view of the 4-step RRR procedure adopted by M&M refer previous year's report Looking ahead Sustainable mobility solutions are a key focus area for us and we will continue to aggressively pursue technology development in these areas. Some of the key thrust areas in this direction are weight reduction by using alternate materials, designing modularity to take care of variants, VAVE (Value Analysis Value Engineering) approach for meeting environmental objectives along with cost pressures. Building Greener Landscapes At Mahindra Lifespaces, our efforts are focussed towards building green spaces that ensure the wellbeing of its residents. All our ongoing projects undergo pre-certification under the IGBC Green Building rating system. Over and above our previous projects, this year Mahindra Eminente received gold rated pre-certification and Mahindra Aura applied for gold pre-certification. 80 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance Mahindra Chloris is India's second Platinum Certified Green Building constructed under CII-IGBC Green home rating system. It has introduced the use of solar energy to illuminate street lights. Till date, we have received While those recognised as gold rated platinum rated pre-certification for: pre-certified green buildings are: • Mahindra Splendour • Aqualily (Chennai) • Mahindra Royale (Pune) • Mahindra Eminente (Goregaon, Mumbai) Mahindra World City Jaipur also The company has also developed an received LEED pre-certification in-house team of engineers and architects for commercial building for the as certified energy saving analyst for ongoing phase of Evolve. analyzing efficiency of its green building. MWCDL is India's first operational Special Economic Zone (SEZ) to apply for IGBC Green Township Certification. India's SEZ1 st To provide and promote a sustainable lifestyle, Mahindra Lifespaces continues to deploy a range of green building initiatives in all its projects. These include: 1 2 Use of Low Volatile Organic Use of High-albedo-insulating material on the Compound (VOC) paints, adhesives terrace roof with a SRI (Solar Reflectance and insulations. Index) value of over 78. 3 4 Use of fly-ash based concrete Installation of high energy-efficient low bricks/blocks of low energy emissivity glass in all fenestrations. density. 5 6 Use of polypropylene fibers and waterproofing Installation of highly admixtures in cement mortar plaster to protect water efficient fixtures the building from water leakage. with aerators. Development of an innovative erosion and sedimentation control management system outside the building, with a rainwater harvesting system and storm water management to recharge ground water levels. Installation of an in-house Sewerage Treatment Plan (STP). HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS At Mahindra, safety comes first and remains at the heart of each of our products. Care for the health and safety of our colleagues, communities, customers and the environment is a part of everything we do. Each Mahindra offering is subjected to intensive prototype testing and virtual validation. This sieve empowers us to address all possible health and safety parameters before commencement of commercial production. 81 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance Automotive Division Our vehicles comply to all Central Motor Vehicle Rules (CMVR), including safety and noise norms. Over and above the CMVR, our vehicles also comply with the safety standard set by the Auto Division in terms of seatbelt anchorage, head impact, steering impact, pendulum impact, permissible emission and noise levels. Our mission of covering 13 mega cities in the country under the Bharat Stage IV emission norms and rest of the cities under Bharat Stage III is well on track. We have phased out BS-II vehicles from our product range. In addition to that 40% of our vehicles, meant for the export market, are designed in accordance with major European, Australian, South African & South American motor vehicle safety standards and regulations such as front, offset, side and rear impact with dummy injury criteria. In case of export vehicles, compliance is monitored with applicable OECD & country specific regulations including those for emission, noise and safety. In case of Auto Division, EURO IV emission norms have been achieved for all export vehicles and EURO V emission norms for some selected vehicle models. All safety instructions of the product are conveyed through a user's manual. Moreover dealers are also trained to provide a better understanding of safety to the customers. New Developments Our latest offering the Genio a 1.2 tonne pickup, is far ahead of its contemporaries in terms of technology and safety features. These include: We believe that the Cross members on the doors SLR seat belts that ensure development of the which protect the passengers in greater safety of the driver product concept, R&D case of any side-on accidents. and co-driver; a first for India. and product certification are the most important stages in the assessment and LSPV brakes which adjust the augmentation of health braking pressure depending and safety standards on the load of the vehicle. of our vehicles. Radial tubeless tyres which are an industry first in commercial pick-up vehicles ensure that the tyres do not burst in case of a puncture, especially on the highway. Farm Division For domestic market, Farm Division closely monitors compliance with applicable Indian regulations viz. Central Motor Vehicle Rules (CMVR), emission, noise & safety. Additionally for the export market, compliance is monitored with applicable OECD & country specific regulations including those for emission, noise and safety. All safety instructions of the product are conveyed through a user's manual. Moreover dealers are also trained to provide a better understanding of safety to the customers. 82 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance Mahindra Two Wheelers Even at Mahindra Two Wheelers, we continue to focus on the development of the product concept, R&D and product certification to enhance the health and safety standards of our vehicles. In the last reporting year, Mahindra Two Wheelers had introduced a unique fuel cut-off valve in its 'Flyte' model which ensured zero fuel leakage as it creates requisite pressure in the fuel tank to maintain proper flow of fuel and releases pressure in case of leakage to cut-off the supply to the engine thus preventing any fire hazard. This year MTWL redefined the biking experience in India with the launch of Stallio and the Mojo. These power horses usher in new standards of safety and reliability in the category. Stallio High on safety quotient, the bike's chassis features a doublecradle frame ensuring greater stability and reducing any possibility of deformation in the future. Its superior braking system and advanced responsive controls offer the rider a comfortable drive even under challenging conditions. While the sturdy rear grab rail offers the pillion rider a firm grip ensuring better safety, the bike sports alloy wheels which not only provide more stability at corners but also have better tolerance to shocks and ensure good heat dissipation. Mojo Inverted front shock absorbers developed by Paioli of Italy, ensure superior shock absorbing ability at high speeds. This is complemented by a horizontally mounted mono shock absorber at the rear. The radically mounted assembly helps in accurate braking. The Mojo is the first ever motorcycle in India to sport Pirelli tubeless radials the widest tyres in their class (4 x 17 at the rear), ensuring greater stability. Front petal 320 mm disc brakes, the widest in the segment, and a disc brake at the rear, ensure better safety. Systech Casting, forging, composite manufacturing and steel processing, Systech companies have diverse business and thus require diverse approaches to achieve the common underlying goal of health and safety. EMS/OHSAS Along with the MUSCO Steel Plant, Mahindra forgings and MUSCO stampings (Rudrapur) are EMS ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 certified. Mahindra Composites A systematic, Computer Aided Engineering (CAE) analysis is conducted, to determine the break point for various products. The material also undergoes rigorous testing at an independent laboratory to determine product endurance. Software modelling of the product is undertaken to ensure that the product delivers its designed output. Mahindra Hinoday Industries Ltd. (Magnetic Product Division) Owing to the nature of its business, the products do not have any direct impact on the safety and health related issues upon their usage. 83 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance The division is TS16949 certified and complies with customer specific requirements related to health and safety standards for each product. These requirements are built-in during the product development stage itself and the same are reviewed with reference to their compliance. Specific requirements such as ROHS (Restriction on Hazardous substances) compliance, PFOS (Perfluorooctanesulfonates) compliance and REACH compliance, etc are checked and complied, even till the extent of packaging materials. Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd. Being one of the country's premier developers of real estate, the responsibility of offering healthy, safe and secure living spaces is second nature at Mahindra Lifespaces. All the buildings designed and developed by Mahindra Lifespaces are in line with safety standards set by the National Building Code (NBC), Government of India and other relevant IS codes. Following elements are incorporated during the design & development stages to ensure the safety of our residents: Fire exits and Building material fire extinguishing specifications that meet An earthquake resistant structure facilities required fire rating Sufficient lighting and ventilation as per NBC Part 8 requirements and ample window to floor ratio Designed for optimum Better exhaust systems use of natural light for kitchens & bathrooms Proper Orientation Other safety features like handrails, parapets, anti-slip tiles in wet areas etc. of buildings All project locations ensure safe working conditions and are OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupation Health & Safety Assessment Series) certified. Service Sectors Mahindra Finance, Mahindra Logistics, Tech Mahindra and Mahindra Satyam have also adopted adequate measures to address the health and safety impacts of their respective sectors. SOCIAL IMPACTS At Mahindra, we believe that our products should add value to not only natural resources but also human resources. Our products and services, therefore, aim to address specific needs of the community ranging from rural development and farm productivity to creating career opportunities for the local population. 84 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance MMFSL We see rural finance and insurance as an integral part of sustainable economic development and a smart business move which empowers customers to create a brighter future for themselves. At Mahindra and Mahindra Financial Services Limited, we provide customised financial solutions for a wide range of utility vehicles, tractors and cars targeted at the rural and semi-urban sector. By making credit available, we open opportunities for people to improve their own lives and create lasting systems of livelihood. Our customer distribution is predominantly rural ranging from farmers, shopkeepers, vehicle operators, individual entrepreneurs to contract labourers. Our unique business model helps customers to grow by providing them loans based on their future earning capacities. Currently the monetary value of our products and services is 40% 22% 10%-15% INR 1,441,987. This has of the financing is for tractors for small cars proved to be a catalyst in we provide is for helping rural India surge utility vehicles ahead through poverty and people carriers the rest is for second hand vehicle sales. reduction, rural development and inclusive growth. Farm Division FD goes beyond farm equipment manufacturing to help farmers achieve holistic 'Farm Prosperity' through technological interventions, knowledge empowerment and providing productivity enhancers. INITIATIVES The 'Yuvraj' tractor which has been specifically developed for the small and marginalised farmer The Samriddhi Initiative offers farmers a wide range of agrirelated services under one roof. AppliTrac is an initiative which aims to help the farmer increase his level of mechanization by offering him total farming solutions which would enhance the efficacy of his tractor, thereby increasing farm productivity. This would be achieved through use of farming implements such as rice transplanters, sugarcane cutters, rotavators, etc., and specific use implements like loaders, dozers, backhoes, etc. 85 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance C A S E S T U D Y BIRD'S EYE VIEW Alternative Technology for Managing Tractors Effectively & Efficiently At Mahindra, our constant pursuit is to ensure that the rural India also keeps pace with the urban India. We therefore, time and again, strive to introduce cutting-edge concepts in the rural sphere. Our Duur Niyantran (Sustainable Monitoring) Project is a case in point. It is a GPS-based technology for effective remote management of tractors. This initiative is a first of its kind in India by any auto manufacturer thus reinforcing our superlative technological expertise in the sector. Our tractors are mounted with tracking devices which are tracked and monitored by a GPS satellite. Live feeds and data is then passed on to the data centre and is made available on the internet or on the mobile phone using a GSM service provider. A diagnostic and customer help centre is also set up to address any queries of our customers. Duur Niyantran has been developed keeping in mind the following audiences. Fleet Owners R&D Engineers Bank Officials Dealer, Customers Manage Large Field Testing & Giving Loans Sales & & Tractor Number of Tractors Seeding Tractors to Farmers Service Users SERVER WITH Easy and TRACTOR DATABASE MODEM Hassle-free Usage MOUNTED WITH GSM & APPLICATION DUUR NIYANTRAN GPS SERVICE HOSTING Using the internet the SYSTEM SATELLITE PROVIDER (Data Interpretation) user can check or know the location of the 1 2 3 4 tractor by logging on to the website. He can even identify different parameters related to his tractor like its ignition status, battery The system in a snapshot voltage etc. A daily report can also be availed by the user on his email account. By using mobile phone 8 7 6 5 a user can avail SERVICE FLEET OWNER FLEET OWNER DEALERSHIP automatically generated TECHNICIAN TRACKING FLEET GETS & CUSTOMER daily reports and ON WEBSITE INFORMATION SERVICE location report (Graphical ON PHONE VIA IM UPDATES FOR (Daily Usage USER REQUEST generated by the Representation of Data) & Warnings) (Diagnostics / server. These can be Prognostic queried as and when Information) required using the interactive interface. Benefits to End Users Reduced cost of travelling incurred Reduced running cost Increased life in data collection Optimum utilisation of Better utilisation of manpower Reduced maintenance cost the resources 86 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance New Development This year we forayed into the micro-irrigation industry by acquiring 38% of the paid-up Equity Share Capital in EPC Industrie' Limited, one of the top five companies in India in the micro-irrigation space. Through micro-irrigation, we aim to facilitate various benefits for the farmer such as increased productivity, reduced requirement of water, fertilizers, electricity, labour, etc. Micro irrigation is a water efficient irrigation technology which has been identified as one of the major focus area by the Agricultural Department. This acquisition enables us to achieve a three-fold objective. Firstly, leverage Mahindra's existing strong presence in the rural sector, to make a bigger difference in the life of the farmer. Second, help conserve the most precious of natural resources Water. Third, align our business goals with larger national goals. COMPLIANCE Health and Safety Regulations At Mahindra, our goal is to deliver 100% compliance with all regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety throughout the entire product life cycle. We work with all our potential to achieve this goal. During the current year, no incidences were reported related to product & service non-compliance. Product and Service Information At Mahindra, customer-centricity, information security and delivering high quality and timely information are integral parts of our solutions. We believe that providing accurate and appropriate information enhances the quality and productivity of our products. Thus it is our endeavour to comply with mandatory disclosures and ensure that our products are labelled as warranted. The information stated in our products and services and on our product brochures clearly list out the known potential utility risks and mention ways to disseminate or eliminate such risks. We have instituted an efficient mechanism throughout our businesses to assimilate and deliver product and service information on the following: The sourcing Detail of content in reference to substances of components posing environmental or social impact Safe use of Disposal of the product and its product or service environmental and social impact 87 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance Systech Mahindra Hinoday Industries Ltd. Magnetic Products Division (MPD) MUSCO Steel furnishes test certificates with all their products. These certificates describe the Customers are provided with a compliance composition and chemistry of the product, which certificate and International Material Data Sheet enables informed and safe disposal with minimal (IMDS) of the customer is updated by MPD. environmental and social impact. MLDL At Mahindra Lifespaces, a checklist is maintained classifying the use and reuse of various construction materials and denotes the quantity of material reused within site or recycled/reused through an approved vendor. To meet the prescribed limits specified by the State Pollution Control Board various environmental parameters are also constantly monitored. All our Green Building projects come with a Green Home User Guide . These guidelines summarise all the various sustainability features incorporated in the design, construction and commissioning of our building and its safe use. MHRIL & MWC Mahindra World City provides information related to their Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India products & services on their websites & product brochures. Limited (MHRIL) focuses on the Mahindra World City organises a forum Coalesce , which leisure hospitality sector and is part is a unique customer engagement initiative where the of the service industry. It provides all Mahindra World City occupants meet on a quarterly basis the information relating to various to discuss operational issues. Rejoice@mahindraworldcity products and services on its website, is another such community building initiative that was recently including certifications like ECOTEL. launched at Mahindra World City. Service Sectors Mahindra Finance, Tech Mahindra and Mahindra Logistics furnish all their service information on their respective websites and specific business agreements. 88 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Product Performance Marketing Communications and Product Information We believe that effective communication is vital to avoid any kind of misrepresentation, incorrect statements or misleading impressions. At Mahindra, fully integrated systems are in place to conform to all the statutory laws and standards related to marketing communication, advertising, promotion and sponsorship. For us transparency is the key to long term organisational success. The Vice Chairman & Managing Director of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Anand Mahindra, is one of the very few top management executives in India who regularly communicates on twitter to connect directly with customers and various stakeholders in an open forum. Below is an overview of our marketing communication channels: AFS, Real Estate, MTWL Two Wheelers and MMFSL The audience of our power Scooters and bikes Strict adherence to the code of conduct defined comprises youngsters. Hence, responsible by Advertising Standards Council of India. marketing and promotion of our products focussed on environment & personal safety is of utmost importance at Mahindra. A case in point is our MHRIL Mahindra Duro advertisement with a message of Compliance with the statutes of the keeping the city clean and Stallio advertisement Advertising Agencies Association of India. which stresses on safe riding. Social Networking With time, our communication approach has also transformed only to cater to a wider audience. Embracing social media marketing is one such change to not just promote our products but also receive customer feedback on the same. Following are various online communication channels to which our companies are tuned in: Club Mahindra Club Mahindra Auto Division has a travel and Mahindra Satyam Tech Mahindra holiday blog Tech Mahindra Mahindra Satyam called clay. Mahindra Xylo Mahindra Scorpio Mahindra Bolero 89 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance OVERVIEW The Mahindra Group's growth story runs parallel to the rise of India. We manufactured robust vehicles that conquered the rugged terrain of a nation that had just earned its independence. We manufactured the tractors that tilled the soil and revolutionised the agricultural sector during the Green Revolution. While Indian industries were grappling with scarce resources of the pre-liberalised economy, we gauged the opportunities in the developed markets and established Tech Mahindra to ride the Telecom wave. Today, our SUVs are pride possessions and fulfil the growing aspirations of both the young sports enthusiasts and the massive utility seeking class that want more from their vehicle without compromising the comforts of a sedan. Our two wheelers help millions of Indians enjoy the freedom of movement, our pick-up trucks fuel the entrepreneurial spirit of the rural Indian, our defence segment helps secure the nation while Mahindra aerospace caters to the global high fliers of the country. The time is ripe and the scale just right for Mahindra to usher in the next wave of transformation. Along with India, Mahindra too is pursuing a dual growth strategy accelerate growth nationally and enhance market reach internationally. This year, we acquired Ssangyong Motor Company Limited (SYMC), a premier manufacturer of sports utility vehicles and recreational vehicles in Korea. We also leapfrogged our EV technology capability by acquiring a majority stake in Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Private Ltd. We take great pleasure in reporting that the Automotive and Farm Divisions have secured their best performance for the second year in a row which is reflected in the substantial growth in the net income of the Company. Management Approach At Mahindra, we are acutely aware that viability is a pre-requisite for sustainability. We look at all our businesses as economic engines of society. Their core purpose is to generate wealth and distribute it fairly across its various stakeholders. While our goal is clear so are the means. Wealth generation is driven by ethics and powered by our values. The Mahindra Group's performance across most of its segments has registered an improvement. The Systech segment, which had faced challenges on account of the situation prevailing post the global meltdown of 2009, has shown encouraging improvement on the back of an improved performance in Europe. While we are confident of continuing our robust growth in the coming years, we are also acutely aware of the perils ahead. Inflationary pressures, coupled with rising fuel cost, natural calamities and security issues, may play a substantial role in future business outcomes. We have well-chalked out plans such as streamlining our operations and introducing more fuel efficient technologies to mitigate the impacts of these factors. KEY HIGHLIGHTS The Gross Revenues and Other Income for the year ended 31st March 2011 grew by 17.5% to INR 397,087 million (USD 8.7 billion) from INR 337,901 million (USD 7.4 billion) last year. The consolidated group profit for the year after exceptional items, prior-period adjustments and tax and after deducting minority interests is INR 30,797 million (USD 677.2 million) as compared to INR 24,786 million (USD 545 million) earned in the previous year a growth of 24.2%. This impressive bottom-line growth is a manifestation of our rigorous cost restructuring exercises, efficiency improvements, value engineering, optimisation of plant capacity utilisation and commitment to cost competitiveness in all areas. 90 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance INR million PARTICULARS FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 Net Revenues 231,028.3 297,870.5 433,138.8 PAT 21,315.5 32,100.70 38,172.83 *For M&M Limited only. The values of revenues, Net Turnover and Profit After Tax are on standalone basis and before elimination of intergroup transactions Foreign exchange 6,912.50 7,614.4 10,999 #The R&D investment for M&M Limited and MTWL are earnings* 2.85% & 19.80% of their turnover respectively for the reporting year. • FY 2008-09 data is for M&M Ltd. • FY Amount spent 5,156.50 6,895.6 8,527.5 2009-10 and FY 2010-11 data is for M&M Ltd. and MTWL. on R&D # Note: The above comparison should be viewed in the light of the fact that MVML & MSat have been added to the scope in FY 2010-11. Economic Value Generated We continued to generate higher economic value on a year on year basis and distributed 26% higher value across our spectrum of diverse stakeholders. Direct economic value generated (revenues) Economic Value Retained INR million 18,594.60 Economic Value Retained 14,640.00 Economic Value Retained 5,287.90 FY 2010-11 FY 2009-10 FY 2008-09 Economic Value Economic Value Economic Value Distributed Distributed Distributed 1,29,343.60 1,75,572.50 2,21,824.10 Total: 1,34,631.50 Total: 1,90,212.50 Total: 2,40,418.70 Financial Assistance Received from the Government INR million Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation | 1,862.23 Tax relief/credits | 2,644.69 Financial incentives | 535.17 91 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. INR million Mahindra Intertrade Ltd. INR million Net Revenue 2,38,032.00 Net Revenue PAT 11,017.50 PAT Net Revenue 26,621.00 Net Revenue 550.80 188,014.60 PAT Net Revenue 9,054.60 8,396.90 PAT 20,877.50 PAT 510.60 Net Revenue 133,640.20 447.10 PAT 8,367.80 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 Mahindra Steel Service Centre Ltd. INR million Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd. INR million Net Revenue 5,068.50 Net Revenue 751.18 PAT PAT 17.80 1,030.46 Net Revenue 3,496.44 PAT 793.80 Net Revenue 1,979.44 PAT 463.60 Net Revenue Net Revenue 155.10 127.42 PAT PAT 32.50 36.00 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Ltd. INR million Mahindra Forgings Ltd. INR million Net Revenue Net Revenue 13,429.10 3,584.38 Net Revenue Net Revenue Net Revenue 3,020.60 10,751.80 10,893.40 PAT Net Revenue 2,424.60 46.70 PAT (Loss) PAT (Loss) -31.80 PAT (Loss) PAT (Loss) -414.00 -188.30 -59.74 PAT (Loss) -947.30 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 92 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance Mahindra Composites INR million Mahindra Hinoday Industries Ltd. INR million Net Revenue 3,778.83 Net Revenue 529.30 Net Revenue PAT 3,177.40 Net Revenue 24.34 Net Revenue 462.60 431.40 PAT PAT 25.80 28.80 PAT (Loss) PAT (Loss) -55.80 -74.42 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 Note: In FY 2010-11 Mahindra Castings Limited name has been changed to Mahindra Hinoday Industries Ltd. Mahindra Gears & Transmissions Pvt. Ltd. INR million Tech Mahindra Ltd. INR million Net Revenue Net Revenue 909.29 Net Revenue 50,807.20 PAT Net Revenue 45,747.00 PAT 7.12 43,153.00 6,967.20 Net Revenue Net Revenue PAT 736.79 736.60 PAT 7,004.00 PAT PAT 26.20 13.26 9,866.40 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd. INR million Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Ltd. INR million Net Revenue Net Revenue Net Revenue 20,125.80 5,341.57 5,163.70 Net Revenue PAT Net Revenue PAT 4,443.10 PAT 15,688.00 4,631.09 1,027.62 Net Revenue 1,178.40 PAT 13,847.00 PAT 834.10 PAT 3,427.00 2,145.20 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 93 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance Mahindra World City Developers Ltd. INR million Mahindra World City Jaipur Ltd. INR million Net Revenue Net Revenue 1,008.33 838.89 PAT 51.30 PAT 286.20 Net Revenue 704.92 Net Revenue 535.96 PAT PAT Net Revenue 227.50 78.74 426.33 PAT 9.43 Net Revenue 315.00 PAT 109.40 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 Mahindra Logistics Ltd. INR million Mahindra Two Wheelers Ltd. INR million Net Revenue Net Revenue 5,171.07 10,951.12 Net Revenue 9,033.35 Net Revenue Net Revenue 6,206.81 PAT 2,376.10 44.60 Net Revenue 167.00 PAT (Loss) -225.00 PAT (Loss) PAT (Loss) PAT (Loss) -969.10 PAT (Loss) -28.36 -70.60 -1,692.19 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 FY 2008-2009 FY 2009-2010 FY 2010-2011 Mahindra Vehicles Manufacturers Ltd. INR million Mahindra Satyam INR million Net Revenue 50,660.00 Net Revenue 11,850.70 PAT 264.20 PAT (Loss) -1,276.00 FY 2010-2011 FY 2010-2011 *Note: MVML has been added into the reporting scope from 2010-11 *Note: MSat has been added into the reporting scope from 2010-11 94 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change is the greatest environmental challenge of our generation. Its impact has implications for productivity and competitiveness. The multitude of impacts include scarcity of natural resources and their upwardly spiralling prices, enhanced transportation costs, additional insurance covers and expenditure on risk mitigation. At Mahindra, we are constantly pursuing optimal utilisation processes and recycling programs to reduce our dependency on fresh natural resource. We are also injecting more time and resources in our logistics to refine our systems and create more efficient processes. While the financial implications of future regulation have not been quantified, we do quantify the financial implications of continuously rising energy costs and consistently take measures to reduce energy consumption in our manufacturing processes and in the use of our products. Currently, our operations do not fall under the European Emissions trading scheme for carbon dioxide and have experienced little regulatory impact as a result of current greenhouse gas regulations. However, with India releasing its first National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) outlining existing and future national policies and programs our operations are likely to be affected by regulations in the future. The NAPCC consists of eight missions that address different aspects of the climate change. Each mission has the power to initiate policy refinements and legislations that can affect the way business is traditionally done. We are closely monitoring proposed initiatives and initiating proactive steps to be policy ready even before these policies come into implementation. We, the Mahindra Group, by the virtue of our breadth of the operations, come under the purview of a number of these missions. Detailed below are the forward looking initiatives that we have already undertaken to align our operations to these missions and generate value from emerging opportunities. Aim What we are doing National To promote the Mahindra Solar One, set up in 2010 as a subsidiary of Solar Mission development Mahindra Cleantech Ventures, offers a range of solar and use of solar solutions spanning on-grid solutions, EPC (Engineering, energy for power Procurement, and Construction) services, and off-grid generation and solutions. other uses. National Mission To yield energy Through our various initiatives in all our Group for Enhanced savings of companies, we saved 37,695 GJ of energy in 2010-11. 10,000 MW by 2012. Energy Efficiency National Mission To promote Mahindra Group has also made it a point to embed green on Sustainable energy efficiency characteristics into any new building projects. In fact we as a core have retrofitted Mahindra Towers in Mumbai to be more Habitat component of energy efficient. Till date, five sites of have received urban planning. IGBC rating. MWC has developed an in-house team of engineers and architects as certified energy saving analyst for analysing efficiency of its green building. 95 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance National 20% improvement Various sectors of Mahindra Group have adopted the Water Mission in water use 3R (Reduce / Recycle / Reuse) methodology for water efficiency through conversation. In addition to this, we have decided to pricing and other conduct a comprehensive water footprinting exercise to measures. understand and optimise our water consumption. National Mission Afforestation of Mahindra Group has an ongoing project called Project for a Green India 6 million hectares Hariyali which is a mass tree plantation initiative of degraded undertaken by each and every Mahindra location. Under forest lands and this project, we surpassed our target to plant a million expanding forest trees in 2008 and are currently well on our way to cover from 23% achieve our target of an additional million trees by to 33% of India's October 2, 2011. territory. National Mission To support We have always been at the forefront of agricultural for Sustainable climate adaptation technology. We manufactured and supplied tractors in agriculture that gave an impetus to the Green Revolution of India. Agriculture through the During the reporting period, the Group decided to development of foray into micro-irrigation and acquired a stake in climate-resilient EPC Industrie' Limited. crops, expansion of weather Products from Mahindra's Farm Division are helping insurance farms become more prosperous in more than forty mechanisms, countries in six continents. Over and above robust and and agricultural efficient tractors, Mahindra have also expanded into practices. farm-support services, including agri-mechanisation solutions under Mahindra AppliTrac; seeds, crop protection, and market linkages and distribution through Mahindra Shubhlabh; and agri-support information and counselling through the Samriddhi Initiative. On-ground initiatives to climate-proof, our business are reported along with their results in the environment performance section. LOCAL SUPPLY At Mahindra we strongly believe that you are as good a company as the suppliers you keep. Mahindra as a group has diverse businesses that operate in diverse geographies. In India, we operate across various states and have therefore always defined local for Mahindra as within India. It has been our constant endeavour to encourage local supply because it provides a dual benefit of good corporate citizenship and better business sense. Local supply enables us to provide global platform to local talent, add value to local resources and help fuel a vibrant local economy which has a large stake in the success of Mahindra. Local supply also translates into a shorter supply chain, greater certainty and predictability of delivery times, a heightened degree of responsiveness to demand spurts, increased speed to market and mitigation of climate risks as posed by air traffic suspension due to a volcanic activity. It also enables a higher degree of control and auditing of vendor's operation to strengthen our reputation management. 96 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance Marking a change in approach towards ensuring shorter supply chains, the Mahindra Group has set up Supplier Parks around its manufacturing facilities in Chakan, Maharashtra. We encourage our major suppliers to establish their manufacturing units in this park to exclusively cater to the needs of Mahindra Navistar. Some of the major suppliers who have already set up their manufacturing unit include Imperial Auto and International Automotive Component. Along with proximity, other significant vendor selection factors include quality, delivery performance, pace of procurement, logistic advantages, ISO certifications, factory visits, reports, reputation and past relationship. We analyse the share of local suppliers in the total monetary value of significant suppliers every year. AD, MVML, MMFSL, MHRIL, MLDL, MLL & MSB source 100% of the requirement from local suppliers. In fact, only 2 sectors Tech M and MTWL source less than 80% of their requirements from local suppliers. Analysing the Top 10 suppliers as per monetary value for each business, we find that on an aggregate basis 84.93% of the Group's supply is from local suppliers. INR million MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT MONETARY VALUE OF SECTOR TOP 10 SUPPLIERS TOP 10 LOCAL SUPPLIERS AD 24,106 24,106 MSat 12,17 1,025 MVML 4,455 4,455 MTWL 2,251 1,420 MMFSL 78 78 MHRIL 107 107 MIL 18,110 14,735 MLDL 537 537 MLL 1,898 1,898 AM-MSB 1,381 1,381 MWC 104 103 Systech 5,623 5,357 Tech M 7,962 967 FD 11,964 11,598 Total 79,794 67,769 97 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance Monitory Value of Top 10 Local Suppliers (%) * 100% 98.91% 96.94% 95.27% 84.23% 81.37% 63.09% 12.15% 0% MWC FD Systech MSat MIL MTWL Tech M *as percentage of Monitory Value of Top 10 Suppliers C A S E S T U D Y BUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AT MAHINDRA SATYAM When the times get tough, Alternative Thinking gets going at Mahindra. With the world facing increasing number of unprecedented events ranging from 9/11 to the major upturn in Libya, Syria and Japan, Mahindra Satyam decided to transform its business management model to make it more robust, more sustainable and adversity resistant. It therefore established a robust Business Continuity Management Systems (BCMS) framework which is in line with BS25999 the global standard for business continuity. Identifying Business Conducting Business Impact Analysis (BIA) Preparation of Risk Continuity Leader (BCL) for identifying and short listing major activities Assessment (RA), a unique to act as the custodian to be recovered in the event of a disruption and integrated asset based of the business along with the acceptable timelines. information security and continuity plan for business continuity risk an identified scope. assessment. Evolve continuously by Preparation of Business being inclined to the various Continuity Plan (BCP) to capture developments in the world. BCMS the various strategies and Lifecycle aspects of business continuity. Conduct periodic internal Stages audits to verify the Initiate Testing and Exercise effectiveness of the to ensure that the identified BCMS strategy. and documented strategies are as close to reality and Identification of critical associates from various functions will remain effective during and defining their roles and responsibilities. an actual disaster. 98 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance Mahindra Satyam's delivery centres are located across the globe. These services are critical to ensure smooth business operations for the user organisations (clients). Results The process The agile BCMS now safeguards framework has won more than 80% of many accolades from customer the revenue of the company. and external auditors alike. Mahindra Satyam A toll free crisis helpdesk is became the third now available 24/7 for reporting company in India for being any incidents and also for getting updates certified for this standard. during business disruptive situations. This sustainable business framework will ensure the continued support of MSat services during any business disruptive situation and minimise the operations downtime or an impact on its infrastructure and/or associates. case study goals goals The Mahindra Group acquired Satyam Computer Services while Transforming Mahindra Satyam it was reeling from a massive high profile corporate governance Mahindra Satyam, as Satyam Computer Services was rebranded after the deficit which had not only the acquisition, decided to travel an alternative path and take brand-resurrection nation's eyes on it but also had by the proverbial horn. The goal was to get there by taking giant leaps the global business world closely instead of the traditional baby steps. following each event. The chosen vehicle was football inarguably, the favourite sport of this planet and the chosen event was FIFA by far the most watched televised program The standard goal in such in the world. situations is to disappear from the public eye and drop off the radar of main stream media. Allow a sufficient cooling We signed on with FIFA, the world soccer body, period and then commence as a sponsor and official IT provider for the 2010 rebuilding the brand, one and 2014 editions of the football World Cup creative unit at a time. tournament. Mahindra Satyam became the driving force of the tournament's software network. 99 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance Game Plan The company undertook this project with the following goals in mind. To create and fortify a positive brand image and brand recall for Mahindra Satyam” To promote the immense capability of the organisation to handle operations of any magnitude To instil pride of association among employees and existing customers Reviving the 'Espirit De Corps To inject enthusiasm, ownership and the joy of shared achievement the whole event was handled in-house right from the designing of creative materials to Website vendor management. An integrated 360 campaign was mounted along with active presence in social media like Facebook and Twitter. The campaign was flagged off by engaging associates through quizzes, FIFA theme campaigns and intra-corporate tournaments across various locations. Customers were offered special deals on tickets including free tickets and hospitality services during the games. FIFA Portal Activity Timeline On-ground events in Direct various Hospitality Mailers to geographies Planning World Cup customers/ prospects Digital Onsite Activation Associate Branding FIFA Merchandise on EMALL Internal Branding Digital Marketing on social media Jan’10 Jan’10 Jan’10 Feb’10 Feb’10 Feb-April’10 May’10 June-july’10 100 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Economic Performance Integrated Approach Branding Offices Audio-Visuals Templates World at Large Customer Associate Communications Communications Mahindra Satyam's team is a All these approaches were at play concurrently and they managed to keep the good example of individuals spirit at a consistent high; both within and outside the organisation. who do whatever it takes to get the job done. That's the Goals Scored very key to the successful delivery of the IT solutions to Constant on-field visibility for 30 days increased recall the World Cup. value of Mahindra Satyam. The pride that this association brought to every Associate Dick Miles and to the nation at large is beyond all metrics. Executive Co-Chairman, FIFA Our Sports Management Vertical got prominent attention in the global sporting arena we were approached for the Singapore youth Olympics and London Olympics. Our most cherished ROI was the resurgence of brand Mahindra Satyam which was achieved on the principles of zero budget branding. Mahindra Satyam has illustrated a very positive attitude and a lot of flexibility Game Analysis and willingness from their TM staff. It is a unique project, Handling the IT operations for FIFA World Cup was a truly unique and learning and it is very important for experience for Mahindra Satyam. We learnt to: FIFA to have a flexible and Transcend perceptual mind-blocks and handle one of the biggest events in experienced partner like the world, with minimal people resource Mahindra Satyam. Utilise low-cost alternative marketing tools for maximum effect Peter Meyer Leverage social media for events Head of Information Technology, FIFA Formulate a repeatable framework for events of different sizes and standing 101 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance MANAGEMENT APPROACH At Mahindra, environmental performance is not just a 'nice to have' indicator, it is part of our core strategy and viewed as a 'must have' for long term business viability and continued success. We began our journey towards environmental sustainability before others and thus we have transcended the traditionally accepted parameter of gauging environmental performance limits. For us, satisfying the minimum statutory requirement is only the beginning of the journey. The commitment has always been to go Beyond Compliance and ensure that we stay ahead of local laws and pollution norms. We aim to set new benchmarks by successfully translating environmental issues into actionable and measurable goals which help enhance our economic bottom line, operational efficiencies and compliance across geographies. Protecting the environment benefits our businesses in a number of ways such as At Mahindra, we strive to be the transformation that we wish to see. significant cost saving through reduced energy usage, raw material consumption, and waste disposal. It also mitigates the risk of climate Thus it is no surprise that our business practices are aligned with environmental stewardship. Whether it's greening our change and reinforces our reputation among supply chain, launching a new green product or service, our stakeholders staff, customers, regulators, reducing our corporate carbon footprint, developing ecoinvestors and local community. friendly processes, or attaining IGBC certification for our buildings our environmental performance is helping craft a robust competitive edge. This approach is practised by all Group Companies; especially those having significant environmental impacts like Auto, Farm, Two wheelers, Systech and infrastructure development. Our sustainability roadmap, keeps us focussed on a target based improvement. For more details on our sustainability roadmap kindly refer the chapter 'sustainability & us'. ENVIRONMENT POLICIES It is our constant endeavour to integrate environmental constructs into management decisions like products costing, product pricing, product development, capital investment, and performance evaluation decisions. Compliance of all laws and regulations relating to environment has always been ensured in letter & spirit. Our environmental management is anchored by an environmental policy that has been formulated by M&M Limited and applies to all Group Companies. For our Environment Policy; please refer to Sustainability Report 2009-10. Our environmental policy ensures commitment to continual improvement in minimising negative impacts, achieving long term sustainability and enhancing the local environment of the communities in which we function. Adherence to the policy is the responsibility of the Chief Operating Officer (COO) and the Sector President. The plant managers are responsible for its implementation at each manufacturing facility. 102 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance We also adhere to the UN Global Compact principles on environment: Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Businesses Undertake Encourage the should support a initiatives to promote development and precautionary approach to greater environmental diffusion of environmentally environmental challenges. responsibility. friendly technologies. We have incorporated Green IT guidelines in 2008-09 for the environment-friendly use, management and disposal of IT equipment. All Mahindra Group IT agencies and users adhere to these guidelines. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Responsibility and accountability are two key pillars of environmental management at Mahindra. As a responsible organisation, we set ourselves targets to reduce emissions, eradicate waste and optimise consumption of natural resources across sectors. As an accountable organisation we not only monitor and report our environmental performance, we constantly enhance the depth of our reporting to enable informed improvements. In the previous reporting cycle, we undertook a detailed carbon foot-printing exercise of the entire group to zero-in on carbon intensive processes that offer significant reduction potential. This will be a continuous exercise and the scope of the exercise will be enhanced on an ongoing basis. During the year, most sectors reported significant progress on the environmental front and demonstrated that they were well on course to achieve the targets assigned to them in the sustainability roadmap. Last year over and above reporting on a consolidated 'Group-wide' level we commenced reporting our 'Sector specific' performance. We continue to do that this year as well, but with greater efficiency. We analyse, report, and track sector-wise trends for specific GHG emissions and specific consumption of water and energy against unit of produce/service. We have been reporting environmental performance in terms of absolute and specific consumption. The specific consumption is calculated by dividing absolute consumption by a denominator,.which is set based on the nature of business e.g. In case of manufacturing business units it is number of units produced, for services it is number of employees, or units of services offered etc. Like last year, this year too Mahindra witnessed high growth and the Group's production levels rose significantly across almost all sectors. The total quantum of produce also rose due to the addition of firms like MVML, MSat, AM-MSB to the reporting scope. This has led to an increase in the absolute values of the environmental indicators. 103 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Denominators Sector Unit of Measure 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 AD Equivalent number of vehicles manufactured 192,662 254,638 282,018 FD Equivalent number of tractors manufactured 218,869 280,911 331,923 Manufacturing Sectors Systech Tonnes of production 198,913 239,242 282,211 (Except Gears) Systech Number of gears produced 2,100,000 2,000,000 2,680,179 (Gears) MIL Tonnes of production 118,379 141,377 180,916 MTWL Number of vehicles manufactured NIS 69,624 179,625 MWC Acres of area developed and maintained 1,903 2,207 2,207 MLDL Built up area in square meters 529,482 488,233 569,938 Service Sectors MLL Full time equivalent employees 351 468 509 MHRIL Room nights booked 136,798 156,080 237,260 MMFSL Full time equivalent employees 426 399 299 (replaced from Loan disbursement) Tech M Full time equivalent employees 23,954 28,897 35,886 MVML Number of vehicles manufactured NIS NIS 40,954 Newly Added MSat Full time equivalent employees NIS NIS 20,092 AM-MSB Tonnes of packaging NIS NIS 8,207 Note: The denominators mentioned in the above table are considered for calculating specific consumption of environmental parameters. Air Quality Automotives constitute a major part of our Group production and revenue. While we continue to make our vehicles more fuel efficient and compliant with new emerging pollution standards, we also focus on refining and modernising our production processes towards minimising our impact on air quality. The Mahindra Group complies with the statutory emission norms of various governments and agencies. Various pollutants are monitored on a regular basis at the industrial locations as well as some of the services locations. The Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM), Sulphur Oxides (SOx) and Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) are commonly monitored at all the manufacturing locations. Some of manufacturing plants monitor more specific pollutants related to their processes like Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter (RSPM), Carbon monoxide (CO), Methane (CH4), etc. 104 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance The average concentration of the pollutants is well below permissible limits prescribed in the revised National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS, 2009). Air Quality SPM NOx micrograms/cubic meter FY 2010-11 micrograms/cubic meter FY 2010-11 Statutory Limit: 80 Statutory Limit: 500 310 315 281 32 34 27 25 26 141 140 137 140 24 20 24 15 13 79 39 AD FD MTWL Systech MLDL MHRIL MWC AM-MSB MIL AD FD MTWL Systech MLDL MHRIL MWC AM-MSB MSat MIL SOx PM10 micrograms/cubic meter FY 2010-11 micrograms/cubic meter FY 2010-11 Statutory Limit: 80 122 66 72 62 29 56 20 21 20 23 18 17 11 9 20 6 AD FD MTWL Systech MLDL MHRIL MWC AM-MSB MSat MIL AD FD Systech MLDL MWC MSat Air Quality Parameters (Stacks) 2010 11 (Tonnes) The sector-wise concentrations of Sector SPM SOx NOx the ambient air pollutants are the average concentrations of commonly monitored pollutants at various AD 26.65 18.00 21.85 monitoring stations of various plants/locations of each sector. FD 55.25 15.35 49.40 The ambient air quality standards represented in the graphs are for the MTWL 0.0596 0.039 0.0434 industrial area and time weighted average of 24 hrs. Systech 1,009.63 895.84 43.76 Last year we standardised 'tonnes' as the unit of reporting stack MIL 0.009 0.005 0.00001 emissions and all our manufacturing plants now measure and report total stack emissions by weight. MHRIL 19.11 2.68 4.84 AM-MSB 1.40 2.79 0.84 MSat 0.0000326 0.0000767 0.0000843 105 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Biodiversity No man is an island, entire of itself When John Donne made this statement on the interdependence of mankind in the year 1624, he might not have realised that this interdependence is true for every living organism on this planet. We are all interconnected and the actions of one person can have far reaching effect on everything that surrounds him. Biodiversity is a measure of the health of ecosystems. Greater biodiversity implies greater health. At Mahindra we are not only committed to protecting biodiversity but also creating the right habitat to ensure that it flourishes. Our manufacturing plant at Kandivali, Mumbai is the only Mahindra facility located near a protected area or an area of high biodiversity. The plant is 5 kilometres away from the Sanjay Gandhi National Park, one of the few national parks that lie within city limits. Through strict monitoring we have taken all necessary steps to ensure that our activities have no adverse effects on the ecosystems thriving within the national park. Project Hariyali Deforestation leaves many species homeless and results in destruction of the local biodiversity. Mahindra Hariyali is a large scale tree plantation initiatives flagged off by the Mahindra group in May 2007 with an initial target to plant one million trees by October 2008. The passion and enthusiasm of our employees ensured that the targets were surpassed by a good 22% and the total trees planted were 1,221,118. Our commitment to a 'Green India' goes Total number of trees to be beyond just planting, we monitor survival planted by Mahindra Group rate and plant replacement saplings if and as on October 2, 2011. when required. Number of trees Plantation done Name of the Sector / Location In the current phase of Project Hariyali, we have committed till March 31, 2011 set a target of planting another million trees by October 2, 2011. As of March 31, 2011, we have Aftermarket 60,000 28,876 planted 692,976 trees and are on course to achieve our targets for the year. AD 178,000 103,505 Given here is a breakup of the number of trees FD 317,100 360,430 planted by various locations of the Mahindra MMFSL 75,000 54,998 group. This includes trees planted to replace the saplings in the previous year which did not survive, Real Estate 60,000 55,510 (referred here as Gap Filling) so as to maintain the 1 million target. Information Technology 6,050 1,463 Systech 55,000 10,664 Partners Division 7,500 7,126 MACE 125,000 7,301 Leisure & Hospitality 75,000 44,250 MTWL 20,000 6,500 MRV 6,500 6,478 Corporate Centre 5,000 0 MVML 11,700 5,875 Total 1,001,850 692,976 106 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance OTHER BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION INITIATIVES IMPLEMENTED AT OTHER SECTORS MWCDL MWCDL piloted a feasibility study through world renowned water consultants M/s. Tetra Tech, USA for sustainability and conservation of Kolavai lake which is adjacent to the township. MWC tabled this report to the Public Works department (Govt. of Tamil Nadu) and prepared a detailed project report for onward submission to Ministry of Environment & Forests, Government of India in order to avail financial assistance from the Central and State government. After allocation of the subsidy, the project execution will be carried out by Government of Tamil Nadu. AD-Zaheerabad Our AD Zaheerabad facility is spread over 343 acres of semi-arid land and dependent solely on groundwater for its requirements. Following the year 2000, when the area faced acute water shortage, the facility came up with a comprehensive 10-year water management master plan, with the help of Govt. of Andhra Pradesh and ICRISAT. Measures like wastewater recycling, drip irrigation system, rainwater harvesting and large-scale tree plantation were undertaken. The tree plantations have now spread over 90 acres of land and house a variety of birds. For the employees and their families to appreciate the flora and fauna, an eco trail has been set up. What began as a twin strategy of rain water harvesting and tree plantation has also resulted in bio-diversity enhancement making the plant, energy-efficient and water-efficient. The entire ecosystem has been transformed and regenerated. C A S E S T U D Y FROM UNDERUTILISED LAND TO A RESOURCEFUL LANDSCAPE Mahindra continues to remain on the environmental forefront be it rejuvenating the area's biodiversity, promoting environmental awareness among the locals or creating green zones. This year, AD Nashik saw a 7.5-acre underutilized land which was being neglected by the local municipality completely transform into a botanical garden. The aim was to create environmental awareness & build a small botanical garden for school kids. 107 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance A Project Hariyali endeavour, it took to make a lush green What the rest of the botanical garden. Our team planted and nurtured around world regarded as an 9,660 trees and over 130 different varieties of medicinal & adversity, we saw it botanical species of plants. Due care was taken to preserve as an opportunity. the original trees on the plot. These efforts over a period of 21 months have started to yield fruits. The garden is helping school children to learn and study nature better. It has also become a source for the disposal of 140 cusec meters of water as part of additional production requirements. Blooming with rich fauna and flora, this lush landscape has become a shining example of biodiversity conservation. Special Features of the Botanical Garden 130 different varieties Dedicated Use of scrape wood and of medicinal & space for reusable material for the botanical species rose beds construction of benches Focus on retaining the Additional avenue for original trees in the plot disposal of treated water Ozone Depleting Substances The Mahindra Group has always taken the dangers posed by Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS), like CFC and HCFC, very seriously. We abide by the terms and timelines of the Montreal Protocol. The Group has taken Environmental Management Programs to eliminate the use of ODS. The Non-ODS (R134a) consumption for 2010-11 stood at 82.04 tonnes. Note: The manufacturing plants of the Automotive Division are the only consumers of ODS for the Group. Hence, we report on the ODS consumption of the Automotive Division only. 108 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Greenhouse Gases GHG emissions, both direct and indirect, can be categorised into three broad scopes: Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 All direct GHG emissions Indirect GHG emissions from Other indirect emissions, such as inbound, like CO2, methane and consumption of purchased outbound logistics, air travel, daily commutation, nitrous oxide. electricity, heat or steam. paper consumption and transport-related activities. Since last year, we report our emissions across all the three scopes. Last year we also shifted from reporting direct emissions as per GRI Guidelines to GHG protocol (WRI/WBCSD guidelines). This year we have continued with the GHG protocol. Mahindra Group Absolute GHG Emissions GHG Emissions tCO2e FY 2010-11 609,844 FY 2009-10 FY 2008-09 464,041 405,518 FY 2010-11 FY 2010-11 FY 2009-10 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 140,535 220,664 135,348 104,832 65,091 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Note: The increase in absolute GHG emissions as compared to the previous year is due to increase in production/services and inclusion of MVML, MSat, AM-MSB in the reporting scope (refer table for enhanced production volumes shown earlier in this section). This is likely to happen year on year as we enhance the scope of our reporting. As a continual improvement, sectors have devised processes to capture Scope 3 consumption in detail. This has resulted in the increase of Scope emissions compared to previous year. 109 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance GHG Emissions segmented by source in tCO2e Parameter 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Scope 1 Direct Emissions Diesel/HSD 25,924 46,766 56,920 LDO 2,676 1,958 3,358 Petrol 251 301 244 FO 47,058 50,779 59,838 LPG 19,951 25,458 12,631 Natural Gas+ CNG 8,972 10,085 7,544 Total 104,832 135,348 140,535 Scope 2 Indirect Emissions Electricity purchased 405,518 464,041 609,844 Scope 3 Indirect Emissions Total (Inbound logistics, Outbound NIS 65,091 220,664 logistics, Daily commutation, Air Travel, Paper consumption) Note: NIS-Not in Scope. The emissions arising from CO2 fire extinguishers and Acetylene are insignificant and hence excluded from the reporting scope 2009-10 onwards. Kerosene is excluded since it is not used for energy generation. The emission of petrol and LPG has come down due to less utilisation. The sectors use natural gas, LPG and diesel for their Scope 1 emissions. The use of fuel mix depends upon the availability of the fuel. GHG Emissions Sector-wise Composition in tCO2e Scope Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 AD 27,073 88,578 31,259 101,470 3,593 23,267 106,998 23,440 Manufacturing Sectors FD 12,717 51,374 18,416 59,162 28,886 16,788 71,492 54,373 Systech (Except Gears) 56,359 190,166 66,264 241,823 16,365 71,092 283,138 48,455 Systech (Gears) 671 3,288 514 3,242 272 294 3,265 2,717 MIL 135 791 120 991 11,920 197 1,293 22,314 MTWL NIS NIS 1,561 4,034 1,960 2,978 5,741 4,605 110 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance MWC 236 1,986 323 2,968 288 323 4,683 50 MLDL Service Sectors 267 734 441 470 312 337 643 522 MLL 2,972 DNA 3,629 DNA 65 324 311 46 MHRIL 1,875 4,961 1,894 4,967 130 2,148 8,985 257 MMFSL DNA 1,513 DNA 890 DNA 7 928 477 Tech M 2,528 62,128 10,927 44,024 1,300 13,768 50,883 22,172 Newly Added MVML NIS NIS NIS NIS NIS 4,869 22,773 227 MSat NIS NIS NIS NIS NIS 4,110 48,075 26,196 AM-MSB NIS NIS NIS NIS NIS 33 636 14,813 Total 104,833 405,519 135,348 464,041 65,091 140,535 609,844 220,664 Note: NIS-Not in Scope, DNA-Data Not Available Specific Emissions Highlights 1. AD, FD, Systech, MTWL, MLDL, MLL, MMFSL and Tech M have all recorded significant reduction in their specific combined Scope1 & Scope 2 emissions compared to previous year. 2. MIL, MWC, MHRIL, MMFSL are the four sectors to have recorded an increase in their combined specific Scope 1 & Scope 2 emissions compared to previous year. The sectors have been alerted and a cause analysis will soon be instituted to arrest this increase. Total Specific Emissions in tCO2e/unit of measure % reduction in 2010-11 over Sectors 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 previous year Scope Scope 1+2 Scope 1+2 Scope 1+2 Scope 1+2 AD 0.60 0.52 0.46 12 Scope 1+2 specific GHG Manufacturing Sectors emission values for businesses FD 0.29 0.28 0.266 5 covered for the first time in Systech (Except Gears) 1.24 1.29 1.26 2 this report i.e MVML, MSat and AM-MSB are 0.68, 2.60 & Systech (Gears) 0.0019 0.0019 0.0013 32 0.08 tCO2e/unit of measure MIL 0.0078 0.0079 0.0082 -4 respectively. MTWL NIS 0.08 0.049 39 All businesses have devised methodologies to capture MWC 1.17 1.49 2.27 -52 and report Scope 3 emissions this year. For details, view the MLDL 0.00189 0.00187 0.00172 8 full report. Service Sectors MLL 8.47 7.75 1.25 84 MHRIL 0.050 0.044 0.047 -7 The reason for the increase in MMFSL 3.552 2.231 3.127 -40 specific energy of sectors like MWC & MMFSL is also applicable for the Tech M 2.70 1.90 1.80 5 increase in GHG emissions. 111 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance GHG Scope 1 Specific Emissions (tCO2e/unit of measure) FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 8.47 7.75 0.106 0.636 0.283 0.141 0.277 0.00032 0.124 0.0005 DNA 0.378 0.123 0.058 0.252 0.001 0.146 0.014 NIS 0.00026 0.0009 DNA 0.083 0.066 0.001 0.146 0.012 0.384 0.022 0.051 0.00011 0.001 0.00059 0.009 0.0234 0.017 AD FD Systech Systech MIL MWC MLDL MLL MHRIL MMFSL Tech M MTWL (except (gears) gears) MVML MSat AM-MSB FY 2010-11 0.119 0.205 0.004 GHG Scope 2 Specific Emissions (tCO2e/unit of measure) FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 3.552 3.104 2.594 2.231 2.122 1.523 1.044 1.412 0.956 1.011 1.345 1.003 0.460 0.611 0.398 0.235 0.379 0.00157 0.0067 0.00139 0.211 0.036 NIS 0.215 0.00162 0.007 0.00096 DNA 0.032 0.058 0.0012 0.007 0.00113 DNA 0.038 0.032 AD FD Systech Systech MIL MWC MLDL MLL MHRIL MMFSL Tech M MTWL (except (gears) gears) MVML MSat AM-MSB FY 2010-11 0.556 2.393 0.07 112 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Enlarge GHG Scope 3 Specific Emissions (tCO2e/unit of measure) FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 0.6178 0.164 0.172 0.0843 0.1305 0.1028 0.083 0.1238 0.1390 0.0684 0.0900 0.045 0.0282 0.0141 0.00014 0.0227 0.0006 0.0008 0.0256 0.00101 0.0009 0.0011 AD FD Systech Systech MIL MWC MLDL MLL MHRIL TechM MTWL (except (gears) gears) MVML MSat AM-MSB MMFSL FY 2010-11 0.0055 1.3038 1.8049 1.5953 GHG MITIGATION Logistics Optimisation Automotive Division In FY2011, the Automotive Division reduced the number of road trips, resulting in: Logistics cost saving of Annual diesel savings Mitigation of INR 47 million 748 tonnes 2,334 tonnes This saved atotal diesel consumption AD-Zaheerabad Host of initiatives undertaken in Supply Chain Management of 823,219 liters eventually reducing carbon like modification of trucks and packaging, optimum utilisation foot prints by of truck space, localisation and reverse logistic decreased the number of trips from 5,973 to 3,702 2,148,601 kg 113 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Energy Energy is one of the key cost constituent in most products and services. It has a dual impact with the soaring price of fossil fuel it has a large economic cost and with the soaring pollution levels emissions resulting from energy consumption have a significantly large environmental impact. To mitigate both these impacts we have adopted a two pronged strategy. On one hand, we enhance energy efficiency through innovative product design and process optimisation, while on the other, we are gradually migrating towards a more greener energy mix with an enhanced contribution of renewable energy. Absolute Energy Consumption (GJ) Total Energy Consumption Direct Indirect (GJ) 4,704,209 3,916,925 2,949,453 2,602,648 1,969,145 1,518,138 1,947,780 2,101,561 1,431,315 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 The increase in absolute energy consumption as compared to the previous year is due to increase in production/services and inclusion of MVML, MSat and AM-MSB into the reporting scope. This is likely to happen year on year as we enhance the scope of our reporting. The direct energy consumption by primary energy source is as Diesel (426,279.93GJ), FO (773,103.62GJ), HSD (311,123.05GJ), LDO (45,323.37GJ) LPG (365,385.27GJ) Natural Gas (176,831.13GJ), Petrol (3,514.63GJ). The purchased grid electricity is the main source for indirect energy consumption which is primarily from nonrenewable sources. Sector-wise Energy Consumption (Absolute & Specific) 1 The specific energy 2 MWC posted an increase in specific energy 3 Due to increase in consumption of AD, consumption due to ongoing construction air conditioning and FD, Systech, MLDL, activities at Chennai and Jaipur locations server installation, MLL, and Tech M compared to previous year. In the current MMFSL has shown has dropped by 9%, year, MHRIL introduced four new properties at an increasing trend 23%, 6%,13%, 92%, Puducherry, Kumbhalgarh, Thekkady, Ashtamudi, in the reporting and 3% respectively which are on the verge of attaining full occupancy year as compared compared to compared to established properties. This has to previous year. previous year. resulted in the increase in specific energy consumption compared to previous year. 114 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Total Energy Consumption (GJ) FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 1,610,677 1,981,521 2,194,083 784,020 899,145 907,822 404,981 502,180 332,292 542,668 399,343 23,796 11,421 47,140 46,874 NIS 5,205 6,722 6,476 2,140 21,078 16,705 63,371 45,388 38,445 5,891 7,141 3,768 20,515 8,204 23,977 7,305 5,664 70,361 4,047 64,941 AD FD Systech Systech MIL MWC MLDL MLL MHRIL MMFSL Tech M MTWL (except (gears) gears) MVML MSat AM-MSB FY 2010-11 190,827 261,296 3,156 Specific Energy Consumption (GJ/unit of measure) % reduction in Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2010-11 over previous year AD 4.069 3.531 3.219 9 Manufacturing Sectors FD 1.850 2.099 1.630 23 Systech (except gears) 8.097 8.282 7.775 6 Systech (gears) 0.011 0.011 0.008 27 MIL 0.044 0.042 0.045 -7 MTWL NIS 0.552 0.362 34 MWC 6.002 7.568 10.864 -44 MLDL 0.013 0.015 0.013 13 Service Sectors MLL 134.302 135.408 11.128 92 MHRIL 0.343 0.291 0.297 -2 MMFSL 15.202 9.444 13.535 -43 Tech M 0.089 11.50 11.13 3 Newly Added MVML NIS NIS 4.660 MSat NIS NIS 13.005 AM-MSB NIS NIS 0.384 Note: NISNot in Scope. 115 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance ENERGY SAVING INITIATIVES At Mahindra we realise that every operation is an energy saving opportunity and thus our initiatives straddle the entire production chain. We are aware that energy saving follows a meteor path a big significant impact in the initial stage, which at Mahindra was three years ago and then a reducing trail as we get closer and closer to optimisation. It is to the credit of our ever-vigilant team that they have been able to squeeze out 37,695 GJ of savings during the reporting year. Energy Savings AD | 21,829 (GJ) AM-MSB | 25 MHRIL | 2,061 Systech | 2,743 MTWL | 3,132 MIL | 91 FD | 7,669 MWC | 145 Total: 37,695 Mahindra Towers, Mumbai One of our many initiatives has been the ongoing energy saving project at Mahindra Towers in Mumbai. Based on an energy audit conducted by the BEE certified Energy Services Company (ESCo) a host of Energy Conservation Measures (ECMs) were identified. They included optimising the electrical distribution system, the air conditioning operations and retrofitting the lighting system to a more efficient one. These measures have been yielding impressive results in the form of energy cost saving since 2009-10. The energy savings from this initiative in the year 2010 11 were 335 GJ. The Initiatives Numerous energy saving initiatives were undertaken across various sectors. These include reduction in fuel and LPG consumption, enhanced usage of solar energy and increase energy efficiency. Given below is a snapshot view. Real Estate MLDL installed solar water heaters, a money saving and Provision of LED eco-friendly method for effective utilisation of solar energy for street lighting and reducing the burden on conventional energy resources. at MWCDL. 116 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Automotive Division Kandivali Introduced a theme C3 (Cut Cost of Super Heat Recovery from Air Conditioning unit Compressed Air) to reduce compressed implemented at Transmission PU to reduce electrical air consumption. power consumption of 0.309 million / annum. Wet On Wet (WOW) application at Paint Shop eliminated running of one baking oven, wet sanding and moisture dry off oven. The project has resulted in Carbon emission reduction of 392 tonnes / annum. Installation of Variable Frequency Drives (VFD) for water pumps Optimum utilisation of and cooling tower fans to reduce electrical power consumption. Induction Furnace in Foundry. Automotive Division Nashik Initiated 'Project Split' for reducing the 'Project Vasool' which resulted heat savings of 72,960 consumption of LPG, which resulted in total K cal per hour, which in turn led to a saving of 6.88 kg cost savings of INR 9.6 million plus an added of LPG per hour, and eventually manifested in saving saving of INR 0.4 million on machinery spares. INR 0.788 million in 100 days (winter) Waste Heat Recovery Energy Efficient Motors Use of electronic ballasts, LED, motion at Paint shop to reduce to reduce electrical sensors to reduce electrical power LPG consumption. power consumption. consumption of lighting. Optimum temperature utilisation of chilled Installation of energy-efficient and environmentally water buffer tank at Mahindra Quality friendly screw chiller to control CED bath temperature Systems (MQS) Paint Shop to reduce have successfully reduced energy consumption by 450 electrical power consumption. units per day and operating cost by INR 2250 per day Automotive Division Igatpuri Continuous to intermittent running of motors Installation of Heat Pumps for washing machines to reduce electrical power consumption. to reduce use of conventional electric heaters. Automotive Division Zaheerabad Installation of Variable Frequency Drives (VFD) for Air Handling Units, Water Pumps in Paint Shop. Automotive Division Haridwar Installation of gas geyser for washing machines Energy Saver for Welding Machines. to eliminate use of electricity for heating the cleaning solution. Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited (MVML) Use of Energy Efficient HOC (Heat Of Compression) Close loop cooling tower at Body Shop to reduce dryer in place of conventional refrigerated dryer. electrical power consumption. Aftermarket MSB MSB Kanhe, replacement of the FTLs with the LED lamps resulted into a monthly saving of 1030.41KWH 117 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Farm Division Kandivali Installation of Use of Heat Run under loaded motors from Auto cut off system Energy Efficient Pumps for washing delta to star connection to reduce to avoid idle running Motors. machines. power consumption. of machines. Farm Division Rudrapur The unit undertook a total of 21 projects that resulted in energy savings worth INR 2.038 million. These included modification of air handling unit duct & air flow, power factor improvement & load balancing at tractor line feeder end, installation of energy efficient pumps and arrangement of moveable compressor for maintenance activity for plant shutdown days. Systech Mahindra Hinoday Industries Limited-Bhosari Use of Energy Efficient Energy Efficient Use of optimum Solar Water Induction lamps to reduce Motors for Press capacity of motor for Heating System power consumption of lighting. machines. Vibromill and Ballmill. for canteen. MMFSL Installed Solar Hybrid Photovoltaic Power System at Bihar and Jharkhand location, that operates on Solar Power during day time. C A S E S T U D Y SOLUTIONS THAT SUSTAIN On one hand, the world is heading towards a global energy crisis due to decline in the availability of nonrenewable fuels. On the other scientists calculate that we can receive more energy from the sun in an hour than is used in the entire world in one year. If harnessed the future of power is bright. At Mahindra, we are investing in other alternatives to tap this transformational energy source. In the reporting year, two of our companies resolved to go yellow. MLDL The streets of Mahindra Chloris, a residential society at Faridabad now Mahindra Chloris with its ecoglitters with the energy which is powered by the Sun. Thanks to the friendly features including a solar 11.34 kWp Solar System installed on the site by Mahindra Solar. power system stands out among green buildings and gives an This system is expected to generate around 16,000 kWh of electricity annually. This electricity is enough to light the street and garden lights edge to Mahindra Lifespaces for the whole year. Equipped with latest technology, it also allows with IGBC platinum rating. remote monitoring of power generation through an online portal. 11.34 kWp Solar System installed at Mahindra Chloris Garden Light Street Light 118 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Tech Mahindra Tech M, Hinjewadi Guest House has installed Solar Heaters with a capacity of heating 10,000 liters, enough for heating water for 44 rooms. Also, Solar Power is used to generate 1.6KW electricity at the Hinjewadi campus. The windmill installed last year continues to generate a power of 3.3 KW which supply power for lighting at visitors' lounge. Water In spite of the fact that approximately 71% of Earth is covered by water, its 6 billion inhabitants can make use of only 1% of this water for their daily subsistence. With a rapid increase in industrial production and an accelerated population growth, water is witnessing a surge in demand like never before. Contamination of existing water bodies and depleting sources of water is leading to conflict among various stakeholders for thus precious natural resource. We, at Mahindra, are sensitive to this scenario and have commenced a comprehensive water foot-printing exercise across the group. Most of our locations utilise municipal water for production and day to day activities. But in the absence of piped water, bore wells are dug on-site to tap ground water. The Mahindra Group ensures that water withdrawal at these locations does not pose any threat to water bodies, the surrounding water table, animals and humans. During the reporting period, the Group has consistently initiated programs on recycling & reusing treated water, rain-water harvesting and groundwater recharging. The water performance of the group, by sector, by location, by specific consumption and by source is detailed below. Highlights of Water Consumption 1 The absolute water consumption has increased as compared to previous years due to a significant increase in production/services this year across most sectors. 2 Specific water consumption in seven sectors Systech, MIL, MTWL, MLDL, MHRIL, MMFSL and Tech M, has shown a substantial decline compared to last year FD has recorded stable specific water consumption with a negligible 0.98% increase compared to previous year. 3 MWC posted an increase in specific water consumption compared to previous year due to ongoing construction activities at Chennai and Jaipur locations. 4 New projects under implementation stage at various locations of AD has resulted in the increase of specific water consumption this year compared to previous year. 5 Significant improvement in data collection process as compared to previous years has resulted in increase in water consumption of Systech Gears. 119 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Water Consumption by sector (m3) FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 2,380,857 2,908,566 2,565,830 871,030 901,388 854,824 923,521 462,682 1,297,748 563,820 1,114,406 361,911 516,833 145,706 124,416 DNA 616,670 226,977 23,328 11,616 185,793 NIS NIS DNA 127,070 17,579 10,618 252,082 11,123 46,491 DNA NIS 194,899 NIS DNA NIS 19,703 23,353 5,395 145,956 70,352 NIS 66 NIS 23,537 AD FD MLDL MIL Systech Systech MHRIL MWC MMFSL Tech M MTWL MVML MLL MSat AM-MSB (except (gears) gears) DNA-Data Not Available, NIS Not In scope. Specific Water Consumption (cubic meter/unit of measure) % reduction in Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2010-11 over previous year AD 4.68 3.36 3.952 -18 Manufacturing Sectors FD 2.11 1.84 1.858 -0.98 Systech (Except Gears) 11.97 12.16 9.092 25 Systech (Gears) 0.006 0.005 0.009 -80 MIL 0.20 0.12 0.109 9 MTWL NIS 0.67 0.392 41 MWC 457.71 418.45 588.014 -41 MLDL 0.23 0.46 0.34 26 Service Sectors MLL DNA DNA 0.045 NA MHRIL 1.07 1.19 1.06 11 MMFSL DNA 27.88 18.04 35 Tech M DNA 4.39 4.07 7 Newly Added MVML NIS NIS 13.767 MSat NIS NIS 18.013 AM-MSB NIS NIS 2.867 Note: NIS-Not in Scope. DNA Data not available. 120 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Water Withdrawal by source (%) FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 43.35 45.57 28.21 30.80 30.75 27.29 34.98 20.12 17.03 3.96 5.10 4.00 0.35 5.73 1.44 0.11 0.78 0.43 Municipality Surface Ground Rain Tanker Other Water Water Water Water Sources Discharged Water Quality All the water on our planet is connected in some way or another. The wastewater that is flushed down the sewer is capable of affecting the drinking water supply of the local population or the ground water tables of the surrounding area. Keeping this in mind, we have invested significant resources to set-up efficient discharge systems comprising robust ETPs (Effluent Treatment Plants) and STPs (Sewage Treatment Plants) to assist zero discharge of wastewater pollutants. The wastewater is monitored both internally and through external agencies. The discharged water is regularly analysed for C.O.D, B.O.D, pH, and other parameters specified by regulatory authorities. The values are always been found to be within the limits defined by the State Pollution Control Boards and local statutory authorities. WATER CONSERVATION INITIATIVE AD-Nashik 49 water conservation methods like rain water Total reduction of Saving of INR harvesting and usage of treated water. 37% in water consumption 33.4 million 121 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Mahindra World City Developers Ltd. MWCDL has an in-house Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) with a capacity of 2 million gallons per day (MGD) capacity and a Tertiary Treatment Plant (TTP) of 1 MGD. We ensure that 100% of waste water generated within the project is treated by these plants. The treated water is used to meet the 100% requirement of irrigation for landscaping within MWCDL. In addition to this, MWCDL has incorporated drip irrigation network to water around 5,000 trees. At present, for our complete irrigation requirement, it is utilizing only 8% of the STP's capacity. Based on trends, it is estimated that the STP will reach 100% operational capacities in 2018. Thus, we ensure that would reuse 100% of the treated wastewater generated within Mahindra World City. Material Material selection and quantum of consumption per unit of produce are prime focus across all our businesses. Enhanced penetration of 'Alternative Thinking' has resulted in enhanced priority to parameters such as recycled content, recyclability, and the potential for reuse. Durability considerations too have acquired a whole new perspective where-in extended service life results in a more sustainable product. At Mahindra we strongly believe that the better you measure, the better you can manage. Thus it is our constant endeavour to add breadth and depth to our reporting. In consonance with this philosophy, we have provided a detailed break-up of material consumed across sectors. Material Consumption (Tonnes) FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 511,723 553,185 399,367 497,894 293,410 369,100 331,215 382,911 241,408 133,651 132,717 143,240 146,291 136,532 46,225 NIS 17,113 46,925 NIS NIS 7,738 NIS NIS 5,663 19,745 8,207 4,990 AD FD Systech MIL MWC MLDL MTWL AM-MSB MVML 122 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Material Consumption of Individual Sector Automotive Division (Tonnes) Materials 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Semi-manufactured Casting Light 28,077 38,838 37,134 Casting Heavy 27,572 38,178 31,568 Casting SG iron 17,328 23,958 21,201 Aluminium 6,577 9,000 9,457 Forging Plain carbon 40,237 55,645 43,200 Forging Alloy Steel 35,989 49,927 55,913 HR 100,029 138,419 160,284 CR 68,872 96,430 117,848 Wheel Rims 14,125 19,495 19,859 Seats (Foam) 4,040 5,591 4,428 Copper 875 1,135 2,179 Lead 2,332 3,317 4,121 Tyres 14,140 19,650 22,536 Paints 875 1,179 1,395 Plastic 4,800 6,568 7,650 Brakes (W/O ABS & Scorpio) 3,232 4,393 5,151 Oil DNA DNA 2,678 Rubber (Other Than Tyres) DNA DNA 6,547 Precious metal (Platinum) DNA DNA 36 Total 369,100 511,723 553,185 MVML (Tonnes) Semi-manufactured 2010-11 Acid 1,205 Oil 3,148 Steel 637 Total 4,990 Wheels (Nos.) 230,419 *MVML was not in the report scope in 2008-09 and 2009-10. 123 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Farm Division (Tonnes) Materials 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Semi Manufactured Iron 98,182 176,052 160,498 Steel 88,727 133,455 247,094 Rubber 15,922 29,941 28,177 Wheel 13,162 23,183 25,510 Additional semi-manufactured materials 25,145 35,775 36,459 Associated materials Grease, chemicals, oil DNA 311 156 Packaging material Polythene, wood, etc. DNA 650 DNA Total 241,408 399,367 497,894 Corrugated boxes (Nos.) 0 532843 0 DNA Data Not Available Systech (Tonnes) Materials 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Associated Material 104,301 31,993 48,894 Associated Material (Nos.) DNA DNA 65,300 Packaging Material 34,984 4744 36,967 Packaging Material (Nos.) DNA DNA 4,083,508 Raw Material DNA 13,405 17,620 Semi-Manufactured goods 154,125 281,073 279,430 Total 293,410 331,215 382,911 DNA Data Not Available 124 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance MWC (Tonnes) Materials 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Raw Materials Sand 43,426 29,838 293 Aggregates DNA 2,799 1,657 Semi-manufactured Steel, steel scrap 2,797 1,002 124 Aluminium 2 DNA DNA Cement DNA 10,999 3,072 Paint DNA 1 0 Bricks DNA 332 0 Bitumin, bitumin emulsion DNA 961 190 RMC DNA 990 0 Package substation DNA 2 0 Blinds, Tiles, etc DNA DNA 326 Total 46,225 46,925 5,663 Pipes (RCC, HDPE) (Meters) DNA 58,975 0 Wires (Meters) DNA 42,595 0 Poles, LED lights, RMU (Nos.) DNA 760 0 DNA Data Not Available MIL (Tonnes) Materials 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Semi Manufactured Steel 132,862 142,231 145,003 Associated materials Grease, chemicals, oil 2 17 224 Packaging material wood, plastic metal 787 992 1,064 Total 133,651 143,240 146,291 DNA Data Not Available 125 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance MTWL (Tonnes) Materials 2008-09 2009-10 Semi-manufactured goods or parts Steel 5,374 13,166 Plastic 542 1,329 Paint/thinner 264 743 Tyres 182 446 Aluminium 1,029 3,267 Seat Assay 177 432 Carburetors 37 91 Associated Materials Grease, oil, lubricant, etc. 1 198 Chemicals 17 0 Gear oil 72 0 Mig wire 30 0 Acid 13 0 Packaging Corrugated boxes 0 31 Other packaging material 0 42 Total 7,738 19,745 AM-MSB (Tonnes) Paper consumption (Tonnes) Semi-manufactured 2010-11 Sector 2009-10 2010-11 Packaging MLL 5 7.25 Corrugated Box 3,802 MHRIL 3 7.19 Paper 68 MMFSL 1 22.04 Foam, Stickers, etc. 4,337 Tech M 30 144.31 Total 8,207 MSat NIS 46.22 *AM-MSB was previously not in the report scope 126 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance MLDL (Tonnes) Materials 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Raw materials Sand, murum, garden soil, etc. 5,083 23,585 44,471 Semi-manufactured Steel Aluminium 6,149 6,495 4,721 Paint DNA 10 6 Cement 5,881 23,267 10,865 Concrete (RMC) DNA 61,072 0 Coarse Aggregate DNA 5,106 0 Bricks, POP, putty etc DNA 12,733 21,457 Others DNA DNA 55,011 Associated materials Grease, oil, ply, paper etc DNA 449 DNA Total 17,113 132,717 136,532 DNA Data Not Available Printer cartridges consumption (Nos.) Sector 2009-10 2010-11 MLL 257 328 MHRIL DNA 41 MMFSL DNA 79 Tech M 719 1,183 MSat NIS 1,581 Waste Last year we enhanced the breadth of our reporting by including waste arising from cartridges, tyres and drum. This year we are pleased to report that there has been a remarkable decrease in the consumption of cartridges, tyres and drums. The process of reducing of waste cannot survive in isolation. It has to be complemented with a robust process of reusing and recycling. Most of our waste is sold to third party contractors for disposal. A large percentage of non-hazardous waste disposed in this manner is eventually recycled or reused. Hazardous waste finds its way to authorised Common Hazardous Waste Collection, Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facilities after which it is incinerated or put in a landfill. 127 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Hazardous Waste Materials 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Solid (Tonnes) 3,177 8,194 5,949 Liquid (KL) 2,461 572 850 Batteries (Nos.) 1,856 14,168 3,457 Containers (Nos.) 134,227 113,033 190,256 Cartridges (Nos.) 0 255 92 Others like Oil filters, drums, E waste. (Nos.) 0 0 13,662 Non-hazardous Waste Materials 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Solid (Tonnes) 100,803 101,575 189,153 Liquid (KL) 24 34 20 Containers (Nos.) 6,245 37,939 50,238 Drums (Nos.) 736 4,378 0 Tyres (Nos.) 0 1,844 111 Note: This year we reconfirmed the reported values for previous years. In light of this exercise, the hazardous waste figures for solid, liquid and containers have been revised. AD Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 1,442 1,476 1,983 Liquid (KL) 330 447 621 Batteries (Nos.) 923 1,388 965 Containers (Nos.) 103,624 66,355 119,098 Oil Filters 0 0 1,420 Drums 0 0 6,319 128 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Non-hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 35,059 34,033 97,798 Liquid (KL) 0 0 0 Containers & Plastic Materials (Nos.) 0 37,547 0 Tyres (Nos.) 0 1,844 92 Drum (Nos.) 736 225 0 FD Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 319 1,020 734 Liquid (KL) 82 81 91 Batteries (Nos.) 867 392 525 Containers (Nos.) 14,035 40,368 47,940 Non-hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 10,186 14,455 13,545 Liquid 0 0 0 Containers & Plastic Materials (Nos.) 5,978 0 9,898 Drum (Nos.) 0 668 0 Systech Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 1,413 4,522 3,048 Liquid (KL) 2,046 39 94 Batteries (Nos.) 60 12,139 130 Containers (Nos.) 16,568 6,310 17,077 Others 0 0 5,792 129 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Non-hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 52,895 49,713 62,638 Liquid (KL) 24 33 20 Containers & Plastic Materials (Nos.) 267 392 782 Drum (Nos.) 0 0 0 Tyres (Nos.) 0 3,485 19 MHRIL Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 0.0 0.0 11.3 Liquid (KL) 0.0 0.0 0.5 Batteries (Nos.) 0.0 0.0 3.0 Non-hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 293.8 371.2 731.1 MIL Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 3.3 1.1 3.1 Liquid (KL) 2.8 0 7.0 Batteries (Nos.) 6.0 37.0 33.0 Non-hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 2,343.1 2,567.5 5,856.6 Liquid (KL) 0 0.54 0 130 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance MWC Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 26.29 188.73 410.61 MLDL Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 0 243.53 25.815 MLL Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Hazardous waste Batteries (Nos) 0 212.00 0 MTWL Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) NIS 63.07 52.87 Liquid (KL) NIS 0 2.50 Batteries (Nos.) NIS 0 0 Non-hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) NIS 0 1,031 Containers (Nos.) NIS 0 39,415 131 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance MMFSL Sector 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Non-hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) NIS 3.39 9 AM-MSB MVML Sector 2010-11 Sector 2010-11 Hazardous waste Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 0.46 Solid (Tonnes) 56.5 Liquid (KL) 0.108 Liquid (KL) 23.2 Batteries (Nos.) 50 Containers (Nos.) 6,100 Containers (Nos.) 41 Non-hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 2,158.7 Solid (Tonnes) 4,827.753 Containers (Nos.) 143 MSat Tech M Sector 2010-11 Sector 2010-11 Hazardous waste Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 59.91 Cartridges (Nos.) 92 Liquid (KL) 10.01 Others Containers (Nos.) 1,751 Computers (Nos.) 131 Non-hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 121.58 Note: The inconsistent increase or decrease in the absolute waste generation is mainly due to the reasons like: (a) Waste disposal is scheduled to optimize transportation cost without compromising on legal compliance especially for drums and containers. (b) Useful life of a particular material e.g. Batteries, Cartridges, Oil filters, E-waste, tyres, etc; (c) Increase or decrease in the business activities e.g. MWC, MTWL; (d) Utilization of Waste generated in one process into another e.g. MLDL uses the solid waste for pavements and reclamations. 132 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance WASTE MANAGEMENT AND REDUCTION INITIATIVES 1 Employees were trained in waste identification which resulted in a tremendous improvement in waste sorting. 2 Reduction of paint & thinner consumption resulted in 7% reduction of hazardous waste generation and a saving of INR 5.2 million 3 Recycling of flush paints, achieved cost savings of INR123,925/month and reduction of 500 kg/month in paint sludge generation. 4 Reuse of hazardous waste by converting it into Alternate Fuel helped replace @ 120 tonnes of coal/annum. Packaging Owing to the nature of our business, packaging has never been a key materiality issue for us. But as we diversify into business like spare parts and scale-up the businesses we are gearing up to incorporate the Mahindra 'Alternative Thinking' philosophy into packaging as well. Even today the Mahindra Group encourages reuse and recycling of packaging materials for the products and services such as cars, tractors, IT consultancy, financial services, logistics and construction. AD-NASHIK Reusable packaging concepts implemented at select supplier locations helped reduce wooden waste by 62% and cardboard box waste by 40% which is equivalent to saving 3,750 trees. Spills Our comprehensive environment management system is designed to embed safety into our operations itself, thus mitigating the risk of spills. There were no significant spills in the reporting year. 133 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance Environmental compliance The environmental compliance committees in various sectors of Mahindra Group continuously ensure that there is full compliance of all applicable laws. In the current fiscal year, we were not fined for any non-compliance. C A S E S T U D Y MMDC-BODHIVRIKSHA, NASHIK GOES GREEN Going green is not just about planting trees and using eco-friendly bags. It's about implementing strategic initiatives that on a longer term make a larger difference to the planet. At Mahindra Management Development Center (MMDC-Bodhivriksha) Nashik, we went beyond this routine by implementing a multi-pronged resource conservation approach that sustains nature. Some among the plethora of initiatives incorporated at the center include: Water Conservation To combat the issue of acute water shortage during summers, we adopted roof rain water harvesting technology. Here the rainwater that falls on the roof is collected and diverted to a specially constructed filter tank, and from there to an existing well. The collected water is then used for gardening and flushing purpose. Assuming normal rain fall, we expect to collect 320 KL of rainwater/annum from the project which covers a partial roof area of 400 sq. meters. To further reduce consumption of water, we have installed a waterless urinal on a trial basis. More such urinals will be installed after studying the feasibility of this urinal. Energy Efficiency Waste management We installed motion sensors in two of the washrooms Responsible disposal of waste is practiced that switch on the lights only when movement is at MMDC-Bodhivriksha. Also the waste detected. This initiative will help save the energy generated in the garden is put to use by being burnt the entire day. composting it into manure. Till date 90 tons of garden waste has been converted to 50 To reduce power consumption of street lights we tons of manure and utilized for fertilization of have installed energy efficient magnetic magic lamp. the garden soil. case study nature nature Nature knows no boundaries. On MACE transforms flood-hit Pattori to an eco-friendly August 18, 2008 the river Kosi breached a man-made embankment, model village its ravaging waters devastated multiple ecosystems, and drowned the hopes of What is in our nature never dies. Time and again, our employees have risen to more than 3 million people in Bihar. As the challenges of natural disasters. It is has always been our endeavour to welcome relief, poured in band-aid leverage these challenges as opportunities to spark robust self-sustaining remedies, refugee camps, and millions transformations. of dollars. 134 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance What was missing Our constant drive to push the limits of legacy was a well-engineered thinking, transformed what could have been just a rehabilitation solution that humble flood relief donations drive in to a strategic, would compliment nature long-term rehabilitation program for the residents rather than compete with it. of Pattori village. On 18th August, 2008 the Kosi breach caused A total of 340,742 severe damage to life and property drowning houses were damaged hundreds of villages and fields in its way. The and 712,140 animals five most affected districts were Madhepura, were affected. Araria, Supaul, Saharsa and Purnia. The Mahindra Foundation (MF), has been very A total of 239 humans active during national calamities and disasters. and 1,232 animals' Model village Leveraging on the flood rehabilitation expertise lives were lost. of Mahindra Consulting Engineers (MACE), we revived the flood-devastated Pattori village to About 3.345 million become a self sufficient ecosystem. The main people in these objective behind the development of this self districts suffered thriving, sustainable village model was that heavily in terms of Pattori being a remote village did not enjoy displacement and access to support facilities like external roads, loss of assets. water supply, sanitation and electricity, etc. Model Village hand-over to GoB MACE acted as single point responsible agency right from initiating memorandum of understanding with Government of Bihar (GoB), till handing over of facilities to GoB and to the beneficiaries. Funds were contributed by employees across the Mahindra Group and the Management. Pattori village is located in Singheswar Block, Madhepura District of Bihar under the Kosi Relief and Rehabilitation Scheme. Drafting the Greenprint MACE undertook a holistic planning approach and The aim of this project used innovative themes and ideas while drawing up was to transform the plans for this village, which earlier lacked even basic lifestyle of the affected facilities such as electricity, water supply or sanitation. community and mend the gap between the The scope of the project was complete restoration of privileged and village infrastructure including houses, community facilities, and provision of livelihood support based on underprivileged the policy of sustained economy and environment. sections of society. 135 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Environmental Performance The experience and expertise of MACE in natural disaster rehabilitation projects has resulted in a complete transformation of a village in the most remote part of Bihar. Also, the various options for dwelling units and In the selection process other components of the village were studied with for the allotment of homes respect to the choice of technology, cost it was kept in mind that efficiency, simple and speedy execution, the underprivileged, the durability, employment to local workforce, energy widows and the musahars conservation, eco-friendly building materials and (dalit of the dalits) were minimum maintenance efforts. given priority. Disaster-resistant dwelling Transforming the Terrain Slowly and steadily this flood ravaged village metamorphosed to become a clean, green and secure ecosystem which is not just disaster resistant but self sufficient. This development also provided employment for the local workforce. So strong was this business case that it has become a model for other NGOs and corporate to undertake future rehabilitation projects. Due care was taken for transforming the life style of the villagers without Community cum Flood Relief Centre changing the ecology. Highlights of the project: 45 disaster-resistant dwelling units (pakka houses) with: a plinth area of 294 sq.ft. and plot area of 1,000 sq.ft. open area for other usages greenhouse shade net for kitchen water supply arrangement to deliver potable water toilet block and septic tank Raised resting platform Host of eco-friendly features including: solar lighting, rainwater harvesting, eco bio-block for digestion of bio-degradable liquid discharge, extensive usage of locally available bamboo Community hall cum Flood Relief Centre Crop cultivation and plant nursery Raised resting platform Permeable Foot path Children's play area with sports items Provision of water supply system to deliver potable water Apart from building an eco friendly village and providing employment to the local work force, MACE also contributed to the women of the community by creating self employment schemes for the women. This project attains a place of pride in our hearts as the entire development cycle of Pattori village initiated and completed by MACE is now viewed as a template Children Play Area for future rehabilitation projects across the nation. 136 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance MANAGEMENT APPROACH Overview For a nation to rise, economic prosperity and social equity must walk hand in hand. At Mahindra, CSR means not just sharing of wealth, but of our time and of ourselves. Anand Mahindra Vice Chairman & Managing Director, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited. At Mahindra, we have always believed that businesses can transform the society, and vice versa. Hence businesses have the same degree of responsibility towards driving a positive change in the society and fostering social inclusiveness, as they have towards ethical practices and good governance. This belief got reaffirmed in the year 2005 when our Chairman pledged that the Group would annually contribute 1% of profit after tax (PAT) to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. Our practice of Corporate Social Responsibility refuses to accept the 4 X10 limit of chequebook charity and embraces holistic community development through continuing programs in three focus areas education, health and environment. Besides this, we also promote sports and fine arts and provide a platform for young talent to shine and make a name for them. For over six decades now, good Corporate Citizenship, Professionalism, Focus on Human Resources, Quality and a Belief in the Dignity of the Individual have formed the bedrock on which the company has been built. Over the years, we have been investing not only our financial resources but also leveraging the strength of our human resources to ensure that society reaps rich returns. Through Project Nanhi Kali, we have changed the lives of underprivileged girl children across India by supporting their education. In harmony with the Lifeline Express Project, we have altered the definition of out-patient care by taking the hospital to patients who suffer in silence due to their inability to access medical care. In unfortunate times when disaster strikes we not only rise to the occasion and provide immediate relief, we chalk out extended programs to seed and accelerate rehabilitation. A complete revival of the flood-struck Pattori village which has become a model rehabilitation project for others is a case in point. The drivers of this transformative change are our very own Mahindraites. While our Corporate Social Responsibility Council & CSR department, comprising qualified professionals think alternatively for strategising and managing the strategic social interventions, our employees, across hierarchies, roll-up their sleeves, and invest their expertise & time in on-ground activities, and partner with the government, NGOs & other business associates through our unique volunteering program Esops. 137 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance In addition to direct influence, some of our initiatives are directed towards the betterment of the society in a more tangential manner by designing socially responsible products and services. Mahindra Holidays, for example, is truly 'changing the way India holidays'. Its 'Homestay' product signed with state governments, allows vacationers to live with local people thereby bringing income streams in rural communities. This also promotes cross culture interactions both within the country as well as with foreigners. KEY HIGHLIGHTS 15,732 underpriviledged girls were adopted under Nanhi Kali education sponsorship programme in FY 11. Currently the project supports 70,096 Nanhi Kalis which include 29,100 Nanhi Kalis supported by Mahindra Group and 40,996 Nanhi Kalis supported by Corporate donors as approached by KCMET. Sustained and surpassed the target of planting 1 million trees under Mahindra Hariyali in 2007-08 and set up a target of planting another 1,000,000 Trees by Oct 2011 out of which 69,2876 have been planted. 45% increase in Esops volunteers and 49% increase in Esops manhours spent over last year 55 students were awarded the K.C. Mahindra scholarship for post graduate studies 522 students were awarded with the Mahindra All India Talent Scholarships Lifeline Express stopover at Farrukhabad healed over 1,500 patients 2,378 students from socially disadvantaged sections of society (SC/ST/OBC) have been provided livelihood training at Mahindra Pride School, Pune & MPS Chennai having secured 100% placements 138 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance CSR GOVERNANCE CSR Council The CSR council was created in 2006. It is a cross sector committee comprising of senior executives nominated by the management. Rajeev Dubey, President Group HR, the Aftermarket sector, and Corporate Services, is the Chairman of the CSR council. Members of the CSR Council Rajeev Dubey President (Group HR & Aftermarkets) Sudhir Pathak Sr. VP ( Manufacturing & SCM ) FD Hemant Sikka Sr. VP ( Manufacturing ) AD Harsh Kumar MD Mahindra Intertrade Limited Romesh Kaul Global CEO Gears Business, Systech Ramesh Iyer MD Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited Rajiv Sawhney MD Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited Roma Balwani Sr. VP Group Corporate Communication Roshni Sagreiya Sr. GM, Executive Director & Finance Office Prochie Mukherji Sr. VP & Chief of Staff Sheetal Mehta Director ME Trust Beroz Gazdar VP, Group Sustainability Shubhabrata Bhattacharya Sr. VP External Relation Parijat Suman Sr. GM Business & Process Excellence, Aftermarket Manoj Kumar CEO, Naandi Foundation S Venkatraman Controller of Accounts Vinod Khanna Principal Consultant Tech M Foundation Sushil Singh Sr. GM & Head CSR The CSR Council is responsible for: Overall CSR and Esops innovation, branding and execution across the Group Facilitation of roll-outs across all Group locations by individual committee members Overseeing CSR and Esops quality control / audit Reporting to the Chairman and GEB Setting benchmarks for quality assessment 139 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance CSR Department The CSR department or the CSR cell is responsible for: Rolling out the CSR policy and plan of action as discussed and approved by the CSR Council Planning, implementation, auditing, and evaluation of various social initiatives in the area of Education, Health, Environment, Sports and Art & Culture Reporting on the impact of CSR initiatives of the company to not only the CSR Council but also other internal (e.g. employees) and external stakeholders (e.g. project partners, government etc.) Laisoning and building strategic partnerships with government, non government organisations and other corporate to further the CSR goal and activities of the company Creating blueprint of Esops implementations and assisting Esops champions to roll out activities Suggesting and facilitating ways for employees to participate in the CSR programs of the company through the Employee Social Options platform Creating CSR / Esops branding internally and externally KCMET The K.C. Mahindra Education Trust (KCMET) was founded in 1953 by late Mr. K.C. Mahindra. It is registered as a public charitable trust under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950. The vision of KCMET is to transform the lives of people in India through education by providing financial assistance and recognition to them, across age groups and income strata. KCMET's projects attempt to empower the youth so that they can rise and create a world of their choice where they can live with pride and a sense of purpose. Some of the major initiatives of the Trust are as follows: Nanhi Kali Mahindra Pride Schools Scholarships & Grants underpriviledged girls providing livelihood training to providing financial education sponsorship students from socially support to deserving and programme disadvantaged sections of society needy students 140 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Over the years, KCMET has continued to make a difference in the lives of deserving and needy students, and has provided grants, scholarships and loans worth more than INR 712.29 million (USD 14.25 million) impacting 83,245 students across the country. Details of the above mentioned initiatives undertaken by KCMET are elaborated under the Education support section further in this chapter. >> Mahindra Foundation Objectives Providing relief Education and encouragement Medical relief and to the poor of sports and physical fitness family planning The Foundation extends financial aid to patients suffering from health ailments like cancer, heart problems, severe burns etc. The Foundation has also taken initiative in relief and rehabilitation efforts during adversities like the Gujarat earthquake and Kargil war. The most recent efforts have been the 'Bihar Rehabilitation Project' after the floods in 2008. This project included the construction of permanent houses and building of basic infrastructural facilities such as water supply, sanitation etc. for the entire Pattori village in Madhepur District of Bihar. Further, the Foundation has also extended support to academia and other professionals and sportsmen by enabling them to attend workshops and overseas conferences. This has resulted in the advancement of their knowledge and skills in their respective fields. Mahindra Satyam Foundation Mahindra Satyam Foundation is the Corporate Social Responsibility arm of Mahindra Satyam. It was instituted as Satyam Alambana Trust in the year 2000 with a vision to leverage the power of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to bridge the 'digital divide' that limits opportunities for success and prosperity. In February 2010, it was renamed as Mahindra Satyam Foundation; its underlying cause continues to remain 'Social Transformation. Together'. The foundation operates in Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru and Bhubaneswar in the areas of education, blood donation, livelihoods, empowering people with disabilities and need based interventions in disaster management. The operational strategy of the foundation is to work in collaboration with various other organisations, leveraging each other's core competencies to collectively achieve common objectives. Mahindra Satyam Foundation operates out of Hyderabad and has chapters in Bengaluru, Chennai, Bhubaneswar and Pune. Over time, Mahindra Satyam Foundation has worked in varied spheres transforming the lives of many a people. Some of its key programs include: Education Forum The Education Forum's initiatives are designed to energise the education system in government schools, support a learning environment and improve the quality of learning for the underprivileged students through a series of vibrant, effective and empowering interventions/programs. Among many activities they undertake for the students are Notebook Distribution, Motivational Tours, Awareness Programs and Summer Camps. 141 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Livelihood Program We believe in enabling individual capacities. An individual or an organisation is modeled around specific skills and practical knowledge. By providing skills to the underprivileged individual, we add value to the society as well as Indian economy. What we do differently is identifying the needs of underprivileged people and accordingly conferring appropriate skills. Some of our livelihood training offerings include Computer, Office Automation, Desktop Publishing, Web Designing, Hardware & Networking, Call Centre Training (Voice & Nonvoice), Retail Management and Hotel Management. Blood Donation Camps Recognising the dire need for blood donation in India, Mahindra Satyam Foundation continues to organise a number of blood donation drives across all our locations periodically. Even in times of urgency our associates remain just a phone call away to arrange for blood donation. During 2010-11, Mahindra Satyam associates voluntarily donated 1,620 units of blood in 15 blood donation camps across Hyderabad, Chennai, Bangalore and Bhubaneswar. Empowering Persons with Disability (PWD) Enhancing the lives of those with disability is a cause near to Mahindra Satyam Foundation. Every year, we conduct a series of programs for the people with disabilities to better integrate them into the society by helping them overcome stigma; and empowering with employable skills. C A S E S T U D Y PERMANENT RESETTLEMENT FOR 56 FLOOD-AFFECTED FAMILIES Mahindra Satyam Foundation implemented a long term rehabilitation program for 56 flood-affected families of Ayyavaripally village. Floods pose a grave threat not only to one's life but also to one's lifestyle. More so is the case of the people who reside in rural India, devoid of ample support. In October 2009 the devastating floods caused by river Krishna, washed away the belongings of 56 families in Ayyavaripally village leaving them stranded, homeless, and hungry. For their rehabilitation, Shri. Jupalli Krishna Rao Hon'ble Minister for Endowments, Govt of A.P. had granted 3 acres of land in Chinnambavi village for construction of pucca houses. This is when Mahindra Satyam Foundation adopted Chinnambavi village to support these people who were displaced from their village due to floods. The foundation facilitated a complete rehabilitation of these victims right from allotment of land, construction of pucca houses to provision of other infrastructure and support facilities. This project was funded with the help of contributions received from Mahindra Satyam Associates. May 8, 2010 became a momentous day for these 56 families as they received Pattas meaning land titles in Chinnambavi village. After the allotment of land, Bhoomi Puja was performed to signify an auspicious start for the construction of houses. We collaborated with ASSIST, an NGO to collectively construct 56 houses for the beneficiaries. Other integrated services provided to the villagers include sewage connections, public taps, a reverse osmosis drinking water supply plant and solar powered street lighting. 142 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Today, those 56 flood-affected families don't just reside in their new, well-built Nurturing seeds in pucca houses but also enjoy a new lease of lifestyle. the community so they can flower their The unique attribute of this project is our ability to facilitate the provision of own way with dignity, clean drinking water and solar lighting in such a remote village like honour, and equality. Chinnambavi. This project is also among the very few projects to be completed within the stipulated time frame. Applause from the Social Sphere In the reporting year, the Mahindra Satyam Foundation received a certificate of merit from Shri. E.L. Narasimhan, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh for motivating the largest number of blood donors during the year 2008-2009. Tech Mahindra Foundation The Tech Mahindra Foundation was instituted in June 2007 with an aim to facilitate quality education and vocational training for the economically, socially and physically disadvantaged. Among its core concerns are education, women empowerment, enabling people with disability & vocational training programs. The Tech Mahindra Foundation has tie-ups with non-governmental organisations (NGOs, not-for-profit ventures) based in Delhi-Noida, Maharashtra and Karnataka. These partnerships help promote programs that enable the underprivileged to become self-reliant and responsible contributing citizens. Along with these social bodies, the foundation is spawning new ways to transform society, supporting education and women empowerment programs, and rehabilitate the displaced and dispossessed. FOCUS AREAS EDUCATION The Foundation has on-going associations with various organisations working in the field of education, including Akansha, Dhwani, Katha, Vidya & Child and Parikrama. The objective is to improve the quality of teaching in Municipal schools. Development of out-of-school children and teaching English are the other two thrust areas. In the past 4 years, we have supported more than 8000 students. 143 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance SHIKSHAK SAMMAN LEARNING TO LEAD, AWARDS MUMBAI Towards its goal of lifting the standard of education in municipal schools, the foundation has partnered with the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) to felicitate deserving principals The Learning to Lead (LTL) program finds and teachers of MCD schools with Shikshak academically strong and motivated students Samman Awards. The awards are in the nature and integrates them into private schools. of scholarships, and incentives for professional The focus is on shaping leadership skills of development. the students. Launched in 2008, these awards seek to provide Over the last 4 years, we have an avenue for further professional development supported 200 students who have been of the committed teachers, encourage absorbed in top colleges and are innovation and disseminate best practices.* talented to take up the mantle of leadership in the near future. * http://www.techmahindra.com/Documents/TechMFoundation/form10_11.pdf WOMEN EMPOWERMENT The foundation provides funding support to Katalyst, a non-profit program that empowers talented girls from low socio-economic groups and transform them through professional education into confident women who will be assimilated into the management cadre of high end companies. Currently they support 50 girls and 15 of them have already received offer letters from different companies including Tech Mahindra with a starting pay package of more than 0.45 million per annum. The foundation also imparts vocational training to underprivileged girls and women from the minority community so that they can contribute to family income & community healthcare. 144 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance WOMEN EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR LIVELIHOOD GENERATION At Tech Mahindra, education and women empowerment are our two focus areas. Hence, when it comes to women education or training, more is less. We undertake every possible effort to mentor women towards livelihood generation. Some of our initiatives include: Raza, Bangalore trained over 457 youths in Sneha, Mumbai conducted vocational training 4 different vocations resulting into an average course which reached out to 0.5 million people placement of 80% of them. enabling them to contribute to their family income. SUPPORT FOR THE VISUALLY IMPAIRED & PEOPLE WITH DISABILITY To encourage and empower those with disabilities, the foundation's conjunction with able partners, regularly undertakes initiatives in the areas of holistic education, nutritional support, co-curricular activities and speech therapy. In the reporting year, the foundation also provided digital talking books for visually impaired people. These books were uploaded on the website of Daisy Forum of India and have been accessed by more than 23,000 visually impaired across the country. Going ahead, The foundation is poised to set up a resource center and scale-up its intervention in this domain, nationally. ANANDWAN The foundation supports two special residential schools at Anandwan, located near Warora in Chandrapur district in the state of Maharashtra. Anandwan, is an ashram, and a community rehabilitation centre for leprosy patients and the disabled from downtrodden sections of society founded by noted social activist, Baba Amte. For the children with disability studying in these schools, following initiatives were undertaken: 145 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Provision of clothing, food and educational material Group hearing training 100 children Music training 96 blind children IT training 30 students E-NABLING E-DUCATION Through EnAble India, a registered charitable trust the foundation impacted the lives of 3000+ visually impaired directly and indirectly. The thrust is on enabling equal opportunities in both education & employment for those who are visually impaired. VOCATIONAL TRAINING The foundation promotes skill development in underprivileged youth so that they find suitable jobs in prevailing market conditions. The focus is on enhancing skills of the youth in English communication and thereby boost their self-confidence and employability. LIVELIHOOD OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE BANGALORE YOUTH In alliance with partner Unnati, Bangalore, the foundation helped train 275 youth in 2 years. The highlight of this endeavour has been a 100% placement record for its students. Most of the trained youth are performing well and many students have been bestowed with Best Employee Awards. 30 of them have even become supervisors and are responsible for 15-20 workers each. The highest salary recorded is INR 15,000 per month. For the young citizens of India coming from lower socio-economic strata, this training has helped them gain not just financial security but also social well-being. 146 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance REHABILITATION The foundation has joined hands with a well-known, Mysore-based NGO Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement for flood relief and rehabilitation work in the Bijapur District of Karnataka. Tech M volunteers contributed one day's salary equivalent to INR 4,099,747 towards the rehabilitation and resettlement of these flood affected areas. Till now, 350 houses have been constructed and construction of another 150 houses is under progress. To rejuvenate the habitat, 220 trees have also been planted. Furthermore, training has been provided to build fuel-efficient 'chulas'. Youth groups from the region are also being encouraged to participate in local governance. CSR INVESTMENTS Total Investment INR 505.80 million TMF+ KCMET+ MAH Fondation + MSat Foundation | 272.88 Theatre | 13.22 Sports | 57.54 Others | 14.1 Environment | 31.29 Social | 11.26 Health | 41 Education | 64.51 147 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance ESOPS AWARDS Be it in the form of reward or recognition acknowledging the good work of employees not only brings smiles on their faces but also motivates them to perform better than before. At Mahindra, we believe in encouraging the professionals who go beyond their usual job duties and invest time and effort in creating a positive impact to the society. The awards are given in two categories; Factory Locations and Non-Factory Locations. This year the jury also announced special jury awards for some extra ordinary projects. WINNERS OF THE CSR AWARDS 2010-11 In 2008, we initiated in-house CSR awards to appreciate and promote a Category: Factory Location Category: Non-Factory Location healthy competition among employees involved in the FD Rudrapur for MACE for CSR activities. SAPNO KA BHARAT NAV-NIRMAAN DHAM A Kosi rehabilitation project For an illustrative glimpse of each of the winning Category: Special Jury Awards projects explore their respective case studies. Mahindra Towers for MIL Nashik for PROJECT FACILITATING STREET KISMET KONNECTION ELECTRIFICATION in Gonde Village C A S E S T U D Y SAPNO KA BHARAT Project Sapno Ka Bharat (Dream India) was initiated at Rudrapur with the aim to conduct Education, Health & Environmental activities targeting the present & future generation under one umbrella. In a Sapno Ka Bharat , we expect to see everyone enjoying good health. If the youth of today is fit & healthy then Bharat will be healthy. 148 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance When our Esops team found that the remote area of Rudrapur lacked basic medical facilities it decided to take up the following initiatives: Health Check up of School Students Pulse Polio Camp & Rally AIDS Awareness for transporters coming inside the Plant Ongoing Free Mobile Dispensary for school children & villagers C A S E S T U D Y KISMET KONNECTION AN ENDEAVOUR TO SUPPORT NANHI KALIS Kismet Konnection was a creative route strategically conceptualised by Esops volunteers wherein thematic mailers based on Hindi songs were sent out to all Mahindra employees to encourage them to sponsor Nanhi Kali through donations in kind or direct sponsorships. “Give your old possessions, make Nanhi Kali lucky. Kismet Konnection Motto The first mailer was rolled out on May 13th 2009 with a message 'Kismet Konnection' and the last mailer spread another endearing message Koi Mil Jaye... Joh mujhe school bheje . The response to the mailers was terrific, reaffirming the spirit of Mahindra Tower employees towards the education of the girl child. The items that came as donations were aplenty, ranging from conventional donations likes clothes and shoes to completely out-of-the-box gifts like sets of encyclopaedia & child craft, furniture, music systems, mobile phones and electronic gadgets. The employees opened their hearts and poured out goodies to make sure that the little Nanhi Kalis go to school with dignity. Many employees even chose to directly contribute to the annual e-Nanhi Kali sponsorship. The donations were monetised with the help of Toofles Foundation, a Mumbai-based fund-raising platform that helps to convert kind into cash for charity. Amount received as direct sponsorships 137,998 Amount generated by monetising the donated items with the help of Toofles foundation 249,733 Total amount collected through 'Kismet Konnection' 387,731 Behind this endeavour were 15 volunteers who contributed more than 300 man hours to make Kismet Konnection a reality. The success was clearly visible in the quantum of donations received that continued for almost 3 months. Mahindra supported 195 more Nanhi Kalis through this initiative. 149 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance C A S E S T U D Y STREET ELECTRIFICATION WITH ENERGY SAVINGS LAMPS AT GONDE VILLAGE As important it is for us to explore alternative methods of generating electricity, it's equally important to effectively transmit and distribute electricity to India's rural sphere. The long and dark wait for the residents of Gonde village ended when Mahindra Intertrade, Nashik installed 47 energy efficient street lights. This initiative directly benefited the entire village comprising over 8000 villagers. Indirectly, it benefited the residents of 11 other neighbouring villages as for them night travel became more convenient. The streetlights installed are the energy-efficient CFLs with low maintenance instead of conventional Sodium vapor lamp. These fixtures are fitted with automatic timer on-off controller accounting for energy savings of 30,535 units/annum and cost savings of INR. 122,000/annum. All the streetlight poles carry sustainability awareness slogans. Such a small endeavour has positively increased the awareness of sustainability among the villagers. “This is commendable job done by MIL towards “Mahindra is the only company infrastructure development of village without any in this area that identifies the government support. The company has shown a basic needs of the society” way to sustainable development of village” Mr. Raju Nathe Village Sarpanch Mr. Anant Mahajan Dy. CEO of Zillah ESOPS EMPLOYEE SOCIAL OPTIONS Overview At Mahindra, we are tapping the energy hidden within each one of us to power a sustainable society that is healthier, cleaner, greener, more literate and more equitable. Esops (Employee Social Options) our employee volunteering program harnesses the inexhaustible energy of our workforce in a structured manner and provides an effective platform to make a difference. 150 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Towards achieving the 10X vision for Esops, each sector and every company in each sector committed to affect a 10% rise in volunteering and contributing manhours as compared to previous year. This year was a milestone year for Mahindra Esops as it set out to achieve for itself the ambitious '10x' goal and surpassed its current year targets dramatically. Another feather in the cap was the self-initiated contribution of 1,833 Esops volunteers to sponsor 2,258 Nanhi Kalis. The below table elaborates in a snapshot how Esops, instituted by Mr. Keshub Mahindra, has evolved over the years from just a few hundred employees to becoming a passionate group-wide movement. Esops volunteering ESOPS ESOPS YEAR VOLUNTEERS MAN HOURS soared 45% and contribution of 2006 2007 4,588 DNA manhours ascended 2007 2008 2008 2009 9,947 10,341 DNA 35,130 49% 2009 2010 10,440 49,280 2010 2011 15,147 73,509 DNA Data Not Available Initiatives Group-wide Initiatives in Esops draw teams from across sectors and businesses to accomplish something big, create a feeling of responsibility and empowerment and lead employees and local partners alike to take ownership of India's future and make a significant difference. Employees can select from a wide range of activities in the three focus areas of Health, Education, and Environment. Our large ongoing projects include: The Lifeline Express Nanhi Kali Mahindra Hariyali a travelling hospital on rails educating the girl child to afforestation initiative ignite lasting social change http://www.mahindra.com/ http://www.mahindra.com/ http://www.mahindra.com/ How-We-Help/Health/ How-We-Help/Education/ How-We-Help/Environment/ Lifeline-Express Nanhi-Kali Esops-in-Environment For many of our Esops activities we collaborate with capable and goal-aligned NGOs such as Naandi Foundation, Aseema, Doorstep School, Maharishi Sambamurty Institute of Social and Development Studies and the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). 151 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Esops Nationwide Footprint Esops is active in over 19 states plus the Union Territory of Delhi. HIMACHAL PRADESH CHANDIGARH UTTARAKHAND DELHI ASSAM UTTAR PRADESH RAJASTHAN BIHAR JHARKHAND GUJARAT MADHYA PRADESH CHATTISGARH MAHARASHTRA ANDHRA PRADESH GOA KARNATAKA TAMIL NADU KERALA Esops Dashboard 73,509 manhours 372 projects invested towards social initiated by team Esops programs, in current year across the three focus as compared to 49,280 areas of health, education manhours last year. and environment. 152 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Composition of Esops Initiatives during FY 2011 SOCIAL 19% ENVIRONMENT 31% EDUCATION 18% HEALTH 32% “The Esops movement has gathered considerable momentum in the year gone by. However, we are only at the beginning of our journey to create a better tomorrow for India. Rajeev Dubey President (Group HR & Aftermarket) and Member of the Group Executive Board Esops in Communities Visited old age home Conducted Shramdaan activities Undertook street electrification Organised fire-fighting trainings in housing societies Installing water pipelines for villages Construction of bore wells 153 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Esops in Environment Planted and nurtured trees in line with the goal set by project Mahindra Hariyali Donated groceries to old age homes Installed water filters at orphanages and old age homes Distributed saplings to customers Undertook waste management measures Created awareness on power saving techniques Organised cleanliness drives at local level Spread global warming awareness in schools through talk sessions, drawing and essay competitions Esops in Education Encouraged Mahindra employees to support Nanhi Kali through the Kismet Konnection drive Adopted Nanhi Kalis Supported local schools / children's homes / institutions with educational material like stationery materials, books, bags, uniforms, shoes etc. Plant scrap put to use for gates, benches, beds etc. Shramdaan employees painted schools, cleaned school premises, planted trees etc. Spent quality time to spread knowledge e.g. spending 1hr / week on different topics (career counselling, score more, mentoring MAITS students etc.) Organised games & extracurricular or educational activities for school children Computer literacy for various groups Interacted with students 154 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Esops in Health Organised blood donation camps with the help of established hospital /agency The indefatigable effort of the Esops volunteers Health check-ups for marginalised groups like porters, village was one of the major community, labor community, slum dwellers etc. driving forces in the Lifeline Express' Educated community about HIV/AIDS, hygiene, tobacco ill-effects, existence. Their dental care, healthy food and eating habits etc. contribution has been pivotal to the success Reached out to 76,000 people by organising HIV/AIDS awareness of the initiative. campaign. Since 2007, we have enhanced lives of 0.25 million people by At Farrukhabad, total organising HIV/AIDS awareness campaign. 19,648 manhours were contributed by Donated ambulance volunteers including Set up mobile dispensaries Esops & community volunteers Free surgical camps Participated in the Government's pulse polio campaigns Sectorwise Initiatives AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION Furniture for Schools & Colleges At Haridwar, our volunteers decided to get the best out of waste. They upcycled scrap wood to transform it into benches, tables and beds for schools & orphanages. This unique initiative benefitted more than 1,046 children. Taare Zameen Par Igatpuri worked for the holistic development of differently abled children by joining forces with Sahydri Shikshan Prasarak and Samajvikas Mandal that run schools for speech & hearing impaired as well as mentally challenged children. Towards the upliftment of the school, hearing aids, visual tools and water purifiers were provided benefitting 100 children. 155 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Supporting the citizens of Igatpuri Our team supported the set up of bunds and pipelines in the catchment area. Now Igatpuri is able to conserve 2,400 kl of water every day which in turn benefits a near 40,000 locals, and multiple industries and hotels of Igatpuri. Contributions by team Zaheerabad Zaheerabad helped the schools, children, school staff and the community members in ways more than one. Basic amenities like dual desk benches, computer tables, loudspeaker, amplifier and mike were provided to Special CareSchool at Ramachadrapuram and Manik Prabhu School, Zaheerabad that supports over 500 mentally and physically challenged children. Awareness drive was conducted wherein 1,000 were exposed tovarious issues like global warming, water shortage, electricity &fuel crisis and conservation measures like the 3R conceptReduce, Reuse & Recycle. To check the awareness quotient of these kids, competitions were conducted and gifts distributed. The management and the employees contributed INR 478,487 towards 'Chief Minister Relief Fund' for the flood victims. Reaching out to the differently abled Igatpuri worked for the sustainable development of the differently abled children by joining forces with two social organisations Sahydri Shikshan Prasarak & Samajvikas Mandal , running two schools namely: Jagruti Mukbdhir Vidyalaya for speech & hearing impaired children. Anusayatmja Matimand Vidyalaya for mentally challenged children. The location along with these organisations have worked towards the upliftment of the school's infrastructure, availing them with hearing aids & visual tools, installing water purifiers to bring down absenteeism of children caused by water borne disease. This drive benefited 100 children and other 20 members of the school. MAHINDRA VEHICLE MANUFACTURERS LIMITED Cleaning of Indrayani River The Esops volunteers from MVML Chakan cleaned the river and its bank in consultation with the Gram Panchayat and health officers. Around 30 Esops volunteers including Officers, Team Leader and Associates from the Plant Quality and the Safety team participated in this activity. Prior to the event, they also displayed awareness banners around the river bank. All necessary equipment was facilitated by Esops for cleaning the river bank. This effort also was highly appreciated by the Gram Panchayat who presented them with a letter of Appreciation. 156 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance FARM DIVSION National Assembly on Child Rights in Orissa The Area office at Orissa hosted the very first National Assembly on Child Rights for differently abled children in India. Organised in collaboration with Shanta Memorial Rehabilitation Centre with support from UNICEF & Orissa Government, the aim of this assembly was to provide a platform for differently-abled children to express their thoughts and present their demands to concerned officials. Conducted at Hotel HHI, Bhubaneswar on 17th July, 2010, this assembly saw the participation of 52 children from all over India, including a few who travelled for first time in their life. Boosting the self-esteem of the urban slum youth Kandivali volunteers conducted a personality development initiative for the underprivileged youth residing in the urban slums of Kandivali East. The highlight was allotment of one to one mentor. As a result, significant personality improvement and increased levels of confidence were noticed in the 104 youth who undertook the program. Enhancing Employment Opportunities Kandivali plant conducted Kaushalya a Modular Employable Skills [MES] initiative, new-age courses in agriculture, paint, production & manufacturing, and automotive repairs for enhancing employment in the neighbourhood communities. Youth Development Program Under Sanskar Youth Development Project, training was imparted to 100 students belonging to the lower-income strata in Kandivali. The training aimed at overall development of the students and increase employability. It encompassed 26 different modules including personality development, English conversation, communication skills, vocational guidance, computer training and volunteering in social activities. MAHINDRA HOLIDAY & RESORTS INDIA LIMITED Clean drinking water for a remand home Coorg resort installed a bore well at Government Remand Home, Madikeri on 31st March 2010 and handed over the same to remand home authorities. Ten Esops volunteers and 60 community volunteers worked diligently towards setting up this bore well to fulfil the water requirement of the vicinity. Medical Support for Chinnakkanal village Munnar resort contributed various support aid for Primary Health Centre, Chinnakkanal village near Club Mahindra Resort. The support aid included cots, mattresses, pillows, bed-sheets, buckets, lab equipment and medical facilities. 157 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED Scholarship to underprivileged children Knowledge helps us upgrade our skills and also develop our core competencies. At Mahindra Finance we have identified the potential and capability and desire of 5 students from Dyan Ganga Education Trust and given them a scholarship to pursue their higher studies. These children were the top 5 performers of the institute. A background check of their families as well as their previous academic records were conducted before the scholarship was given to the shortlisted individuals. MAHINDRA PARTNER DIVISION A visit to leprosy ashram 48 Esops volunteers of Mahindra Logistics Limited, Haridwar distributed food and clothing to the inmates of Chidanand Leprosy Ashram at Haridwar on 19th May '10. Esops volunteers interacted with all 75 inmates of the ashram which included children and adults male as well as females of all ages. Setting up an Anganwadi at Gonde village The Esops team of Mahindra Intertrade Limited, Nashik facilitated construction of a fully furnished Anganwadi for the children of Gonde village Nashik District. Its good learning environment has already motivated many parents to send their children to study at the Anganwadi. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA SYSTECH DIVISION Diabetes & Blood Pressure check up camp Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Limited (MUSCO), Khopoli, conducted a diabetes detection as well as blood pressure check up camp at MUSCO Medical Centre, Jagdishnagar, Khopoli on 17th March '10. Twelve Esops volunteers with the help of three volunteers from Blue Cross Laboratories Ltd., Mumbai, conducted the camp that benefitted 155 people. Even the employees' family members participated enthusiastically in the camp. AFTERMARKET SERVICES An evening with senior citizens Mahindra Spares Business (MSB) Worli team visited the Home for the Aged at St. Joseph's Convent and Assisi Bhavan at Goregaon. The event was fully planned with prior arrangements. For the inmates, it was the day to remember as the volunteers very affectionately interacted with them, conducted games and distributed goodies to the winners. 158 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Ambulance service During a meeting with the Grampanchyat of Kanhe village, the committee on tree plantation realized the dearth of ambulance facility. Kanhe village did not have ambulance facility separately allotted for them and depended on Vadgaon located 6 km away for any ambulance needs. We had a company ambulance facility with oxygen cylinder, stretcher & first aider for transferring injured/seriously ill person from company. Hence we communicated to the Kanhe village Sarpanch that we can provide ambulance for transferring serious patient to local hospital in emergency and non availability of ambulance and other vehicle immediately at the place. Commitments The Esops team fulfilled various commitments carved out for FY 2010-11 Launched Esops at 4 Mahindra locations 10% increase in Esops volunteers over and above total volunteers during FY 2009-10 Successfully executed the Lifeline Express project in Farrukhabad district touching lives of 1,578 patients Facilitated completion of 35.7 million rehabilitation project for Bihar flood victims Sustained 1 million trees planted under Mahindra Hariyali and set up a target of planting another 1 million trees by Oct 2011. Initiated Star Performer Award to honour Esops' best performing location and volunteer from factory and non-factory location Developed Online tracking system to select Esops' best performing locations and volunteers Priorities for FY 2011-12 10x Goal Maintain 10% increase in Esops volunteers over and above the total volunteers during FY 2010-11. Launch Esops at new Mahindra locations and reorient at old locations. Public Health To organise two Lifeline Express Projects in Haridwar district, Uttarakhand in Nov. 2011 and in Nalanda district, Bihar in Jan/Feb 2012. Environment To complete the target of 1 million trees by Oct 2011 and monitor plantation in Araku region. 159 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Esops 'Star Performer Awards’ This year we introduced 'Star Performer Awards' in May 2010 to recognise the efforts of those who are responsible for the pedestal on which Esops stands today. The awards are conferred on both locations and individual volunteers. The selection criterion for Esops Star performer volunteer is number of Esops man-hours put in by a volunteer in a year. The Esops Star Performer Location will be selected on the basis of % of employees participating in Esops activities and total number of Esops man-hours put in by a location in a year. The Award function is hosted as a part of Annual Mahindra Rise Awards at Mahindra Towers and star performers in the factory and non-factory categories are honoured with trophies. To ensure fairness and transparency, the CSR department launched an online tracking system to identify the star performers. Through this online portal the performance of each location and volunteer is tracked. This portal not only helps determine the star performers but it has also become a platform for encouraging new employees to participate in Esops activities. AWARDS RECEIVED IN 2010-11 Mahindra was honoured with the 6th Social and Corporate Governance Awards 2010 by Bombay Stock Exchange Limited in the category of BEST CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PRACTICE for its Esops Initiative Nashik Plant was awarded the prestigious JSW TOI Earth Care Award 2010 for Excellence in Climate Change Mitigation & Adaptation MHRIL's Club Mahindra Tusker Trail (CMTT), Thekkady received the coveted Rotary-Binani Zinc CSR Award in association with NIPM Kerala Chapter. Mahindra & Mahindra was the proud recipient of the India Shining Star CSR Award for the exceptional work it has done in the Automobile Sector. Mahindra Finance won the award for Best in Corporate Social Responsibility Practice” Mahindra and Mahindra received prestigious Annual PRCI (Public Relations Council of India) Awards under 3 categories: Corporate Brochure Lifeline Express Silver Award Newsletter (Tabloid) Esops Digest Bronze Award Corporate Film Documentary film on Bihar Flood Rehabilitation at Pattori Bronze Award HEALTH SUPPORT Lifeline Express India is one nation but two worlds. In spite of the growth in the economy, growth in the country's healthcare system, especially in the rural sphere, continues to remain poor. The World Health Organisation estimates that the Indian government's spending on health stands at less than 4% of its total budget. 160 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance At Mahindra our definition of out-patient care is going out to where ever the patient is. At Mahindra, we strongly believe that the wealth of a nation and the health of its citizens share a symbiotic relationship. More so, if these citizens comprise 70% of the nation's population. This belief inspired us to support Impact India Lifeline Express, an initiative that takes the hospital to the most inhospitable places. So far, this has been a journey of self-discovery, enhancement and improvement. What started as a humble effort in 2007, slowly and steadily gathered momentum and is now on a fast track with an year on year increase in the number of patients. NO. OF NO. OF YEAR LOCATION PATIENTS HEARING AIDS OPERATED DISTRIBUTED 2007 Rudrapur, Uttarakhand 647 106 2008 Rangia, Assam 594 242 2009 Wardha, Maharashtra 1,153 281 2010 Farrukhabad, UP 1,578 245 Farrukhabad: A journey not a destination In all, 32 Esops volunteers participated in the project with a contribution of 4,420 Esops man hours. 5,228 man hours were spent by community volunteers. 161 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance The Lifeline Scorecard Particulars Patients Screened Patients Operated Total No. of Patients Operated Cleft Lip 70 34 Ear 600 70 1,578 Polio 350 30 Total Hearing Aids Eye 1,300 510 Distributed Dental 934 934 245 Buoyed by the success of the last three Lifeline Express stopovers, This sojourn was an experience we set out to help eradicate avoidable disablement from of a lifetime not only for the Farrukhabad, Uttar Pradesh. A conscious decision was made by patients, but also for the doctors, the top management and the CSR Council, to reach out to Uttar nurses, Esops volunteers and Pradesh. While Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state of India, it everybody involved in the project. also has the lowest Human Development Index of 0.388 as against In the air, were sighs of relief of the national average of 0.472. Farrukhabad specifically is one such the parents and toothless giggles district whose health quotient is abysmally low and the poor have of their children free from negligible access to healthcare aids. disability. Countless smiles on the Inspite of M&M's limited presence in Farrukhabad, team Esops elderly faces were a testimony of through its commitment and passion created a huge success. gratitude. For the Esops volunteers, this was a life altering With ample help from community volunteers, the employees of experience which empowered Mahindra Finance, Farrukhabad and nearby branches as well as them with a sense of fulfillment. Auto Sector, Lucknow efficiently handled this project. Right from the pre-project phase including feasibility visits, meetings with the local Sushil Singh administration and project publicity to final project phase wherein Head CSR Implementation, each employee was delegated with a specific responsibility Esops Mahindra Group members worked, round the clock, compassionately. EDUCATION SUPPORT We believe education is an empowerment tool that through its cascading effect can help India overcome majority of its social challenges. Our focus therefore has been on strategic educational interventions such as vocational education and livelihood training for the economically and socially weaker sections and education of the girl child. The Mahindra Group CSR activities in the areas of education are mainly undertaken by KCMET. Project Nanhi Kali Along with the responsibility to educate the girl child, comes the power to transform the future. Education of girls can affect a virtuous cycle that yields multitudinal benefits for the girls, their families, the society and the economy at large. In most cases; a girl who is educated will be aware of child rights, hence will fight against child marriage and child slavery. A woman who is educated will be a driving force behind her family's well-being both economic and social; an educated wife will be a co-earner and will never ignore family planning; an educated mother will seek medical care, adopt improved sanitation practices and ensure that her children are healthier and better nourished; and as important if not more, she will inspire her child, girl or boy, to go to school. 162 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance At Mahindra, our commitment to this cause has been unwavering. Even the World Bank has acknowledged Testimony is our 16-year long association with Nanhi Kali Project, that there is no investment more the flagship program of the K. C. Mahindra Education Trust effective for achieving the millennium (KCMET), which supports the education of disadvantaged girl child. development goals than educating girls. We are so happy! Everyone is coming and appreciating my daught er. The Nanhi kali scholar ship is a boon for her. My oth Presently the Mahindra Group independently er daughter and son are also studying in the sponsors the education of 29,100 girls in to know same school. Srujala is an “When I came inspiration to them. low-literacy urban, rural and tribal parts of re su lts I was at the about my India. Through this sponsorship the girls top of th e wo rld. Srujala Rani's Mother y and receive not only round-the-year academic I was very happ “I did not expect that the entire support that empowers them to study in I'm grateful to I woul d get the top score in my og ra m Nanhi Kali pr School. I am so happy & school but also material support in the form Roshni Patil I am so lucky being of uniforms, clothes, school bags, shoes, etc a Nanhi Kali. to enable them to go to school with dignity. Ayesha Riyaz C A S E S T U D Y NANHI KALI SUCCESS STORY Name: Varsha Watti Village: Manjhipara Tuagahan District: Kanker State: Chhattisgarh Topped district-level exams by scoring 96.6% in Class V She resides in a tribal community which has subsisted on field & forest labour for generations and where educating girls is not even considered important. Her parents are barely educated and make a living by cultivating a 2-acre land which does not yield enough. Despite these adversities, she's an exam topper scoring 96.6% in her Class 5 district board exams. She is now a source inspiration for her community members including children and adults alike. Varsha Watti, a Nanhi Kali, is a first-generation learner. Though her parents have studied till Class 5, when it comes to counting money in the market they rely only on their daughter. Varsha became associated with the Nanhi Kali program 3 years back when she was in Class 2. Since then, just like all other Nanhi Kalis, she has been receiving both academic & material support such as books, uniforms, school bag. What Varsha could not have imagined four years earlier, she now believes is possible M.S. Kansari, Nanhi Kali project coordinator 163 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance By passing with flying colours, Varsha has not just made her parents proud but has also set an example for her school friends. She is now aiming higher to become a doctor when she grows up. Neither a nurse, nor a teacher but a doctor. And her father is more than happy to let her follow her dreams. What makes us at Nanhi kali happy is that today traditional gender roles are being reconsidered. Communities who looked down upon a girl child as a liability are now acknowledging them as an asset to the family. I see no difference between my boy and my girl, says Mr. Watti, Varsha's father. She can become a doctor, an engineer, and she can even become a Prime Minister.” Another significant impact of Project Nanhi Kali is that several village education committees have sprung up to ensure that all children attend school. As a result, school attendance in Kanker district has risen to 98.5%. This coupled with the support from other corporate donors helped us reach a step closer to our goal of sponsoring 100,000 girls. Project Nanhi Kali now supports the education of over 70,096 underprivileged girl children, in poor urban, rural and tribal communities across eight states of India. The outreach of this initiative included AP, Chattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, MH, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu & Rajasthan. KCMET regularly monitors the 21 NGOs that they work with, giving technical inputs wherever required to ensure that quality education is being imparted to all the Nanhi Kalis. Other corporate donors include Capgemini, HPCL, J&J, D&B etc. KEY IMPACTS 30 % increase in learning outcomes in the urban slums of Mumbai and Hyderabad. Nanhi Kali Varsha Watti, stood 2nd at the Grade 5 district level board exams in Chhattisgarh. Plus 27 other Nanhi Kalis made it to the top ten merit list 8 Nanhi Kalis were selected for interaction with the US First Lady Michelle Obama in Delhi on the 8th November 2010. Curtailed drop-out rates of girls by 10% within the project areas Mahindra Pride Schools The Mahindra Pride School (MPS) transforms the lives of youth from socially and economically disadvantaged communities by providing livelihood training that empowers them to seek employment. We give young people from scheduled castes and scheduled tribes access to training that enables them to secure jobs in sunshine industries. Mahindra Pride School's philosophy Empower socially and economically marginalised youth with livelihood training to make them employable based on their skills. 164 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance MPS Pune The first Mahindra Pride School commenced on 23rd March 2007 in Pune. Since then, 15 batches with a total of 2,378 students from socially disadvantaged communities (Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Caste, Nomadic Tribes) have graduated from this school. The school provides the students with livelihood training in sunshine sectors like The average salary Hospitality, Information Technology Enabled Services (ITES for BPOs & KPOs) ranges between INR and Customer Relationship Management. To further enhance their employability, 42,000 and INR 180,000 all students are imparted mandatory training in English, Life Skills and Computer per annum and the Applications. highest salary so far has been INR 18,000/The highlight is that MPS has witnessed a 100% placement in lucrative jobs and a consistent increase in average monthly salary per batch from INR 4,500 in per month. Batch 1 to INR 8,000 in Batch 15. Highlights of the placement process include: Significant increase in the number of campus interviews Endorsement from employers who have previously recruited graduates from Mahindra Pride Schools. Over the years, some of the key recruiters at MPS have been: Hospitality Management McDonald's I Pizza Hut I Café Coffee Day Le Meridien Pune ITES BPOs and KPOs Bajaj Allianz I Syntel I Mphasis Hardware Networking Info Expert I Micro Serve Systems I Anon Solutions I ACME Sales / CRM Westside I Spinach I Springtime I Mphasis Silver Jubilee Motors I TRC I Redwood Company Tata Indicom I Odyssey I ITC I Tata Serwizol Syntel KPO I DTDC Couriers I Kingfisher Airlines MPS Chennai The 2nd Mahindra Pride School is located in Alwar Peth, a posh locality in Chennai. A 7,000 sq. ft. bungalow has been taken on lease which is a home to state-of-the-art facilities like furniture, computers and other equipment required for the school. The process of recruiting faculty and administration staff is also complete. Road shows have been conducted, and the first batch of 75 students commenced on February 15, 2011. 165 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance C A S E S T U D Y EDUCATING YOUTH. TRANSFORMING LIVES Imparting education, that too where it's needed the most, triggers a domino effect of benefits. It has the power to transform the life of not only a student but his or her entire family. This is the sole reason why thrust on education attains a pride of place at Mahindra. Over the years, by providing strategic educational interventions our two Mahindra Pride Schools have enhanced the lives of 2,378 students who in turn have supported their families. At Mahindra Pride School, students from lowest rung of the social pyramid are groomed, nurtured and empowered to step in to sunshine industries. Be it the under exposed youngsters dwelling in urban slums or the ignorant rustic youth they are professionally trained to transform in to passionate and dedicated professionals. In return they earn not only a salary, but the respect of parents and peers. With parents retired and siblings in school, forced my parents to send me, so that I could I am currently family's sole earner, thanks earn and help them. Today they are proud of me. to skills provided by MPS. Maryamma Pruthvi Chauhan Position Training Squad Manager, McDonald's From the INR 14,000 I earn, I pay installments Earlier I had to struggle a lot to earn for the TV I've bought for my home and give even one square meal, now I am earning Rs 5000 to mom for household expenses Rs 8000 per month at McDonald's. Durgada Pawar Sandeep Scholarships K.C. Mahindra Scholarship for Post Graduate Studies Abroad Instituted in 1956, this interest-free loan scholarship is given to qualified graduates who wish to pursue a postgraduate degree abroad. Preference is given to students interested in pursuing subjects that are not readily accessible in India. Till date, this scholarship has been awarded to 970 students. In response to the advertisement released in January 2010, K.C. Mahindra Education Trust received over 700 enquiries for the overseas scholarship. 75 students were selected for final interviews, which were held on 15th & 16th of July 2010. The Selection Committee awarded 55 students interest-free loan scholarships amounting to a total disbursement of INR 6.370 million. These were given to students who were doing their post-graduation in a wide range of subjects like Computer Science & Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Environmental Engineering, Information Networking & Management, Economics and Law. K.C. Mahindra Fellows Fund With an objective of encouraging high potential candidates, KCMET initiated the K.C. Mahindra Fellows Fund of INR 2.4 million in July 2010, which awards the top 3 candidates a maximum scholarship of INR 0.8 million and a minimum of INR 0.5 million. The three students selected as K.C. Mahindra Fellows in July 2010 were Shenaya Pochkhanawalla, Sneha Shenoi and Prakash Shanthenu. 166 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Mahindra Search for Talent Scholarship The Mahindra Search for Talent Scholarship was instituted by KCMET in 1983. Set up in 36 educational institutions across the country, its objective is to enthuse and reward excellence in academics. The scholarship is offered to students obtaining highest aggregate marks, based on the year-end examination. Till date, 3,500 Mahindra Search for Talent Scholarships have been awarded. Additionally, 480 students have received the 'Honours Scholarship'. These scholarships which include cash prize of INR 5,000 and a citation from the Trust are conferred to students who receive the Mahindra Search for Talent scholarship more than once in the consecutive year. K.C. Mahindra UWC Scholarships Established in the year 2000, the K.C. Mahindra UWC Scholarships are awarded to deserving students within the age group of 16 to 18 years, to study at the United World Colleges. This scholarship aims to ensure that students benefit through the experience of international education, shared learning and community service which the Mahindra United World College offers. Till date 72 students have benefited from the K.C. Mahindra UWC Scholarship enabling them to study at the United World Colleges. During the year 2010-11, 12 students were given scholarships amounting to INR 5.33 million. Mahindra All India Talent Scholarships (MAITS) Established in 1995, the Mahindra All India Talent Scholarship is awarded to students belonging to economically disadvantaged families from both rural and urban areas, who wish to pursue a job oriented diploma course at a recognised Government Polytechnic in India. Scholarships of INR 5,000 per annum are given to selected students for a maximum period of 3 years. This year, the scholarship interviews were held in 10 centers. Of the 2,250 eligible students, 827 were invited to appear for the interviews, out of which 522 students bagged the scholarships. 50% of the beneficiaries were girls. KCMET has awarded 5,294 MAITS scholarships till date. A 2010 survey of 115 students awarded MAIT scholarships in 2007, show that 41% (47students i.e. 28 Boys + 19 Girls) had secured jobs with salaries ranging from INR 4,000/to 13,000/per month. Some of the placements are in reputed companies such as Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, TVS Motor Company and L&T Limited. Interestingly, K Muralidharan, a MAITS awardee from Tamil Nadu, after completing his diploma in Mechanical Engineering, secured a job with M&M in Chennai, and is now earning INR 12,500 per month. The survey also revealed that 56% of the respondents had decided to pursue further studies. Other KCMET Awards and Scholarships Under the aegis of the K.C. Mahindra Education Trust, several other awards and scholarships for the academia have been established. To build capacities and further encourage teachers, the Trust has set up the following: K.C. Mahindra Chair for Nuclear Chemistry at the Institute of Science in Mumbai was established in 1970. The institute utilises the income generated from the Corpus for full-time Professors to enable them carry out research in the field of nuclear chemistry. The Dhandevi Mahindra Scholarship Award at Sophia College, Mumbai, was established in 1982 to enable selected faculty members to undergo advanced training to improve their teaching capabilities. The Kema Grants established in 1997 provide financial support and scholarships to the faculty members and staff of educational institutions. Prema Bhatia Memorial Scholarship for journalism at the Prema Bhatia Memorial Trust, New Delhi is awarded every year since 1996. 167 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance ENCOURAGING SPORTS & THEATRE Mahindra Racing Mahindra is the first Indian auto company to enter the MotoGP circuit and is proud to introduce Mahindra Racing, a team that contends in the 125cc category. Mahindra Racing combines the energy and ambition of two young riders with the expertise of a seasoned crew. The aim is to launch India on to a global sports platform. “It is a matter of great pride for us to represent India in the world's most prestigious two-wheeled race series. Mahindra Motorcycles will compete with the best in class, and it will be an ideal opportunity for us to showcase our strengths in the engineering and IT domains. Anand Mahindra Vice Chairman & Managing Director, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited. MotoGP is to motorcycle racing what Formula 1 is to cars racing, drawing entries from top global manufacturers like Honda, Yamaha, Ducati, Aprilla, and Suzuki. By participating in the world-class racing championship, we can showcase our engineering and technology expertise on a platform where the best in the world compete. Represented by Riders Danny Webb from the UK and Marcel Schrötter from Germany who are already well known in MotoGP Mahindra Racing made its debut on March 17-20 at the 5.38 km Losail International Circuit for round 1 of the 125cc MotoGP World Championship. Till date, 33 manufacturers have witnessed championship glory across six classes. Mahindra Racing will aim to become the 34th manufacturer to lift a MotoGP title as it embarks on its first foray into the sport, and is ready for the challenge ahead. With 18 circuits spread across 14 countries and live TV coverage in more than 200 countries, Mahindra Racing will draw a serious global audience at MotoGP. 168 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Awards The Mahindra Group's association with theatre started in the year 2006, with the institution of the Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Awards (META). The purpose was to offer support for regional theatre in Mumbai. The success of these awards inspired the introduction of inter-collegiate theatre festival in Delhi. “Theatre is an art form that holds up a mirror to society and a powerful medium for social change. Anand Mahindra Vice Chairman & Managing Director, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited. Each year the META Festival showcases 10 theatre productions selected from all over the country in New Delhi. The aim is to give theatre a national platform and encourage and support talent even in the remotest areas. The year 2011 marked the 6th Anniversary of META. Bringing the nation closer through theatre, META 2011 showcased theater productions from various regions and in different languages of the country. A special Lifetime Achievement Award was presented to Badal Sircar, the doyen of Indian theatre, for his outstanding contribution to theatre. So far, this has been a journey to remember. With each passing year, META has not only witnessed an increase in number of entries but also in the sheer quality of the work. For us, it is a matter of pride to promote, preserve and present plays which captures the very essence of our society. Mahindra Blues To bring to India, the very best of global blues talent the Mahindra Group introduced the Mahindra Blues Festival. The aim of the festival is to serve as an open platform to exhibit and promote a genre that has yet to receive the recognition it deserves. Organised on the 5th and 6th of February, 2011 this first-of-its-kind festival featured a line of international Blues superstars like Buddy Guy, Jonny Lang, Shemekia Copeland, and Matt Schofield. 169 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance The Blues, an American art form, ironically doesn't get as much attention as it deserves in the country of its origin, and indeed, around the world. We would like the Mahindra Blues Festival to give this genre of music an overseas platform in the way that Montreux has done for Jazz . Anand Mahindra Vice Chairman & Managing Director, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited. In addition to international names, the two-day festival also promoted home grown talent like Soulmate from Shillong, The Saturday Night Blues Band from Kolkata and The Luke Kenny Mojo Jukebox from Mumbai, amongst others. The venue of the festival was the iconic and retro Mehboob studio, which was specially designed to create a blues-like atmosphere, with three separate stages for multiple concerts and sessions with the artistes. Alongside electrifying live performances, insightful workshops, and enlightening talks are also in the store for blues enthusiasts. case study gaming gaming Online Gaming is generally viewed as a trivial pursuit. More often than not what starts as a time killing activity blooms into a A new play at educating the girl child daily addiction. The statistics are incredible. Over 20 million players have spent 17 billion hours on Xbox At Mahindra we took an alternative view. In this Live, which is more than 2 hours for every exploding gaming market, we saw an opportunity person on the planet. Over 40 million users have registered PlayStation Network to engage these billion players in a more accounts. Farmville, the virtual farming challenging pursuit of educating the game, boasts a stunning total of 31 million daily active users. The online gaming underprivileged girl child in the real world. market is worth more than $15 billion. 170 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Social Performance The Nanhi Kali Project (India) incepted by K.C. Mahindra Education Trust collaborated with New York-based Like social media, advertising agency, Strawberry Frog, to launch the Girl Store. most organisations see A unique online fundraising initiative based on gaming. gaming as productivity diluter. A distraction that needs to be curbed and discouraged through strict surfing policies. The Girl Store engages you in a game which The Girl Store has actually makes a difference in the life of an underprivileged girl child. Each icon you click to helped educate almost buy for Tarla, a fictional character in the game, buys a real girl child either a textbook, schoolbag, 70,000 workbook, or school shoes. young girls across India since its launch Every time you play you create a winner in January 2011. At 'The Girl Store' you can buy the very basics that any child would require to go to school every day a school uniform, a lunchbox, pencils and books, etc. You can scroll through a gallery of girls and choose who to purchase the items for. When all of the items a girl needs in order to be allowed to attend school are purchased, the Play the Game site displays an off to school label over her image. All items required for the child www.the-girl-store.org can be bought for only USD 65, and this small contribution helps a little girl in India go to school. Recognition and Results The Girl Store and A Girl Story has been perceived as one of the most unique not-for-profit initiatives in recent times and has garnered huge response since its launch, with pledges and donations worth USD 16,000 already raised and allocated by donors worldwide. For more information on Mahindra's association with Nanhi Kali project, please visit: nanhikali.org 171 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Memberships Ad Club Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) Hyderabad All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers Association Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) Mumbai (AIIGMA) EEPC Membership All India Management Association, New Delhi (Engineering Export Promotion Council) All India Resort Development Association (AIRDA) Employers' Federation of India All India Rubber Industries Association (AIRIA) Enviro Publishers Chennai American Resort Developers Association (ARDA) Export Promotion Council for EOUs & SEZs (EPCES) Andhra Pradesh Productivity Council (APPC) Hyderabad EQMS Environmental legislations update New Delhi The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Export Promotion Council for EOUs & SEZs India (ASSOCHAM) Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chamber of Commerce Bombay Burmah Trading Corporation Limited and Industries (FAPCCI) Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industries Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) Bombay Chambers of Commerce Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) Bombay City Policy Research Foundation Finance Industry Development Council Bombay First Harvard Business School (I) Research Centre British Council Library Housing Development Finance Corp. Limited Broadband Wireless Engineering Consortium (BWCI) Indian Association of Corporate Treasure Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) New Delhi Indian Electrical Contractor, Mumbai CAR Core Group Indian Green Building Council Central Pollution Control Board Indian National Suggestion Scheme Association Mumbai Centre for Research in Rural & Industrial Development Society, Chandigarh Indian Society for Non-Destructive Testing (ISNT) Chambers Of Commerce & Industry (Sharjah) Indo American Chamber of Commerce Childlink India Foundation Indo French Chamber of Commerce and Industries CII Apex Council on Affirmative Action Indo German Chamber of Commerce CII Green Building Council Indo-Hellenic Friendship League CII National Committee of Indian MNCs Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators CII National Council on Agriculture Institution Of Industrial Safety Professionals of India (IISPI ) Mumbai CII Western Regional Council Integrated Research & Action for Development (IRADe) CII, Nashik Chapter New Delhi Confederation Of Indian Industries (CII) International Air Transport Association (IATA) 172 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures International Engineering Consortium (IEC) Resort Condominiums International (RCI) International Institute of Risk and Safety Management Rodal Investments Private Limited and (IIRSM) London Pratham-India Education Initiative Kema Services (International) Private Limited Rotary Club of Bombay Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management Service Providers Association Inc. Leviosa Business School SIAM New Delhi Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture Technology Sidcul Industrial Asoociation Haridwar (MPUAT), Udaipur Society of Automotive Engineers (India) Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry Society of Automotive Engineers (USA) Maharashtra Energy Development Agency (MEDA) SOIL (School of Inspired Leadership) Consortium Maharashtra state Productivity Council (MSPC) Mumbai Tamilnadu Agriculture University (TNAU), Coimbatore Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth (MPKV), Rahuri, Maharashtra TERI New Delhi Maratha Chamber Of Commerce & Industries (MCCIA) The Bombay Dyeing & Manufacturing Co. Limited Member of National Safety Council, Navi Mumbai The Council of EU Chambers of Commerce Ministry of Environment, Govt. of India The Employer's Federation of southern India (EFSI) Hyderabad Mumbai Waste Management Association (MWML), Taloja The Institute Of Chartered Accountant Of India Mutual Aid Response Group (MARG) Mumbai The Institute Of Co Secretaries Of India Nashik Industries Manufacturers' Association The Premier Technology Magazine of the National Association of Software and Services Companies Engineering Industry, Mumbai (NASSCOM) TIE India National HRD Network TM Forum National Safety Council TPM Club of India Bangalore National Safety Council (NSC) Mumbai Tractor Manufacturers Association (TMA) National Society for Clean Cities Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) National Automotive Testing and R&D Infrastructure Project (NATRIP) United Nations Global Compact and Global Compact Network India NIMA Nashik District Industrial Mfg. Association Nashik United Way of Mumbai Population First United World Colleges (International) Limited, UK Prime Minister's Council on Trade & Industry, New Delhi University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Pune Chapter Of Cost Accountants Advanced Study of India, New Delhi Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana University of Pennsylvania, Center for the Advanced Study of India, Philadelphia Quality Circle Forum Of India, Pune Chapter (QCFI) Walchand TalentFirst Limited 173 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures GRI G3 Indicator Index Profile Disclosures Strategy and Analysis If applicable, Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ indicate the part Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission not reported 1.1 Statement from the most senior Fully 5-7 decision-maker of the organisation 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, Fully 47 and opportunities. Organisational Profile If applicable, Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ indicate the part Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission not reported 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully 9 2.2 Primary brands, products, Fully 9 and/or services. 2.3 Operational structure of the Fully 9 organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation's Fully 9 headquarters. 2.5 Number of countries where the Fully 30 organisation operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 15 2.7 Markets served Fully 14 (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully 14, 90 Annual report 2010-11 Annual report Page 7 Financial highlights, of M&M 7, 40, 64 & 72 Page 40 Segment results by businesses Page 64 Financial position at a glance Page 72 Balance sheet 2.9 Significant changes during the Fully 15 reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the Fully 40-44 reporting period. 174 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Report Parameters If applicable, Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ indicate the part Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission not reported 3.1 Reporting period Fully 9 (e.g., fiscal/ calendar year) for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully 9 (if any). 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully 9 (annual, biennial, etc.) 3.4 Contact point for questions Fully 9 regarding the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 8, 9, 50-55 We have mentioned about the detailed exercise on materiality that was done in the previous year. Significant stakeholders, material issues and their prioritization have not changed this year. Please refer to pages 3-4 of Sustainability Report 2009-10. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., Fully 9 countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on Fully 9 the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Fully 9 subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and Fully 105, 109, the bases of calculations, including 110, 111, assumptions and techniques 115, 119, underlying estimations applied to 120, 122, the compilation of the Indicators and 123, 124 other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any Not Does not re-statements of information exist provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous Fully 9 reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Fully 178 194 Standard Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice Fully 11-13 with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 175 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Governance, Commitments, and Engagement If applicable, Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ indicate the part Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission not reported 4.1 Governance structure of the Fully 32 organisation, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Fully 33 highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organisations that have Fully 33, 34 a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Fully 32, 33 and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation Fully Annual report for members of the highest of M&M governance body, senior managers, pg no. 58, and executives (including 59, 60 & 61 departure arrangements), and the organisation's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Fully 38 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the Fully 33 qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of Fully 36, 37, 38 mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest Fully 35, 36, governance body for overseeing 37, 38 the organisation's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Fully 33, 34 highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Fully 102 precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. 176 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Governance, Commitments, and Engagement If applicable, Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ indicate the part Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission not reported 4.12 Externally developed economic, Fully 38 environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations Fully 176 (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Fully 50 engaged by the organisation. 4.15 Basis for identification and Fully 8, 50-55 We have mentioned about the selection of stakeholders with detailed exercise on materiality whom to engage. that was done in the previous year. Significant stakeholders, material issues and their prioritization have not changed this year. Please refer to pages 29-33 of Sustainability Report 2009-10. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder Fully 50-55 We have mentioned about the engagement, including frequency detailed exercise on significant of engagement by type and by stakeholder engagement, stakeholder group. including method, frequency of engagement and key results that was done in the previous year which has not changed this year. Please refer to pages 29-33 of Sustainability Report 2009-10. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have Fully 50-55 been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) If applicable, To be G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-reference/ indicate the part Reason for Explanation reported Direct answer not reported omission in DMA PS Disclosure on Management Approach PS Aspects Product Portfolio Not Not applicable FS1 Policies with specific environmental Not Not MMFSL offerings are not and social components applied to applicable known to have Environmental business lines. and/or social implications FS2 Procedures for assessing and Not Not MMFSL is financial screening environmental and applicable organisation thus none of our social risks in business lines. processes perceive any direct and/or material environmental and/or social risks 177 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) If applicable, To be G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-reference/ indicate the part Reason for Explanation reported Direct answer not reported omission in FS3 Processes for monitoring Not Not MMFSL does not provide clients' implementation of and applicable any commercial/ corporate compliance with environmental banking or insurance and social requirements services. included in agreements or transactions. FS4 Process(es) for improving staff Not Not Since the associated competency to implement the applicable Environmental and social environmental and social policies and processes do policies and procedures as not exist, processes for applied to business lines. improving staff competency FS5 Interactions with Not Not Currently we do not interact clients/investees/business applicable with clients/ investees/ partners regarding business partners regarding environmental and social risks social and environmental and opportunities. risks and opportunities, as our client base consists only of individual clients, who do not pose any environmental/ social risks to our business. Audits Not Not 2015 available Active Ownership Not Not 2015 available DMA EC Disclosure on Management Fully 90 Approach EC Aspects Economic PerformanceCOMM Fully 90 Market presence Fully 90 Indirect economic impacts Fully 90 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Fully Approach EN 102 Aspects Materials Fully 102 Energy Fully 102 Water Fully 102 Biodiversity Fully 102 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 102 Products and services Fully 102 Compliance Fully 102 Transport Fully 102 Overall Fully 102 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Fully 58 Approach LA Aspects Employment Fully 58-59 Labor/management relations Fully 58-59 Occupational health and Fully 58-59 safetyCOMM Training and education Fully 58-59 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 58-59 178 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) If applicable, To be G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-reference/ indicate the part Reason for Explanation reported Direct answer not reported omission in DMA HR Disclosure on Management Fully 58-59 Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement Fully 58-59 practices Non-discrimination Fully 58-59 Freedom of association and Fully 58-59 collective bargaining Child labor Fully 58-59 Forced and compulsory labor Fully 58-59 Security practices Fully 58-59 Indigenous rights Fully 58-59 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Fully 137 Approach SO Aspects Community Fully 137 Corruption Fully 137 Public policy Fully 137 Anti-competitive behavior Fully 37 Compliance Fully 137 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Fully Approach PR 76 Aspects Customer health and safety Fully 76 Product and service labelling Fully 76 FS15 Policies for the fair design and Fully 38 sale of financial products and services. Marketing communications Fully 89 Customer privacy Fully There are no complaints received about Customer Privacy. Compliance Fully 87 Product and Service Impact Product portfolio CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for Fully 84-85 business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. Monetary value of products and FS7 services designed to deliver a specific Fully 84-85 social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. 179 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Product portfolio CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in FS8 Monetary value of products and Not Not MMFSL has not services designed to deliver a available designed products and specific environmental benefit for services to deliver each business line broken down specific environmental by purpose. benefits in current reporting year. Audit CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits Not Not Policies and procedures to assess implementation of available do not exist in current environmental and social policies year of report there is no and risk assessment procedures. audit conducted Active ownership CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in FS10 Percentage and number of Not Not MMFSL does not have companies held in the institution's applicable any asset management portfolio with which the reporting operations as well as we organisation has interacted on are not in the business environmental or social issues. of investment banking and insurance therefore Environmental and social interactions with other companies in portfolio is not relevant. FS11 Percentage of assets subject to Not Not MMFSL does not have positive and negative environmental applicable any asset management or social screening. operations and therefore environmental and social screening practices are not relevant in this respect. FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to Not Not MMFSL is not in environmental or social issues for applicable the business of shares over which the reporting investment banking. organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. Economic Economic performance CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in EC1 Direct economic value generated and Fully 91 COMM distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 180 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Economic performance CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in EC2 Financial implications and other Fully 95 risks and opportunities for the organisation's activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organisation's Fully Annual defined benefit plan obligations. report pg. 160 -161 EC4 Significant financial assistance Fully 91 received from government. Market presence CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry Fully 68 level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of Fully 96-97 spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Fully Currently, proportion of senior management M&M does hired from the local community at not have significant locations of operation. any specific procedure for local hiring of senior management. The hiring takes place purely on merit irrespective of location of the person. Indirect economic impacts CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in EC8 Development and impact of Fully 147 infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing Not Not 2015 significant indirect economic impacts, available including the extent of impacts. 181 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Environmental Materials CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully 122-127 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Partially 122 Not Sector locations 2015 recycled input materials. available are recycling and reusing the material. Monitoring mechanism is under study. Energy CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Fully 114 energy source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Fully 114 primary source. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation Fully 116-118 and efficiency improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Fully 118 or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Fully 116-118 consumption and reductions achieved. Water CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 121 Not Sector locations are 2015 available recycling and reusing the water. Monitoring mechanism is under study. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Fully 119 withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Partially 121 recycled and reused. Biodiversity CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in EN11 Location and size of land owned, Fully 106 leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 182 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Biodiversity CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in EN12 Description of significant impacts of Fully 106 activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully 106 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and Not Not 2015 future plans for managing impacts available on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and Not Not None of our plants are national conservation list species with applicable located near the habitats habitats in areas affected by where IUCN red list operations, by level of extinction risk. species are observed. Emissions, effluents and waste CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Fully 109 COMM gas emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse Fully 109 Since the year 2009-10, gas emissions by weight. we have started monitoring and reporting on the scope III emissions for some business/sectors. This year we have reported scope III emissions of all the sectors/business in the scope of reporting. The sources are identified and the emissions are monitored under four major categories viz. inbound & outbound logistics (transportation paid by M&M), business (air) travel, employee commutation (M&M owned vehicles) and stationary (paper) consumption EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Fully 113 emissions and reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Fully 108 substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Fully 104-105 emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality Fully 121 and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type Fully 127-132 COMM and disposal method. EN23 Total number and volume Fully 133 of significant spills. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, Not Not International operations 2015 exported, or treated waste deemed available are not covered under the hazardous under the terms of the scope. No waste shipped Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and internationally. VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 183 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Emissions, effluents and waste CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and Not Not biodiversity value of water bodies and available related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation's discharges of water and runoff. Products and services CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Fully 76 Not 2015 impacts of products and services, and available extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Partially 133 Measurement of packaging materials that are reclaimed packaging is reclaimed by category. not currently done and will require coordination amongst customers, dealers, distributors, and shipping entities. Mahindra aims to report on this indicator in the next two years, once we can work with the necessary groups to ensure that we are capturing accurate and meaningful data. Compliance CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in EN28 Monetary value of significant fines Fully 37 Not There have been no and total number of non-monetary available fines during the sanctions for non-compliance with reporting period. environmental laws and regulations. Transport CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Fully 109 transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in EN30 Total environmental protection Not Not 2015 expenditures and investments by type. available 184 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully 68-70 employment contract, and region. LA2 Total number and rate of employee Fully 68-70 turnover by age group, gender and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time Not Not 2015 employees that are not provided to available temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Labor/management relations CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in LA4 Percentage of employees covered Fully 65 by collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Fully 65 significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in LA6 Percentage of total workforce Not Not 2015 represented in formal joint managementavailable worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Fully 72 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, Fully 66 prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in Fully 66 formal agreements with trade unions. Training and education CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in LA10 Average hours of training per year Partially 71 Not The Mahindra Group is 2015 per employee by employee category. available large and there are different employee categories in different companies Since the data in this report has been consolidated for the Group, we report average hrs of training per year per employee. 185 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Training and education CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in LA11 Programs for skills management and Not Not 2015 lifelong learning that support the available continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Fully We give regular performance and career performance development reviews.\ appraisal to all our officers. Diversity and equal opportunity CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in LA13 Composition of governance bodies Partially 32, 68 Not The Demographics of 2015 and breakdown of employees per available Governance bodies will category according to gender, age be reported in future. group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to Fully 63 women by employee category. Human Rights Investment and procurement practices CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in HR1 Percentage and total number of Fully 2015 COMM significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers Fully 2015 and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on Fully 71 Only 2 sectors policies and procedures concerning have started aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in HR4 Total number of incidents of Fully No incidents discrimination and actions taken. occurred during the reporting period. 186 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Freedom of association and collective bargaining CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in HR5 Operations identified in which the right Fully 58, 64 to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in HR6 Operations identified as having Fully 58 significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in HR7 Operations identified as having Fully 58 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in HR8 Percentage of security personnel Not Not We have started 2015 trained in the organisation's policies available training of the security or procedures concerning aspects of personnel in 2 sectors. human rights that are relevant to From next year we will operations. report on the percentage. Indigenous rights CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in HR9 Total number of incidents of violations Fully No involving rights of indigenous people incidents and actions taken. occurred during the reporting period 187 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Society Community CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of Fully 76, 147, Not any programs and practices that 138 available assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. FS13 Access points in low-populated Fully 28 or economically disadvantaged areas by type. FS14 Initiatives to improve access Not We have not yet made 2014 to financial services for special provisions to disadvantaged people. improve, access financial services or disadvantaged people. Corruption CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in SO2 Percentage and total number of Not business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Fully 38 organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents Fully 38 of corruption. Public policy CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in SO5 Public policy positions and Fully 38 Not participation in public policy available development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind Not contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behaviour CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in SO7 Total number of legal actions for Fully No actions anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, were taken and monopoly practices and their in the outcomes. reporting year 188 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Compliance CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Fully 37 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Customer health and safety CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Fully 81 and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of nonFully 87 compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in PR3 Type of product and service Fully 87 information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of nonNot Not 2015 compliance with regulations and available voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer Not Not 2015 satisfaction, including results of available surveys measuring customer satisfaction. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial Partially 84 Not Multilingual brochures 2015 literacy by type of beneficiary. available and national language website available. More awareness sessions will be conducted. 189 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Marketing communications CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator not reported omission Direct answer in PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, Fully 89 Not 2015 standards, and voluntary codes available related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of Not non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in PR8 Total number of substantiated Not Not 2015 complaints regarding breaches of available customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance CrossIf applicable, To be Description Reported Reason for Explanation Performance reference/ indicate the part reported Indicator omission Direct answer not reported in PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Fully 87 non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 190 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures UNGC Principles Principle Category Description Page No. Principle 1 Human rights Businesses should support and respect • Management Approach 58 the protection of internationally proclaimed • Materiality 8 human rights. • Stakeholder Engagement 50 Principle 2 Human rights Businesses should make sure that they • Management Approach 58 are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Materiality 8 • Procurement Practices 58 Principle 3 Labor Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Management Approach 58 association and the effective recognition • Employees covered by collective of the right to collective bargaining. Bargaining agreements 65 Principle 4 Labor Businesses should uphold the • Materiality 8 elimination of all forms of forced and • Management Approach 58 compulsory labor; Principle 5 Labor Businesses should uphold the effective • Management Approach 58 abolition of child labor; and • HR & Administration policy 64 Principle 6 Labor Businesses should uphold the elimination • Core values 36 of discrimination in respect of employment • Management Approach 58 and occupation Principle 7 Environment Businesses should support a • Corporate Governance Policies 38 precautionary approach to environmental • Management Approach 102 challenges; • Financial Implications of Climate Change 95 • Environmental Policy 102 • From underutilized land to resourceful landscape 107 Principle 8 Environment Businesses should undertake initiatives to • Management Approach 102 promote greater environmental • Alternative Nature 134 responsibility; and • MMDC-Bodhivriksha, Nashik Goes Green 134 • Environmental Impacts 76 Principle 9 Environment Businesses should encourage the • Materiality 8 development and diffusion of • Code of Conduct 37 environmentally friendly technologies. • Management Approach 102 • Environmental Impacts 78 • R&D spend 91 • Alternative Integration 74 • Innovations for energy conservation 116 Principle 10 Anti-corruption Businesses should work against • Core Values 36 corruption in all its forms, including • Anti corruption policies & procedures 38 extortion and bribery. 191 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Acronyms 3R Reduce/Recycle/Reuse CGC Corporate Governance Cell ABBY American Booksellers Book of the Year CFC Chlorofluorocarbon ACE Awards for Customer Excellence CFL Compact Fluorescent Lamp ACETECH Architecture, Construction, Engineering CFO Chief Financial Officer Technology CII Confederation of Indian Industry AD Automotive Division CIO Chief information officer AFS Automotive Farm Sector CITU Centre of Indian Trade Unions AGC Avaya GlobalConnect CMO Chief Marketing Officer AIDS Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome CMTT Club Mahindra Tusker Trail AIMA-IOCL All India Management Association Indian Oil Corporation Limited CMVR Central Motor Vehicle Rules AT&T American Telephone & Telegraph CMAI Communication Multimedia and Infrastructure ASSOCHAM Associated Chambers of Commerce CNG Compressed Natural Gas and Industry of India CO Carbon monoxide BCL Business Continuity Leader CRISIL Credit Rating & Information Services BCMS Business Continuity Management Systems of India Limited BCP Business Continuity Plan CRM Customer Relationship Management BIA Business Impact Analysis CSR Corporate Social Responsibility BKS Bharatiya Kamgar Sena CTO Chief Technical Officer BMW Bavarian Motor Works CV Commercial Vehicles BPO Business process outsourcing D&B Dun & Bradstreet BS British Standards DNA Data Not Available BSE Bombay Stock Exchange ECM Energy Conservation Measures BSS Business Support Systems EDGE Enterprise Driving Growth & Excellence BS-III Bharat Stage three EFI Employers Federation of India BS-IV Bharat Stage four ELV End of Life Vehicle BT British Telecommunications EPA Environmental Protection Agency (USA) C2 CRDe 2-cylinder Common Rail Diesel Engine EPC Engineering, Procurement, and Construction CO2 Carbon dioxide ESCo Energy Services Company CH4 Methane ER Employee Relation CAE Computer Aided Engineering ERP Enterprise Resource Planning CCI Clinton Climate Initiative ESI Employment Status Indicator CDP Carbon Disclosure Project ESIC Employee State Insurance Corporation CED Cathodic Electro Deposition Esops Employee Social Option Scheme CEO Chief Executive Officer ETP Effluent Treatment Plant 192 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Acronyms EU European Union IDC International Data Corporation EURO IV European emission standards Four IGBC Indian Green Building Council EURO V European emission standards Five IHECT International Centre for Hydrogen Energy Technologies EVP Executive Vice President IIT Indian Institute of Technology FD Farm Division ILO International Labour Organization FE-EVI Financial ExpressEmergent Ventures International IMC Indian Merchant Chamber FICCI Foreign Investors' Chamber of IMDS International Material Data Sheet Commerce and Industry IMS Integrated Management System FIFA Federal International Football Association INR Indian Rupee FMS Feedback Management System IRADe Integrated Research & g/hph Grams per horse power hours Action for Development GDP Gross Domestic Product ISO International Organization for Standardization GDR Global Depositary Receipts IT Information Technology GHG Greenhouse Gas ITDP Integrated Talent Development Process GJ Giga Joules ITES Information Technology Enabled Service GEB Group Executive Board JAU Junagadh Agricultural University GoB Government of Bihar KCMET K.C. Mahindra Educational Trust GPS Global Positioning System KPO Knowledge Process Outsourcing GRI Global Reporting Initiative KL Kilo Litres GRIHA Green Rating for Integrated LBSIMT Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Habitat Assessment Management and Technology GSM Global System for Mobile Communications LCV Light commercial vehicle HCFC Hydrochlorofluorocarbon LEED Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design HCNG Hydrogen Compressed Natural Gas LED Light Emitting Diode HHD Hand Held Device LDO Light Diesel Oil HOC Heat of Compression LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas HP Horse Power LSPV Load Sensing Proportioning Valve HPCL Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited LTL Learning to Lead HR Human Resources MACE Mahindra Consulting Engineers HRD Human Resource Development MAITS Mahindra All India Talent Scholarships ICAI Institute of Chartered Accountants of India MCD Municipal Corporation of Delhi ICRISAT International Crops Research Institute MD Managing Director for the Semi Arid Tropics META Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Award ICT Information, Communication, and Technology MFCSL Mahindra First Choice Services Limited 193 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Acronyms MFL Mahindra Forgings Limited NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards MGD Million Gallons Per Day NAPCC National Action Plan on Climate Change MGTL Mahindra Gujarat Tractor Limited NASSCOM National Association of Software & Services Companies MGTPL Mahindra Gears & Transmissions Private Limited NATRIP National Automotive Testing & R&D Infrastructure Project MHIL Mahindra Hinoday Industries Limited NBFC Non-Banking Financial Companies MHRIL Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited NBC National Building Code MIDC Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation NDTV New Delhi Television Limited MIL Mahindra Intertrade Limited NGO Non Governmental Organisation MLDL Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited NHRDN National Human Resource Development Network MLL Mahindra Logistics Limited NIS Not in Scope MMDC Mahindra Management Development Center NITIE National Institute Of Industrial Engineering MMFSL Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited NOx Oxides of Nitrogen MN 25 Mahindra Navistar 25000 kg NOA National Outsourcing Association MNAL Mahindra Navistar Automotives Limited NRI Non Residents of India MNC Multi National Company NSE National Stock Exchange MNEPL Mahindra Navistar Engines Private Limited NSDF National Sports Development Fund MOU Memorandum of Understanding OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development MPD Magnetic Products Division OCB Overseas Corporate Bodies MPS Mahindra Pride School ODS Ozone Depleting Substance MPUAT Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture & Technology OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer MQS Mahindra Quality System OTM Oracle Transport Management MRV Mahindra Research Valley OSS Operations Support Systems MSat Mahindra Satyam PAT Profit After Tax MSB Mahindra Spares Business PAU Punjab Agricultural University MSSCL Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited PFOS Perflourooctane-sulfonates MTWL Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited POP Plaster of Paris MUSCO Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Limited PRCI Public Relations Council of India MVML Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited PWD Persons with Disability MWC Mahindra World City QCD Quality Cost and Delivery MWCDL Mahindra World City Developers Limited QCFI Quality Circle Forum Of India MWCJL Mahindra World City Jaipur Limited RA Risk Assessment 194 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Acronyms RCI Resort Condominium International TIDCO Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation RBI Reserve Bank of India TNAU Tamil Nadu Agricultural University RIICO Rajasthan State Industrial Development & Investment Corporation Limited TPM Total Productive Maintenance RMC Ready Mix Concrete TTP Tertiary Treatment Plant ROI Return On Investment TxMS Transaction Management System ROHS Restriction on Hazardous substances UAE United Arab Emirates RRR Rate and Reusability Rate UK United Kingdom RSPM Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter UNEP United Nations Environment Programme R&D Research & Development UNGC United Nations Global Compact SAP System Application Products and DataBase UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organization SCM Supply Chain Management US United States SEZ Special Economic Zone USA United States of America SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India USD United States Dollars SIAM Society of Indian Automobiles Manufacturers UV Utility Vehicle SIBM Symbiosis Institute of Business Management UWC United World College SOx Oxides of Sulphur VAVE Value Analysis Value Engineering SO2 Sulphur Dioxide VC Vice Chairman SOIL School of Inspired Leadership VECV Volvo-Eicher Commercial Vehicles SPM Suspended Particulate Matter VFD Variable Frequency Drives SRI Solar Reflectance Index VOC Volatile Organic Compound STAT Statistic WBCSD World Business Council for STP Sewage Treatment Plant Sustainable Development SUV Sports Utility Vehicle WOW Wet on Wet SYMC Ssangyong Motor Company Limited WRI World Resources Institute Tech M Tech Mahindra 195 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures Glossary AS9100 / EN9100 Certification The AS/EN 9100 certification enables you to demonstrate your commitment to quality, safety and customer satisfaction, as well as continuously improving your corporate image and integrating the realities of a changing world. The AS/EN 9100 series is an ISO 9001 based set of standards developed by the International Aerospace Quality Group (IAQG) that addresses the stringent quality requirements of the aerospace industry, from commercial aviation to defence. Biodiesel Biodiesel refers to a non-petroleum-based diesel fuel consisting of short chain alkyl esters, made by transesterification of vegetable oil. Biofuels Solid, liquid or gas fuel derived from recently dead biological material. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CDE) and Equivalent Carbon Dioxide (CO2e) are two related but distinct measures for describing how much global warming a given type and amount of greenhouse gas may cause, using the functionally equivalent amount or concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2) as the reference Equivalent CO2 (CO2e) is the concentration of CO2 that would cause the same level of radiative forcing as a given type and concentration of greenhouse gas. C2 CRDe Technology Two cylinder, common rail diesel engine technology stands for Common Rail Direct Fuel Injection engine. It is the latest state-of-the-art technology for diesel engines and suits passenger cars as well as commercial vehicles. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an organisation that works with shareholders and corporations to disclose the greenhouse gas emissions of major corporations. M&M Limited is a signatory for CDP. Chlorodifluoromethane (Difluoromonochloromethane) is a Hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC) commonly used in air conditioning applications. CRISIL Level 1 rating that indicates the company's capability with regard to corporate governance and value creation for all stakeholders is the highest. COPC-2000® CSP Global Standard Certification The COPC-2000® CSP Standard is a Performance Management Framework designed to deliver results in Customer Service Provider (CSP) contact center environments including Call Centers, E-Commerce Centers and Transaction Processing Operations. Dichlorodifluoromethane (R-12) usually sold under the brand name Freon-12, is a chlorofluorocarbon halomethane, commonly known as CFC, used as a refrigerant and aerosol spray propellant. (R-22)is a colourless gas better known as HCFC-22, R-22. Earlier it was commonly used as a propellant and in air conditioning application. These applications are being faced out its manufacturing was banned in the US and many countries in 1994 due to concerns about damage to the ozone layer. ECOTEL® certification ECOTEL® is a prestigious environmental certification designed by HVS' Sustainability Services specifically for the hospitality sector. This certification recognizes outstanding achievement along the triple bottomline: environmental, social and fiscal parameters. End-to-End Supply Chain Solutions End-to-End Supply Chain Solutions is the management of a network of interconnected businesses involved in the ultimate provision of product and service packages required by end customers .Supply chain management spans all movement and storage of raw materials, work-in-process inventory, and finished goods from point of origin to point of consumption. EURO IV or EURO V Standards reduction of pollutant emissions from light vehicles. The European Union is introducing stricter limits on pollutant emissions from light road vehicles, particularly for emissions of nitrogen particulates and oxides. The Regulation also includes measures concerning access to information on vehicles and their components and the possibility of introducing tax incentives. GRIHA Certification GRIHA rating system consists of 34 criteria categorized under various sections such as Site Selection and Site Planning, Conservation and efficient utilization of resources, Building operation and maintenance, and Innovation points. Eight of these 34 criteria are mandatory, four are partly mandatory, while the rest are optional. Each criterion has a number of points assigned to it. It means that a project intending to meet the criterion would qualify for the points. Different levels of certification (one star to five stars) are awarded based on the number of points earned. The minimum points required for certification is 50. The Green Home Rating system by IGBC Indian Green Building Council The green home rating system by Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) is India's first, and is exclusively designed for the residential sector. Different levels of certifications such as Certified, Silver, Gold and Platinum are awarded to a project in recognition of its green commitment. 196 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2010-11 Annexures ISO 27001 Global Certification ISO/IEC 27001 is the only auditable international standard which defines the requirements for an Information Security Management System (ISMS). The standard is designed to ensure the selection of adequate and proportionate security controls. ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management Systems directive that provides a number of requirements which an organisation needs to fulfill if it is to achieve customer satisfaction through consistent products and services which meet customer expectations. ISO 14001:2004 international specification for an Environmental Management System (EMS). It specifies requirements for establishing an environmental policy, determining environmental aspects and impacts of products/activities/services, planning environmental objectives and measurable targets, implementation and operation of programs to meet objectives and targets, checking and corrective action and management review. ISO/TS 16949 quality management system requirements for the design and development, production and, when relevant, installation and service of automotive-related products. ISO/TS 16949:2002 Quality management systems -Particular requirements for the application of ISO 9001:2000 for automotive production and relevant service part organizations OHSAS 18001:2004 an Occupation Health and Safety Assessment Series for health and safety management systems. It is intended to help organisations to control occupational health and safety risks. It was developed in response to widespread demand for a recognised standard against which to be certified and assessed. OHSAS 18001:2007 Managing health and safety (OH&S) issues in the workplace represents an enormous challenge due to varying human nature, skills set, process complexity & local culture and have implications for everyone at the workplace. Effectively managing these issues means taking account not only of legal requirements, but also the well-being of your personnel in the organization. Mahindra Quality Way an assessment by external national and international experts of Mahindra's Quality Policy, systems, procedures and performance against world-class standards to identify: strengths, opportunities for improvement, scoring profile for prioritising improvements. NAAQS the clean air act which was last amended requires EPA to set National Ambient Air Quality Standards for pollutants considered harmful to public health and the environment. http://epa.gov/air/criteria.html NASSCOM a not-for-profit was set up in 1988 to facilitate business and trade in software and services and to encourage advancement of research in software technology. Scope I Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions occur from sources that are owned or controlled by a company, such as combustion facilities (e.g.: boilers, furnaces, burners, turbines, heaters, incinerators, engines, flares etc), combustion of fuels in transportation (e.g.: cars, buses, planes, ships, barges, trains etc) and physical or chemical processes (e.g.: in cement manufacturing, catalytic cracking in petrochemical processing, aluminium smelting etc). Scope II Scope 2 GHG emissions are from the generation by another party of electricity that is purchased and consumed by the company. This is described as purchased electricity for the purposes of the GHG Protocol. Scope III Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, including those associated with employee travel, supply chain, leased assets, outsourced activities, use of products and waste disposal. SEI-CMMI level 5 A Level 5 CMMI rating provides the highest recognition to an organisation's software and systems engineering processes. Solar Reflectance Index Solar Reflectance is the fraction of the incident solar energy which is reflected by the surface in question. The best standard technique for its determination uses spectrophotometric measurements, with an integrating sphere to determine the reflectance at each different wavelength. The average reflectance is then determined by an averaging process, using a standard solar spectrum. This method is documented by ASTM (Amer. Soc. for Testing and Materials). Special Economic Zone (SEZ) SEZ is a geographical region that has economic laws that are more liberal than a country's typical economic laws. USGBC LEED Certification LEED Professional Accreditation distinguishes building professionals with the knowledge and skills to successfully steward the LEED certification process. United Nations Global Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. M&M Limited is a signatory to UNGC. 197
