Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 About this report This Sustainability Report covers a significantly broader range of sustainability issues than our previous Corporate Citizenship Reports. The content has been developed with reference to sustainability initiatives such as the Global Reporting Index (GRI), the JSE Socially Responsible Investment (JSE SRI) Index, the United Nations Front cover Global Compact (UNGC) and No tree in Africa embodies the spirit of King III. While our aim for this Africa more than the baobab. In years year’s sustainability report is to give gone by kings, elders and leaders would as full and transparent a picture hold meetings under huge baobabs to of our successes and challenges debate and discuss important issues and in relation to sustainability as ideas. Not only did the trees provide possible, we recognise that there is shelter, but the tribal leaders also still a lot to be done. The process believed that the spirit of the baobab of developing this report has would always help them make wise helped us identify and clarify areas decisions. where we need to work harder and achieve more, and has provided Being a succulent, the baobab makes a strong basis for reporting and optimum use of scarce resources. The communicating our progress in tree survives prolonged droughts by the future. storing water in its massive, fibrous, sponge-like trunk. The baobab is seen This report covers the 2009 financial as a symbol of endurance, conservation, year and includes information on creativity, ingenuity and dialogue. the activities of OMSA and all its subsidiaries. Old Mutual’s African The baobab reflects much of what Old Operations have only recently Mutual South Africa (OMSA) strives to begun reporting into OMSA and be. For 165 years, we have provided their sustainability issues are thus financial shelter and nourishment to covered at a high level in this year’s people and businesses. OMSA aims to report. Old Mutual’s operations in serve all sectors of the South African other emerging market countries economy and elements of the African such as Columbia, Mexico, India and economy by providing products and China are not covered in this report. services that are appropriate, affordable With these countries now reporting and accessible. We recognise that to Kuseni Dlamini – CEO of OMSA knowledge and wisdom are not held and Emerging Markets, they will be by one person, but are rather the sum covered in the 2010 sustainability of all within OMSA, the wider industry, report. A longer version of this government and society. Collaboration report is available on the website at is, and will continue to be, the key to www.oldmutual.co.za/sustainabilityreport achieving a truly sustainable future. Contents Material issues 2 About Old Mutual 4 Statement by the Chief Executive Officer Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual plc; and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa 6 Statement by the Chief Executive Officer of Old Mutual South Africa and Emerging Markets 8 Framework for managing sustainability 10 Sustainability Review Serving our customers 16 Investing responsibly 26 Strengthening relationships with our intermediaries 32 Ensuring ethical behaviour 37 Continuing our commitment to transformation 38 Supporting our communities 44 Ensuring our status as employer of choice 50 Minimising and managing our impact on the environment 58 African Operations 62 Old Mutual South Africa dti scorecard 65 Global reporting initiative (GRI) G3 Index 66 Glossary 68 Contact details IBC Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 1 Material issues Chapter Material issues § Customer feedback: ensuring we engage with and respond to our customers § Product access: making relevant products and services accessible to consumers Serving our customers § Financial education: empowering consumers to make informed financial >> page 16 decisions § Product pricing: providing products that are fairly and affordably priced § Product promotion: ensuring that we market our products and services fairly and accurately § OMSA’s SRI funds: providing investment options to our clients that are socially and environmentally responsible Investing responsibly § Transformation-related financing: channelling funds as formally prescribed in the Financial Sector Charter (FSC) >> page 26 § SRI-based investment decisions: incorporating environmental, social and governance criteria into our investment decision-making § Building the intermediary pool to ensure equitable access to financial advice § Raising the standards of financial advice and developing intermediaries’ Strengthening businesses relationships with our intermediaries § Supporting the sustainability of intermediary businesses >> page 32 Ensuring ethical § Promoting ethical behaviour amongst our employees and consumers behaviour and protecting our funds and clients from fraudulent activity >> page 37 § Equity ownership: participation by black people § Management and control: appointment of black people in senior management positions § Employment equity: participation of black people in management levels and black disabled people in all levels Continuing our commitment to § Skills development: skills spend on black employees, black learners and transformation black disabled people >> page 38 § Preferential procurement: BBBEE procurement spend from all suppliers § Enterprise development: supporting the development and growth of micro, small and medium businesses and black-owned businesses § Socio-economic development: uplifting communities through financial and other support § Corporate social investment: focusing on enterprise development, skills building, education and staff volunteerism Supporting our § Sponsorships: uplifting communities through the use of relevant marketing campaigns communities >> page 44 § Development support: providing financing and support to micro, small and medium businesses and building capacity in government (through Masisizane) § Attracting and retaining talent, particularly for critical roles § Integrating skills and career development across the business § Employee relations and engagement with unions Ensuring our status § Unifying our People Strategy across Africa as employer of choice >> page 50 § Reducing the environmental footprint of properties we manage Minimising and managing our § Reducing the environmental footprint of properties we develop impact on the § Reducing environmental impacts through investment decision-making environment >> page 58 2 Key indicators Status § Percentage achievement of service levels § 55% of our customers are delighted and 89% of our customers are satisfied by our customer service § Number of branches § Number of people trained through financial education § Increased our footprint in the provision of products and services for the Foundation market by growing the number of branches programmes servicing customers from 65 to 167 § Percentage of customers delighted by OMSA’s customer § Provided education to 49 724 consumers across the country service § Number of complaints § 9% reduction in complaints compared to 2008 § Assets under management in socially responsible § Well developed SRI-related funds within OMSA, with R21.1 billion investment (SRI) funds assets under management § Percentage of SRI funds against all OMIGSA’s assets under management § Number of black brokers trained through the Old Mutual § 194 black brokers have been trained to date Academy for Financial Planners § Intermediaries have been supported and trained to prepare for § Number of tied agents trained through workshops regulatory and economic market changes, with 6 176 attending workshops § Number of independent financial advisory practices that entered the South Africa Best Practice of the Year § Masthead was established to provide an independent voice for Award competition brokers § Intermediary satisfaction with service § 125 independent financial advisory practices entered the 2009 competition § 77% satisfaction achieved at end 2009 versus target of 72.5% § Measurement of internal fraud in the Audit, Risk and § Our forensic structures and systems have been voted best in Compliance Committee class by a third party § Dti Codes of Good Practice statistics: § A decrease in equity ownership as compared with 2008 scores – Equity ownership § An improvement in employment equity – Management and control § A decrease in the skills development score as compared with 2008 scores – Employment equity – Skills development § Significantly improved preferential procurement BEE score – Preferential procurement § Full score for enterprise development maintained – Enterprise development § A decrease in the score for socio-economic development as compared with 2008 scores – Socio-economic development § CSI spend; number of jobs or skills created; number of § Refined our CSI strategy and implemented an electronic project students from OMSA-supported schools passing matric management system for reporting and tracking contractual with Bachelors’ qualifications; number of staff and agreements and project progress hours spent on volunteer work § CSI spend of R31 million § Sponsorship spend § 3 046 jobs created § 50% of all staff participating in volunteer programmes § Sponsorship spend of R39.68 million § Employee turnover § Increased total employee turnover to 30.01% § Percentage of female employees § 52.7% of employees are female § Spend on skills development § Integrated skills and career development across business units and job families, with R98.5 million being spent on skills § Employee engagement development § Number of employees using the Employee Well-being § Accredited 90% of our training programmes run through the Programme Old Mutual business school. § Achieved 69% employee climate survey score as compared to 67% in 2008 § 1 680 employees using the Employee Well-being Programme § Energy usage § Significant energy savings in select buildings managed by OMSA § Water usage § Green features being designed into new build projects § Proportion of waste recycled Looking forward Chapter § Continued focus on service improvement § Target to achieve 90% satisfied customers by the end of 2010 § Expand the rollout of appropriate products and services to the foundation and mass markets and to our African Operations Serving our customers § Open 60 to 70 new branches providing service and product >> page 16 advice a year until 2012 § Continue to review and deliver our financial education programmes § Further grow our SRI funds § Develop and implement appropriate standards and approaches Investing to SRI-based decision making across our businesses responsibly >> page 26 § Further increase the number of black brokers through establishing a sustainable model of operation for the Academy for Financial Planners and the Black Distributors Trust § Continued focus on improving service, including investment in technology to enable straight through processing of new Strengthening relationships Material business with our intermediaries >> page 32 issues >> We have selected our material issues by: § Ensure that our employees and customers maintain their Ensuring ethical integrity, particularly in the tough economic climate behaviour >> page 37 § Assessing the sustainability § Continue to improve on all seven pillars reporting of other financial services companies, § Address skills development gaps, particularly with regard to black women, black employees enrolled in learnerships and disabled § Engaging with Old Mutual plc to understand the direction Continuing our of sustainability in the commitment to Group, transformation >> page 38 § Conducting numerous interviews across the company, § Reviewing the feedback from § CSI: continue to focus on programmes that provide sustainable our employee and customer and meaningful improvements surveys, § Sponsorships: continue to ensure that our projects help us to Supporting our strengthen our relationships with communities while providing § Engaging with limited communities external stakeholders. strategic value to our business >> page 44 § Address employee turnover § Continue to address skills development and talent management, particularly of women and black employees § Align human resources practices across our South African and Ensuring our African Operations status as employer of choice >> page 50 § Managing resource efficiency improvements in a systematic way Minimising and managing our § Ensuring implementation of new building projects to a four star impact on the Green Building Council of South Africa rating please open for environment full material issues § Realising opportunities through investing in environmentally >> page 58 friendly technologies table Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 3 Old Mutual South Africa Old Mutual South Africa value-added statement 2009 2008 2007 % % % Rm Rm Rm Revenues including interest and 71 312 14 590 73 919 investment income Expenses excluding staff costs (7 736) (6 679) (6 373) Total value added 63 576 7 911 67 547 Value allocated Staff 4 247 7% 3 610 46% 3 752 6% Customers 44 229 70% 6 469 82% 50 392 75% Shareholders 4 314 7% 7 907 100% 7 881 12% Government 2 129 3% 1 733 22% 4 099 6% Retained for Growth 8 657 14% (11 807) -149% 1 423 2% Total value allocated 63 576 100% 7 911 100% 67 547 100% Old Mutual South Africa key sustainability indicators Indicator 2009 2008 2007 Adjusted operating profit R5 537m R7 989m R7 016m Return on allocated capital 26.0% 27.8% 24% Return on embedded value 9% 14% 11% Capital adequacy (SCAR) 4.1x 3.8x 3.5x Assets under management R493.9bn R489.0bn R451.7bn % black Board members 29% 50% 30% % of black staff in executive management 50% 44% 45% % of black women staff in executive management 13% 0% 9% % of black staff in senior management 32% 26% 26% % of black women staff in senior management 11% 8% 7% % of black staff in middle management 47% 41% 39% % of black women staff in middle management 20% 17% 15% % of black staff in junior management 75% 57% 53% % of black women staff in junior management 40% 32% 28% Skills development investment in black staff as a percentage of 2.07% 2.67% 2% payroll Affirmative procurement spend R4.265bn R4.282bn R2.484bn Corporate Social Investment R31m R35m R35m Energy consumption in units (kWh) 552 364 472* 270 985 920 346 004 864 Water consumption in units (Kl) 4 100 604* 1 068 302 * The 2009 information includes water and energy consumption figures for buildings under OMSA’s management that were not accounted for in 2008. About Old Mutual South Africa Old Mutual is the largest and most well-established financial services provider in Southern Africa. Our prominent position in the industry is reflected in our strong operating performance across all our businesses, our good balance sheet position, strong financial flexibility with demonstrated access to international capital markets and diversity of business. Our partnership with Nedbank and Mutual & Federal (M&F) – two sister subsidiary companies under the Old Mutual plc banner in South Africa – enables us to offer a variety of financial products and services. These span investment, life assurance, asset management, banking, healthcare and general insurance. Our client base comprises individuals, businesses, corporates and institutions. Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) is a significant participant in the South African economy. Our product and service solutions take into account what our clients need and deliver this through our collective skills base, years of experience and our value-driven people. Old Mutual’s African Operations also report into OMSA and include operations in Kenya, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland and Zimbabwe. Old Mutual Group at a glance GROUP Old Mutual is an international Our primary operations are in the following geographies: long-term savings, protection and LTS – Southern Africa, Europe, Banking – Southern Africa investment Group. Colombia, Mexico, India and China Short-term insurance – Southern US Asset management – US Africa Adjusted operating Funds under profit (AOP) 2009 management 2009 Number employed £1,170m £285bn 53,706 1 2008: £1,136m 2008: £265bn 2008: 56,546 * LONG-TERM SAVINGS (LTS) We provide innovative life Contribution to group assurance based solutions which address both protection and retirement savings needs. AOP2 58.5% FUM3 39.4% Adjusted operating Funds under profit (AOP) 2009 management 2009 Number employed £685m 2008: £452m £112.2bn 2008: £91bn 22,269 2008: 24,515 BANKING We have a majority shareholding Contribution to group in Nedbank, one of South Africa’s leading banks, which also has banking interests in other AOP2 40.2% countries in Southern Africa. FUM 3 2.9% Tier 1 Capital Adequacy Ratio Total Assets Number employed 11.5% 2008: 9.6% £47.9bn 2008: £41.3bn 27,346 2008: 27,570 SHORT-TERM INSURANCE We provide short-term insurance Contribution to group solutions in southern Africa through Mutual & Federal. AOP2 6.0% FUM3 0.1% Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2009 Combined ratio Number employed £70m 2008: £76m 98.0% 2008: 96.1% 2,331 2008: 2,703 US ASSET MANAGEMENT We aim to grow our customers’ Contribution to group savings and wealth, whether through active and direct asset management or the selection of funds and AOP2 7.1% managers for customers to invest in. FUM3 56.7% Adjusted operating Funds under profit (AOP) 2009 management 2009 Number employed please open for more information £83m 2008: £97m £161.5bn 2008: £164.9bn 1,544 2008: 1,600 1 Includes Group Head Office and Bermuda. 2 Pre-tax AOP of operating segments less finance and other corporate costs. 3 Charts do not include Bermuda’s contribution to the total Group Funds under management. 4 “Our strategy is to build a long-term savings, protection and investment group by leveraging the strength of our capabilities in South Africa and around the world. We will focus, drive and optimise our businesses to enhance value for shareholders and customers.” Julian Roberts, Group Chief Executive, Old Mutual plc Global footprint Group Sustainability Achievements § Completed the second public Group carbon disclosure project § Won five customer services awards § Invested £10.1 million in community programmes § Set up the Group Responsible Business Committee § Formalised our Responsible Business Policy § Retained membership of FTSE4Good Index and JSE Socially Responsible Investment Index * Long-term savings division Paul Hanratty CEO, LTS Kuseni Bertil Jonas Bob Chris Rose Steven Richard Dlamini Hult Jonsson Head Chapman Keanly* Levin* Boynett** CEO, CEO, CEO, CEO, CEO, Head, LEAN Head of Head of IT Emerging Nordic Retail Wealth US Life Operations Product Markets Europe Management Development * Appointed: March 2010 ** Appointed: June 2010 Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 5 Statement by the Chief Executive Officer Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual plc; and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa During 2009 the volatility in the financial markets highlighted the important role of business in society, and also the importance of long-term sustainable growth. At Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) we take our role in achieving a sustainable future seriously, and try to incorporate an understanding of our social and environmental impacts in the business decisions we take. We are aware that OMSA has a role to play in being a partner for progressive change. Global issues such as climate change, water and energy supply and food security cannot be solved by governments alone. Business has a role to play in building a stronger society, of which it is part. In addition to the requirements we face as part of a UK listed company we have committed to embedding the framework suggested by the King Report on Governance (King III). A key part of this for OMSA has been strengthening governance in the South African markets, through our work as a key sponsor of King III. At the heart of the King Report is a call for corporate leaders to rise to the challenges of sustainability. This requires a fundamental shift towards considering the legitimate interests and expectations of all of those who are affected by our business, not just shareholders. In this ‘inclusive stakeholder’ model, a company determines its most important issues through real engagement with stakeholders, and through balancing their needs and concerns against the company’s business risks. Crucially, King III also recommends integrating the reporting on sustainability performance with business performance, in order to present a balanced, holistic view of the business’ long-term viability in society. “I believe the dramatic events in the global economy over the past couple of years are changing the way the world functions and does business. Responsibility, prudent decisionmaking, traditional values and longterm goals are in, while greed, risky deals and short-term gains are out.” Paul Hanratty, CEO Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual plc; and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa 6 This approach is designed to recognise not only the challenges the business faces, but also the opportunities for developing new and more appropriate products and services, to the benefit of both society and the company’s competitive position in the marketplace. Eighty percent of the world’s population live in emerging economies. Through our robust understanding of the social, environmental and economic challenges that people living in these economies face, we have uncovered significant growth opportunities. Where the level of financial services penetration is low, we can use our knowledge and experience of working in emerging markets to provide appropriate products and services. We have an opportunity to do well by doing good – to leave a To help shape the economic debate and lasting legacy. contribute to the South African economy and social turnaround in South Africa, These steps towards integrating sustainability OMSA and Nedbank facilitated the launch into the way we do business are closely linked of Dinokeng. Dinokeng was a think tank to a similar journey that is underway across the that brought together more than 35 of the Old Mutual Group. A Group Responsible Business country’s brightest and most influential Policy was developed in 2009 and, following the thinkers from civil society, the private announcement of the Group strategy in March sector, labour and education to debate the 2010, we have aligned our strategic plans to a country’s key accomplishments and failures common set of values for the Group. There is still since 1994 as well as the challenges that much for us to do. However given the progress we lie ahead. The conclusions have been have made in 2009, we are now well positioned to summarised in the Dinokeng Scenarios, take the next steps on our sustainability journey. spelling out three possible paths for South Africa’s future, with the next step being Paul Hanratty to broaden and publicise the debate. In the words of Paul Hanratty, “If we are to live up to the promise of 1994, we need a strong, sustainable economy with a vibrant private sector that can work together with government to achieve job creation, deliver essential services and facilitate economic upliftment.” See further details on: www.dinokengscenarios.co.za Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 7 Statement by the Chief Executive Officer of Old Mutual South Africa and Emerging Markets I’m pleased to introduce Old Mutual South Africa’s throughout the country trained directly, with first sustainability report, which replaces the countless more being educated through radio and corporate citizenship report previously issued other channels. We’ve maintained our support for annually. our intermediaries despite the difficult economic climate, focusing on helping them to provide This report aims to cover the material, social and appropriate advice, whilst they sell our products environmental issues that affect us as a financial in a clear and transparent way. services company. We’ve begun integrating sustainability considerations into our business and Strong governance controls are key to this report both represents and documents an maintaining a strong business performance, and important first step in that process. that’s never been truer than when times are tough. We’ve continued to work on developing It’s both a report on our progress and a statement our governance processes. A recent benchmark of our intent. Drawing on the guidance of the of Old Mutual South Africa’s fraud function for King III report, we’re examining how social, example, measured against industry best practice, environmental and economic issues influence shows our structures and systems are considered the decisions we make about the business. In best in class and ought to help prevent unethical some areas, such as product development and behaviour. transformation, this is already well established. But we’re now examining how stakeholder views We remain focused on improving transformation and perspectives can be integrated across our in the company, and have significantly improved operations. measurements on employment equity and preferential procurement in 2009. To accelerate That principle supports the management and employment equity we continue to make sure that reporting of our sustainability performance. In this our current employees have the skills they need report, we’ve focused on material issues relating to ensure the future success of our business. to our customers, responsible investment, our intermediaries, ethical behaviour, transformation, Our people are central to the success of our our communities, our employees and the business and deserve a culture that is enabling, environment. empowering and supports their personal In the past year we have worked hard to improve development. To facilitate this, in 2009 we set customer satisfaction. We’ve also continued to up a number of skills development programmes, develop affordable products and services for including a talent management programme. Old all markets, and to distribute them through Mutual owes much of its success over the last appropriate channels. 165 years to the communities in which it operates and we’re determined to maintain and nurture Our ongoing investment in financial education those relationships so we can continue to do great programmes has seen nearly 50 000 people things together. “My role will be to provide clarity and build productive, value-creating relationships and partnerships. Together, by learning from mistakes and being open to new things, we will deliver superior results and develop a culture of high performance. By maximising this contribution and being active corporate citizens, we can unleash the full potential of our great nation and be a real force for good for all South Africans.” Kuseni Dlamini, CEO Old Mutual South Africa and Emerging Markets 8 We aim to ensure that our corporate social investment programmes aren’t simply about donating money to good causes, but about making a real and sustainable positive impact. We work with communities to find out what they need, solve the issues and form partnerships that are underpinned by mutual respect. It’s in our interest to effectively support communities, so where appropriate, we work with our competitors to deliver wider-reaching programmes. In December, I attended the Copenhagen climate talks. Since then, we’ve examined a number of important questions such as how we become part of the national efforts to reduce South Africa’s carbon footprint in line with the commitment that our government made at Copenhagen. We’ve already shown our commitment to designing, building and maintaining property in accordance with the Green Building Council of South Africa’s green star rating tool. We realise though, that this is just one area of our broader environmental impact. Some of our responsible investment funds have begun expanding their focus from financial returns and social benefits to include environmental opportunities and impacts. The successful future of OMSA requires us to broaden the scope of what we’ve traditionally considered good business. Making environmental, social and governance issues our core business will move us to a more holistic view of business risk and opportunity, while integrating the full range of stakeholder issues with our business strategy – ultimately delivering long-term success. Kuseni Dlamini Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 9 Framework for managing sustainability As we enhance our approach to sustainability, and management related to sustainability in we have developed a framework to identify our order to enhance how we manage our impacts material issues, prioritise them and set relevant and opportunities more effectively. As part of targets. This process will help us, now and in this development process we recognise the need the future, to manage and report on the related to establish a formalised structure and develop risks and opportunities, including our approach appropriate targets for managing sustainability. to ensuring regulatory compliance and how we This will include the development of indicators engage with our stakeholders to support us on for each one of our material issues. At a senior our journey. level, the CEO’s performance contract already includes key performance indicators related to Structures for managing sustainability social issues, something that we hope to expand to broader sustainability in the future. As a Group, we recognise that understanding and managing the risks and opportunities presented We are also engaged in the Group Operating by our social and environmental impacts are Model governance project which sets out a clear fundamental to delivering our vision. As a result, and comprehensive governance framework, with Old Mutual has introduced a Group Responsible appropriate procedures, systems and controls, Business Policy, designed to provide clarity on facilitating the satisfactory discharge of the duties sustainability issues while allowing local market and obligations of regulated firms, directors and flexibility through individual business unit delivery. employees within the Group. To provide clear leadership and governance in relation to Old Mutual Group’s social and Approach to risk management environmental impacts, a Group Responsible Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) aims to identify Business Committee was established in 2009. The new opportunities and identify, understand, committee supports and makes recommendations mitigate and manage risks in order to optimise to the Group Executive Committee on how to the level of return on investment. The company manage risks and opportunities related to its operates a risk management framework which approach to sustainability. For more information integrates risk management into the core business visit the Group Annual Report on our website*. strategy and functions. Risks are assessed over a rolling three year period, our risk principles are Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) has focused on outlined on our website. The risk management implementing aspects of sustainability through a framework used for OMSA is also used to manage number of Board committees which include: the risks across our African Operations. Environment Committee (covering stakeholder engagement); the Customer Affairs Committee; Risk governance structure: the ‘three the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee; the Remuneration Committee; and the Corporate lines of defence’ model OMSA has adopted a ‘three lines of defence’ Governance and Nomination Committee. OMSA model to manage risk. The first level involves the does not yet have its own environmental policy, direct roles of the Executive Committee, the OMSA but uses the Old Mutual Group environmental CEO, and our people in the management of risks. policy as a guide. We have recognised that we In the second, the chief risk officer, supported need to achieve greater co-ordination of our by experts from other functions, addresses the sustainability agenda as a whole. risks and makes policy recommendations to As part of the release of the King III report and strengthen the management of risks. The third code, in September 2009, we established a King provides independent objective assurance on the III Management Steering Committee to manage effectiveness of the management of enterprise our alignment to the code. In 2010, as part of risks across OMSA, undertaken by the Group reviewing our governance of sustainability, we will Internal Audit function and the Audit, Risk and be reviewing how this committee complements Compliance Committee. existing bodies that cover these issues. It must be noted that our adoption of King III is in addition Managing and monitoring risk to our requirements as a UK primary listed OMSA’s risk appetite is determined both company. qualitatively and quantitatively and is periodically reviewed. Raising awareness of risks is also We have used the 2009 sustainability reporting undertaken during the business planning process. process to help us improve our strategies, Input is gathered through regular contact frameworks, systems, capacity, accountability between risk and other functions combined with * http://www.oldmutual.com/mediacentre/financialReports.jsp 10 the provision of training materials and access In an already heavily regulated, complex and to online risk information. Risks are identified, constantly changing financial services industry, reviewed and prioritised in terms of their potential non-compliance with legislation has emerged as impact on achieving the strategic and business one of the higher risk areas that organisations in objectives. Risk management action plans are our sector face. developed and monitored with the top 20 OMSA risks being reported up to Group level; and any Legislative and other regulatory impacts on our other significant issues or control breakdowns are businesses are identified, documented, assessed escalated. and prioritised and compliance risk management plans are produced and monitored. The Group Inclusion of sustainability factors into Internal Audit function annually conducts an independent review of the compliance processes enterprise risk management and procedures to ensure an objective view of the Our static risk profile currently covers 131 risks in status of compliance. a single risk log that includes financial, operational and strategic risks and is a component of each The OMSA compliance officer has responsibility executive’s reporting. Our risk profile is currently for determining OMSA’s future compliance driven from a financial savings perspective only. strategy, dealing with our primary regulators and Many of the identified risks relate to sustainability co-ordinating and monitoring the effectiveness and highlight its inclusion in our core business of the overall OMSA compliance structure. A strategy and delivery. Although not currently standardised compliance framework and Group included, we are now exploring how we include Compliance Manual have been developed and the potential risks generated by our investment published. To ensure effective implementation of decisions. We are also developing a control regulatory requirements, individual compliance framework to govern unlisted investments. officers are allocated to individual segments of the business and business units. Regulatory compliance and related In 2008, Deloitte UK, at the request of Old issues Mutual plc in London, conducted a Compliance The OMSA compliance function ensures we adhere Effectiveness Review across OMSA. ‘Good Practice’ to the legislation and regulations that govern our findings were awarded for OMSA across all five sector. The function provides our stakeholders compliance areas assessed. In supporting industry with the assurance we will provide our clients with best practice of corporate governance, OMSA appropriate financial advice, we will honour their actively engages with government and regulators policies, safeguard their pensions and protect in the development of financial services legislation their investments. and regulation. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 11 Framework for managing sustainability (continued) Stakeholder engagement Old Mutual recognises the competitive benefits of proactive stakeholder engagement. At the end In addition to political role-players a range of 2008 we completed a Stakeholder Perception of stakeholders needs to be considered. and Relationship Quality Survey to benchmark The formulation of an engagement strategy our stakeholder engagement approach. The is important for all stakeholders and the results guided our stakeholder engagement success of this strategy will, in part, be strategy in 2009; which focused on engaging our dependent on reviewing and prioritising stakeholders in an effective way, managing our our engagement with those individuals relationships over the long-term and working with that represent the following stakeholder them to identify risks and opportunities for the groups: business. § Our people: management, boards/ directors, sales forces, and the rest of We are committed to making sure that our the group. stakeholder engagement is transparent and inclusive ensuring meaningful dialogue. In doing § Distribution: IFAs, brokers and other so, we consistently improve our engagement intermediaries. process through seeking ongoing conversations § Customers: policyholders/customers with a diverse stakeholder base in a manner and corporate clients (both locally and that promotes constructive engagement, internationally). advances long-term relationship building and provides impactful outcomes that are measured § Government: local and other. and monitored. Our stakeholder engagement programme is coordinated through a designated § Political parties. unit within the Corporate Affairs team, with § Political, economic and social forums its mandate being to manage the company’s and committees. reputation. § Trade unions. Respect and integrity in stakeholder relations § Faith-based organisations. are central to the philosophy and value system of OMSA. To this end, it is essential that § Local regulatory bodies including FSA commitments we make are kept as this supports and SARB. the building of trust and establishing good § Shareholders. working relationships with stakeholders. § The investment community in general. § Specific sectors of the investment community (e.g. FTSE4Good). § Companies and institutions in which we are invested. Stakeholder engagement approach § Media: local and international. § Local communities. Initiate Analyse and stakeholder plan § Suppliers. engagement process Strengthen § Business partners. engagement Identify key capacity § Black Business Partners (BBPs). stakeholders and Stakeholder Design significant engagement process and § Business Associations: Business issues engage Leadership SA (BLSA); the National Business Initiative (NBI); BUSA and ASISA. § NGOs and SMMEs supported by the Foundation and Masisizane Act, review and report 12 We also engage in public dialogues (for example, Dinokeng Scenarios, as detailed on page 7) and debates aimed at exploring key issues, challenges and conversations current to Old Mutual, the national agenda and global positions. “A good reputation stands or falls We see our revised approach to stakeholder on the perception of stakeholders. engagement as an opportunity to continue to improve our service to, and our impact on, the Essentially our stakeholders are citizens and businesses in South Africa and partners in our long-term value Africa. To this end, we have taken up corporate creation.” membership with a number of associations, such as the Association for Black Accountants in Head, Stakeholder Relations South Africa, Black Management Forum, Business Leadership South Africa and the Institute of Directors (IoD) South Africa. A full list is available on the website. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 13 14 Sustainability Review Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 15 Serving our customers Material issues >> Customer feedback: ensuring we engage with and respond to our customers >> Product access: making relevant products and services accessible to consumers >> Financial education: empowering consumers to make informed financial decisions >> Product pricing: providing products that are fairly and affordably priced >> Product promotion: ensuring that we market our products and services fairly and accurately Indicator 2009 figures Percentage of customer delighted by OMSA’s customer service 55% Percentage of customers satisfied by OMSA’s customer service 89% Capital committed by Old Mutual shareholders to Masisizane for loans R650 million to SMMEs Number of new OMSA retail branches providing services to customers 65 opened in 2009 Number of individuals directly trained through our financial education 49 724 programmes in 2009 Customers have become more discerning over Our financial education programmes were time, viewing product quality, value for money, provided to almost 50 000 people in 2009. While value of advice and investment performance as some of our programmes showed a marked part of their service experience. Governments increase in participants, others showed a decline, have begun to ensure that consumers are which needs to be addressed. provided with responsible access to financial products and services. With the recession, the The key challenge that we face in product pricing integrity of the financial sector has been called is balancing added costs of products with the need into question. to keep prices as low as possible for customers. In terms of product promotion, our focus is Old Mutual is predominantly a service organisation on providing appropriate advice and avoiding and every employee is regarded as a brand misleading communications. ambassador. We actively seek and value client feedback so that we can improve. We have developed affordable products and services suited to less affluent markets and have distributed them through appropriate channels. “The recession has forced us to innovate, to go back to basics, to regain the lost skills and the detail we took for granted and to be more intimate with our customers so that we can understand and provide for them even better than before.” Marshall Rapiya, Managing Director, Retail Mass Market 16 “Everything that does not add value to our customers is waste. Using Lean principles, by removing waste, we improve customer satisfaction, drive down costs and create a more empowered working environment.” Rose Keanly, Managing Director, Old Mutual Service Technology and Administration Lean Transformation – Targets are set to improve work practices Old Mutual South Africa’s strategy and improve business performance and these are built into annual performance to sustainably improve service and contracts. Alongside cementing and drive down costs improving lean traction, there is also OMSTA* commenced its Lean a focus on business performance and Transformation in 2005/2006. Lean is based involvement including quality, productivity, on the philosophy that anything that does delivery and energised people. not add value to the customer is waste and that, by eliminating waste, service will Results achieved through the Lean improve and costs will decrease. Following focus initial pilots, Lean has been rolled since 2007, with all initiatives aimed at building In 2009 alone, we have achieved direct a clear lean philosophy and culture into financial savings of R60 million through OMSTA. specifically identified lean interventions and a further R190 million indirectly as OMSTA Way part of a culture of operational excellence that is inherent in Lean leadership, while To ensure sustainability of the Lean improving service levels. In the last year, journey, in 2007 OMSTA began codifying we have also received a number of service the Lean principles and other best of breed awards as detailed in the box overleaf. management and work practices into 15 modules called the OMSTA Way. Using Lean problem-solving methodologies, we can The way forward most effectively identify problems, root We in OMSTA believe that Lean is a long causes and potential countermeasures. term (10 to 20 year) journey and that we Lean principles are then applied in driving are in its early stages. The value that we process improvements. Management and have achieved has lead other parts of OMSA champions from the floor drive changes, to also actively want to explore Lean. While with leadership spending time visiting the this will stretch our capability, the future floor to support the implementations. potential is significant. * The Old Mutual Service Technology and Administration division which provides most of OMSA’s policy administration and IT services Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 17 Serving our customers (continued) >> Customer feedback OMSA customer service awards OMSA won the Best SA Customer Service Centre award at the annual national 2009 African Stars Awards for national contact centres. Ms Bulelwa Koyana, interim CEO of Business Process enabling South Africa (BPeSA) says, “Congratulations to Old Mutual. You continue to show why South Africa is an internationally renowned Business Process Outsourcing and call centre destination.” OMSA has again been recognised as the industry winner in the Long-Term Insurance Industry section in the 2009 Ask Afrika Orange Index Survey on Service Excellence having won the same award in 2008. In commenting on the results in Finweek, Ameila Richards (Ask Afrika Business Manager) made the point that ”Old Mutual has consistently provided good service in the longterm insurance industry since 2008.” Customer surveys Customer service tracking study Client feedback allows us to improve our services We undertake a customer service tracking study and processes. Our surveys (detailed below) have twice a year, canvassing 5 000 respondents indicated that, largely as a result of the recession, who have been serviced during that year. The consumers have moved from being passive survey assesses responsiveness, efficiency, buyers who are tolerant and trusting of companies reliability, accountability, warmth, courtesy and to becoming more demanding and discerning, demonstrable support. sceptical of companies, risk averse, avoiding In June 2009, our results indicated that we are credit and seeking simplicity in the products still satisfying a large number (89%) of our and services that they purchase. This change in customers, while the number of dissatisfied mindset has required us to reconsider how we customers remained the same at 7%. We noted, engage with our customers and the products and however, a 6% decline in delighted customers, services that we offer. which we need to address. Results of the 2009 customer service tracking study Category 2007 2008 2009 Delighted (score 9 – 10) 62% 61% 55% Satisfied (score 6 – 10) 88% 89% 89% Dissatisfied (score 0 – 5) 8% 7% 7% “To ensure our products are designed to meet customers’ needs and preferences, we rely heavily on market feedback. The strongest message that they’re giving is that they want products that are easy to understand.” Richard Treagus, General Manager, Product Development OMSA’s good reputation was ranked first out of the top ten Johannesburg Stock Exchange-listed companies, across all industries as surveyed by the Reputation Institute. 18 Customer value proposition (CVP) study the brand is still struggling to improve its For the last five years, we have undertaken an leadership perceptions and trust is being eroded annual customer value proposition (CVP) study in the core market. Key findings for the highacross our Retail Affluent customers, which income groups indicate an improvement in overall complements the customer satisfaction survey. satisfaction scores, but the score is still very low Key findings for the middle-income groups are against the target set. Detailed findings from the that the overall satisfaction scores have declined, survey can be found on the website. Percentage of OMSA clients who have experienced high levels of overall customer satisfaction (scoring 9 – 10 out of 10) Income group 2008 2009 R10 000 – R12 000 55% 45% R12 001 – R20 000 41% 37% R20 001 – R30 000 33% 25% “Communicate with regard to the performance of investments during the current economic climate and offer peace of mind with regard to security.” Old Mutual South Africa customer Brand tracker survey and information regarding the complaints process We also undertake a brand tracker survey that and escalation protocols is available through all assesses the views of OMSA customers and nonchannels. Where a client feels that their complaint customers across all segments. The research is not adequately addressed, channels are shows that there is a reservoir of growing available to escalate the matter. The Old Mutual goodwill towards Old Mutual that is waiting to be Office of Internal Arbitration facilitates arbitration harnessed. or independent assessment of client complaints where required. We had a 9% decrease in Customer complaints complaint volumes in 2009 over 2008 volumes. We actively learn from all complaints so that we can substantially improve service processes, OMSA actively works with industry to improve product design and advice processes. The complaints governance. We are a subscribing Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services member of the voluntary Ombudsman for Long(FAIS) Act requires that each financial institution term Insurance scheme, an active member has a documented and properly maintained of the Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance internal complaints resolution procedure. This is Committee and engage with all relevant statutory guided in OMSA by an Internal Complaints Policy ombudsman schemes. We also engage regularly and procedure. with the International Network of Financial Services Ombudsman Schemes to share ideas and Clients can lodge complaints with OMSA through stay abreast of all relevant developments. our branches, call centre, website or in writing, Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 19 Serving our customers (continued) >> Product access The Foundation Market OMSA’s Foundation Market Business was created in 2007 to formally service the foundation market Old Mutual South Africa’s five – a market recognised as significant enough to public-facing segments warrant a special focus. We serve this market on a § Foundation Market commercial basis to ensure sustainability beyond (incomes of R1 to R3 000 per month) simply satisfying legislative requirements. § Retail Mass Our foundation market products are designed (incomes of R3 000 to R12 000 per to be as simple, affordable and as accessible month) as possible. The business delivers to two core § Retail Affluent groupings: community groups and individuals. We (incomes of R12 000 to R80 000 per have built a strong reputation for honouring valid month) claims and for paying within 48 hours of receiving all claim documentation. We have recently also § Corporate (pension funds, etc.) launched a new product called Group Funeral § Old Mutual Investment Group South Solutions, where we target the same communities Africa (asset managers and the but with age-banded rates. While community boutique model) groups – including burial society groups, stokvels and funeral parlours – form the bulk of financial services purchased in this market, there has been a growing demand from individuals for financial services, particularly in urban areas. In order to provide access to financial services to all consumers, and to tap into the business Serving individuals opportunities of less affluent markets, we have To service this demand and to ensure easy developed affordable products and services suited access for citizens, OMSA has engaged with to the Foundation and Retail Mass markets. We outlets such as retailers like Shoprite to act as focus on providing for the foundation market distribution points. We offer a Pay-When-You-Can through community groups and alternative family funeral product, specifically designed for channels such as retail outlets. Through our resources and capital allocations to Masisizane’s those who cannot commit to monthly payments. programmes, we contribute to the financing Given that these products are not sold by and capacitating of micro, small and medium financial advisers, careful attention is required to enterprises, particularly those owned by women, provide simplified products and literature to help youth and people with disabilities. customers understand what they are buying and the implications of their purchase. While our products are priced to reflect inherent risks, we have tried to keep the products as affordable as possible and to keep the pricing structure simple. Elements of product access § The Foundation Market: providing Providing services under one roof access to financial products such as In 2007, we embarked on a project called Imbizo funeral polices and accidental death in order to provide for services in rural areas. cover to low-income customers. Initially, together with Mutual & Federal, Nedbank and Wiphold, the vision was to build ‘green § Masisizane: financing, supporting and providing financial education to micro, shops’ in specific areas where a core need was small and medium-sized enterprises identified. In the first such initiative in the Eastern owned by women, youth and the Cape, the group of companies sponsored the disabled. building materials and the structures were built by the communities themselves. Through this § Lending a hand: providing loan mechanism, and with the flagship green shop built products. in Centane in the Eastern Cape, as a Group, we have been able to provide the community there with all financial services under one roof. 20 Challenges “We are building a nation and We face a number of challenges in providing for the foundation market. While we need to ensuring a better tomorrow for all ensure that our products are affordable, we South Africans through our focused also need to ensure commercial profitability to maintain the sustainability of the business. The transformation efforts as well as in competitive landscape is tough and the legislative our daily business, by developing and economic environment challenging. There financial products and services are, however, new opportunities created by the potential micro-insurance legislation that has been that are more accessible, more the subject of discussion in the industry over the affordable, more flexible and easier last year. to understand by more people.” Through our experiences in setting up and growing our Retail Mass business, we are Crispin Sonn, Director, Marketing, Communication and confident that we can profitably serve the Corporate Affairs foundation market while meeting consumers’ needs. Masisizane: investing in transforming the South African economy Masisizane or “let’s help each other” is a set of development initiatives aimed at supporting national economic transformation. When Old Mutual demutualised in 1999 eligible policyholders were issued with shares. Policy holders were required to claim these shares and by 2006 98% had done so. The shares were placed in an Unclaimed Shares Trust and when this was closed in 2006 approximately 54 million shares remained unclaimed. The after-tax proceeds were split three ways and Masisizane was initially allocated R400 million, which was Site visit: Andile Ncontsa (Head, Old Mutual later topped up to R650 million. Three Foundation), Sanele Titus (Chairman, Tshapile main areas are focused on; enterprise Ulimo) and Ayanda Sema (Programme development, with a bias toward womenManager, Enterprise Development) owned business, capacity building through * See further information on Tshapile Ulimo on page 45 skills development and financial education, and assistance with marketing. For more on the work of Masisizane please visit our website http://www.oldmutual.co.za/ Breakdown of Masisizane fund allocation about-us/transformation/masisizane.aspx Current Masisizane initiatives Investment SME financing R375 million Masisizane is a development financier established as a Section 21 Company and with a mandate Financial education R60 million that includes the initiatives detailed overleaf. iLima Trust R50 million Importantly, the Masisizane strategy is based on collaboration between OMSA and partners, Technical & marketing support R40 million from government, the private sector and civil Promotion R25 million society, to leverage combined efforts and facilitate business-to-business and business-toMicro-financing R100 million government collaboration in economic and social Total R650 million transformation. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 21 Serving our customers (continued) Financing and support of enterprises: focused on loans, our approach is focused on responsible micro, small and medium-sized enterprises owned lending. Roughly 44% of credit active consumers by women, youth and the disabled to facilitate in South Africa are more than three months in access to resources for job creation and poverty arrears on one or more of their credit accounts. alleviation, predominantly in rural and periParticularly in the case of loans, we identified that urban areas. Applicants are supported to ensure foundation and mass market customers feel more the sustainability of the business. Masisizane comfortable engaging with us in a retail shop has taken over the funding element of youth environment (rather than via call centres and development from the Umsobomvu Fund. In agents). During 2009, we therefore rolled out 65 terms of progress to date, 9 690 jobs have been new Old Mutual retail shops across the country in created and repayment rates are, on average, shopping centres, CBDs and townships, that offer around 96%. all Retail Mass Market insurance and loan products (including funeral cover, insurance, education Free financial education: see further information policies, loans, investments and savings) and on page 24. servicing. These branches stay open later at night Skills capacity building: the iLima Trust is where required. We created 500 new jobs through staffed by former OMSA senior and executive the rollout of these branches, with a focus on managers who chose early retirement in order recruiting staff members from local communities. to contribute their knowledge, experience and We anticipate the development of a further 65 to skills to build capacity. They focus on developing 70 branches per year for the next few years. leaders employed in national, provincial and local government, assisting with policy-making, Our current focus is on unsecured loans. Personal development of processes and procedures, and loans are granted up to R25 000 to be paid the training and development of management over three years. Debt consolidation loans up and staff. In addition, they provide training, to R100 000 to be paid off within five years are support and assistance to community-based and offered in the form of our My Money Plan product. non-governmental organisations and emerging Over time, we would like to expand into the enterprises, including many women-owned housing loan market. enterprises supported by Masisizane. My Money Plan Promotion of foreign investments: R25 million has The first component of the My Money Plan product been committed by Old Mutual plc to encourage is debt consolidation, without which consumers foreign direct investment into initiatives in South frequently have multiple debit orders, resulting Africa that are aligned with the Masisizane in higher bank charges, multiple initiation and mandate. administration fees and no personal relationships with one service provider. Masisizane operates through collaboration with partners, from government and private sector, The second component helps the customer to plan to leverage economic and social transformation. ahead and to provide for unforeseen expenses. In November 2009, we signed a memorandum Customers are given access to interest-free cash of understanding with Land Bank, which will give in the periods towards the end of the month, us access to supporting farming enterprises and helping them to avoid using expensive loan communities. channels. To assess the social benefits that Masisizane We tailor our products to suit what our customers provides through its assistance, an impact study are able to afford and illustrate the instalments was conducted by iLima in association with they need to make and how to plan for when they GreaterGood South Africa during the first half of will need money. We also provide our customers 2009 that resulted in the development of a social with their bureau records and explain how credit impact assessment process and tool. ratings affect them and how they can qualify for credit. To encourage good debt management Lending a hand and the building of customer credit integrity, My In 2007, OMSA decided to move into the field of Money Plan provides cash awards to clients who providing loan products through a joint venture. stick to their payment plans. Approach with a difference We facilitate access to debt counsellors should a In contrast to some of our competitors, who potential client be too indebted for us to be able focus on a quick turnaround time for providing to help them. 22 “We believe that by delivering responsible financial solutions, supported by long-term plans and relationships, we will help clients reach financial independence.” Phillip Vermeulen, CEO, Old Mutual Finance >> Financial education Financial well-being programme participants Financial education empowers consumers with knowledge and skills to enable them to make informed decisions about their finances Number of participants and lifestyles. We run our consumer financial education through three programmes: the 14 000 financial well-being programme; Financial 12 000 Sector Charter (FSC) programme; and through Masisizane. The financial well-being programme, 10 000 run through our corporate clients, saw a marked increase in the number of participants, showing 8 000 the increased demand for financial education 6 000 by employees. While we have seen a significant increase in the number of people being trained 4 000 through our FSC-related programme, the number of Masisizane clients provided with 2 000 financial training has decreased and needs to be addressed. Financial education and product 0 advice is also provided by our tied agents and 2007 2008 2009 independent brokers and is covered further in the chapter on Strengthening relationships with our intermediaries (see page 32). Financial education provided against Financial education programmes the guidelines of the Financial Sector § Financial well-being: financial education Charter programme provided to the employees As per the Financial Sector Charter (FSC), the of companies, including OMSA. education that we provide must also be physically accessible, appropriate, affordable, simple and § Financial Sector Charter education: non-discriminatory. providing financial education for people in LSMs 1-5 who are consumers or In complying with the FSC, more than 25% of potential consumers of first order retail our financial education is focused on peri-urban financial services and consumers of and rural areas across eight of the country’s credit for low-income housing, black provinces; our consumer education is provided SMEs and agricultural development. free of charge; and we have simplified our programmes and translated them into the official § Masisizane financial education: targets languages of South Africa. The programme is the Masisizane loan clients, Old Mutual focused on helping consumers to understand the Foundation, iLima Municipalities, importance of managing finance and ensuring a Imbizos and Retail Mass Market clients. positive credit rating, to be able to differentiate between wants and needs, set goals for needs and families and access financial institutions and Financial well-being financial credit. Our ‘On the Money’ financial well-being programme is provided to Old Mutual employees. As per the charter, 0.02% of after-tax profit is In addition, we provide the programme to the spent on consumer financial education. Eighty employees of companies that we serve. A percent of OMSA’s consumer financial education is total of 11 457 participants across these carried out through face-to-face interventions and businesses were trained in 2009 (2008: 5 988; 20% through media channels such as the radio. 2007: 1 557). R 3.5 million was spent on the programme in 2009, an increase from R1.26 Further as per the FSC, we try as far as possible million spent in 2008. We have had challenges to ensure that consumers wishing to enter into in low attendance at workshops, affecting the credit agreements with OMSA have received budgeting of our education provision and in financial education or demonstrated they can getting companies to release employees for a make an informed choice regarding entering into whole day. a credit agreement. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 23 Serving our customers (continued) Financial education training Financial education training by gender (2009) Number of participants 25 000 20 000 25% 15 000 Training 10 000 Achieved 75% 5 000 0 2007 2008 2009 Number of participants trained Female Annual target for training Male Target audiences our programmes provide information and allow Our initiatives are targeted at learner education for questions and answers and are run across and adult education. Learner education is offered ten radio stations that broadcast in ten of the to learners in grades four, five and six, with OMSA 11 official languages of South Africa. For the developing its own games that are aligned with print channel, we target three publications with their curriculum. In 2009, training was given to a high LSM 1 – 5 readership. Financial advice is 2 684 children. As part of this campaign, 2 501 given on various themes, such as parenting and parents, educators and community members of finances; youth and finances; and when to start grade four, five and six learners were provided saving for retirement. We have also run columns with financial education. on managing finances and quizzes on managing finances. Candidates for the adult education programmes are identified through burial societies, Financial education to support unemployed youth, church groups and stokvels, Masisizane clients SMMEs and agricultural groups. Adult education is The Masisizane financial education initiatives classroom-based but interactive. Workshops are target the Masisizane loan clients, Old Mutual held over a full day but are sometimes divided Foundation, iLima Municipalities, Imbizos and into modules to suit the availability of delegates. Retail Mass Market clients. We use the Old Mutual’s On-the-Money programme and Programme performance recruit unemployed graduates as trainers, In 2009, a total of 20 849 participants were with 868 individuals having been through the trained out of a target of 20 000 (2008: workshop training since inception. OMSA’s 15 857; 2007: 677). A total of R 12.12 million Foundation Market division in 2009 won the was spent during 2009, an increase from International Labour Organisation (ILO) grant R8.2 million spent in 2008 and R7.8 million for micro-insurance development linked with spent in 2007. The project was implemented financial education. This grant of approximately in eight provinces and workshops were R2.5 million will support the Foundation Market conducted in nine official languages. Initiatives. Part of it is being utilised in a joint We ask participants for their feedback on the impact assessment study to help us learn more training provided so that we can improve the about how financial education can be utilised programme where necessary. To receive more to best serve the Foundation Market segment, thorough feedback, we are in the process of as well as Masisizane clients. A total of 17 458 developing and piloting preand post-assessment participants were trained in 2009 (at a cost tests, which will be implemented during 2010. of R3.8 million) against 25 931 in 2008. The decrease in numbers could be linked to the On the Money programme economic downturn as the people in these areas While our On the Money programme was need to travel distances to attend workshops. traditionally run for employees of corporates While feedback regarding the programme has (see the Financial Well-being section), we have been very positive, we are developing an impact adapted the programme to run through both assessment tool to identify where the programme radio and print channels. For the radio channel, needs to be reviewed. 24 Financial education to support Masisizane clients 2007 2008 2009 Total participants 3 244 25 931 17 458 Total spend R5 916 528 R5 834 146 R3 799 679 Number of Masisizane-linked participants trained No. “The workshop 10 000 was a wakeup call on how 7 500 to be more 5 000 efficient in how to make a 2 500 budget out of 0 what we have.” Masisizane Old Mutual iLima Retail Mass Imbizos loan clients Foundation MuniciMarket palities clients Feedback comment from financial education 2008 2009 workshop >> Product pricing Product promotion >> We design products that are appropriate for Our four values of integrity, respect, accountability each of our segments. Pricing of these products and pushing beyond boundaries assist us in being builds in risk assessments – for example charging a customer-centric company. Nine years ago, we lower premiums for people who live a healthier reviewed the business to ensure that products and lifestyle – and asks only for checks that are distribution channels meet high level customers’ relevant. We take great pains to ensure that we needs for each customer segment. are not implementing discriminatory pricing by backing up all our pricing with evidence as to its While OMSA has a marketing strategy, the units appropriateness. We ensure sensible underwriting accountable for each segment are responsible for that is fair and justifiable with any differentiation marketing that is specific to their area of focus, based on objective criteria. detailed in a customer value proposition. As a company, we set targets for what we want to Bodies exist that produce pricing data for all in be known for and we conduct market surveys to the industry to use. We are currently reviewing assess whether we are reaching our targets and all industry agreements to assess whether they to identify where we are doing well and what we might be viewed as collusive. need to improve on. This is discussed further in the section on Customer Feedback (see page 18). A key challenge that we face is the conflict between increasingly stringent regulations which, To reduce incidents of misleading communications while protecting customers, add costs to product through advertising, all advertising and marketing development and distribution, and the need to materials follow the Advertising South Africa keep prices as low as possible for customers. codes and go through an internal sign-off process While we ensure good pricing of our products in that includes legal, actuarial and marketing line with regulations and to make them affordable screening. We ensure that all marketing material to consumers, we need to ensure that we can is aligned with promises made in contracts. With provide the service required. responses to media reports either being given by OMSA or by the segment, it has been recognised that the reporting process and tracking system needs to be more formalised. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 25 Investing responsibly Material issues >> OMSA’s SRI funds: providing investment options to our clients that are socially and environmentally responsible >> Transformation-related financing: channelling funds as formally prescribed in the Financial Sector Charter (FSC)* >> SRI-based investment decisions: incorporating environmental, social and governance criteria into our investment decision-making *Reporting split between ‘OMSA’s SRI Funds’ and ‘Enterprise Development’ (see page 43). Indicator 2009 figures Assets under management in socially responsible investment (SRI) funds R21.1 billion Percentage of SRI funds against all OMIGSA’s assets under management 4.89%* *Funds under management for the OMIGSA boutiques at 31 December 2009 excludes any assets that the life company OMLACSA invests directly with external asset managers. OMSA has a duty to generate returns for its OMSA has developed SRI-related products clients, but is also aware that its investments and more information can be found below. may have an impact on the environment or on Transformation-related funding refers to the communities in which the business invests or extent to which a company has channelled a operates. There are some investment products certain proportion of its funds under management and capabilities available from our life assurance into investments that are responsible in the and asset management businesses, which context of South Africa’s transformation. are managed on an ethical basis and some This has been prescribed in the Financial which could be tailored by clients to an ethical Sector Charter (FSC) scorecard and covers: perspective. We have taken steps to make our targeted investments, such as funding of public asset managers aware of industry initiatives such infrastructure projects, agricultural projects and as the United Nations Principles of Responsible funding of SMMEs and BEE transaction financing. Investment and the Equator Principles. All the Our BEE transaction financing is covered in the funds, products and mandates we manage are Enterprise Development section in the chapter done so in a transparent way and clients receive Continuing our commitment to transformation information about how their funds are invested. (see page 43). We believe that this is the best way to enable clients to factor social and ethical factors into their Our asset management business is structured as investment plans and choices. a multi-boutique group comprising a number of specialist investment businesses. Each of these There are three aspects to the issue of responsible has their individual investment policy and process investing which, as a financial institution, we and makes investment decisions independent of report on here: the others. As such, we do not have a centralised approach to responsible investment decision§ our development of particular SRI-related making: some of our boutiques have considered products; incorporating responsible investment into their § transformation-related financing; and approach (and indeed include reviews of SRI factors as a cornerstone of their investment § SRI-based investment decision-making. philosophy), while in others SRI does not play a prominent role in this regard. 26 >> Old Mutual South Africa’s SRI Funds with good returns. Our approach to SRI, has to a large extent, been defined by the requirements of The interest in and awareness of SRI is growing the Financial Services Charter (FSC). With the FSC amongst institutional investors. Domestically, this being under review, we are tracking developments change is being driven by a shift in the focus of so that we can respond and adjust our definition empowerment based on ownership to a broadof SRI funds to be aligned with industry and based approach considering: international standards. The exceptions to this § the upliftment of entire sections of society; are Futuregrowth and the Ideas Fund, whose approach to SRI was in place before the FSC came § the acceptance of the potential challenges of into being and whose definitions are aligned with climate change; and best practice internationally. § the direct impact of electrical power supply An overview of the SRI-related funds in OMIGSA problems. is detailed below, with total assets under management of R21.1 billion (committed rather Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa than invested funds). This is 4.89% of all funds (OMIGSA) has undertaken to provide mechanisms under management for the OMIGSA boutiques for direct institutional investment in economic at 31 December 2009 (excluding any assets that transformation assets, and has established the life company OMLACSA invests directly with industry-leading capabilities in these areas. external asset managers). We are fund raising In addition to being focused on considering to expand the size of certain of our SRI-related environmental, social and governance (ESG) funds. An overview of select SRI funds follows, factors, our SRI funds offer diversified portfolios with further details available on the website. Old Mutual Investment Group (SA)’s SRI funds Fund Assets under management Date of inception Futuregrowth Development Equity Fund R525.9 million August 2006 Futuregrowth Infrastructure and R3.9 billion January 1995 Development Bond Fund Futuregrowth Community Property Fund R3.3 billion June 1996 Futuregrowth SRI Equity Fund R47.3 million August 2004 Futuregrowth SRI Balanced Fund R6.7 million November 2004 Housing Impact Fund R4.6 billion November 2007 SRI Real Estate Fund R350 million June 2007 African Infrastructure Investment Fund R1.3 billion (fully committed) January 2004 South Africa Infrastructure Fund R721 million (fully committed) May 2000* R649 million (R173 million Kagiso Infrastructure Empowerment Fund committed, R476 million September 2006 uncommitted) Community Growth Equity Fund R2.4 billion June 1992 Community Growth Gilt Fund R1.1 billion July 1998 Community Growth Money Market Fund R18.65 million August 2002 Community Growth Fund of Funds R30 million April 2005 IDEAS Fund R2.4 billion January 1999 * AIIM assumed management of South African Infrastructure Fund in May 2000 (fund inception was in 1996) Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 27 Investing responsibly (continued) Futuregrowth funds The fund invests in projects that include Futuregrowth Asset Management joined Old infrastructure development and social services; Mutual Investment Group South Africa (OMIGSA) community development; consumer and business in August 2008 as the boutique specialising in access to finance; agricultural development and fixed interest and socially responsible investments land reform; small medium and micro-enterprise (SRI). Futuregrowth is a signatory to the United development; black economic empowerment; and Nation’s Principles for Responsible Investing low income and affordable housing. (UNPRI), a framework for investors considering environmental, social and corporate governance The Futuregrowth SRI Equity Fund was initiated (ESG) issues in investment practices. in August 2004 and currently has R47.3 million assets under management. Based on the Futuregrowth segments the SRI universe into SRI principles of the JSE Socially Responsible three categories, with a particular focus on Investment Index, the fund includes listed positively screened investments: companies that integrate corporate responsibility § Positively screened investments: involves with business performance and activities. The making investments in activities and fund also aims to encourage businesses to companies believed to have a positive social achieve long-term shareholder value through impact. developing and harnessing market potential for sustainable products and services, while reducing § Negatively screened investments: excludes and avoiding costs and risks associated with certain securities from investment unsustainable business practices. consideration based on social and/or environmental criteria. African Infrastructure Investment § Investor engagement: a process of Managers (AIIM) engagement by shareholders and lenders with The funds within AIIM (a joint venture established companies to monitor and effect corporate by OMIGSA and Macquarie Africa (Pty) Ltd) ESG strategies. are focused on making equity investments in The Futuregrowth Infrastructure and Development infrastructure assets in South Africa and across Bond Fund was initiated in January 1995 and Africa. While AIIM invests in infrastructure currently has R3.9 billion worth of assets under projects with a view to making commercial and management, making it the largest dedicated financial gains, the projects it undertakes have infrastructure debt fund in southern Africa. The various social and environmental framework key aim of the fund is to make investments that requirements, providing additional governance facilitate infrastructural, social, environmental and structures supporting the legal and regulatory economic development. requirements. Futuregrowth Infrastructure and Development Futuregrowth SRI Equity Fund performance Bond Fund performance (Dec 2009) (Dec 2009) % % 10 35 9.13 32.53 8.83 30 8 26.72 27.60 7.12 6.47 25 22.74 6 5.51 20.37 4.07 20 18.67 4 15 2.13 11.73 2 1.58 9.71 1.08 10 6.38 5.90 0 5 -0.99 -2 0 3 6 1 3 5 3 6 1 3 5 months months year years* years* months months year years* years* Infrastructure and Development All Bond Index Bond Fund SRI Equity Fund SRI Index * annualised * annualised 28 The IDEAS Fund is a tangible example of the ability of institutional investors to address the social imperatives of development while maintaining strong investment returns. The Infrastructural, Development and (see figure below). The performance of the fund Environmental Assets (IDEAS) Managed more closely mirrors the performance of the bond Fund market over the period (see figure below). This The IDEAS Fund is a socially responsible period stands out as a valuable example of the investment (SRI) vehicle marketed by Setsing non-correlated nature of the fund’s returns and its Financial Services (Pty) Ltd, a company jointly benefit as a portfolio diversifier. owned by Unity Incorporation and OMIGSA. Growth going forward is expected in the areas of The fund invests in infrastructural, environmental clean power, carbon offsets, telecommunications and developmental assets with the objective (data provision and services), developmental to achieve social benefits while delivering projects (such as housing and public private commercially acceptable returns to investors. partnerships for prisons, schools, hospitals and In order to achieve the fund’s objectives, the bulk water supply) and infrastructure (secondary investment philosophy of the fund is to follow market transactions and non-coal energy). In an active, disciplined investment process, 2010 the IDEAS Fund will focus on refining the underpinned by a thorough due diligence process. measurement and reporting of the environmental, social and governance benefits of investments. This is achieved through active and ongoing involvement and clear definitions of responsibility and accountability in the assets under the fund’s Performance (end December 2009) management. Executives take key positions of influence whenever possible so as to meet the % IDEAS Fund objectives for promoting positive 18 change. 16.28% 16.03% 16 14.04% 13.75% 14 13.35% At the end of 2009, the total size of the fund was R2.4 billion but, in addition, it was able to 12 leverage approximately R15 billion in socially 10 responsible investment projects. While the main 8 6.56% focus of the IDEAS Fund is on South African 6 investment opportunities, it also invested in 4 development opportunities within the wider 2 Southern African Development Community 0 (SADC) region. 12 months 5 Since to date years inception Though below the target of CPI +7% in the last IDEAS Fund CPI + 7% year (see figure below), the fund has significantly out-performed equity markets since July 2006 Understanding performance: out-performance of Understanding performance: correlation with conventional portfolio bond performance 550 550 500 500 450 450 Indexed total return value Indexed total return value 400 400 350 350 300 300 250 250 200 200 150 150 100 100 Jan 99 Jan 01 Jan 03 Jan 05 Jan 07 Jan 09 Jan 99 Jan 01 Jan 03 Jan 05 Jan 07 Jan 09 IDEAS Equity Property IDEAS R 153 Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 29 Investing responsibly (continued) Case study: Gugulethu Square Project The IDEAS Managed Fund is the principle investor in the Gugulethu Square project, which was launched on 27 November 2009. The R350-million project illustrates the societal benefits and financial returns achieved through considering environmental, social and governance factors in projects. Environment The project has implemented green building design principles aimed at using less resources and producing less waste. These innovations will result in the centre having increasingly lower operating costs. Key elements are the following: § Energy efficient, water cooled air-conditioning § Natural lighting § Intelligent lighting § Tilt-up concrete façade requiring no external painting § Rain and waste water collection and re-use § On-site recycling § The use of environmentally friendly and recycled materials in construction § Planting of 280 trees Society Community support – regarded as key to the success of the retail development – was actively sought through: § A 25% local investor ordinary equity shareholding, § Allowance for a further 15% community investor shareholding, § A 10% community trust shareholding, § Local entrepreneurship business skills training and development both in terms of franchises (e.g. Spur, Steers, Debonairs) and unique brands (overall approximately 10% of centre area), § More than 30% of employment during construction was local, § Extensive community consultation with local forums, § Incorporation of community aesthetics and poetry into design, § Accommodation of tenants of the former Eyona centre free of charge during construction and the payment of relocation allowance where requested, § The creation of a CBD for Gugulethu. “Gugulethu Square is a dream come true for me and the residents of one of Cape Town’s oldest townships. We thank socially responsible investors such as the IDEAS Fund for making this a reality.” Mzoli Ngcawuzele, owner of Mzoli Properties 30 >> SRI-based investment decisionmaking We recognise that the Public Investment With the exception of Futuregrowth, our Corporation (PIC) – an investment management investment boutiques are not signatories to company wholly owned by the South African the United Nation’s Principles for Responsible Government, which invests funds on behalf of Investing (UNPRI), as our investment processes public sector entities, with its largest client being are not yet able to comply with the significant the Government Employees Pension Fund – is reporting, monitoring and related work required beginning to move from a focus on transformation by the UNPRI. In South Africa, there are factors to a focus on environmental, social and significant conflicting demands on fund managers, governance (ESG) issues. We further recognise with focus being given to addressing the that Old Mutual plc has encouraged our asset transformation issue. management businesses and the life company to include the consideration of environmental and social impacts in investment decision-making processes. “Old Mutual would be a very welcome signatory to the UNPRI at a corporate level – particularly because they are asset owners.” Dr Neil Eccles, Acting Chair, Unisa Institute for Corporate Citizenship Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 31 Strengthening relationships with our intermediaries Material issues >> Building the intermediary pool to ensure equitable access to financial advice >> Raising the standards of financial advice and developing intermediaries’ businesses >> Supporting the sustainability of intermediary businesses Indicator 2009 figures Number of tied advisers supported by OMSA 5 500 Number of independent brokers supported by OMSA 8 000 Number of black brokers trained through the Old Mutual Academy for 194 Financial Planners Number of tied agents trained through workshops 6 176 Number of independent financial advisory practices that entered the South 125 Africa Best Practice of the Year Award competition Percentage of intermediaries satisfied with OMSA’s service delivery 77% § Support our advisers in preparing for the Intermediaries provide financial advice to examinations; and consumers and sell financial and insurance § Provide financial support relating to products and services. registration and examination fees to reward good performance. Intermediaries are a key stakeholder in the OMSA provides a range of support measures in insurance industry, and Old Mutual supports both response to stress on intermediaries’ businesses tied advisers and independent brokers, with a from increasingly stringent regulations, changes focus on building the pool of young and black in commission structures and the economic intermediaries. Intermediaries provide financial downturn. advice to consumers and sell our products. As a financial services provider, we have a duty We see regulatory changes as our main challenge. to ensure that our customers are given sound These changes are viewed by government as financial advice and that they are only sold being crucial to ensure that consumers are products that are relevant and appropriate for provided with sound advice, access to financial them. services and disclosure of information, and that there is a decrease in fraud and abuse. The The FAIS Act has required increased economic environment has also posed challenges professionalism of intermediaries, with for intermediaries who have struggled to generate intermediaries needing to be qualified to provide volumes of income. advice and to comply with advisory processes and disclosure. To address these issues, we: § Invest significantly in enabling our advisers “We’ve spent significant time, to attain the required qualifications through a resources and efforts in partnering learning provider; and engaging with brokers to reinforce the message that we are The Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services (FAIS) Act (2002) provides a their business partner and there for general code of conduct for authorised them in uncertain times.” financial services providers and representatives. Marwan Abrahams, Executive General Manager, Broker Distribution 32 Changes to commission structures Across the industry, upfront commissions on § Address servicing issues, retirement annuities were being charged, with the company which underwrote the contract § Communicate more proactively with our customers so that they don’t choose to recovering their money over the life of the withdraw from their policies. product. This did not create problems if the product was held for life, but if the product The commission structure was revised to a was withdrawn early, the policyholder was system that provides a fairer solution to the required to pay a large penalty. Consumers and customer. With commissions being spread over government began to question the structures. a greater period of time, the impact this has on Together with government and industry the intermediaries needs to be managed. With players, OMSA was engaged in the process the offer of financial security reduced, there of finding a solution. Clients now limit their is a risk that the number of intermediaries termination charges from 15% to 0% over would also decrease, resulting in less financial five years; intermediaries receive less advice being given to consumers. Additional commission up front and instead receive their challenges to advisers are the increased call for commission over a greater period of time; and more stringent qualifications and more detailed life assurance companies (e.g. OMSA) take a paperwork. greater risk. For OMSA, the changes mean that OMSA provides both tied advisers and we have to: independent brokers with business support § Increase our focus on the persistency of the to enable them to weather the changes business, in commission structures as well as other regulatory changes (see main text and on the § Ensure that our customers can afford the website for further details). products they are sold, § Provide our customers with improved advice, Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 33 Strengthening relationships with our intermediaries (continued) The Black Distributors Trust provides financing to qualified Black financial advisers, who are starting their own financial planning businesses. >> Building the intermediary pool recruits that Personal Finance Advice (PFA) and Retail Mass train being black. To further support Intermediaries are a key stakeholder in the transformation, as part of OMSA’s empowerment insurance industry and a core part of the OMSA deal, the Black Distributors Trust fund was set up model. We currently support approximately to support the development of black brokers. 5 500 tied advisers and 8 000 independent brokers through various channels. The high turnover of intermediaries throughout the industry affects the size and quality of the OMSA contributes significantly to the number pool of intermediaries. It is not only in our, but of intermediaries being trained in the country, also our customers’ interests that we minimise improving consumer access to financial advice. this turnover, as we need intermediaries that Traditionally, we have only trained tied agents, understand our products and services, can provide but recent years have seen OMSA investing in customers with sound advice and engage with other training initiatives including the Old Mutual us where improvements are required. To address Academy for Financial Planners (see box below) turnover, we have changed our remuneration and the new broker entrant training. Both these structures, introduced share options, improved initiatives aim to address the representation the way in which we deliver training and altered of intermediaries, with the majority of new the screening process for potential intermediaries. Old Mutual Academy for Financial Planners The Old Mutual Academy for Financial Planners Through a unique balance of theoretical and was established in 2004 to address the need practical infield training and application, the to bring new black brokers into the market, academy now manages to train graduates equip them with the skills necessary to address to reach the full 120 credit, NQF 5, Wealth the financial planning needs of the growing Management qualification in 12 months. The black middle class and provide market access academy has, to date, trained approximately for previously disadvantaged individuals. 203 graduates and has embarked on Not only does the industry need to provide accrediting existing Old Mutual brokers who appropriate products, but it has to deliver had not yet attained their full accreditation. cost-effective distribution by brokers from the same communities speaking the same We introduced a placement programme in 2006 language as customers both literally and that focuses on recruitment and placement figuratively and who comply with the applicable of academy graduates with independent rules and regulations. Furthermore, with the brokerages and bank brokerages. The academy implementation of the Financial Advisers faced closure in 2009 but has now been and Intermediary Services (FAIS) Act, there rescued, with 17 graduates enrolled for 2010. is a need for structured training of financial planners. 34 >> Raising standards of advice and at all regional support centres across the country. We also need to ensure that we design learning supporting intermediaries’ businesses materials that cater for all learning styles and that Ensuring compliance with FAIS all training material is accessible electronically. We incorporate compliance requirements, Despite these challenges, we recognise that such as FAIS, into our business processes. To the training and support of our advisers is ensure compliance, the line manager of the fundamental to providing our customers with good representative checks and signs off each client quality service. advice record before the business is processed. We initiated a substantial roll-out campaign We launched an On-boarding Programme for where training was provided to all staff on the new financial advisers, structured to provide requirements of FAIS and the related processes. day-to-day guidance for the first month of an These requirements have been incorporated adviser’s appointment. The new financial adviser into the learning tracks of advisers and all new and a sales manager work closely together to employees are required to successfully complete understand more about OMSA, its products, an electronic assessment on the requirements of services, processes and systems. FAIS. Practice management coaching Personal financial adviser training Beyond financial advisory training and support, Training is provided to our tied agents through running an effective business in a more onerous a number of different channels such as legislative and higher cost environment requires facilitated workshops, distance learning, virtual intermediaries to be skilled at networking, classrooms, formal qualifications in financial marketing and dealing with the challenges of planning, assessments for learners to track their running a small business. Australian experience improvement needs and advanced coaching has shown that the provision of business advice workshops. We trained 6 176 delegates through has a positive impact on increasing the earnings workshops in 2009 (2008: 5 649; 2007: 2 945). of intermediaries. Celestis Broker Services (Pty) Ltd (a subsidiary of OMSA), Masthead and PFA We have to ensure that our learning materials have further supported independent brokers are updated to reflect changes in legislation, and and tied agents respectively with practice that the updated material is available timeously management coaching. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 35 Strengthening relationships with our intermediaries (continued) Our practice transition offering also deals with Support provided by Masthead the valuation and transition of advisers’ practices OMSA helped establish Masthead in 2004 to to successors on reaching retirement. This is to ensure the continued success of the independent encourage advisers near retirement to transition broker providing access to independent financial their practices to younger advisers, helping to advice. In addition to enabling intermediaries deal with the risk of our ageing sales force and to run an effective business, Masthead assists increasing the number of younger advisers. independent brokers address compliance issues related to FAIS. Masthead has evolved into a Our practice development managers provide recognised representative body for independent one-on-one coaching support to the top 250 PFA intermediaries and is currently the largest advisers and top 15 private wealth management broker network in South Africa with more than advisers. Group workshops are provided for 2 800 members. The organisation provides sales management and advisers not in the top a balanced view of the potential impacts of 250 and, in 2009, workshops were provided regulatory changes on brokers, backed up by solid for 200 advisers most impacted by commission research. Through this approach, Masthead has regulation. Tools and templates on effective established strong credibility with the regulators practice management are also provided. Through ensuring that intermediaries are kept abreast of the up-skilling of sales management in 2008, planned regulatory changes. Both Masthead and basic practice management has been made OMSA encourage intermediaries to raise their available to the balance (approximately 2 000) of concerns to ensure that they are represented the PFA advisers and private wealth management in discussions. Masthead is now also supported consultants. by Sanlam, Metropolitan and Liberty Life, helping OMSA to sustain the independence of We started an annual Practice of the Year intermediaries in the industry. competition in 2007 to recognise the financial advisory practices that demonstrate the use of best business principles. In 2009, 125 Supporting intermediaries beyond >> independent financial advisory practices entered training and practice management the competition, sponsored by OMSA, Coronation During the debate to introduce the changes to Fund Managers Limited, Glacier (Sanlam), commission regulations on savings business (see Liberty, Masthead Distribution Services (Pty) Ltd, box on page 33), OMSA played an active role in Prudential Portfolio Managers and the Financial representing the impact on intermediaries. We Intermediaries Association of Southern Africa helped intermediaries adapt to the changes and (FIA). All the competition finalists were top thus managed any impacts. advisers who spoke positively about the benefits of effective practice management, assisting We provide further support to our intermediaries to build the overall interest in the practice through the recognition of our top producers, and management programme. through incentives. Support includes a variety of engagement, including showcase sessions for all Our practice management support programme tied intermediaries (PFA), management contact, does have its challenges as up-skilling a practice regular communication, brokers being engaged development manager takes time and they through broker consultants, access to specific have to build a rapport with the advisers they broker services in our call centres and access to work with, leading to delays in the programme electronic tools and platforms. We also provide providing results. intermediaries with leads from new and existing clients. In addition, we provide strong legal advice including the provision of training and support on technical advice issues. The quality of the “I should have had this training intermediary relationship and appropriateness of our support is measured through our annual years ago. All advisers should attend Intermediary Tracker Survey. In 2009, 77% of this workshop and learn how to our intermediaries were satisfied with our service delivery versus a target of 72.5%. manage your practice for improved production.” The long-term goal is self-sustainability for all our intermediaries, and this is monitored through Intermediary after attending a workshop held for the the attainment of progress targets in their commission regulation affected advisers businesses. 36 Ensuring ethical behaviour Material issue >> Promoting ethical behaviour amongst our employees and consumers and protecting our funds and clients from fraudulent activity The financial services industry takes responsibility Examples of non-compliance and outcomes are for its customers’ finances. To show we take this published on our intranet. Fraud awareness responsibility seriously, we need to demonstrate presentations are performed regularly across the our commitment to ensuring ethical behaviour. business and employees are required to pass computer-based training modules on a regular OMSA’s forensic function covers internal ethics, basis. risk prevention and management in OMSA and its subsidiaries as well as external risk prevention Various measures are in place to ensure the and management. A benchmark of OMSA’s fraud independence of fraud management, which are function against industry best practice recently detailed on the website. conducted by a third party revealed that our structures and systems are best in class and Reporting channels should manage to eliminate or minimise unethical To provide for safe reporting, OMSA subscribes behaviour. to an external independent anonymous reporting Employees are required to sign off the Company hotline managed by Deloitte and has designated Code of Conduct (CoC) on an annual basis. Group Forensic Services (GFS) to investigate, The CoC encompasses amongst others: the follow up and feedback on all reports received. Code of Ethics; the Policy on Fraud, Theft, Whistle-blowing programmes are in place in most Corruption, Cyber-crime and Associated Internal of the countries where the Old Mutual African Irregularities; Conflicts of Interest Policy; Operations conducts business and GFS also Moonlighting Policy; Gifts Policy; and a Whistleprovides support for these programmes. blowing Policy. Employees are able to make reports directly to Approach to managing fraud GFS via various channels. An increasing number of calls are being received via these channels, The forensic function at OMSA covers the potentially indicating trust being placed in GFS. following functions: A case management system is used to log calls, Investigation function: involving liaising with and track trends and highlight fraud issues to the assisting law enforcement in investigations and business units. working with others in the industry to manage the threats posed by syndicates. An industry Fraud Committee, of which we are an active member, works to address fraud trends and approaches to managing fraud. Detection function: involving identifying potential risks, instigating reviews based on trends, identifying fraudulent activities and taking action. Reporting function: quarterly reports are presented to business units, the OMSA Audit Committee and the Group Audit Committee. Feedback on forensic trends and relevant emerging fraud risks is also provided to business units on a regular basis to assist with proactive management of fraud-related risks. Old Mutual performs reviews on all companies, shares best practice and updates the policy framework as required. The heads of the forensic function of all Old Mutual Group companies meet regularly to discuss fraud-related trends and challenges. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 37 Continuing our commitment to transformation Material issues (seven pillars of transformation as per the dti Codes of Good Practice) >> Equity ownership: participation by black people >> Management and control: appointment of black people to senior management positions >> Employment equity: participation of black people in management levels and disabled people in all levels >> Skills development: skills spend on black employees, black learners and black disabled people >> Preferential procurement: BBBEE procurement spend from all suppliers >> Enterprise development: supporting the development and growth of micro, small and medium businesses and black owned businesses >> Socio-economic development: uplifting communities through financial and other support We view transformation as key to the our 2008 scorecard is presented alongside in line sustainability of the company. According to our with the seven pillars of BBBEE. The full detailed dti scorecard (verified as at December 2008), we scorecard is presented as an appendix to this achieved an overall score of 69.3 which allows report. While we have improved in our scores for us to maintain our level four BEE contributor employment equity and preferential procurement, status. Our BBBEE scoring is verified by AQRATE, our equity ownership and socio-economic regarded as the leader in the verification of development scores have decreased. This is due insurance companies in the financial services to market fluctuations and failing to meet the industry and, in 2009, independently rated the threshold for our socio-economic development number one verification agency in the country by spend. Our skills development score regressed to the Top 500 companies’ survey (at the time of the 4.90, but after focusing on this element, this has award AQRATE were still trading as NERA). been improved to 6.22 (unverified). A summary of our 2009 scorecard compared to 38 “Respect refers to the consideration and regard each of us should display towards our fellow colleagues, no matter how much they differ from us in our beliefs.” Phil Sack, Head of Old Mutual South Africa Industrial Relations dti BBBEE scorecard Element 2007 Score 2008 Score 2009 Score Weighting Equity ownership 18.82 17.61 13.40 20 Management and control 5.34 6.32 6.21 10 Employment equity 4.84 7.72 9.04 15 Skills development 3.49 6.43 4.90 15 Preferential procurement 7.35 11.78 17.92 20 Enterprise development 15 15 15 15 Socio-economic development 3.16 4.28 2.83 5 Total score 57.99 69.13 69.30 100 The detailed dti scorecard can be viewed on page 65. Scorecard weighting for the last three years against weighting of the dti BBBEE scorecard. Score 25 20 15 10 5 0 Equity Management Employment Skills Preferential Enterprise Socioownership and control equity development procurement development economic development 2007 Score 2008 Score 2009 Score Weighting >> Equity Ownership contract specifying how these BEE partners would assist us to achieve transformation in the Ownership participation is encouraged in the workplace. Aspects of the contract include support voting rights attached to shares, the economic in mentoring employees, recruiting key skills, interest rights attached to shares and the extent review of strategies and policies and conducting to which shareholding held by black participants interviews with staff and management. are unencumbered. OMSA did not achieve all the points available Due to being deemed a multi-national by the under ownership primarily due to the size of the Codes, the value of economic interests held by BEE transactions not reaching the general targets black participants was measured as a percentage of 25% black people involvement and 10% black of the value of OMSA’s South African business women involvement. In addition, the net equity operations only, although the BEE transaction was realisation points were not awarded due to the concluded at the Old Mutual plc level. OMSA’s outstanding liabilities by black shareholders BEE deal with Wiphold and Brimstone was the exceeding the value of the shares held by the first of its kind, with an extensive performance black shareholders. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 39 Continuing our commitment to transformation (continued) >> Management and control Management and control figures Sub-categories under this element measure Position 2008 2009 the appointment of black people to the board of directors; participation by black people as Total no. of directors 16 16 executive board members; appointment of black Black directors 7 7 people to senior top and other top management levels; and representation of black people as Black female directors 2 1 independent non-executive board members. In addition, the participation of black women on Total executive directors 3 3 board and top management level is encouraged Black executive directors 1 2 through the adjustment for recognition of gender provisions of the Codes. Black female executive directors 0 0 OMSA achieved milestones in its transformation Independent non-executive by appointing its first black CEO in September 9 8 directors 2009 and its black female human resources director in October 2009. However, the lack of Black independent non-executive 4 3 black executive board members and limited directors participation at the top management level of black people in general, and black women in particular still pose a challenge for us. “Old Mutual’s continued success is >> Employment equity driven by the commitment, energy The Codes measure the participation of black people in senior, middle and junior management and different perspectives of its levels. They also measure the participation of diverse people.” black disabled people in all levels of employment. They further encourage the appointment of black Paul Hanratty, CEO Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual; and women. Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa Headcount by race and gender Gender Race / Gender 2007 2008 2009 African female 2 722 3 106 3 130 Indian female 555 545 537 Female Coloured female 2 465 2 471 2 272 White female 2 545 2 383 2 307 Total female 8 337 8 505 8 246 African male 2 597 2 762 2 801 Indian male 497 500 545 Male Coloured male 1 750 1 817 1 684 White male 2 502 2 328 2 368 Total male 7 346 7 407 7 398 Grand total 15 683 15 912 15 644 Excludes employee figures for Masthead, OM Finance, inactive pensioners, iLima Trust and HiP. 40 “The greatest challenge women face in the financial services industry is to change the mindset that ‘women are not supposed to be high flyers in this industry’ to one of ‘the sky’s the limit!’” Connie Morgets, Executive Financial Adviser Employment equity is part of our bigger employment equity and diversity awareness transformation strategy, helping us to serve the campaigns and host employment equity and South African market better. The OMSA employee diversity dialogues. We also actively focus on profile must reflect the economically active the promotion of women in management and demographics in South Africa across all levels and recruit and accommodate people with disabilities. occupational categories, eradicating all forms of Beyond the numbers, all policies and practices are unfair discrimination in the organisation. scrutinised regarding employment equity. An employment equity plan, developed in line Our 2008 employment equity score was 7.72/15. with the Employment Equity Act, has recently This improved to 9.04 in 2009. Training across been approved by the Department of Labour. the regions covers discrimination, harassment, The employment equity plan outlines our current diversity, disability, etiquette and ethics. status, our goals and our plan to achieve our goals. A roadmap for implementing the plan has Employment equity challenges been developed and was approved by the OMSA Limited participation in senior and middle Exco in December 2009. management levels by black people in general, and black women specifically, and Implementing employment equity limited participation by black female disabled To reach our employment equity targets, we employees adversely affected OMSA’s score include employment equity as a key criteria in for this particular element. Our challenges all strategies and initiatives such as recruitment, in meeting our employment equity targets retention, skills development, the Accelerated include: a limited talent pool of the right skills Development Programme, our intern programme, and profile; ensuring line managers recruit the Leadership Programme, the Actuarial according to the employment equity ratios; and Recruitment Development Programme, the changing perceptions regarding employment TOPP programme (for Chartered Accountants) equity. To address these, we are focusing on the and talent management. We survey employees development of black talent and encouraging to identify any issues that might exist, run dialogue sessions. Focus on women In terms of a focus on women, we run a women-in-leadership forum, which hosts regular meetings with guest speakers every two months. In addition, we run a mentorship programme in which junior female managers are mentored by senior female managers. For our Women’s Day competition this year, the theme was ‘Women who develop the best teams’, with each business unit electing a women leader not limited to senior management. This is regarded as a prestigious award, with the prize being a leadership course in London and in 2009 was won by Marietjie Erasmus (see right). We support women externally through our preferential procurement practices (see page 43), by involving women in business through Masisizane (see page 21) and through various First runner-up, Jomarie Van Zyl; enterprise development CSI programmes (see second runner-up, Jenny Coetzee; and page 45). winner, Marietjie Erasmus Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 41 Continuing our commitment to transformation (continued) >> Skills development Number of employees attending skills training by gender and race group This element measures skills spend on black employees and black disabled employees, with No. a focus on the amount spent on black women 12 000 and the participation of black people in learner programmes as defined in the Codes. 10 000 The total BEE skills development leviable amount 8 000 for 2009 was determined to be R3 372 million. 6 000 Although there was significant financial 4 000 investment into skills development, our score was affected by the Codes targets focusing on black 2 000 people with disability (as opposed to all people 0 with disability) and the limited number of black African Coloured Indian White Total participants in learning programmes. Having said this, although not yet verified, as of the end of Male 1 784 1 317 497 1 480 5 078 December 2009, the score for skills development Female 2 015 1 866 455 1 530 5 866 increased to 6.22. Our external skills development programmes We have an important role to play in driving are included in: The Old Mutual Academy for the skills development of the previously Financial Planners (page 34); Masisizane (page disadvantaged. Internal skills development is 21); financial education programmes (page 23); outlined on page 52, with the summary statistics and corporate social investment (CSI) skills presented alongside. development (page 46). “It is through tools and knowledge, not through handouts and donations, that we will meaningfully and sustainably transform and empower our country’s poorest and most disadvantaged people.” Benji Norman, Chief Transformation Officer 42 >> Preferential procurement Enterprise development >> The procurement baseline figure for 2009 was Enterprise development measures the average R6 413 million, with a weighted, verifiable BBBEE annual value of contributions to beneficiaries as a procurement figure of R4 265 million. The overall percentage of net profit after tax (NPAT), with the (unaudited) OMSA preferential procurement target being 3% of net profit after tax. The NPAT achieved in 2009 was 76% or a score of 19.09. was determined from the 2008 Annual Report to Targets were not reached for spend with 50% be R5 537 million. black-owned and 30% black-women-owned businesses. Empowerment financing incorporates BEE transactional financing and targeted investments. The Procurement Council is accountable for the We have not engaged in any significant BEE deals implementation of the preferential procurement in the last year, primarily due to the current strategy. In 2009, OMSA decided to align its economic and investor climate. We do, however, preferential procurement strategy in line with the continue to contribute to targeted investments dti Codes of Good Practice, with a target for all through most of our socially responsible investing our suppliers to reach level 4 and above. (SRI)-type funds, which are discussed in detail in the chapter Investing responsibly (see page 27). In order to improve our preferential procurement, we engaged with the top 200 vendors in our Enterprise development is a core objective of database (80% of our spend) informing them of Masisizane, with further information available on OMSA’s move towards BEE compliant vendors. We page 45. have received dti Codes BEE certificates from 78% of our vendors and have now moved to work with our top 500 vendors. Upon proof, smaller vendors Socio-economic development >> may be exempt as per the Codes. OMSA plans to Socio-economic development measures the take serious action against those suppliers that average annual value of contributions to have not complied after the window period is over. beneficiaries as a percentage of NPAT, with the OMIGPI engaged in an intensive and hands-on target being 1% of NPAT. A total weighted value approach to improve compliance of its suppliers, of R25.57 million for direct costs incurred on with successful results (see the website for further socio-economic development initiatives and information). R5.75 million for overhead costs of the socioeconomic development business unit was We are challenged by the significant resources ultimately included for scoring. required to effectively support our suppliers to improve their BEE credentials and have shared The weighted spend incurred on qualifying socioour BEE financial system with other large South economic development beneficiaries represented African companies so as to promote preferential only 0.57% of the target of 1% of NPAT. procurement nationally. This pillar of transformation is covered under the chapter Serving our communities: corporate social investment on page 45. Preferential procurement spend 8 6 R billion 4 2 0 2007 2008 2009 Weighted 2.48 4.28 4.65 Unweighted 3.56 6.41 6.09 Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 43 Supporting our communities Material issues >> Corporate social investment: focusing on enterprise development, skills capacity building, education and staff volunteerism >> Sponsorships: uplifting communities through the use of relevant marketing campaigns >> Development support: providing financing and support to micro, small and medium businesses and building capacity in government (through Masisizane)* * This issue is dealt with in the section Product Access on page 20. Indicator 2009 figures CSI spend R31 million Number of jobs created through CSI programmes 3 046 Number of learners trained at the Old Mutual Zeekoevlei Sailing Centre 60 Number of school children supported through LEAP schools 1 300 Number of students from OMSA-supported schools passing matric with 862 Bachelors’ qualifications Number of employees who volunteered for the one-day Do it Day and Care 5 689 and Share programmes Amount raised by staff through the payroll giving programme (or number R1.5 million of staff and hours spent on volunteer work) Sponsorship spend R39.68 million Number of jobs created through Masisizane 9 690 The focus of our work in supporting our our corporate social investment (CSI) programme communities is revitalising the South African through the Old Mutual Foundation; womeneconomy to bring about a shared prosperity for all owned enterprise development through the South Africans, black and white. Masisizane Fund, and our sponsorship activities – mainly to support sport, arts and cultural In order to ensure the sustainability of our efforts, development. we have aligned our interventions to both the prevailing national priorities and our core business We regard our sponsorships as being separate operations. All our interventions are aimed at to our CSI portfolio in that their focus is on economic transformation in South Africa. communicating the company’s brand image. Through our sponsorships, we are a major Our strategy is supported by our capital contributor to communities countrywide, with investment programmes, acting as catalysts many of these projects contributing significantly for economic growth. They include toll roads, to the transformation process. new power stations, property developments and Masisizane is also not included in our CSI spend, shopping centres in underserved areas such as as it was funded from unclaimed shares and Gugulethu in Cape Town. provides soft loans (see page 21 for further information). We serve our communities through a number of channels, with our three primary channels being “We accept that what we can achieve on our own will not have the desired scale of impact to effect nationwide change. We would, therefore, like to work with other industry players in order for us to collectively assist in the economic transformation of the country.” Kuseni Dlamini, CEO Old Mutual South Africa and Emerging Markets 44 >> Corporate social investment Our focus areas in corporate social investment are Case study: enterprise development, skills capacity building, The Bulungula Incubator education and staff volunteerism. We have The Bulungula Incubator is situated refocused our approach in the last year to: in a remote and poorly served area of § Ensure economic development beyond social the Eastern Cape. Its priorities include welfare. education, health, basic services § Develop a partnership approach with other and sustainable livelihoods, with our organisations and industry players. partnership focusing on the last of these. § Run big flagship projects that realise greater Community-owned and run businesses now social impact. include horse riding; canoeing; a vegetable § Focus on real societal and business results. nursery and garden; and an essential oils § Take a long-term approach. project. The essential oils project is aimed § Formalise business processes, enabling due at benefiting 100 families and has the potential to revolutionise the community’s diligence and transparent reporting of our CSI income stream. Lemongrass is being grown programmes. for export. Feasibility studies have been We have implemented an electronic project completed for bee keeping, tree planting, management system, which helps us manage snail farming, poultry, hot boxes, a hair and account for funds that are disbursed, salon, home stay tourism, hammock including contractual agreements, monitoring and sewing, and wool spinning and weaving. evaluation and progress reports. As one of the key supporters of the Bulungula project, our current role is to Enterprise development help find and develop markets for the Our enterprise development projects in small products. For further details, see scale agriculture, manufacturing and the www.bulungulaincubator.wordpress.com environment focus on green jobs and labourabsorbing initiatives. Key projects include: The Heiveld Co-operative: supporting 42 Khoisan farmers who run every stage of tea production and, in 2009, exported products worth R7.8 million. Indigenous Trees For Life: contributing to the restoration of forests and ecosystems and the sequestration of carbon dioxide while supporting a network of ‘tree-preneurs’, who are usually orphaned and vulnerable children. Tshapile Ulimo Agricultural Co-operative: where R2.5 million of funding has been leveraged to fence grazing and agricultural lands. 650 ha is now being farmed benefiting 10 000 community members. Further infrastructure, training and business support work will follow, with the project being set up as a model of rural development. Umdoni Communal Gardens: providing sustainable rural agri-business for 271 members belonging to 21 co-operatives. Emfundisweni Skills Development Centre: situated in a rural village in the Eastern Cape, hosting three profitable enterprises (a B&B, clothing manufacturer and bakery) employing 62 people. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 45 Supporting our communities (continued) Skills capacity building Education Our projects focus on: We focus on improving mathematics and science at secondary schooling level. Our interventions at § Product-to-market: product, business and schools aim to address barriers in: human capital development focused on the craft sector, § Leadership and management: building the capacity and ability of principles and school § Trades and artisans: such as plumbers, governing bodies, carpenters and electricians, § Functionality: helping teachers to teach and § Sport: supporting talented individuals to build learners to learn, a career in and represent South Africa in sport. § Infrastructure: providing facilities, materials and equipment to facilitate teaching and Product-to-market (Old Mutual Legends learning. Programme): aimed at helping predominantly struggling rural arts and crafts projects to become We also provide programmes such as work sustainable businesses. Product and business shadowing and mentorship, focusing on exposing training and assistance is provided for the design girls to the working environment. Our key and production of marketable products. The education projects include: projects in the programme include: Waste2Wow! producing fashion products from waste plastic; LEAP Science & Maths Schools: established in Inina Crafts Agency, producing high quality collaboration with OMSA and other corporates products through a wide network of crafters to try and address poor schooling. The schools (winner of the 2009 KwaZulu-Natal Exporters support about 1 300 learners from grades 9 to 12 Award); and the Umcebo Trust operating a across three campuses, with learners primarily workshop and retail store at UShaka Marine from township schools studying for free. World, Durban (commissioned to build the world’s tallest beaded tree to be showcased at the 2010 Dinaledi Schools: is the government’s programme Design Indaba and Chelsea Flower Show). to promote excellence in the teaching and learning of mathematics and science in 500 Sparrow School: provides vocational skills training schools. Old Mutual has adopted 10 of the schools (such as motor mechanics and welding) to across the country (see case study on Dendron). marginalised youth with barriers to learning. Umlambo Foundation: focuses on leadership and DreamFields: with a budget of R12 million, is management development for school principals in using the opportunity of 2010 to build and restore South Africa. soccer fields, distribute soccer kits and bags and create enterprise opportunities around soccer Teach South Africa: recruits and trains top targeting underprivileged communities and university graduates to teach maths, science, schools. technology and English in disadvantaged schools in urban and rural areas for a period of two years. LEAP schoolgirls with Barney Mookapele on ‘Take a girl child to work’ day 46 “DreamFields is a well-conceived Case study: Dendron Secondary project, taking into account the School achieves a 100% matric infrastructural requirements for pass rate Dendron is part of the Dinaledi Schools soccer (fields, kit, etc.) as well as programme. It achieved a 100% matric the emotional needs of children, pass rate for four consecutive years and through the DreamEvents.” was voted one of only six formally black schools in the top 100 best schools in Judge at the Mail & Guardian’s 2009 Investing in the South Africa. This has been achieved Future Awards. without a library or laboratory. According to Mr Moloko Matsapola, principal, the success of the school is due to an intensive study regime: learners study together in teams, creating healthy competition between them. Team members and leaders are rotated regularly to share learning. The learners study every evening of the week, ensuring that the syllabus is completed by May each year with the rest of the year is spent on revision and tests. The school governing board is actively involved in running the school. Teachers make great sacrifices, teaching on Saturdays and sometimes Sundays. The children are disciplined and parents make sure that children are at school and on time. At the start of each year, the school holds a function to congratulate the learners who matriculated at the end of the previous year, motivating grade 12 learners to set their own goals, work hard, achieve and succeed. Case study: Old Mutual Zeekoevlei Sailing Centre Old Mutual is currently assisting the The Old Mutual Zeekoevlei Sailing Centre school to raise funds to build and equip introduces children from previously world-class maths, science and computer disadvantaged communities to the sport laboratories. of sailing. In 2009, 60 learners from four schools attend a sailing training programme that starts with swim training and works up to achieving a skipper’s licence. The programme develops teamwork, decision making, sportsmanship, responsibility and leadership and creates the potential for careers in sailing and the boat manufacturing industry. The school marks of those attending the programme have improved by 30-40%. A team from the centre came tenth out of 28 teams in the 2009 Lipton Challenge Cup. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 47 Supporting our communities (continued) “Our business is global but our heart is South African” Paul Hanratty, CEO, Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual plc; and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa Volunteerism Our volunteerism programmes are design to keep staff engaged with our communities, to develop leadership skills and to give employees meaning and purpose beyond work and self. A total of 7 188 (50% of Old Mutual staff) participated in “To stand in front of a school various staff volunteer programmes, making this of a thousand learners who are the highest staff participation of any company in celebrating the opening of their new South Africa. The volunteer programmes focus on donating time, talent and treasure. library, media centre or IT centre, and witness the excitement and Care and Share: in 2009, 5 689 staff members were given one day paid leave to work at a expectation that such a project has community project. created for those developing minds Staff Community Builder: providing long-term in poor areas is truly humbling.” support to community projects, with participation Paul Boynton, Chairman, Green Hands Committee, from 368 employees in 2009. Old Mutual Investment Group (SA) Payroll giving: 1 131 employees donated R1.5 million in 2009, despite difficult economic conditions. These contributions were matched rand for rand by the Old Mutual Foundation. 48 >> Sponsorships Golf: we sponsor the Old Mutual International Pairs (OMIPSA), the South African leg of the Our various sponsorship projects allow us to largest amateur golf event of its kind in the world. strengthen our relationships with communities, maximise business opportunities and support Arts and culture: we have sponsored the OMSA’s strategic marketing and business Old Mutual National Choir Festival for the past objectives. Our sponsorship spend in 2009 was 23 years as we believe that choral music is R39.68 million, up from R37.95 million in 2008. an important cultural and heritage symbol for R42.95 million has been budgeted for sponsorship all involved. The Old Mutual Summer Sunset in 2010. Our sponsorship portfolio is focused Concerts at Kirstenbosch National Botanical on running, soccer, golf, arts and culture, and Gardens; the Old Mutual Encounters Concerts education and includes: in the Johannesburg Botanic Gardens; and the Old Mutual Music at the Lake in the Durban Running: we sponsor the Old Mutual Two Oceans Botanic Gardens all aim to promote South African Marathon, which attracts a field of up to 26 000 music. The Old Mutual Theatre on the Square people; the Old Mutual Om die Dam Marathon, supports local theatre, the Old Mutual Comedy and the Old Mutual Buffs Marathon. Encounters features top local comedians and the Soccer: we sponsor three teams in the Old Mutual Old Mutual Trophy Wine Show promotes local Mangaung Cup, which includes the DreamFields wines and winemakers. Schools Challenge involving 16 girls’ and boys’ Education: OMSA co-sponsors the Old Mutual primary school teams. We formed the Old Mutual Budget Speech Competition with Nedbank Football Academy in 2002 to give talented and sponsors SciFest Africa. We also award young footballers, many of whom are from gold medals to the top Masters of Business underprivileged backgrounds, the opportunity Administration (MBA) graduates from four South of becoming professional footballers. OMSA is a African universities. founding partner of the Dreamfields Project, which was launched in 2007 to provide South African schools (especially in small towns and rural areas) with resources for playing soccer. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 49 Ensuring our status as employer of choice Material issues >> Attracting and retaining talent, particularly for critical roles >> Integrating skills and career development across the business >> Employee relations and engagement with unions >> Unifying our People Strategy across Africa Indicator 2009 figures Total headcount 16 984 Employee turnover 30.01%* Percentage of female employees 52.7% Percentage of black employees 70.12% Skills spend R98.5 million Number of employees trained through the Old Mutual Business School 10 794 Employee engagement 69% Number of employees using the Employee Well-being Programme 1 680 Headcount for African Operations 2 291 * Excludes figures for Masthead, OM Finance, inactive pensioners, iLima Trust and HiP. “This is home away from home. The love, support and kindness I receive from my work colleagues has taught me many valuable lessons.” Old Mutual South Africa employee Old Mutual South Africa employees celebrating Diversity Day 50 Key employee statistics for Old Mutual Finance 2007 2008 2009 Non-sales staff 7 972 7 605 6 895 Sales staff 5 602 6 289 6 427 Contracted employees 2 108 2 018 2 322 Masthead 83 65 49 OM Finance 45 172 562 Inactive Pensioners 693 696 709 iLima Trust 0 14 13 HiP 0 0 7 Total headcount 16 503 16 859 16 984 Turnover 16.96% 20.23% 30.01%* * Excludes figures for Masthead, OM Finance, inactive pensioners, iLima Trust and HiP. Employee turnover statistics for 2009 Turnover 2009 Non-sales staff 16.53% Sales staff 33.08% All permanent employees 24.27% Contracted employees 66.06% Total turnover 30.01% With the world economy being under advances in skills development, focusing more on unprecedented pressure and with our customers integration across business units and job families. having to deal with the associated uncertainty, it In 2009, we also shifted towards accredited is our people that enable OMSA to deliver on our training. promises and preserve our legacy as a leading financial services provider. The 2009 group-wide engagement survey revealed an improvement in all figures except We have a total of 16 984 employees for that of discretionary effort, which needs to across our South African operations, with a be addressed. We have matured the way that wage bill of approximately R169.33 million and we engage with unions towards an interest1 924 employees in our African Operations. An based approach, which gives us clear guidelines OMSA people strategy was created and roll-out within which to operate, but also allows for open commenced in 2009. dialogue. Our employee wellness programme We continue to be challenged by attracting and was used by 1 680 employees, an increase on retaining talent, particularly for critical positions last year and well above the industry average, and by achieving employment equity objectives. showing trust in the programme. With our African Staff retention continues to be a significant Operations only recently being brought into the focus, with the current turnover of permanent fold of OMSA, we are still busy aligning our OMSA staff sitting at 24.27% and the total turnover at human resources programmes and reporting with 30.01%. During the last year, we made significant that of our African Operations. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 51 Ensuring our status as employer of choice (continued) >> Retention Skills and career development and >> Including sales staff and contractors, our staff talent management turnover in 2009 was 30.01%, up from 20.23% In 2009, we moved our skills focus to integration in 2008. The key reasons for staff leaving the across business units and job families (explained organisation are illustrated in the table below. further on the website). We are actively It is difficult for us to put our turnover figures identifying a pipeline of black talent and in context as our research has revealed no accelerated development needs. information on benchmark surveys of staff turnover in the South African financial services Ninety percent of training programmes run industry. We do have slightly higher retention through the business school are now accredited rates for our sales staff than the international and we are working towards accrediting some of averages. The sales staff turnover figure does our technical and products training. This provides significantly skew the turnover figure for huge benefits to employees and encourages permanent staff. In addition, the nature of staff retention, motivation and recruitment. We contractors’ work leads to high turnover figures, use a talent grid, redeployment programmes which further skews the overall turnover rate. and work skills plans to identify further learning We had over 100 retrenchments in the last year needs for job categories and the purposes of due to the move of Oxygen Medical Scheme out transformation. of OMSA. Staff turnover Skills spend Reasons for leaving Grand Total Skills development spend R98.5 million Voluntary retrenchment 4 Learnerships spend* R7.1 million Retirement 30 Skills spend on people with R552 088 Retire with retrenchment 1 disabilities Resignation 2 711 % of staff trained that are black 79% Involuntary retrenchment 98 % of staff trained that are black 39% females Early retirement 7 % of staff trained that are Dismissal 159 54% female Death 33 *Figures exclude training spend on OMIGSA, OMIGPI and OMF Contract ended 5 We spent a greater percentage of our payroll in Appointment not taken up 76 2009 on employee training, despite the recession. Absent without leave 139 The Old Mutual Business School (OMBUS) Grand Total 3 263 OMBUS is the corporate university of OMSA. It provides accredited learning aligned to the OMSA In 2009, we once again won the Magnet award for business strategy and develops both individual Best Employer in the Life Insurance Industry, as and team performance. In 2009, OMBUS obtained viewed by varsity and technikon students. approval to offer formal qualifications eg. Certificate in Management and NQF Level 4. We actively work to address staff retention through skills and career development OMBUS learning interventions include classroom programmes; talent management; engaging with training interventions, with 10 259 delegates our employees; ensuring market-related salaries; attending in 2009; online performance support addressing leadership in the organisation; and (Harvard Manage Mentor); and e-learning giving recognition to good performance. modules. The Knowledge Hub is OMSA’s corporate library for all staff, providing knowledge support and research as required. 52 Delegate numbers on Old Mutual Business School programmes (January – December 2009) Course No. of delegates Personal excellence 1 774 Service 454 Business skills 741 Essentials of self management Financial well-being programme On the Money 561 (internal) Financial well-being programme (external) 51 Leadership and management Leadership and management 2 122 development Project management 102 Role-orientation workshops (Management Development 3 780 Programme (MDP)) Computer training 674 Harvard Manage Mentor 1 260 (registered users)* *Provides a range of online modules and tools to support our managers in the workplace Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 53 Ensuring our status as employer of choice (continued) “The MDP programme speaks to me as an individual. It provides key insights into how the work I do is intrinsically linked to the success of the team I work with, the department I work in and, ultimately, the company. It pinpoints the small pockets of inefficiencies we are all aware of but simply bypass in our day-to-day rush to ‘get things done’ and nudges us into doing something about it.” Old Mutual South Africa Manager Talent management Further skills and career development We aim to develop internal talent to ensure initiatives that we have the right skills at the right time The Management Development Programme: has to achieve the future strategy of the business been run for 8 000 staff since the inception of the and respond to changes in the market. Talent programme to develop employee management of management is focused on providing for self and others. critical roles; developing leadership capacity; succession planning; and developing black Learnerships: are provided for unemployed employees, specifically black women. Individuals matriculants enabling them to achieve in the talent pools are provided with coaching, qualifications in areas such as long term mentors, training and opportunities for rotations, insurance and wealth management. Candidates secondments, business exposure and strategic work with OMSA and their studies are paid for. projects and are considered as priorities for Approximately 250 people were engaged in succession planning. learnerships at OMSA in 2009. Leadership Potential Programme Partnerships: we link with business schools such The Leadership Potential Programme is an Old as UCT and Wits to further develop our skills Mutual plc initiative aimed at developing the Old development programmes and provide access to Mutual Group’s future leaders. Where appropriate, expertise in particular fields. opportunities for secondments, movements or project work are identified to support the The Old Mutual Education Trust: sponsors and individual’s development. Shared learning across provides mentorship and vacation work support the individuals in the programme is promoted. to tertiary education scholarships for members, The programme is now being ramped up and spouses and dependants of participating trade we hope to work together with Mutual & Federal unions. and Nedbank to place further employees on the programme in the future. Training Outside of Public Practice (TOPP): contributes to addressing the shortage of accounting skills in South Africa, particularly among the black population. Graduate Development Programme (GDP): aims to attract, develop and retain graduates Number of Old Mutual South Africa delegates on into the OMSA business at juniorand middlethe Leadership Potential Programme management levels, with 85 GDP graduates being employed since 2004 and a retention rate of 67%. 2008 2009 2010 Bursary schemes: see focus on the Actuarial 2 7 13 Graduate Recruitment Programme alongside for further details. We offer various international skills development programmes and coaching is provided to support the development of our leaders. 54 Actuarial Graduate Recruitment Programme The actuarial profession is core to the Old from eight in 2001 to 30 in 2009, with Mutual business. It is, however, a challenge to 39 having already graduated. As of 2010, all identify and recruit actuaries due to a limited 15 new bursary students are employment supply. equity candidates. The Actuarial Graduate Recruitment We do face multiple challenges in growing Programme was started in the mid 1950s and our talent pool of actuaries. Candidates has, thus far, supported 174 candidates, 70% have to do well enough at school to be of whom still work for Old Mutual. accepted into actuarial courses. With long study timeframes, it is difficult to appeal to In addition to financial support, candidates young people who want to earn quickly. It is are provided with mentors, networking challenging to identify candidates who are opportunities and other support. Once a strong mathematically and have potential candidate has graduated from the programme, managerial skills. A large number of actuaries they are appointed into positions within OMSA, have left South Africa, particularly during the where they are mentored and given further recession when actuarial skills were required tuition support and skills training. to redesign business models. We also lose our skills to other businesses in Old Mutual Group, Since 2001, we have focused on developing which could be partially offset were we to have actuarial talent from previously disadvantaged a growth and rotation programme for actuaries communities. As a result, the employment across the Group. equity bursary student numbers have increased >> Employee engagement Employee communication Our employee communication is aimed at An increasing number of studies demonstrate the link between levels of engagement of employees promoting engagement across all divisions in and business performance. We engage with our the business so that employees understand employees using various channels and measure other products, services, areas of the business, our level of engagement through two key surveys. potential business and career opportunities and OMSA’s leaders. Communication covers electronic, print and face-to-face channels, and aims to break the silos between senior management and all employees. In an independent communication audit recently conducted to measure the effectiveness of OMSA’s communication channels and messaging, it was found that staff largely view company communication as being of high quality and feel suitably informed. It is felt, however, that communication is largely aimed at a homogenous audience, which the employees of OMSA are not. We will work actively to address this and other concerns. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 55 Ensuring our status as employer of choice (continued) Engagement surveys Employee engagement is measured through the approach. This mature and balanced relationship Old Mutual Group employee engagement survey will entail both focusing on terms and conditions of and the OMSA climate survey. These surveys are employment with well-defined boundaries and an confidential and run through third parties. interest discussion group without legal rights. With expansion into Africa, we need to ensure that both The Old Mutual Group’s survey reveals an OMSA’s principles of employee engagement and improvement in rational commitment, emotional national labour laws are adhered to. commitment and the intent of employees to stay with the Group. OMSA scores fairly well against About 5 500 of 13 500 (approximately 40%) of that of the Group, and international benchmarks. our permanent workforce are represented by independent trade union organisations or covered Old Mutual South Africa climate survey results by collective bargaining agreements. This is higher than other financial services companies, 2008 2009 2009 2010 which we see as positive. Actual Target Actual Target All operational terminations requirements are 67% 70% 69% 75% labour law and ILO compliant, and all potential retrenchments go through an extensive process In addition to the employee engagement survey, to be avoided (see the website for further OMSA runs an annual climate survey, The information). We had over 100 retrenchments in motivational index and the findings are used to the last year due to the move of Oxygen Medical identify specific interventions necessary. Scheme out of OMSA. We had a 56% response rate for the engagement survey (up from 43% in 2008) and a 60% Employee Well-being Programme >> response rate for the climate survey. The OMSA recognises that its employees will face success of our employee engagement is partially times of stress and illness, which will affect work attributed to the involvement of senior managers productivity. We therefore provide an Employee such as our CEO, Kuseni Dlamini. Well-being Programme that offers counselling and information service to employees in all regions Our last survey indicated that areas for to help employees before they get into trouble. improvement included leadership, communication, The programme covers stress issues – such as pride in the organisation, human touch and talent work pressure, depression and relationships; and management, which we have actively worked to financial wellness issues. The programme has yet address. to be rolled out to our African Operations. >> Counselling is provided for short-term solution Employee relations provision, with more deep-seated problems OMSA has in place the Rules of Engagement being referred to external counsellors. While we document, which contains a guide to manage use an outsourced service provider to ensure collective employee engagement. This document confidentiality, quarterly anonymous reporting is a restatement of rights contained in labour provides a breakdown of demographics and legislation informed by and aligned with the highlights any increases in stress that business International Labour Organisation (ILO). units might need to be aware of. Approaches to engaging with employees can The service was used by 1 688 employees range from the extremes of a focus on industrial (10.8%) in 2009. This is higher than the industry relations and labour law – with the focus being average of approximately 9.5%, showing trust on litigation, procedures and court work – to in the service. Of these, 1 151 staff received employee relations. Over the years, we have individual face-to-face counselling. With the oscillated between the two extremes. We are recession, we have seen a large increase in the currently looking to establish an interest-based utilisation of our financial wellness facility. 56 Mind, Body and Soul Day On 1 October 2009, the Human Resources Employee Well-being Department hosted a Mind, Body and Soul day. The aim of this event was to raise employee spirit and to remind all of the many benefits that are available to OMSA employees, with all service providers being given the opportunity to showcase their services. These included cholesterol testing, gym on site, biokinetisists, financial counselling and advisers, study bursary programmes, business school training programme overviews and HIV/Aids testing. Participating staff received stickers for each stand participated in and once enough of those were collected, they became eligible for a free massage. There was a fantastic turnout and a really positive atmosphere on the day. On HIV/Aids, voluntary counselling and testing is In 2011, we will focus on in-depth employee provided on an ad hoc basis and Kuseni Dlamini, engagement, with the first climate survey for OMSA’s CEO, sends letters out to all employees Africa as a segment undertaken in 2009. encouraging them to ‘know your status’. Those who identify themselves as positive are given We are exploring using the OMBUS to provide or signposted to the right support. The OMSA training to our African Operations. Technical medical aid scheme includes the provision of an training will be provided at or through OMSA HIV/Aids management programme, including and through rotations. This is, however, not yet proper nutritional, emotional and medical happening in a formalised manner and still needs support and focusing on lifestyle shifts. All HIV/ to be further developed. Aids-related programmes are voluntary and We aim to employ locals, with expatriates focusing confidential. on the transfer of skills and on learning from >> experiences that they can then share with OMSA’s Human resources in our African other operations. Lastly, we work closely with the Operations governments of the countries within which we operate to monitor and ensure compliance with OMSA established one People Strategy across the local labour legislation. Africa, which is being implemented by the human resources functions in each country. For the first phase, we focused on building the foundations – African Operations employee figures developing basic systems and processes such as those for grading and performance management. Country No. of employees We are building the capabilities in each country, identifying skills gaps and planning ways to fill Kenya 700 these gaps. Malawi 100 In 2010, the focus will be on creating an enabling Namibia 535 environment: building leadership skills, rolling out our management development programme Swaziland 20 to our African operations, aligning the grading structure, and aligning our talent management Zimbabwe 837 approaches and initiatives with that of OMSA Total 2 192 where appropriate. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 57 Minimising and managing our impact on the environment Material issues >> Reducing the environmental footprint of properties we manage >> Reducing the environmental footprint of properties we develop >> Reducing environmental impacts through investment decision-making* * This material issue is covered in the section Investing responsibly (see page 26). Indicator 2009 figures Electricity usage 552 364 472 kWh Water usage 4 100 604 M3 Proportion of recycled to non-recycled waste 35.17% The 2009 information includes water and energy consumption figures for buildings under OMSA’s management that were not accounted for in 2008. As a financial services company, we can minimise In this sense, our role is rather to use our and manage our impact on the environment investments to influence change in organisations through addressing both our direct and indirect in which we invest or would like to invest – either impacts. The ways in which we can address our to minimise negative impacts on the environment direct impact on the environment are detailed or to promote the development of environmental below, with the focus being on property services opportunities. (retrofits) and property development (new build or major refurbishments). Our ability to While we support various environmental days and address our indirect impacts on the environment initiatives, we do not raise employee awareness of is largely determined through our investment environmental issues in a co-ordinated, structured practices. The extent to which OMSA practices or thorough way. Part of awareness raising is the principles of responsible investment, which related to assigning accountability (through KPIs incorporates environmental considerations in or scorecards) for environmental issues. These investment decision-making, is covered in the are gaps that we will need to begin addressing chapter Investing responsibly (see page 26). during 2010. Oasis recycling centre at Mutual Park 58 >> Minimising management impact Energy management Our focus for reducing energy use has been on The Property Investment boutique within OMSA (OMIGPI) buys, sells, manages and develops the big resource users, such as Cavendish Square, large properties such as shopping centres and where we test certain technologies and systems office parks. The property services component before rolling these out. The focus of initiatives of OMIGPI includes facilities management, with has been on air-conditioning controls, which resource consumption improvements being made use the largest amount of energy and lighting through retrofitting. retrofits. We have also focused on the installation of automatic switch-off and intelligent technology We see value in greening our buildings as a to control energy use in the most efficient way. In means of ‘future proofing’ them. With proposed the next phase, we plan to engage with tenants to electricity price increases and issues regarding identify essential equipment and lighting so that water supply and consequent pricing, we need to we can install systems to switch off non-essential make our buildings as cost effective to operate equipment and lighting when not required. as possible so that our tenants can afford to pay. We have not yet developed a strategy or Two significant energy efficiency initiatives targets to reduce the resource consumption or have resulted in savings. A DSM initiative in the environmental impacts of our buildings. We are Western Cape (detailed overleaf) has resulted in developing a framework for reducing energy an average saving of 864 368 kWh each month consumption, which will inform a strategy and we across five buildings; and an air-conditioning are moving towards a more structured approach controls initiative run at Menlyn Park Shopping of implementing resource-saving initiatives and Centre in Gauteng is saving an average of monitoring and measuring changes. We aim to 875 992 kWh each month. initially install real-time energy consumption measurement of three buildings in each region. Load profiling will also be undertaken and areas of high energy use will be identified. These measurements will assist us in identifying relevant initiatives to be implemented. Monitoring will be included for all initiatives going forward. While we still need to do more, we have significantly reduced energy usage in the buildings that we manage. Resource consumption by OMIGPI-managed buildings Consumption Electricity 552 364 472 kWh Water 4 100 604 m3 Waste: Non-recyclable 4 698 320 kg Waste: Recycled total 2 549 065 kg Glass 229 093 kg The first environmental rehabilitation deal was made in June 2009. Old Mutual Paper and cardboard 1 962 396 kg Corporate developed a specialised financial model to help mines and other companies Plastic (all types) 312 306 kg that disturb the environment to ensure Metal and cans 45 270 kg that they are financially prepared to cover the costs of rehabilitation incurred when the operations have run their natural (The figures above are the totals combined from all buildings under the management of OMIGPI. Where a property has been sold or course. acquired, the data has been included only for the period that the building was under our management) Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 59 Minimising and managing our impact on the environment (continued) Water recycling After discovering that two million litres of water Case study: Energy efficiency per month were being lost through evaporation savings in retail centres from the water towers at Cavendish, we ran a pilot project in which we redirected a large In February 2008, Old Mutual Properties proportion of this water to be used instead for implemented an energy efficiency and load cleaning the 150 wheelie bins of the centre, shifting project at five commercial buildings parking areas and escalators. In the past, we had in Cape Town (Cavendish, Absa on Grove, been using potable water for these functions. Cavendish Connect, Triangle House and Mutual Park), which was initially funded through grants from Eskom’s demand side Waste recycling We recycle in all regions. Regional (and supermanagement programme. regional) retail centres and major commercial The project focused on the installation of sites like Mutualpark have on-site recycling depots variable speed drives on several pumps that separate out cardboard, plastic, tins, glass and fans to improve the energy efficiency and metal. Our recycling at Mutualpark creates and to shift a large portion of the energy jobs for 13 disabled persons who are employed demand out of the evening peak. full time via the Oasis recycling centre but located on campus. We should possibly explore recycling From the start of the project in February at source at these major sites. We are currently 2008 to September 2009, 16 420 MWh working to improve recycling at our smaller sites. have been saved, with a consequent financial saving of R4.4 million and a We recycled a total of 35% of waste in 2009. reduction of 16 182 tons of CO2. With the The income generated from the recycled material cost of electricity set to rise, the savings usually funds the recycling operations. made will increase significantly. Minimising impact of development >> Environmental impact reductions: OMIGPI was the founding member of the Green February 2008 to end September 2009 Building Council of South Africa (GBCSA) in February 2008 and is currently a platinum Reductions member, having donated approximately R0.5 CO2 16 182 ton million towards the development of new rating tools. OMIGPI also provides guidance and advice SO2 141 876 kg in the development of green rating tools, with representatives being involved in various tool NOx 71 174 kg development teams. While the GBCSA has developed green star rating tools for offices and Particulate matter 3 616 kg retail, we are still awaiting the development of a Water 23 146 kl mixed-use tool and tool for existing buildings and operations, which will assist us in rating many of Coal 9 020 ton our developments. We have adopted the green star system, incorporating environmental criteria into our All reductions in energy usage and development principles from the design stage, environmental impacts have been through construction and to use of the building. externally measured and monitored by the We are aiming for a four-star rating for our new Energy Research Centre at the University property developments, focusing on all aspects of of Cape Town. sustainability including energy, water, waste and biodiversity. A number of green building features Based on the success of this project, we have already been incorporated into various have initiated similar projects at Menlyn infrastructure projects undertaken as part of our and Gateway shopping centres with good social responsible investment funds (see page 27). results. These were not Eskom DSM projects, but we do track consumption figures from meter readings. Our challenges in moving towards reducing the environmental impacts of our buildings >> are numerous. While we have control over the building design, we also have to influence 60 investors to move towards green buildings. The key challenge is motivating increased capital expenditure – a four-star building currently Case study: results in a 10% cost premium – in order to Old Mutual South Africa crèche achieve reduced operating expenditure. In order (Green’s cool) to prove and realise the economic viability of The OMSA crèche was built in 2008 to aiming for a four-star rating, we need to educate provide a service to employees of OMSA. asset managers and developers, encourage crossThe crèche was constructed along green over of technology and take heed of industry’s building principles, with the following key move towards life-cycle costing. features: Further challenges include the lack of expertise § Grey water flushing mechanism where in South Africa (green building principles, water from wash basins is filtered and techniques, detailed modelling), leading us to used to flush toilets, learn largely from trial and error; balancing the pressing and at times potentially conflicting § Limited water use flushing mechanisms, needs for BEE and sustainability, the supply of § Positioning of the building to maximise green products, the trade-off between buying the use of natural light and heat, local products that are uncertified versus certified products that are imported; the acceptance § Tinted glazing to reduce direct sunlight of life cycle costing and premiums, renewable and heat transmission, energy still being regarded as too expensive and retailers becoming more demanding for green § Natural air convection, developments but not willing to pay premiums. § Building materials that maximise OMIGPI has set up Project Chameleon, a strategic insulation, promoting heat retention in project reporting into Exco and driving the move winter and cooling in summer, to sustainable building and property practices § Solar water heaters, within the portfolio. To ensure that we achieve our green building goals, ten percent of the § Compact fluorescent lights (CFLs), key performance indicators (KPIs) for OMIGPI automatic (non-essential) light switchindividual managers and teams is assigned to the offs out of hours, daylight sensor implementation of green building philosophies and controls on external lighting and minimum standards. area-specific lighting to reduce energy usage, § All timber used is from sustainably managed pine forests in South Africa, § All internal surfaces and finishes are hard wearing and easily washable, to minimise maintenance requirements, § All vegetation used in the outside areas is indigenous to the Cape, § The crèche is adjacent to Mutualpark, which itself is next to a train station, minimising transport of OMSA employees utilising the crèche. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 61 African Operations “Improved governance including democratic reforms, fewer political conflicts and macro-economic stability has improved perceptions of Africa as a viable investment destination for local and global capital.” Johannes Gawaxab, Managing Director of Old Mutual African Operations. Breakdown of African Operations Country Assets under management No. of employees Date of establishment Kenya R7 billion 700 > 80 yrs Malawi R2 billion 100 >80 yrs Namibia R17 billion 535 1930 Swaziland R52 million 20 2008 Zimbabwe R7 billion 837 >100 yrs Total Approx R33.5 billion 2 192 Overview In addition to having operated in South Africa § Facilitating Namibia’s largest economic for 160 years, Old Mutual has been operational empowerment transaction in the financial in other African countries for over 100 years. sector. We currently have operations in Kenya, Malawi, § Representation on a committee that is Namibia, Swaziland and Zimbabwe with total reviewing the Insurance Act in Kenya funds under management of R33.5 billion and just over 2 000 employees. Future expansion is § Providing leadership of the Namibian Financial being considered in both East and West Africa. Services Charter development. A dedicated African Operations Central Unit was established in 2006 to develop and grow Old § Investing in good governance in Zimbabwe, Mutual’s business in Africa. African Operations recognised by receiving the Director of the reports into the CEO of OMSA and Emerging Year Award. Markets and governance processes have been § Providing advisory input into Zimbabwe’s aligned accordingly. economic recovery. The rapidly growing middle class across In addition, we support and run corporate Africa, low financial services penetration and social investment programmes that focus on demonstrated need for financial solutions the areas of education, health and welfare, presents a viable investment opportunity for Old community development, financial education Mutual to expand on the continent. We aim to and staff volunteerism. In each country, our use our experience on the continent to provide approach is to develop products and distribution access to financial service to clients across channels that are appropriate to the needs of the Africa, particularly the mass market and small local communities markets. Taking the time to enterprises. understand the needs of our existing and potential clients enables us to be relevant to them in terms Through these businesses, Old Mutual continues of the products and services we provide. Our to contribute towards its long-term commitment operations work with the governments of each to invest in economic growth and sustainable country to understand product-related legislation development across the continent. We have in order to guide product development. In some played leadership roles in industry and policy cases, we support the development of relevant issues such as: legislation where countries have not previously § Acting as a legislation task force member had access to lending and investment products on retirement funds, financial services and due to the lack of a legislative framework. An insurance in Malawi. example of this is the work that we have done 62 in certain countries to support the entry of unit Malawi trusts. Old Mutual Malawi is the country’s market leader in asset management, life assurance, 3rd party Old Mutual’s African Operations leverage off asset management, pension fund administration, OMSA’s products, platforms and intellectual and management and property investment. The capital. We leverage off the products available business currently has 12 613 clients on its books, from the South African operations to maximize of which 208 are pension funds with a total of the value that we can provide to clients. 65,000 members and funds under management of Furthermore by providing African Operations just under R2 billion. with an integrated back office capability to support existing operations as well as future Old Mutual Malawi is in the process of setting growth of new products and in new countries, we up the country’s first unit trust business. While reduce costs and risks and share learning across Malawians have been employed to help develop countries. the business, OMSA’s advanced back office systems are being utilised to reduce costs and We screen all our investments using OMIGSA’s allow products to reach market more quickly, screening and our local partners and work closely ultimately increasing the value provided to clients. with the governments of the country to ensure that our efforts are aligned with the economic growth imperatives of the country. Namibia Old Mutual Namibia is the country’s leading financial services company, with funds under Country overviews management of R17 billion and a total of Kenya 137 000 clients. It dominates both the life Old Mutual pioneered unit trusts and offshore assurance and asset management industries, is investments in Kenya and continues to lead a leader in pension fund administration and is in both asset management and unit trusts. developing the property investment side of the Old Mutual Kenya offers a diverse product set, business. The asset management company in servicing 25 000 retail clients and 230 corporate Namibia has established a sound track-record clients, with assets under management of some in the management of alternative investments, R7 billion. enabling it to contribute to Namibia’s economic success, particularly through the funding of crucial In 2009, the business launched a low-cost economic infrastructure in the country. mass market risk product – Rafiki Halisi – which provides for the needs of the uninsured populace, In addition to providing financial education aligned with life cover, education and investment plans with Old Mutual South Africa’s programmes, this and is being distributed through alternative business operates a mobile client service unit in channels such as post offices with money areas with no bricks and mortar structures within collection utilizing mobile phone capabilities. a 50 kilometre radius. In 2009, Johannes Gawaxab, Managing Director of Old Mutual African Operations, received the Lazarus Shinyemba Ipangelwa Foundation Award for Business Leadership and Excellence. This award recognises exemplary business leaders for their ability to engage and inspire others in their workplace. The Foundation confers the award to business leaders on an annual basis. Old Mutual Namibia offices built using Green Building Principles Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 63 African Operations (continued) In order to reduce the negative environmental The business has assets under management impact of our buildings, they have adopted of R7 billion and a total of 515 365 clients on green principles in the recent construction of the book across the business operated by the their headquarters in Windhoek. This building is Group in Zimbabwe. This business has endured cooled using natural coolant water in a two stage unprecedented and significant challenges by evaporative cooling process, which provides 100% creatively managing their infrastructure, products, fresh air to the office space; water consumption employees and operations. is supplemented by utilising ground water for A number of business lessons were learned as a restrooms and for irrigation of plants in and result of the experience in Zimbabwe: around the building; only energy efficient light fittings are used and all light fittings are operated § Always look after your customers. Consumers by motion detectors. We ensure that very strict flock to the safety of strong brands. environmental pollution control measures are § Real assets and capital are key in a adhered to by all contractors. Hyperinflation environment. § A good business control environment is vital Swaziland for survival. Old Mutual launched its Swaziland business mid 2008 in an effort to provide better service to Old § Continuous business re-scaling and re-design is essential. Mutual clients within the country and to comply with localisation legislation. With assets under § Taking care of employees during crises pays management of R52 million and 10 656 clients on off. its books, the business strives to be the leader in § Always maintain sound ethics and good asset management, life assurance and property governance. investment by providing relevant advice and § Always look after your customers as they will value-for-money products. While the business be there after the crisis is over. launched with a focus on the retail segment of the Swaziland market, risk and savings solutions for Whilst there are still a number of business the corporate market were added to the portfolio challenges our view of the future in Zimbabwe is towards the end of 2009. positive. As the leading financial services group in the country, Old Mutual Zimbabwe has a Zimbabwe conscious strategy to continue operating in order Old Mutual Zimbabwe is the largest financial for us to add value to our clients and staff and is services company in the country and is the largest now playing an active role in the rebuilding of the single investor on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange. Zimbabwean economy. 64 Old Mutual South Africa dti scorecard BEE WeighIndicators Indicator Target Actual Score Total Element ting Weighting (Years % Score 0 – 5) Equity 20 Exercisable Voting Rights in the Enterprise in the hands of black people 3 25% 23.2% 2.79 13.40 Ownership Exercisable Voting Rights in the Enterprise in the hands of black women 2 10% 7.3% 1.45 Economic interest of black people in the Enterprise 4 25% 23.2% 3.71 Economic Interest of black women in the Enterprise 2 10% 7.3% 1.45 Economic Interest of the following black natural people in the Enterprise: 1 2.5% 17.3% 1.00 • Black designated groups • Black participants in Employee Ownership Schemes • Black beneficiaries of Broad based Ownership Schemes • Black Participants in Co-operatives Ownership Fulfilment 1 Yes No 0.00 Current Equity Interest 7 40% of 0.00 target (Yr 3 & 4) Bonus Point: Involvement in the ownership of the Enterprise of black new 2 10% 17.3% 2.00 entrants. Bonus Points: Involvement in the ownership of the Enterprise of black 1 10% 17.3% 1.00 participants in Employee Ownership Schemes; black beneficiaries of Public or General Benefit Schemes; or black participants in Co-operatives Management 10 Exercisable Voting Rights of black Board members using the Adjusted 3 50% 36.7% 2.20 6.21 Control Recognition for Gender Black Executive Directors using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender 2 50% 16.7% 0.67 Black Senior Top Management using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender 5 40% 18.8% 2.34 Black Other Top Management using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender 0 40% 0.0% 0.00 Bonus Points: Black Independent Non-Executive Board Members using 1 40% 50% 1.00 the Adjusted Recognition for Gender Employment 14 Black Disabled employees as a percentage of all employees using the 2 2% 0.9% 0.93 9.04 Equity Adjusted Recognition for Gender Black employees in Senior Management as a percentage of all such 5 43% 20.5% 2.38 employees using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender Black employees in Middle Management as a percentage of all such 4 63% 36.1% 2.29 employees using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender Black employees in Junior Management as a percentage of all such 4 68% 58.6% 3.44 employees using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender Bonus points for meeting or exceeding the EAP targets in each category 3 Exceeds 0.0 targets, Min 40% in categories Skills 15 Skills Development for black employees as a percentage of Leviable 6 3% 1.4% 2.85 4.90 development amount using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender. Skills Development for black employees with disabilities as a percentage 3 0.3% 0.0% 0.07 of Leviable amount using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender. Number of black employees participating in In-Service Training 6 5% 1.6% 1.98 Programmes as a percentage of total employees using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender. Preferential 20 BBBEE Procurement Spend from all Suppliers based on the BEE 12 50% 66.5% 12.00 17.92 Procurement Procurement Recognition Levels as a percentage of Total Measured Procurement Spend. BBBEE Procurement Spend from Qualifying Small Enterprises or from 3 10% 20.4% 3.00 Exempted Micro Enterprises based on the applicable BEE Procurement cognition Levels as a percentage of Total Measured Procurement Spend. BBBEE Procurement Spend from any of the following suppliers as a percentage of Total Measured Procurement Spend. Suppliers that are more than 50% black owned 3 9% 5.6% 1.87 Suppliers that are more than 30% black women owned 2 6% 3.2% 1.05 Enterprise 15 Average annual value of all Enterprise Development Contributions 15 3.00% of 69.64% 15 15 development and Sector Specific Programmes made by the Measured Entity as a NPAT percentage of the Net profit after Tax or Turnover target. Socio5 Average annual value of all Socio-Economic Development Contributions 5 1.00% of 0.57% 2.83 2.83 economic made by the Measured Entity as a percentage of Net profit after Tax or NPAT Development Turnover. Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 65 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Index In preparing this year’s report, we have drawn on the GRI’s G3 reporting guidelines. The table below provides an indication of where information for each set of GRI indicators can be found in the print report. A review of Old Mutual South Africa’s status against each of the GRI G3 and GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement reporting criteria as covered in the 2009 sustainability report is provided in the full web report. GRI indicator Source Page STRATEGY AND PROFILE Statement by the CEO Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual plc; and Chairman, 6 1.1 Old Mutual South Africa Statement by the Chief Executive Officer of OMSA and Emerging Markets 8 Material issues 2 1.2 Framework for Managing Sustainability 10 About Old Mutual South Africa 4 2.1-2.4, 2.6, 2.8 & 2.9 www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/company-profile/old-mutual-south-africa Old Mutual plc Annual Report 2.5 African Operations 62 2.7 Serving our Customers 16 2.8 Ensuring our status as an employer of choice 50 2.10 Throughout the report 3.1-3.4 & 3.6-3.13 About this report 0 Material issues 2 3.5 Framework for Managing Sustainability 10 Old Mutual South Africa Annual Report 4.1 – 4.7 Old Mutual plc Annual Report Full GRI table in web report Ensuring ethical behaviour 37 4.8 4.9 About this report 0 Framework for managing sustainability 10 4.10-4.13 Full GRI table in web report 4.14-4.17 Framework for managing sustainability: Stakeholder engagement 12 MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Group Highlights; Old Mutual South Africa value-added statement 3 EC1 FSSS addition: Supporting our communities 44 EC2-EC5 & EC9 Full GRI table in web report EC6 Continuing our commitment to transformation 38 EC7 African Operations and full GRI table in web report 62 Investing responsibly 26 EC8 Supporting our communities 44 Environmental EN3, EN9, EN19, EN23, EN24, EN24 & These are not regarded as material for OMSA EN27 EN1-EN2, EN4-EN5; EN7-EN8, EN10EN11, EN13-EN14, EN16-EN18, EN20-22, Minimising and managing our impact on the environment 58 EN26 EN6, EN12, EN15, EN26 Investing responsibly 26 EN28-EN30 Full GRI table in web report 66 GRI indicator Chapter in report Page Social Ensuring our status as employer of choice 50 LA1-LA5, LA8-LA12, LA14 Full GRI table in web report LA6 & LA7 These are not regarded as material for OMSA HR1-HR9 These are largely unreported. Full GRI table in web report SO1 Supporting our communities 44 FS13-FS14 Serving our Customers 16 SO2-SO4 Ensuring Ethical Behaviour SO5 Framework for managing sustainability: Stakeholder engagement 12 SO6-SO8 Full GRI table in web report FS1 African operations 62 FS1-6 & FS8 Full GRI table in web report FS7 Serving our Customers: Product Access 20 Continuing our commitment to transformation 38 FS9 Framework for managing sustainability: Approach to risk assessment 11 FS10-FS12 These are largely unreported. Full GRI table in web report PR1-PR2 These are not regarded as material for OMSA FS15, PR3, PR5, FS16, PR6 & PR8 Serving our Customers 16 PR4, PR7 PR9 Full GRI table in web report GRI G3 application level requirements In applying the GRI G3 indicators to our material issues in this report, Old Mutual South Africa is self-declaring at a C level application. The following table provides a summary of the GRI’s requirements for different levels of compliance. Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for 1.1 level C plus: Level B 2.1 – 2.10 1.2 G3 Profile 3.1 – 3.8 3.9, 3.13 disclosures 3.10 – 3.12 4.5 – 4.13, Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured 4.1 – 4.4, 4.16 – 4.17 Standard disclosures 4.14 – 4.15 G3 Management Not required Management Approach Management Approach Approach Disclosures for each Indicator Disclosures for each Indicator Disclosures Category Category Report on a Report on a minimum of 20 Respond to each Core G3 and minimum of ten Performance Indicators, including Sector Supplement indicator G3 Performance Performance at least one from each of: with due regard to the Indicators Indicators, economic, environment, human Materiality Principle by either: and Sector including at least rights, labour, society, and a) reporting on the indicator or Supplement one from each of: product responsibility areas b) explaining the reason for its Performance social, economic, omission Indicators and environment areas Old Mutual South Africa Sustainability Report 2009 67 Glossary ABASA Association for Black Accountants in SA NBI National Business Initiative ABSIP Association for Black Securities and NCCF Net Client Cash Flows Investment Professionals NLPI New Limpopo Project Investment AIIF African Infrastructure Investment Fund NOCCI Northern Cape Chamber of Commerce AIIM African Infrastructure Investment and Industries Managers NPAT Net profit after tax AOP Adjusted operating profit NQF National Qualifications Framework ASISA Association for Savings and Investments OMBUS Old Mutual Business School SA OMF Old Mutual Fund BASA Business and Arts South Africa 0MIGPI Old Mutual Investment Group Property BBBEE Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Investments BDT Black Distributors Trust OMIGSA Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa BEE Black Economic Empowerment OMK Old Mutual Kenya BLSA Business Leadership SA OMLACSA Old Mutual Life Assurance Company of BMF Black Management Forum South Africa BPCC Bakwena Platinum Corridor Concession OMM Old Mutual Malawi BPeSA Business Process enabling South Africa OMN Old Mutual Namibia BUSA Business Unity South Africa OMS Old Mutual Swaziland BWA Businesswomen’s Association OMSA Old Mutual South Africa CBD Central Business District OMSTA Old Mutual Service Technology and CEO Chief Executive Officer Administration CR Corporate Responsibility OMZ Old Mutual Zimbabwe CRO Chief Risk Officer PERCCI Port Elizabeth Chamber of Commerce and CSI Corporate Social Investment Industries dti Department of Trade and Industry PIC Public Investment Corporation ESG Environmental, social and corporate SABCOHA SA Business Coalition on HIV/Aids governance SACCI South African Chamber of Commerce and EWP Employee Well-being Programme Industries Exco Executive Committee SADC Southern African Development FAIS Financial Advisory and Intermediary Community Services SAIBBP South African Institute of Black Property FGD Financial Groups Directive Professionals FSB Financial Services Board SA-NCC South Africa Nigeria Chamber of FSC Financial Sector Charter Commerce GFS Group Forensic Services SEF Small Enterprise Foundation GRI Global Reporting Index SETA Sector Education and Training Authority IDEAS Infrastructural, Development and SMME Small, Medium and Micro Enterprise Environmental Assets SRI Socially Responsible Investment IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards UCT University of Cape Town ILO International Labour Organisation UNGC United Nations Global Compact JSE SRI JSE Socially Responsible Investment UNPRI United Nation’s Principles for Responsible Index Index Investing JV Joint Venture VCR Voluntary Counselling and Testing KIEF Kagiso Infrastructure Empowerment Fund WCCCI Western Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industries King III King Report on Governance WDB Women’s Development Businesses KPI Key Performance Indicator NAFCOC National African Federated Chamber of WSSA The Wildlife Society of SA Commerce WWF SA The World Wide Fund for Nature SA 68 Contact details Benji Norman: Chief Transformation Officer Old Mutual Transformation Office Phone: 021 509 6800 or 021 509 3377 E-mail: sustainabilityreportfeedback@oldmutual.com Compiled by Trialogue Design by: GroundPepper Photography by: Clare Louise Thomas with special thanks to Old Mutual staff, Ina Oosthuizen (cover image), John Makgae, Justin Lee, Louise Jean Fourie and Thami Mngumi and the Old Mutual archives.
