1 TABLE OF CONTENTS CHAIRMAN’S COMMITMENT ................................................................................................................... 3 EGYTRANS BACKGROUND ........................................................................................................................ 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES .......................................................................................................... 8 1. HUMAN RIGHTS ................................................................................................................................. 8 2. LABOR STANDARDS ......................................................................................................................... 12 3. ENVIRONMENT .................................................................................................................................... 17 4. ANTICORRUPTION .............................................................................................................................. 22 UN GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK MEETINGS ........................................................................................ 24 CONTACTS.............................................................................................................................................. 25 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX.......................................................................... 26 2 CHAIRMAN’S COMMITMENT Since its establishment, EGYTRANS has been working on creating a company that is built to last. The company has been investing in its sustainability through a focus on several pillars, starting with promoting labor standards for our employees, respecting human rights, fighting all forms of corruption and using environmental friendly procedures in our business. Furthermore, EYTRANS runs a comprehensive internal communication system that enhances its sustainability plans through ensuring ethical conduct and transparency and spreading EGYTRANS values and principles. Egypt faces many political, social and economic challenges. These challenges include revolutions, lack of transparency, rampant unemployment, rigid educational systems and gender inequality, which hinder the pace and extent of development. We, like other Egyptian companies, must introduce policies to cope with the current difficult times Egypt is passing through. At EGYTRANS, we have decided not to lay off any of our employees and instead take a close look at the way we conduct our business and make it even more efficient and lean in order not to lose our momentum and advantages nor give up our corporate social responsibility towards our employees and community. We firmly believe that our policies adhere to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and we look forward to continuing our work with the Egyptian Local Network. In the attached report, we summarize the progress we have made in 2010/2011 against these principles and we strive to report continuous progress in future. Hussam Leheta Chairman & CEO EGYTRANS 3 EGYTRANS BACKGROUND The Egyptian Transport and Commercial Services Company S.A.E. was established in December 1973 under Egypt open door policy with regard to private enterprises. However, its transport activities and experience date back to 1939 as a continuation to GAMAL EL DIN LEHETA & CO. EGYTRANS was nationalized in 1964 when it was one of the biggest companies in EGYPT offering shipping agency, tourism agency and other transport services. The company was originally established as a limited liability company with a capital of EGP 10,000. It is now a corporation with Issued Capital of EGP 156,062,500 million and annual turnover of EGP 130 million. Since its inception it has grown into a true leader in the transport field in Egypt with three hundred and fifty employees and eight branches in strategic locations close to the country's main ports, airports and transport centers. Services The mission of EGYTRANS is to make integrated transport easy, safe and cost-effective for businesses and people. In order to do this, the company offers a wide and varied mix of services in the field of integrated transport, with the ability to handle all the stages of any shipment door-to-door from pick-up and transport to delivery at the final destination. Sea Freight EGYTRANS is able to ship all types of cargo including general, break bulk, containerized or Ro/Ro cargo to and from any part of the world at competitive rates in addition to issuing its own Suez Gulf Line NVOCC bills of lading. For very large volumes, EGYTRANS provides a chartering service for cargo vessels. Air Freight EGYTRANS provides a quick and easy air freight service at competitive rates. Our services include import, export, consolidation and hanging garment containers. Consolidation (LCL) EGYTRANS offers weekly consolidation services from Egypt to over 400 worldwide destinations with receiving stations in Cairo and Alexandria. Consolidation groups many small sea or air freight shipments together into a single large shipment and offers the advantages of competitive freight rates and insurance premiums, reduced risk of damage and reduced packing costs. We continually expand and develop our services by adding direct import services from new origins and direct export services to new destinations in order to provide our customers with the safest, fastest, most regular and most economic service available in the local market. Warehousing EGYTRANS owns and operates several warehouses strategically located at or near industrial areas in Cairo, Alexandria and the Port Said Free Zone. EGYTRANS provides distribution services, bonded warehousing, container yard operations and domestic storage. Many years of experience and continuous process improvement have made EGYTRANS's warehousing service one of the central building blocks of the company’s success. 4 Exhibitions EGYTRANS provides integrated solutions in the field of fairs and exhibitions, smoothly coordinating the transport of cargo and materials to and from any exhibition. EGYTRANS has a specialized Exhibitions Department comprising a team of professionals in transport, logistics and freight handling and providing efficient and reliable services to both organizers and exhibitors at competitive rates. Project Logistics & Specialized Transport EGYTRANS specializes in logistical solutions for large projects including transport of sensitive equipment and packages of exceptional weight or dimensions. EGYTRANS has a highly trained and specialized team that carries out detailed route surveys and logistical studies to determine the best transport method and route for each piece of project cargo. The team then supervises any work required to reclaim or strengthen any part of the route or remove obstacles along the path before carrying out the actual transport. Over the years, EGYTRANS has successfully provided integrated transport solutions for power plants, cement mills, steel mills, transformer sub-stations, water and wastewater plants, oil, gas and petrochemical plants, large scale infrastructure projects and others. Other Services EGYTRANS also performs customs clearance, packing, land transport, distribution, transit and insurance services, providing its customers with a one-stop shop for all their cargo transport needs. World-wide Network of agents While based in Egypt, EGYTRANS has established a worldwide network of professional agents, enabling us to serve our customers and handle shipments to or from any location in the world. Our agents are carefully selected based on their track record, expertise and commitment to maintaining the excellent level of service that our customers expect. Through this worldwide network, EGYTRANS is able to offer global capabilities while maintaining the flexibility and personalized service of a local company. 5 Egytrans has agents all around the world in the following geographical areas: • Far East • U.S.A. & Canada • Indian Sub-continent • Europe & Mediterranean Basin • Australia • Africa • Middle East • South America Participation in Industry Organizations EGYTRANS is an active member of FIATA, the International Federation of Freight Forwarder's Associations and BIMCO, the Baltic and International Maritime Council, founder of EIFFA, the Egyptian International Freight Forwarders Association and an official agent of IATA, the International Air Transport Association. EGYTRANS is also a member of the Through Transport Club, the leading provider of insurance and risk management services to the international transport and logistics industry. Customer Commitment At EGYTRANS, we believe that our customers’ success is our success and we are deeply committed to building lasting win-win relationships with our customers. We make every effort to gain a deep knowledge of our customers and focus on tailoring solutions to their individual needs. Whether we are moving cargo to the other side of town or to the other end of the world, we actively listen and respond to our customers’ requirements and proactively seek new ways to help our customers achieve success by ensuring that their cargo arrives safely, in perfect condition, within budget and on time, every time. 6 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. “We promote employment conditions that protect the rights and welfare of all EGYTRANS employees”. EGYTRANS Code of Ethics. For more information, please visit our IR website: http://ir.egytrans.com/code.htm As an SME active in applying Corporate Governance and CSR practices, we expressly System support human rights through all our engagements with our employees and our partners. We do not yet have an advanced company policy or strategy in this regard but the senior management commitment is very clear. EGYTRANS protects the rights of employees by fully explaining their rights and responsibilities according to the Egyptian Labor Law to them upon employment. In EGYTRANS, we take our employees and their interests very seriously by providing them with safe and healthy working conditions, access to private health care and fair salaries. All human rights issues are fully considered and respected at EGYTRANS. Employees are well treated, fairly appraised on an annual basis, and compensated financially and non-financially based on their achievements and work. All safety measures are applied at work places and offices and all employees have health insurance. Actions The hiring procedure secures equal rights during the entire process. After assessing the applications, various candidates are interviewed by the HR dept. and the direct manager. The final candidate is also interviewed or approved by the CEO. The Board of Directors approves changes in top management. During the probation period of three months any contract can be cancelled immediately from both sides. After this period, the minimum notice period is one month, as the labor law in Egypt prescribes. The total number of hours per week for each employee is 45.50 hours, i.e. 8 hours/day for 5 days and 5.50 hours on Saturday. Any extra hour or any work during a scheduled vacation/holiday is compensated according to the company policy. With respect to married women with children, they are allowed to take an hour off work at any time of the work day.. New mothers are granted three months paid maternity leave with the option of an extended two years of unpaid leave. 8 Employees may be granted unpaid leave for limited periods based on a case by case study. A lump sum of 48 months gross salary is paid to the family of any employee in case of death or disability. We conduct regular employee satisfaction surveys to ensure the satisfaction of our team and prevention of discriminatory actions throughout the organization. EGYTRANS provides life insurance for all its employees. EGYTRANS provides medical insurance for all its employees.  The turnover rate during 2010 reached almost 8% with a decrease of 16% compared to the previous year as a result of the company’s retention policies. % of Employee Turnover 0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10% 12% 2010 8% 2009 9.30% 2008 7.08% 2007 11% 2006 8% 2005 3% We provide a friendly workplace with no discriminatory practices. There is complete gender equality in the workplace. EGYTRANS Employees (Gender) Performance Indicators Females 69 Males 264 0 100 200 300 The value of EGYTRANS’ annual employee life insurance contract with CIL reached EGP 126,626,040 in 2010. The value of EGYTRANS’ annual employee medical insurance contract with Prime Health reached EGP 288,265.16 in 2010. 9 Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. As an SME active in applying Corporate Governance & Corporate Social Responsibility practices, we expressly support human rights through all our engagements with employees and stakeholders. EGYTRANS is committed not to engage in any business activities that lead directly System or indirectly to human rights abuses. Our commitment to zero tolerance for human rights violations is expressly provided, adhered to and lived by. EGYTRANS abides by the laws, regulations and guidelines in the field of eliminating human rights violations and we encourage our employees and Actions stakeholders to implement zero tolerance on such actions. Internally, there have been no abuses in human rights or incidences of complicity. No form of force is ever used. Performance Indicators We have not received any claims of human right abuses related to our business or operations. 10 11 2. LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to System collective bargaining. We are as supportive towards the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining as the law permits. The EGYTRANS Employees’ Fund was established in mid-January 2007. The Fund includes 131 members. Employees that are members in the Fund freely elect representative board for the Fund. The Fund provides several services to its members, such as:  End of service remuneration.  Marriage remuneration provided once to the members.  A contribution in case of death or sickness of a member or his/her first-degree relative.  Loans given to employees for purposes not covered by the company's loans system particularly school fees and expenses.  Organizing exhibitions and providing collective discounts for some durable and consumer goods.  Organizing Eftar for employees during the holy month of Ramadan.  Organizing trips throughout the year.  Any other services required by employees. Actions EGYTRANS provides meeting rooms to host labor gatherings. Employees are able to send individual or collective feedback or suggestions to their direct managers or to top management directly through various communication channels including e-mail or requesting a meeting. Management is committed to reviewing this feedback and responding promptly, implementing suggestions for improvement where applicable. (EGYTRANS Formal Communication Manual). An electronic mail account suggestions@egytrans.com was created through which a specialized committee receives constructive suggestions from employees on how to improve productivity and efficiency and employee satisfaction and performance. The Committee submits its recommendations to the CEO for approval. Another electronic mail account employeefeedback@egytrans.com was created through which the HR dept. receives requests and complaints from all EGYTRANS employees, reviews them and responds within 15 days. 12 EGYTRANS Employees' Fund Non-Members in the Fund Members in the Fund 131 persons 39% 202 Persons 61% % of departments and branches that hold annual meetings to discuss employee concerns = 100%. Performance Indicators No. of suggestions submitted from employees in 2010/2011 = 32. No. of accepted suggestions in 2010 = 12. % of accepted suggestions in 2010 = 37.5%. No. of feedback / complaints from employees to HR dept. in 2010 = 3. No. of responses from HR dept. to received feedback/complaints in 2010 = 3. % of responses from HR to feedback/complaints received in 2010 = 100%. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. All employees are above the age of 18 and educated. Therefore, the issue of System forced labor is not directly addressed within our management systems and processes. We ensure that all our employees are aware of their rights and entitlements, their conditions of service and their freedom to leave (with consequences of such departure as per the law). EGYTRANS does not hire anyone by force or keep any employee by force. All Actions employment takes place subject to an employment contract and all employees are free to leave the company at any time subject to fulfilling the notice period in the contract. All employees earn above the minimum wage and are entitled to benefits to balance out the increased cost of living that we are subjected to from time to time 13 as a result of the increase in fuel costs and living expenses. All our employees are of a mature enough age to identify their needs and concerns and communicate them to the company. % of employees who have signed legal employment contracts with the company = Performance Indicators 100%. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor All employees are well above the age of 18 and educated. All employees receive adequate pay obviating the need for them to force their children to work. System The minimum age of part time employees is 18 years. These are usually summer trainees at university who can perform small jobs in order to learn and earn some money. Actions We ensure that we do not hire children in all our branches and departments. % of EGYTRANS employees above 18 years = 100 Performance Indicators Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. “We treat all people fairly and respectfully regardless of religion, ethnic origin, race, gender, age or disability” EGYTRANS Code of Ethics. For more information, please visit our IR website: http://ir.egytrans.com/code.htm We are committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. System The company does not discriminate between its employees based on race, religion or gender. We support equality in the workplace with equal female to male employment opportunities and compensation. There is a system for hiring people, evaluating them, training them and rewarding them on their achievements. The system applies equally to everyone without discrimination. Promotions and rewards are announced. 14 The hiring and firing policy of EGYTRANS is based on Egyptian labor laws. Equal opportunities are given to everyone when hiring for a new position or a vacant one. The only thing that counts is the qualifications and competencies required by the job itself. An attempt is always made to recruit internally before looking outside the company when there is a job opening. Equal opportunities are also given for training. We do not discriminate against any form of handicap and have demonstrated this Actions by employing physically challenged staff in the organization. We believe in local recruitment and accordingly, we recruit directly from the areas we work in. EGYTRANS respects all religious practices and employees are allowed time for prayer (Christian are allowed one hour delay every Sunday morning and Muslims may pray during the day according to the scheduled prayer times). All Muslim and major Christian holidays are paid holidays for all employees in accordance with Egyptian law. There are five Christian occasions when Christians only are given paid holidays. Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken= 0. Number of Muslim employees inside EGYTRANS = 326. Number of Christian employees inside EGYTRANS = 7. % of Christian employees in EGYTRANS = 2.1%. Number of female employees in EGYTRANS = 69. Performance Indicators % of female employees in the company = 20.72 % (including the managerial and board level). Number of male employees in EGYTRANS = 264. % of male employees in the company = 79.28 % Number of handicapped employees in EGYTRANS = 12. % of handicapped employees in the company = 3.11%. 15 16 3. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should support undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies “We have a duty to the society in which we live and work. We are also committed to protecting the environment and natural resources” EGYTRANS values. For more information, please visit our IR website: http://ir.egytrans.com/vision.htm EGYTRANS is committed to applying occupational health and safety procedures in System order to secure its work environment and was granted the OHSAS 18001 certificate. The company also acts to prevent practices leading to environmental pollution and has attained ISO 14001 certification. EGYTRANS applies an e-business, data center & ERP system. EGYTRANS is a non-smoking organization; it prevents smoking in all of its locations for all employees, trainees and visitors. EGYTRANS is committed to gradually reducing the use of paper. EGYTRANS applied the following actions to reduce energy consumption:  Installation of fluorescent lamps.  Using flat computer screens. EGYTRANS applied the following actions to reduced water usage and paper consumption to save costs and preserve the environment :  Preventing printing of unneeded emails.  Using electronic instead of paper filing. Actions The company and all of its branches take active steps to secure the work environment against physical risks resulting from:  Severe heat and cold.  Noise and vibrations.  Intense light.  Dangerous and harmful radiation.  Atmospheric pressure changes.  Static and dynamic electricity. The company is committed to providing effective means of risk prevention and mitigation, including means of providing first aid, rescue and cleanliness in workplaces. 17 The company and its branches are committed to following the required procedures, precautionary measures and stipulations required to prevent fire risks, which are:  All firefighting tools used must conform to Egyptian specifications.  Maintaining firefighting and prevention equipment by using the latest tools and providing warning and early warning equipment.  Informing the concerned government body of the contingency plan and any amendments therein. EGYTRANS applies all of the above-mentioned procedures to ensure:  Individual safety.  Equipment safety.  Building safety. The company is committed to applying the laws and regulations required to protect the environment as follows:  Preventing smoking.  Collecting and disposing of waste.  Getting rid of liquid and solid wastes to preserve environmental safety.  Applying all laws related to the fifth section of Labor Law 12 for the year 2003. EGYTRANS applies E-business & Data Center systems that reduce paper and printing usage as follows: AE-Business Project: EGYTRANS implemented a project allowing documents and reports issued from the company’s information systems to be automatically converted into PDF format which can be sent electronically to reduce paper and printer usage. Providing duplex printers that reduce up to 50% of paper usage. Enabling remote access to applications such as email and Sametime (company chat) to facilitate home and on-the-road working to cut commutes. LCD Monitors: replace CRT legacy screens to reduce power consumption, Protect user’s eyesight by reducing radiation emitted from the old CRT Screens. Configuring monitors to lock after 20 min. (sleep mode) to save users data, and save power consumption. Instructing users to use draft and duplex modes to optimize usage of consumables and paper. Helping users to share documents, distribute information electronically, and print on demand only, thereby reducing number of unnecessary prints. 18 BData Center Project: Data centers consume a great deal of electricity and this demand, along with the size of the associated utility bill create a challenge to increase efficient energy use while decreasing energy consumption. Computers, storage devices and air-conditioning equipment often work inefficiently so cutting the negative impact of human involvement leads to reduced energy costs and promotes security through the following procedures: Using two AC units in the data center and adjusting them to automatically switch on/off each 12 hrs. so that only one is working at a time. Arranging servers inside cabinets and putting them on anti-static raised floor. Arranging servers inside cabinets in such a way as to allow proper air circulation, so that no air is wasted, which leads to saving on cooling expenses. Using HFC 227 (Fire Extinguisher) which is clean fire protection used as a flooding agent to help protect Data Center Assets, and achieves many objectives:  Safe for people (FM 200 instead danger use of CO2)  Clean agent that is not electrically conductive and therefore does not result in residual electricity that may damage electronic devices.  Fast-acting agent that reduces amount of smoke and/or damage caused by fire.  An environmentally preferred alternative to Halon with zero ozone depletion potential (ODP).  Applying Smoke/heat detectors.  Applying Fire Strobe Siren with fire alarm bell. Auto lock data center door with access control permission through Magnet Cards. 19 IISO 14001/2009 (Environment) 1. The ISO 14001 standard was issued on 1/9/1996. EGYTRANS attained the standard amended in 2004 and is currently certified according to the latest standard ISO 14001/2009. 2. The standard focuses on conservation of the internal and external environment and reducing the environmental impact resulting from corporate activities and services. This includes observance of the following:  Continuous improvement to prevent pollution.  Compliance with laws and legislations and any other requirements the Company is subject to.  ISO certificate is available and accessible to all staff.  Availability to the public. 3. The international standard is audited through internal bodies (Quality Assurance Department) and external bodies (agency granting certificate). Performance Indicators IIIMS Integrated Management System Certificate EGYTRANS obtained this certificate based on integrating the following standards:  ISO 9001/2008  ISO 14001/2009  OHSAS 18001/2007 These were compiled in one harmonized procedure guide. IIIInternational TUV certificate indicates that EGYTRANS is the first company in its field of work worldwide to obtain integrated ISO 9001, 14001, and 18001 and the first worldwide to obtain ISO 10002. For more information please visit our IR Website: http://ir.egytrans.com/integrated.htm Total Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations = 0. Cost of Paper 2010 50729 2009 58655 20 21 4. ANTICORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As an active company in the field of applying Corporate Governance, EGYTRANS operates in a transparent and accountable manner. “We will always live up to our promises. We treat everyone with respect, dignity and honesty. We hold ourselves to the highest moral and ethical standards in what we do.” – EGYTRANS values. For more information, please visit our IR website: http://ir.egytrans.com/vision.htm “We practice fair and honorable competition” EGYTRANS Code of Ethics. For System more information, please visit our IR website: http://ir.egytrans.com/code.htm “We reject the offering or acceptance of bribes, gifts, personal commissions or other inducements leading to unfair or preferential treatment” EGYTRANS Code of Ethics. For more information, please visit our IR website: http://ir.egytrans.com/code.htm EGYTRANS complies with all related laws and regulations. Internally, EGYTRANS has set up an auditing system where all departments and expenditures are audited on an ad-hoc basis to ensure that all budgets are spent properly according to the company’s policies. EGYTRANS has an Audit & Corporate Governance Board Committee which consists of 2 non-executive members and an independent chairperson. The committee’s role is to supervise the external auditor, supervise the internal auditor, review, revise & comment on company financial statements, approve related party transactions and review Corporate Governance practices in EGYTRANS. Audit & Corporate Governance Board Committee held 4 meetings in 2010. Actions The Committee issued a quarterly disclosure report that included the key recommendations on observance of disclosure to the Egyptian Stock Market according to the set dates for this purpose. The Committee asked the External Auditor to submit a Management Letter with a report of observations and recommendations for discussion. The recommendations will be presented to the Board of Directors. 22 The Committee examines the impact of various risks on the Company’s activities. The Company appointed a Risk Management Coordinator based on the Committee’s recommendations. The Committee prepared a report that enumerated the key recommendations the Committee issued during its meetings in 2009 and 2010 in addition to an examination of the decisions issued by the Board and the procedures taken to implement these decisions. EGYTRANS UNGC officer attended the 6th UN Global Compact Roundtable on March 20th, 2011 titled “The Role of Business in Fighting Corruption” and submitted a recommendation report to the Board of Directors. The following actions were taken to implement anti-corruption policies and practices:  Employee training and awareness.  Anti-corruption sections in EGYTRANS Code of Ethics & Values are publicly accessible.  Immediate termination of supplier/contractors contracts if corruption occurs.  Penalty system for employee breaches.  Specialized units inside the company to deal with corruption incidents (Audit & CG Committee, Internal Audit Dept. & Legal dept.).  EGYTRANS participates in non GC initiatives in the field of fighting corruption.  Collective action: EGYTRANS joined forces with industry peers and with other stakeholders in fighting corruption. Externally, EGYTRANS does not allow any form of bribery. We believe that transparency is the only way forward for a better economy. Creating an advanced whistle-blowing system accessible by all our employees. Dealing with incidents as they occur to minimize miscommunication and inappropriate behavior. Participation in collective action and stakeholder engagement through focus groups discussing the problem of corruption and identifying means to fight such corruption. Additionally, EGYTRANS has put the 10th principle on its website for advocacy. For more information, please visit our IR website: http://ir.egytrans.com/corporate_social_responsibility.htm Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Performance Indicators for noncompliance with laws and regulations = 0. 23 UN GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK MEETINGS EGYTRANS participated in the following UN Global Compact Network meetings in 2010/2011: 1. 4th UN Global Compact Roundtable, 27th of September 2010, Four Seasons Nile Plaza Hotel, Cairo – “Energy Crisis in Egypt’(hosted by Oriental Resorts and co-sponsored by Philips). 2. 5th UN Global Compact Roundtable, 9th of December 2010, Cairo Sheraton Hotel“An emerging approach to Corporate Social Responsibilities, Rights and Stakeholders in a Business Context”. 3. 6th UN Global Compact Roundtable, 20th of May 2011, Oriental Hall ‐ American University Downtown Campus, Cairo “The Role of Business in Fighting Corruption”-(Hosted by the AUC John D. Gerhart Center for Philanthropy and Civic Engagement). 24 CONTACTS 1. The highest level Executive Mr. Hussam W. Leheta Chairman & CEO Address: 11, Dr. Kamel Morsy Street, El Shatby, Alexandria 21519, Egypt. Phone: +203 5914696 Fax: +203 5900193 +203 5920269 E-mail: chairman@egytrans.com IR website: ir.egytrans.com 2. The Contact Point Mrs. Rania Farouk Bastawissi Chairman’s Personal Assistant Address: 11, Dr. Kamel Morsy Street, El Shatby, Alexandria 21519, Egypt. Phone: +203 5914696 Fax: +203 5900193 +203 5920269 E-mail: rfarouk@egytrans.com IR website: ir.egytrans.com 25 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX Source: Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1. www.globalreporting.org STANDARD DISCLOSURESPROFILE STRATEGY & ANALYSIS INDICATOR PAGE NO. REMARKS/COMMENTS 1.1. Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) 2 about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1. Name of the organization. 3 2.2. Primary brands, products, and/or services. 3-4 2.4. Location of organization’s headquarters. 20 REPORT PARAMETERS Report Profile 3.1. Reporting Period. Cover Page 3.3. Reporting cycle. Cover Page 3.4. Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 20 GRI Content Index 3.12. Table identifying the location of the Standard 21-22 Disclosures in the report. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMETS & ENGAGEMENTS Governance 4.8. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance 6,11,13,16,17,18 and the status of their implementation. Commitment to External Initiatives 4.13. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 5 Organizations. 26 STANDARD DISCLOSURESPERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENT Energy EN1. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 13 Products & Services EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 13,14,15,16 EN28. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws 16 and regulations. HUMAN RIGHTS NonDiscrimination HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective 12 actions taken. Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining HR5 Actions taken to support the right of Freedom of Association & 9,10 Collective Bargaining. Forced & Compulsory Labor HR7. Measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of 11 forced or compulsory labor. LABOR RACTICES & DECENT WORK Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment 7 contract, and region, broken down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and 7 employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 10 bargaining agreements. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 7 community members regarding serious diseases. Diversity & Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of 7,12 diversity. Corruption SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 17,18 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and 18 regulations. 27
