United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress March 2011 Table of Contents Letter from Our Leaders ...................................................................................... 1 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles ................................ 3 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standards Principles ............................. 6 United Nations Global Compact Environment Principles ................................... 10 United Nations Global Compact Anticorruption Principle ................................ 14 About This Report ............................................................................................... 18 Communication on Progress | 2 Letter from Our Leaders Corporate citizenship remains fundamental to our character and the way we run our company as a high-performance business. In this second Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we highlight our journey during this past year—and reaffirm our commitment to ensuring that Accenture will continue to make a sustainable difference in the communities in which we work and live. Our commitment to the 10 principles of the UNGC, which Our commitment to sustainability across our professional we signed in 2008, and to the organization’s efforts practices and operations is closely aligned with UNGC’s to advance corporate citizenship and sustainability, principles on the environment. Last year we teamed with while promoting the social legitimacy of businesses and the UNGC on “A New Era of Sustainability,” a survey of markets, is well-aligned with our core values and our 766 CEOs around the globe—the largest such research corporate vision. It is simply part of how we act and study of top executives ever conducted on the topic of operate each day, and it matters deeply to our people sustainability. Additionally, we were pleased that in 2010 and to our business partners. In fact, the vast majority of the Carbon Disclosure Project included Accenture—for our employees tell us that they expect Accenture to be a the first time—on its Global 500 Carbon Disclosure committed corporate citizen, and our clients regularly ask Leadership Index, which represents the top 10 percent for information about our initiatives in this area. of all companies. .................................................................. Skills to Succeed, Accenture’s corporate citizenship focus, reflects our culture and our core values—Client Value Creation, One Global Network, Respect for the Individual, Best People, Integrity and Stewardship. Helping people develop skills so they can get jobs, build 250,000 Our goal: By 2015, Skills to Succeed initiatives businesses and improve their communities is a critical will equip 250,000 people around the world challenge—and, at the same time, a great opportunity for with the skills to get a job or build a business us to leverage our deep experience in developing .................................................................. and nurturing talent. We also continued on our ambitious path to reduce In 2010, we set an ambitious goal that, by 2015, we will our own environmental footprint, while helping clients equip 250,000 people worldwide with the skills to get reduce theirs. For example, we expanded our use of jobs or start businesses. We are off to a strong start, with Telepresence technology—now installed in more than 60 more than 80 initiatives that are making a real impact on Accenture locations globally—to eliminate noncritical the economic vitality of families and communities around travel. We implemented remote energy-monitoring the world. For example, in Brazil we have teamed with technologies in our offices to better understand and Conexão to train 13,000 disadvantaged young people manage our energy footprint. We launched Team Eco with business and IT skills, and in the Philippines, we are Challenge, our first global competition to recognize and working with Passerelles Numériques to educate more reward successful environmental practices on Accenture than 300 underprivileged students. projects, as a way for our project teams to share their environmental innovations with colleagues around the Additionally, Accenture and the Accenture Foundations world. Additionally, we began a smart grid pilot project committed to contribute more than US$100 million over for Singapore’s Energy Market Authority, and in the three years to support our corporate citizenship efforts, United States we are teaming with Baltimore Gas & through global and local giving, as well as pro bono Electric to implement a smart meter network for its services and the time and skills of Accenture employees. 1.2 million customers. We intensified our focus in this area across all our geographies last year, aligning the majority of our corporate citizenship activities globally with Skills to Succeed. Communication on Progress | 1 As we continue to make significant strides, we also recognize that we must address challenges to ensure that we remain on track to meet our robust environmental objectives. Most notably, the strong increase in demand for our services and our expansion into emerging growth William D. Green markets over the past year resulted in an associated Chairman increase in air travel, which has slowed our progress Accenture toward our goal of reducing per capita carbon emissions. With this in mind, we are working closely with our global network of employees, clients and suppliers to continue our relentless journey toward more sustainable operations and a smaller environmental footprint. Pierre Nanterme Accenture also remains steadfastly committed to the Chief Executive Officer UNGC principles that address human rights, labor and Accenture anticorruption issues. We believe that strong policies in these areas are vital. Last year we revised and enhanced our Code of Business Ethics to, among other things, further illustrate how we can fully embrace our core values in our daily activities. Additionally, we reached the goals we set around Ethics and Compliance training completion rates within our organization. And for the Adrian Lajtha fourth consecutive year, we earned a perfect score in the Chief Leadership Officer Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index. Accenture Through our continued focus on diversity and in other, numerous ways, we demonstrate our commitment to the UNGC’s labor standards principles. Our workforce of more than 215,000 comprises people from a wide variety of countries, cultures, generations and backgrounds—and includes more than 70,000 women. As we do each year, we celebrated International Women's Day this past March with events in 146 Accenture locations across 35 countries. We also expanded our customized training, which now includes programs to support leadership development programs for ethnic minorities, advance our goals of a more diverse workforce and develop high-performing women. In addition, we extended our focus on sustainability and diversity through our global supply chain by rolling out a new program that reviews the environmental, social and ethical performance of key suppliers in North America and Europe. On the following pages you can read more about Accenture's activities and achievements in all areas related to the 10 principles of the UNGC. Although we are encouraged by our progress from the past year, we recognize there is more to do. And, we are committed to expanding and extending our corporate citizenship efforts, moving forward to ensure that we continue to bring positive change to communities around the world. Communication on Progress | 2 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles “At Accenture, we believe that being able to provide for and sustain oneself and one's family is a basic human right. … Skills to Succeed helps address this gap, by educating people around the world—building skills that enable them to participate in and contribute to the economy and society. Communication on Progress | 3| 3 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our Commitment Beyond our employees and our women to succeed economically Accenture’s commitment to own operations, our commitment is one of the most powerful ways protecting human rights spans to protecting human rights is also to promote human rights and how we treat our employees, our rooted in the expectations we community stability. expectations of our suppliers and how have of our global and our local we support the communities where suppliers. For instance, we now For instance, within our we work and live. It is anchored in our include a sustainability and inclusion Procurement organization we are Code of Business Ethics (COBE), which questionnaire covering human rights demonstrating our commitment we revised in 2010; our Supplier in the template for all RFPs (requests to human rights by actively Standards of Conduct; and our for proposal) in our Netherlands/ promoting the value contributed global policies, including Meritocracy, Benelux region. In fiscal 2011, we will by women-owned businesses and Data Privacy, Harassment, Physical continue to roll out our global other underrepresented suppliers. Security, Geographic Expansions and program to review the environmental, In addition, Marianne Schoenig, Working in High Risk Areas, Crisis social and ethical performance of our Global Procurement Gender Management, Procurement of Goods existing critical suppliers in North Inclusion & Diversity lead serves on and Services, and Reporting Unlawful America and Europe. the board of directors of WEConnect or Unethical Activity Prohibition International, which works to increase Against Retaliation. Gender Equality as a opportunities for women-owned Human Right businesses to succeed, focusing That commitment extends to the As part of our supplier inclusion & not only on established women protection of the health and safety diversity efforts, we are also entrepreneurs but also on grassroots of our employees, contractors, guests committed to playing a leadership entrepreneurs who are at the and neighbors. As such, over the next role in promoting the global economic beginning of their journeys. few years, Accenture is committed empowerment of women. Gender to establishing a global approach to inclusion is an important global In India, our Procurement and health and safety and building on our focus for Accenture; we believe that Corporate Citizenship teams, for current local geographic certifications increasing the opportunities for example, are working with for OHSAS 18001:2007. Communication on Progress | 4 WEConnect International and In our previous Communication on which enables us to track our progress the World Bank on a pilot to help Progress, we reported that we have against key operational indicators. SEWA (Self-Employed Women’s aligned Accenture’s global corporate This internal component provides Association of India) up-skill and citizenship initiatives around Skills a comprehensive approach to upscale its operations, with a view to Succeed. At the start of fiscal tracking and managing progress to supplying corporations with 2011, we set an ambitious goal: By toward our Skills to Succeed goal stationery items produced by SEWA 2015, Skills to Succeed initiatives and will support the development members from recycled paper. Many will equip 250,000 people around the in fiscal 2011 of our outcome of the women involved were formerly world with the skills to get jobs or measurement framework. rag-pickers, who are among the build businesses. This goal reflects our poorest and most vulnerable workers commitment to make a measurable, In fiscal 2010, our overall investment in the world. Now an increasing sustainable difference to the longin Time & Skills projects decreased number of these women can look term resilience of individuals, families slightly. The main reason for this forward to greater self-reliance. and communities. decrease was that fiscal 2010 was a transition year to align our .......................................... In collaboration with our strategic geographic programs with Skills to 80 Number of Skills to Succeed partners, we are working on initiatives that will help us achieve our goal. By the end of fiscal 2010, we had more than 80 initiatives that Succeed, and we made solid progress toward that end. We continue to develop our nonprofit relationships, align them with Skills to Succeed initiatives that are making are making a real impact on the and optimize time and skills a real impact on the economic vitality of families and opportunities for our people. economic vitality of families communities around the world. For and communities around example, in Brazil we are teaming Ongoing Dedication to with Conexão to train 13,000 the Principles the world disadvantaged young people with We have achieved and continue .......................................... business and IT skills, and in the to maintain OHSAS 18001:2007 Philippines we are working with certification—which relates to Accenture has also joined, and Passerelles Numériques to educate occupational health and safety—in is actively contributing to, La more than 300 underprivileged the United Kingdom, Ireland, Spain Pietra Coalition’s “Breakthrough students. We are also working with and our largest site in Bangalore, Initiative”—a powerful network the Canadian-based nonprofit India, and those locations continue striving to empower women globally. Enablis in Africa, with Genesys Works with their reporting and audits. We Finally, we continue to play an in the United States, with Dr. Reddy's are also working toward certification active role in the World Bank Global Foundation in India and with Youth in other geographies including Private Sector Leader’s Forum, whose Business International in the United Brazil, and we have developed and members comprise global business Kingdom. Through initiatives such are rolling out a Global OHSAS leaders committed to creating as these, we continue to offer our 18001:2007 management system opportunities for women as an people “Time & Skills” opportunities, toolkit for those geographies that will integral part of their core businesses, including pro bono consulting and be working toward certification. corporate social responsibility paid volunteering projects. agendas and inclusion and Accenture continues to make diversity efforts. Additionally, Accenture and the advancements on our commitments Accenture Foundations committed to to uphold the UNGC human rights Employment as a Human Right contribute more than US$100 million principles, and in fiscal 2010 we again At Accenture, we believe that being over three years to support our gained recognition for our efforts in able to provide for and sustain corporate citizenship efforts, through this area. For instance, we received a oneself and one's family is a basic global and local giving, as well as pro perfect score of 100 on the Human human right. Unfortunately, many bono services and the time and skills Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality people lack the necessary skills or of Accenture employees. Index—the fourth consecutive year access to education and training that we received a perfect score. We also would enable them to obtain a job To track our progress toward aligning were named to CR Magazine’s Best or build a business. Skills to Succeed our corporate citizenship efforts with Corporate Citizen list. We are proud of helps address this gap by educating Skills to Succeed, we implemented these and our other accomplishments, people around the world—building an enhanced performance and remain committed to human skills that enable them to participate measurement approach in 2010, rights principles in all that we do. in and contribute to the economy and society. Communication on Progress | 5 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standards Principles “One of Accenture’s six core values is Respect for the Individual. Thus, we have a clear commitment to taking the widest possible view of diversity. Our workforce spans countries, cultures, generations and a broad mix of educational experiences and backgrounds. Communication on Progress | 6| 6 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment In addition to being a signatory of cultures, generations and a broad Accenture’s ongoing commitment the United Nations Global Compact mix of educational experiences and to upholding labor standards— (UNGC), Accenture also supports backgrounds. It is the combination including freedom of association; the UNIFEM (part of UN Women) of our employees' multiple elimination of forced, compulsory and UNGC Women's Empowerment perspectives with our common and child labor; and elimination of Principles and, in fiscal 2010, values and methodologies that is a discrimination—continues to span signed the Women’s Empowerment powerful differentiator for us. Our our employees and our suppliers. Principles CEO Statement of clients expect and value diversity—in Our commitment is articulated in Support. These principles provide our teams, our people and our points our Code of Business Ethics (COBE) a set of considerations to help the of view—and so do the women and and Core Values in Action, both private sector focus on key elements men who choose to build careers of which were updated within the that are integral to promoting at Accenture. past year to emphasize, among gender equality in the workplace, other things, diversity, corporate marketplace and community. We train our employees on topics citizenship, teamwork and respect. Informed by business policies and such as avoiding workplace Our commitment is also anchored practices collected from around the harassment, and in fiscal 2010, in our Supplier Standards of world, the principles are very much we offered a wide spectrum Conduct and numerous policies, in line with our own leadership and of training and development including Meritocracy, Harassment, accomplishments on these issues. programs around the subject of Procurement of Goods and Services, diversity. These programs include and Reporting Unlawful or Unethical Promoting High Labor Standards diversity awareness training to Activity Prohibition Against from within Our Organization help participants develop a greater Retaliation. Accenture complies with One of Accenture’s six core values is sensitivity to the opportunities and local labor laws applicable to its Respect for the Individual. Thus, we challenges presented by working relationship with its employees. have a clear commitment to taking in an increasingly dynamic, global the widest possible view of diversity. and diverse organization, as well Our workforce spans countries, Communication on Progress | 7 as diversity management training, provisions about upholding freedom and for Accenture. Accenture which helps our leaders create of association and eliminating forced actively supports our suppliers in and manage an inclusive work labor, child labor and discrimination accelerating the diversity of their environment more effectively. in the workplace. We expect every supply chains and their boards and new supplier agreement issued by contributes to the wider marketplace Additionally, in fiscal 2010, Accenture Procurement to include commitment toward inclusive Accenture worked to expand a clause requiring the supplier to supply chains. support for current and future comply with our Supplier Standards employees with disabilities. We of Conduct, and we will not do Our supply chain performance have implemented new programs, business with suppliers who refuse around labor standards continues are identifying specific national to agree to the clause. to evolve. In March 2010, we requirements for hiring persons with .......................................... began to track the percentage of 20.8% disabilities and plan to extend our new Procurement-issued supplier efforts beyond the requirements of agreements that included a legal those national laws. clause requiring compliance with the Accenture Supplier Standards of Percentage of procurement Enforcing Fair Labor Standards Conduct; we will have a full year of Beyond Our Four Walls spend to diverse suppliers data to report for 2011. Just as Accenture holds its entire in fiscal 2010 organization accountable to high .......................................... Ongoing Dedication to standards of business conduct, the Principles we demand the same of our Additionally, we require all new We have made great strides in suppliers. Within our supply chain, contractors (other than those supplier inclusion and diversity. we are committed to eliminating in France, due to labor laws) to Our programs in India, Canada and discrimination in our choice of attend training around the Supplier Europe are building momentum, service providers and vendors. Standards of Conduct, and they and our initiatives in China and Accenture Procurement’s Supplier must agree to comply with these other Asia Pacific countries are now Inclusion & Diversity program is standards to retain access to under way. We collaborate closely a core part of our commitment Accenture’s technology systems. with WEConnect International, and to sustainable business practices. we have active representation on The professionals on this team Accenture also commits to support the boards or advisory committees work closely with our Corporate gender inclusion across its supply shaping WEConnect India, Citizenship team to align our chain, because we believe that WEConnect Canada and procurement inclusion commitment leveraging underutilized, womenWEConnect Europe. with Skills to Succeed, our owned businesses addresses both corporate citizenship focus a social concern and a barrier to In the United States, our most (described in greater detail in the achieving high performance in the mature geography for supplier prior section, on human rights). marketplace. Through Accenture’s diversity, the total Procurement Procurement Supplier Inclusion & spend to diverse suppliers increased Accenture’s Supplier Standards of Diversity and Skills to Succeed from 15.8 percent in fiscal 2009 Conduct, introduced in December programs, we aim to build the to 20.8 percent in fiscal 2010, for 2009, supplement our COBE and set visibility and capacity of womena total of $309 million in total out the standards and practices that owned businesses that have not diverse procurement spend in that Accenture suppliers are required to yet had opportunities to participate year. Another major milestone uphold across all 10 UNGC principles, significantly in supply chains. from July 2010 was the graduation including human rights. We of Accenture’s second class of its continue to review our key global Our vision is to establish a more Diverse Supplier Development suppliers’ environmental, social inclusive supply chain in our Program, a formal mentoring and ethical business practices as key geographies, aligned equally program in which Accenture part of a phased program to identify with our corporate responsibility executives are teamed with diverse and address areas of risk and agenda and our business suppliers to help them grow their encourage improvement. objectives. We believe that helping businesses over the course of an underrepresented businesses in 18-month commitment. Our Supplier Standards of Conduct our key markets achieve positive document expectations for our economic growth also results in supply chain, including specific positive growth for our clients Communication on Progress | 8 .......................................... Last year we also achieved our 23 Accenture's 2011 ranking goal of increasing the representation of women and minorities among our leadership. For example, within our leadership ranks, women now on DiversityInc's Top 50 comprise more than 16 percent Companies for Diversity list of our senior executives globally. .......................................... In further support of advancing equality, Accenture’s chairman & In fiscal 2010, Accenture and our then-CEO Bill Green was one of people received a great deal of the lead signatories of the UN recognition for our commitment to Development Fund for Women diversity. For instance, Accenture and the UNGC’s CEO Statement was named one of America’s Top of Support for the Women’s Corporations for Women’s Business Empowerment Principles—Equality Enterprises by the Women’s Business Means Business. Enterprise National Council (WBENC) for the second consecutive year. Accenture continued to gain We were also selected as one of the recognition for our efforts around Greater Women’s Business Council’s labor standards, ranking in the (GWBC) 2009 Top Ten Corporations. top 25 on DiversityInc’s “Top 50 Our Chief Procurement Officer, Companies for Diversity” list, Al Williams, continues to serve finishing at No. 22 in 2010 and on the WBENC board of directors, at No. 23 in 2011. and, in September 2010, Ray Toomer, our US Supplier Diversity director, We will continue to leverage our was named to the GWBC board of knowledge and resources to ensure directors. In April 2010, Carol Attak, our ongoing commitment to the Accenture’s US Supplier Diversity labor standards principles. program manager, was elected vice chair of the National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce Procurement Council. Communication on Progress | 9 United Nations Global Compact Environment Principles “Accenture is on a journey to enhance our environmental performance initiatives, striving to take the necessary steps to ensure progress, create efficiencies, embed environmental stewardship throughout our company, and develop and support innovations that help make our world more sustainable. Communication on Progress | 10 | 10 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Commitment Because more than 80 percent of Addressing Electricity Accenture is committed to our overall carbon emissions are and Air Travel understanding and addressing derived from electricity for our To better understand and improve environmental impacts—including office locations and air travel, in our carbon emissions performance carbon, e-waste and water—resulting fiscal 2010, we focused on applying related to office electricity, in from our operations and to fostering technologies and implementing fiscal 2010 we implemented new environmental responsibility actions to improve our performance Remote Energy Monitoring (REM) among our stakeholders, including in these areas. technologies. We connected meters employees, clients and suppliers. to transmission technology in our We continue to make significant locations in South Africa, Spain, Our core values and Code of strides and recognize that we must Mauritius, the United Kingdom, the Business Ethics (COBE) inform our address challenges to ensure our Netherlands, Belgium and India. As Environmental Responsibility Policy, continued progress. Most notably, a result, we now feed our electricity which we established in 2007 and the strong increase in demand for consumption data from these updated in 2009. Members of our our services and our expansion locations to a central tool, which Global Management Committee, into our strategic growth markets records and monitors consumption who approve all major initiatives, over the past year resulted in an in real time. The REM technology including our carbon-reduction associated increase in air travel, can provide benefits quickly. For targets, monitor this policy. At the which slowed our progress toward instance, in our Johannesburg, South same time, our CEO’s performance our goal of reducing per capita Africa, location, this technology objectives, as well as those of the carbon emissions 40 percent by 2012 yielded a 10 percent efficiency relevant members of our Global from our 2007 baseline. Working improvement in only four weeks. Management Committee, include closely with our global network of responsibility for achieving employees, clients and suppliers, we our targets. are on a relentless journey toward more sustainable operations and a smaller environmental footprint. Communication on Progress | 11 Purchasing renewable energy is an in our Paris office. In Canada, we In 2010, we joined Carbon Disclosure important part of our environmental partnered with the World Wildlife Project's (CDP) Supply Chain strategy, and we procure more than Fund to implement new energy program as a corporate member. We 10 percent of our office electricity management programs in our asked our top global IT suppliers to from renewable sources. In several of Toronto office, and in Italy respond to the CDP Supply Chain our locations, including in Germany, we replaced plastic water bottles questionnaire on our behalf, and Italy and the United States, we have with fresh water dispensers in we received a 100 percent response been able to replace nonrenewable meeting rooms. rate. With the knowledge we with renewable energy. Based on gleaned from the responses, we can the successes achieved in those Part of the Solution: improve our strategic planning and locations, we have developed Employees and Suppliers supplier selection, and we can take a global energy procurement We continue to engage our a strategic, standardized approach— strategy that we plan to execute employees through innovative alongside 40-plus other global opportunistically in additional environmental action programs. corporations—to communicating locations over the next two years. Building on the success of our fiscal with our most critical suppliers 2009 employee Eco Challenge, in on their climate change strategies Business travel continues to be at fiscal 2010, we ran our companyand performance. For fiscal 2011, the heart of our delivery model, wide Team Eco Challenge we are doubling the number of but we have identified some competition. This competition suppliers from whom we will opportunities to reduce the related allowed project teams to share invite participation, and we will environment impact. For example, to environmental practice innovations also include facilities and services reduce emissions related to business that deliver client value while organizations and airlines. travel, we are teaming with clients, reducing environmental impact. .......................................... 60 when appropriate, to implement More than 100 projects, representing smart work and alternative travel more than 800 Accenture employees, arrangements so we can stay were entered. The winning project connected and deliver value, team—based in Bangalore, India— Number of Accenture regardless of where our people reduced power consumption are located. in Accenture data centers by locations worldwide using 11 percent. In fact, the team’s work Telepresence technology Additionally, in fiscal 2010 we saved 50-150 kilowatts of electricity .......................................... increased our use of Telepresence daily per site and reduced carbon technology, which is now emission by a projected 1,000 tons Contributing to implemented in more than 60 annually. The winners enjoyed Environmental Progress Accenture locations worldwide, a virtual celebration lunch with We continue to provide strategic including at a number of client our chairman & CEO using our advice to help organizations sites, to connect our people and our Telepresence network, and we are integrate sustainability into clients. In fact, we recently hosted now implementing the initiative in the fabric of their strategies a meeting via Telepresence that 45 data centers around the world. and operating models. We help connected United Nations Global Based on this success, we plan to them plan and assess corporate Compact (UNGC) leadership in run Team Eco Challenge again sustainability programs and develop New York with member company in fiscal 2011. sustainability business opportunities representatives in Accenture related to regulation, technology, offices around the world. Our efforts also extend to providing consumer trends and/or the our knowledge, experience broader economy. We also help our At the local level, our operations and technologies to our entire clients improve energy efficiency around the world continue to supply chain and to guiding and and reduce emissions through take actions to improve our encouraging their sustainability large infrastructure projects— environmental impact. For instance, efforts. For example, our global across energy, transportation and in France we implemented a policy Supplier Standards of Conduct construction. We can help cities to replace air travel with train travel are now part of our sourcing and thrive in the emerging low-carbon for distances that can be traveled by contracting process and include our economy by tailoring solutions that train in under three hours, and we expectations regarding supply chain take advantage of innovations in installed smart building technology environmental practices. key infrastructure areas, including smart grid services, smart metering, Communication on Progress | 12 water conservation, waste and Ongoing Dedication Additionally, Accenture has an pollution. In fact, in the last year, we to the Principles Environmental Management began a smart grid pilot project for In fiscal 2010, 99 percent of RFPs System (EMS) and holds global ISO Singapore’s Energy Market Authority, issued by Accenture Procurement 14001 certification. In fiscal 2010, and in the United States we are included environmental successful audits of Accenture’s ISO teaming with Baltimore Gas & questionnaires. Due largely to the 14001 locations merited renewal of Electric to implement a smart meter learning curve associated with our global certificate. We continue network for its 1.2 million customers. new hires and expansion into new to harvest and share innovations We also continue to be transparent locations, this was just shy of our from these locations and look for in reporting on our environmental target of 100 percent compliance, new opportunities to expand our performance, responding to the but our overall trend is promising, EMS, which we did this year in CDP—specifically, to its Investor and we will continue working to Mexico City. Program since 2007 and its Supply improve our results. Chain Program since 2009. Overall, Accenture is on a journey Our environmental efforts have to enhance our environmental Our relationship with CDP plays an helped us win accolades: performance initiatives, striving important part in expanding that • In 2010, we were included, for to take the necessary steps to organization’s reach and helping the first time, on CDP’s Global ensure progress, create efficiencies, make robust and meaningful data 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership embed environmental stewardship on climate change and corporate Index, representing the top throughout our company, and carbon footprints available. The 10 percent of companies. We develop and support innovations collaboration also furthers our joint received a score of 91 (out of that help make our world ambition of supporting corporations 100)—up from 76 in fiscal 2009 more sustainable. that wish to transform their carbon and 41 in fiscal 2008—and were performance and reduce climate named a leader in the Information .......................................... 99% change-related risks. Technology sector. Further, Accenture received a carbon Our work with CDP extends to our performance score of B, consistent role as its Global Implementation with our peer group. Read our Percentage of RFPs issued Partner—working as project manager 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project by Accenture Procurement and solution integrator for its report. in fiscal 2010 that included new climate change data and • Since 2009, we have participated reporting platform and helping in Newsweek’s annual Green environmental questions define a set of commercial services Rankings and, in 2010, we ranked .......................................... around emissions reporting. 11th out of 500 overall and first in our sector. This ranking represents Accenture also continues to play an a sizeable improvement over 2009, active role in climate change and when we ranked 75th overall sustainability thought leadership. and sixth in our sector. In 2010, we partnered with the • For the sixth consecutive year, UNGC to produce a CEO study on we were a component of the sustainability and business. Titled Dow Jones Sustainability North “A New Era of Sustainability: UN America Index, which tracks the Global Compact-Accenture CEO financial performance of the Study 2010,” the study found leading sustainability-driven that 80 percent of the 766 CEOs companies worldwide. The index surveyed said the global economic follows a best-in-class approach downturn actually increased—rather and includes sustainability leaders than dampened—the corporate from each industry on a global commitment to sustainability. As and regional level. businesses address the challenges • We also appeared for the of the financial crisis and look sixth consecutive year on the toward economic recovery, they are FTSE4Good Index, which measures recognizing sustainability as a source the performance of companies of cost efficiencies and revenue that meet globally recognized growth and a critical element in corporate responsibility standards. driving growth in new markets. Communication on Progress | 13 United Nations Global Compact Anticorruption Principle “Accenture has a publicly stated formal policy of zero tolerance for corruption. This policy supports our commitment to work against corruption in all its forms, including bribery and extortion. Communication on Progress | 14 | 14 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Commitment Our senior management is anticorruption program Accenture has a publicly stated responsible and accountable for with outside counsel and key formal policy of zero tolerance for implementing our policy. Our internal stakeholders. corruption. This policy supports director of Anticorruption Law our commitment to work against reports to an associate general Empowering Our Employees corruption in all its forms, including counsel, and ultimate program We communicate our anticorruption bribery and extortion. oversight resides with our general commitment to our employees counsel and compliance officer. Our via our COBE and anticorruption Our Code of Business Ethics (COBE) Global Management Committee policies, which are available on our and related policies require all provides management oversight to corporate intranet. In fiscal 2010, we employees, business partners and the anticorruption program, and revised and improved our COBE, and suppliers to abide by the spirit the Audit Committee of our board it now includes 58 action statements and letter of all antibribery and of directors oversees the Ethics and illustrating how we can apply our six anticorruption laws everywhere the Compliance program as a whole. core values—Client Value Creation, company does business. These laws Additionally, the compliance officer One Global Network, Respect for include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt reports to the Audit Committee the Individual, Best People, Integrity Practices Act, the Organization on program activities and plans and Stewardship—every day. It also of Economic Cooperation and at least annually. includes action statements that Development Convention on define our Standards of Business Combating Bribery of Public We perform periodic qualitative and Conduct—the obligations that Officials in International Business quantitative risk assessments for every employee must understand Transactions, the UN Convention corruption and share the results with and follow. against Corruption, and similar laws our most senior leadership, the Audit in many countries that prohibit Committee of the board of directors bribery and corruption. and the full board. We are currently conducting an assessment of our Communication on Progress | 15 .......................................... In March 2010, Accenture’s director 80% We require each employee to complete a minimum of one hour— of Anticorruption Law participated in and up to three hours—of Ethics a panel discussion on anticorruption and Compliance training annually, compliance at the Corporate Counsel Percentage of suppliers that based on his or her function, Institute in Washington, D.C. have completed Accenture’s location and level. Our global new ethics, information business ethics helpline (available Involving Our Business security and data privacy via website and phone 24 hours a Partners and Suppliers compliance training day, seven days a week) includes We continually encourage our .......................................... a process to report suspected business partners and suppliers to ethics violations, including anticommit to anticorruption principles: compliance corruption incidents, • In fiscal 2010, we introduced We have built a dynamic COBE without retaliation. We employ staff new ethics training courses, website, which provides employees dedicated to investigating each information security and data access to a vast set of resources, of these calls, with a standardized privacy compliance training for all including scenarios depicting ethical approach to addressing violations suppliers requiring an Accenture dilemmas, policy information, and determining discipline. We e-mail address and ID. Suppliers frequently asked questions (for each implement disciplinary action in must complete the training in action statement), training, key cases of violation of such policies 21 days; failure to do so means terms, subject matter experts and by employees, up to and including that they will lose their Accenture collaboration tools. Periodically, we termination of employment. e-mail and ID. To date, more provide employees with computerthan 80 percent of all in-scope based and live training on our COBE, various aspects of our anticorruption Participating in suppliers have completed program and particular risks we face. External Organizations the training. Accenture participates in a number • Our COBE expressly applies to We also communicate about these of voluntary anticorruption activities. third parties, such as consultants, issues through a variety of internal For instance, we have been deeply agents and independent channels, including newsletters, involved with the United Nations contractors when acting on e-mail reminders and alerts and Global Compact (UNGC) taskforce Accenture’s behalf. online games. for developing guidelines to • We introduced checklists to assess assist companies with reporting our suppliers’ compliance with For example, we include on the UNGC’s 10th principle; applicable data privacy laws, as anticorruption messages in every see Accenture’s detailed report, well as their compatibility with issue of our bimonthly compliance United Nations Global Compact Accenture’s approach to data newsletter, DecisionPoint, and Communication on Progress Report— privacy and client data protection. our Compliance team issues Supplemental Report on Principle 10, • We enhanced supplier background e-mail “postcards” and informal based on that guidance. We continue screening for self-employed/ communications regarding to be an active member in the UNGC independent contractors, and compliance and developments in Working Group on the 10th principle it is now needed to receive an anticorruption enforcement. We and have been a co-chair for the Accenture e-mail address and ID. also maintain an anticorruption UNGC 10th Principle Taskforce, compliance internal website, which is responsible for developing accessible by all employees, which anticorruption reporting guidelines. provides contact information and links to our relevant policies In addition, as a signatory to the and procedures, as well as other Partnering Against Corruption resources. Finally, our website Initiative (PACI), our chairman & offers four short stories titled “A then-CEO signed a commitment Closer Look…,” which address giftto support the PACI Principles for giving and receiving, conflicts of Countering Bribery. We participate in interest and retaliation. PACI industry collaboration meetings and events, and in October 2009 we completed our first PACI Highlighting Achievers Survey, outlining our efforts to support the PACI Principles. Communication on Progress | 16 Ongoing Dedication Additionally, we met our fiscal to the Principles 2010 goal of expanding the presence We have increased our due diligence of Ethics and Compliance leads, in supply chain financial screening. and we now have 36 Ethics and Our Corporate Treasury team now Compliance leads (senior business performs a deep financial analysis leads) covering 42 countries across of all suppliers responding to all of our geographies. critical global technology RFPs and North American contractor RFPs. Our efforts have been noticed: we We then screen selected suppliers have been included on Ethisphere’s on an ongoing basis throughout World’s Most Ethical Companies list our agreement with them, and for three consecutive years in the they must provide us with current Business Services category. financial reports as often as quarterly. Existing critical suppliers Going forward, we will continue go through the same screening on a to maintain zero tolerance for regular basis, and we use the results corruption and to work against it as performance review discussion in all its forms. points and input for the next .......................................... sourcing process. Since releasing our Corporate Citizenship Report 2008-2009, we achieved our target employee 96% Percentage of Accenture completion rate of 96 percent for employees that have required Ethics and Compliance completed Ethics and training. Our goal is to maintain Compliance training this rate and, since 2009, we have .......................................... had a policy under which failure to complete required training could affect an employee’s performance management. Communication on Progress | 17 About This Report About Skills to Succeed About Accenture This report serves as Accenture’s Skills to Succeed is Accenture’s Accenture is a global management second Communication on Progress corporate citizenship focus, which consulting, technology services to the United Nations Global educates people around the world— and outsourcing company, with Compact. It highlights our progress building skills that enable them to more than 215,000 people serving during fiscal 2010 (September 1, participate in and contribute to the clients in more than 120 countries. 2009, through August 31, 2010) and economy and society. By 2015, the Combining unparalleled experience, since we published our Corporate company is committed to equipping comprehensive capabilities Citizenship Report 2008-2009 250,000 people around the world across all industries and business titled “Our Journey, Our Progress.” with the skills to get a job or build a functions, and extensive research Accenture publishes its Corporate business. To achieve this, Accenture on the world’s most successful Citizenship Report every two will continue to work with a number of companies, Accenture collaborates years, with online updates (this strategic partners that share its skillswith clients to help them become Communication on Progress) in building goals. Current partners include high-performance businesses interim years. Please visit Accenture’s organizations such as Enablis, Genesys and governments. Accenture website to view our online Works, Oxfam, Passerelles Numériques is committed to being a good Performance Data table as well as and Youth Business International, corporate citizen—dedicated to our Corporate Citizenship pages. among others. Additionally, the minimizing its environmental impact company offers its people volunteering and helping individuals around the and pro bono opportunities and world get jobs or build businesses. expands its impact by replicating The company generated net and scaling successful initiatives. revenues of US$21.6 billion for the Accenture and the Accenture fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2010. Its Foundations will contribute more home page is www.accenture.com. than US$100 million by the end of 2013—in global and local giving, as well as pro bono contributions of time and Accenture employee skills—to support the company’s corporate citizenship efforts. Communication on Progress | 18 | 18 Copyright © 2011 Accenture All rights reserved. Accenture, its logo, and High Performance Delivered are trademarks of Accenture. Communication on Progress | 19
