Company Profile China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (hereinafter referred to Chemicals as “Sinopec Corp.”, “Sinopec” or “the Company”) is an integrated Sinopec Corp. is the largest producer and distributor of chemical energy and chemical company with principal businesses of products in China. The Company’s major chemical products exploration, production and trading of petroleum and natural gas, include ethylene, synthetic resins, monomers and polymers for refining , marketing and distribution of refined oil products, as well synthetic fibers, synthetic fibers and synthetic rubbers. By the end as production and marketing of chemical products. of 2010, the Company’s ethylene production capacity reached 9.32 million tons per annum, ranking the fourth largest in the Exploration, Development and Production of world. Petroleum and Natural Gas Sinopec Corp. is the second largest producer of crude oil and International Trade natural gas in China. The Company produced 327.85 million Sinopec Corp. is engaged in the supply and trading of crude oil, barrels of crude oil and 441.39 billion cubic feet of natural gas in petrochemicals, equipment and materials. In 2010, the Company’s 2010. By the end of 2010, it’s proved reserve of oil and gas was total trading volumes of crude and refined products were 186 3,963 million barrels of oil equivalent. million tons and 20 million tons, respectively. The Company witnessed rapid growth in trading chemicals, equipment and Refining materials. Negotiations on LNG trade have been well underway. Sinopec Corp. is the largest refiner in China. The Company produces gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, lubricant, fuel oil as well as Research and Development various chemical feedstock and other petroleum products. By Sinopec Corp. leverages the research and development strengths the end of 2010, the Company’s refining capacity was 222 million across the integrated business value chain. The Company’s R tons per annum, ranking the second largest in the world. & D focuses on core technologies and proprietary technologies, pursuing breakthroughs in the field of new business spectrums Marketing and Distribution of Refined Oil Products while supporting conventional portfolios. By the end of 2010, Sinopec Corp. has a well established network to market and the Company owned 25,000 full-time R & D staff and applied distribute refined oil products in China. By the end of 2010, there for 19,001 domestic and international patents, of which were 30, 116 service stations operating under “Sinopec” logo, of 10, 587 patents were granted, 742 out of 1584 submitted which Sinopec Corp. owns and operates 29,601 stations, ranking international patents were granted. Meanwhile, the Company had the second place in the world in terms of the total number of accumulatively obtained one top national prize for science and service stations. technology, 45 national prizes for technology invention and 289 national prizes for progress in science and technology. CONTENTS Company Profile......................... Inside Front Cover 2011 Outlook........................................................62 Address from Chairman.........................................2 Comments from the Public...................................63 Celebrating the First Decade..................................4 2010 Social Responsibility Event Chronicle.........64 Making Every Drop Count......................................8 Third-Party Assessment.......................................66 Corporate Governance.........................................10 About The Report.................................................67 Our Stakeholders.................................................12 Making Every Drop Count 1. Continuous Energy Supply...............................14 2. Premium Customer Services............................20 3. Safe and Green Operation...............................30 4. Low-Carbon Development................................40 5. Care for Employees .........................................46 6. Wholeheartedly Rewarding Society ................52 Sustainable Development Report 01 ADDRESS FROM CHAIRMAN Su Shulin Chairman of the Board In 2010, Sinopec holds true to its mission of “Enterprise Over the past five years, we have given priority to ensure the Development, Contribution to the Country, Shareholder Value national energy security and the stable market supply. In terms of Creation, Social Responsibility and Employee Wellbeing”. We have domestic exploration and production, we have achieved the stable implemented corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) effectively, production growth in the mature oilfields of the eastern China, while advancing corporate reform and growth. We took solid fast ramp-ups in the frontier areas of western China and massive steps in our CSR commitment of “Making Every Drop Count” development in natural gas business. Meanwhile, we took solid the Company’s CSR slogan. And all yielded positive results. steps to expand overseas upstream business. In addition, we built up 13 refineries of over 10-million-tonne per-year capacity each, 8 ethylene facilities averaging at one-million-tonne per-year capacity each. We developed a number of crude terminals, matching As 2010 was the last year of China’s 11th Five-Year Plan storage facilities as well as long-distance crude and oil products period, our performance in the year showcased a successful pipelines. Three major industrial clusters along the Yangtze River accomplishment of all targets set for the 11th Five-Year Plan. Delta, Pearl River Delta and around Bohai Bay were formed, During the past five years, we had leveraged our strengths while creating synergies and increasing resource utilization. Moreover, minimizing and addressing our weakness when implementing our we effectively secured crude supply by diversifying crude import integration and globalization strategy to link resources with end sources and expanding the third party trading volume. markets. Continuous improvement was made in asset quality, market competitiveness, risk-hedging capability and contribution to the society. Compared to 2005, our total assets increased by 79% to RMB 985.4 billion, total turnover grew by 135% to RMB Over the past five years, we remained committed to the supply 1,913.2 billion. Taxes and fees paid to the central and regional of clean fuels, premium petrochemicals and the delivery of quality government authorities grew by 235% to RMB 234.6 billion. customer services in an effort to build positive brand image. We Shareholder equity grew by 86% to RMB 421.1 billion. During spared no effort in delivering our promise in good product quality, the past five years, Cumulative taxes and fees paid to the central sufficient quantity and customer satisfaction. Our fuel supply and regional government authorities totaled RMB 705.7 billion has been made available to over 15 million customers at 30,000 and cumulative dividends paid to shareholders reached RMB Sinopec service stations every day based on extensive marketing 72 billion. We provided 619 million tonnes of refined oil products and distribution network. In 2010, we supplied the domestic and 178 million tonnes of chemical products, which effectively market with 149 million tonnes of refined oil products and over 43 supported national economic development, and in the mean time million tonnes of chemical products. Sinopec branded products created value for shareholders and met consumer demands. and services are prevailing in every aspect of improving the quality of people’s life, including garment, food, housing and 02 Sinopec Corp. transportation. We completed the quality-upgrading program as taking good care of retired employees. At Sinopec, we have for gasoline products to meet domestic demand, mitigated fostered a corporate culture to promote career development for all 50,000 tonnes of sulfur dioxide emission per annum. Our hightypes of talents. specification chemical products supply contributed to a better life quality. By strengthening the strategic cooperation with our suppliers, we managed to add more Chinese content in key Over the past five years, Sinopec has been an active stakeholder equipment and material supply, bringing along the development to promote social harmony and stability by fulfilling CSR and progress in domestic manufacturing sector. commitment and engaging in public welfare undertakings. We have provided disaster-relief support in earthquake-hit Wenchuan of Sichuan and Yushu of Qinghai, ensuring fuels supply during Over the past five years, we laid strong emphasis on work Beijing 2008 Olympiad, Shanghai 2010 World Expo, Guangzhou safety, environmental protection and resource conservation. 2010 Asian Games as well as summer and autumn peak By carrying out “I Safe” campaign in the past three years, we farming seasons. Our sufficient diesel and natural gas supply achieved safe production under complex operating conditions. effectively relieved the market tension in different regions in time Substantial efforts were made to optimize industrial structure, of emergency and critical moment. We have provided support upgrade industrial configuration, conserve energy, reduce in poverty regions, offering aid to Tibet, giving donations to emission, increase resource efficiency and promote low-carbon Lifeline Express and youth education. In the past five years, we development. During the 11th Five-Year Plan period, we delivered built 161 Hope Schools for primary students living in poverty beyond the national targets to have saved 12.2 millions tonnes regions, supported over 30,000 female students to complete of coals equivalent in energy consumption, reduced 29.97 million their education based on “Spring Bud Program”, treating 18,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emission and 204,000 tonnes of sulfur cataract patients for free at Sinopec “Health Express” mobile train dioxide emission. We are proud to have played an active part in hospitals, and putting into operation a number of infrastructure saving resources and protecting our environment. projects in Tibet and poverty-stricken regions. We made a difference in the quality of life for the people in poverty regions, as well as contributing to regional development along with our own In the meantime, we continued to promote technological growth. development, improve innovation capabilities and management expertise. Our R&D success strongly supported core business growth based on consolidated R&D resources, innovation in both theory and technology, as well as breakthroughs in key Year 2011 is the first year of China’s 12th Five-Year Plan period. technological areas. In the past five years, we have been granted Looking ahead, we aim to shift the pattern of development, 4,115 domestic patents and 405 international patents, obtaining actively promoting coordinated and sustainable development 51 awards including National Science and Technology Progress approach. Our CSR will be continuously fulfilled by securing Awards and National Technology Invention Awards. We have energy supply, providing better services, focusing on HSE implemented “Sinopec Style” of corporate management to management and low-carbon development, caring for employees improve internal control system, standardization, IT application, and giving back to society. While achieving further growth of the comprehensive budgeting, centralized treasury management and Company, we remain committed to the nation, our shareholders, all-employee cost objective management. the society and our employees. We remain committed to employee-focused labor relations. By accelerating career development and talent training programs, we witnessed enormous improvement in employees’ professionalism Su Shulin and proficiency. Our employees are eligible to corporate annuity Chairman of the Board plan and pension system. We respect international employees from different nationalities and cultures, providing assistance to and solutions for the employees living in difficulties as well Sustainable Development Report 03 CELEBRATING THE FIRST DECADE As China continues to march forward in the 21st century, Sinopec And Sinopec have become an energy and chemical company has experienced remarkable growth in the past decade since its with significant prominence and recognition in the world. Sinopec IPO in 2000. We have scored glorious achievements through a Corp., as the core assets of its Parent, shares the growth and decade of diligence. Great changes have taken place in Sinopecin is proud to be part of it. Meanwhile, the Company made great terms of multi-fold growth in corporate revenue, EPS, total assets, headway in fulfilling corporate social responsibility, providing shareholder equity and market capitalization. The Company’s sustained energy supply, deepening HSE management, advancing international business has made enormous expansion. China energy conservation and emission reduction, supplying clean fuels Petrochemical Corporation (hereinafter referred to as Sinopec and green products, contributing to public welfare undertakings Group), the Parent of Sinopec Corp., has raised its ranking in and promoting human solicitude. Fortune Global 500 from the 58th in 2000 to 7th place in 2010. RMB Millions 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Operating income 1,913,182 1,345,052 1,444,291 1,200,997 1,056,363 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 70,713 62,677 31,119 56,150 53,745 Earnings per share (RMB) 0.82 0.72 0.36 0.65 0.62 Cash dividend for the year (RMB /share) 0.21 0.18 0.12 0.17 0.15 Share capital (million share) 86,702 86,702 86,702 86,702 86,702 Total assets 985,389 886,896 784,471 764,625 637,855 Taxes and fees paid to the central and local governments 234,554 179,852 108,386 104,111 78,823 Donations 177 174 104 158 98 04 Sinopec Corp. China’s second largest oil and gas producer 307 registered blocks with an area of 968,000 square kilometers By end 2010, proved reserves of oil and gas were 3,963 million boe Asia’s largest and the world’s second largest refiner Refining capacity by the end of 2010: 222 million tpa 12 crude terminals for VLCC with total handling capacity of 193 million tpa and 6,600 kilometers of crude pipelines Sinopec owns the largest refined oil products marketing and distribution network in China with 30,116 service stations operating under Sinopec logo. The total number of service stations ranked the 2nd in the world. The Company supplied to the market with 149 million tons of refined oil products in 2010 In the past decade, the Company has totally produced 951 million tons of refined products and sold 1.099 billion tons of products China’s largest and the world’s fourth largest ethylene producer In the past decade, the Company has totally produced 54.36 million tons of ethylene. By the end of 2010, ethylene capacity hit 9.32 million tpa Varieties of products meet people’s daily needs Sustainable Development Report 05 Science & Technology Sinopec has always emphasized the “propeller” function of accumulatively been granted 1 highest national prize for science technological innovation in production and operation. We have and technology, 45 national prizes for technology invention and leveraged our strength in research and development across the 289 national prizes for scientific and technological progress. The integrated business value chain. We focus on the development Company applied for 19, 001 domestic patents and international of core technologies and proprietary technologies, achieving patents, of which 10, 587 patents were granted, 742 out of breakthroughs in new business areas. 1, 584 submitted international patents were granted. In the past decade, we have made extensive achievement in technological innovation. By the end of 2010, we have Management We have pressed ahead steadily with the innovative “Sinopec management. Corporate management is developed in a more Way” of management to optimize corporate internal control, meticulous and standard manner. We have promoted higher standardization, IT application, comprehensive budgeting, corporate transparency through enhancing information disclosure centralized cash management as well as all-employee cost and investor relations. Human Resources We encourage “esprit de corps” at workplace, respect the rights and training at every stage of all employees’ career path. Various and benefits of employees and take various measures to ensure types of vocational training, on-the-job training and continuing responsible care among all employees. education programs have been carried out at different job levels. In addition, we have promoted specialized and technical We have improved the proficiency of employees by offering trainings for professionals in the areas of executive administration, them career development plans and taking various measures to technologies, technical skills and international operations. improve people's professionalism. We have supported education HSE is always the priority of Sinopec Production Safety and Emergency Response Management Protect the Environment and Develop A Circular Economy Sinopec emphasizes production safety and has established sound safety Sinopec actively promotes clean production as well as the research and system, formulating and revising HSE rules and regulations, including those development of clean products. From 2005 to 2010, Sinopec invested for accidents and hidden perils. RMB 49.2 billion in oil products upgrading program. In 2010, the Company’s expenditures in environmental protection reached RMB 3.88 Sinopec emphasizes hidden perils management and control. From 2005 billion. to 2010, Sinopec (the Group+the Corp.) has invested a total of RMB Safety First, 8, 635 billion in the control of hidden perils. Precaution Foremost, Sinopec has taken measures on comprehensive resource utilization. From 2005 to 2010, the Company had achieved Continuously carry out “I safe” campaign across the All-employee involvement, an output value of RMB 22.4 billion from comprehensive Company. Comprehensive Control, resource utilization. Improve Improve protect and and protectthe environment, “Put People First” and Emphasize Conserve Energy, Reduce Emission and Vocational Health at Workplace Professional Reasonable management, management, Address Climate Change Sustainable development. Sinopec maintains “put people first”, and vocational healthy Sinopec emphasizes conserving energy, reducing emission, at workplace. The Company earnestly implements vocational and achieving cost efficiency. Compared with 2005, Sinopec in disease controls and HSE management system 2010 decreased COD discharge by 18.1%., sulfur dioxide discharge down by 35.7%, delivering earlier-than-expected target in China’s “11th To ensure the physical and psychological health of employees, Sinopec is Five-Year Plan”. committed to the source control on vocational health hazards at workplace by taking regular medical checks and providing psychological counsel for The Company actively researched and developed energy conserving employees. technologies. Its CO2 capturing and storage technologies are in the leading position in China and its adsorption solvent consumption makes up 90% of The Company takes both responsible care and relevant policies to help HSE as the domestic market share. and support employees living in difficulty. A help and support system is Priority now available to employees. 06 Sinopec Corp. Dedication to Public Charity and Contribution to Society Donation and Aid to Education Secure Fuel Supply in Summer Peak Season, and Since 2004, the “Spring Bud Program” has assisted more than Fight Against Drought 30,000 female students in 26 national-grade impoverished Sinopec supplies fuels to ensure 90% of the farming work for counties to complete their education. summer harvest in China. Sinopec is strongly committed to donation to China’s “Hope The Company ensures sufficient and quality fuel supply for School” construction. In the past 5 years, we have provided transportation and farming vehicles, providing premium services donations for the completion of 161 “Hope Schools” and onat discount prices for disaster-stricken regions. going construction of 45 schools. In 2010, Sinopec donated RMB 15 million to Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan. “Lifeline Express” Project Since 2004, Sinopec has donated RMB 83.5 million to the “Lifeline Relief and Development in Poverty Region Express” foundation, enabling 18,000 cataracts sufferers to regain Sinopec undertook aiding Yingshang, Yuexi and other nationalvision. level impoverished areas. Since 2002, Sinopec has invested RMB In 2010, “Sinopec Brightness Health Express” traveled a long 100 million in 4 dedicated poverty-stricken counties. journey from Mianzhu in Sichuan, to Kashgar in Xinjiang and Guilin Sinopec was awarded by the State Council Poverty Relief in Guangxi, to treat and assist cataracts sufferers. Leading Group “the Advanced Prize for Designated State-Owned Enterprise Supporting Poverty-Stricken Regions” Disaster Relief Support During the “5.12” Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, Sinopec Aid to Tibet immediately set into motion a disaster relief plan for emergency Over the past ten years, Sinopec has invested a total of RMB response, guaranteeing efficient fuel supply for disaster relief 136 million in funds to assist Tibet, supporting 55 projects for the work. The Company also donated RMB 300 million both in cash benefits of Tibetan people. and kind. In 2010, Sinopec invested a total of RMB 25.83 million in funds In 2010, Sinopec donated RMB 15 million to Yushu of Qinghai, to assist Tibet, supporting 5 major projects to aid and benefit the and RMB 5 million to Zhouqu of Gansu. local people. Sustainable Development Report 07 MAKING EVERY DROP COUNT Origin “Making Every Drop Count” is a solemn promise made by Sinopec responsibility based on a management framework called at the Company’s Quality Work Conference on August 18th, 2010. “six-dimension responsibility management”. It incorporates responsibility philosophy from “the emergence of the Drop”, “the By “Every Drop”, it refers to Sinopec branded fuels, services and support to the Drop” to “the sublimation of the Drop”. other offered products. “Making Every Drop Count” refers to not merely good quality for our products, but also the standard quantity, safety and environment friendliness delivered to customers and the community. The essence of “Making Every Drop Count” is to fulfill our Five Innovations in Sinopec 2010 Responsibility Management 1. Sinopec collected over 5, 000 CSR good ideas across the 4. Sinopec explored the theories and management approaches company and from the general public. on CSR by compiling research documents on “Making Every Drop Count”. 2. Sinopec applied “Six-Dimension” CSR management framework and incorporate social responsibility into our corporate strategy 5. Sinopec supported China’s CSR rating system by initiating CSR and operation. Report rating program among Chinese companies. 3. Sinopec set up China CSR research base by working with ——CSR Research Center, Economics Division, Chinese Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS). Academy of Social Sciences 08 Sinopec Corp. Responsibility management for “Making Every Drop Our current performance assessment system has incorporated a Count” number of CSR indicators which focus on the impact of business In 2010, Sinopec enhanced its CSR management with “Making operations on economy, society, the environment and resources. Every Drop Count” as the theme. This allows us to improve CSR performance management, promoting continuous improvement in CSR management and We fully analyzed the impact of our own business operations on practices and ensuring the concept to be implemented in due the economic and social environment, carefully evaluating the course. challenges amid volatile and complex circumstances. We took massive steps to understand the needs of our stakeholders. We make great efforts to promote advocacy of CSR by issuing Areas of major focuses covers 6 core CSR subjects: energy CSR report, setting up online CSR columns and internal audiosupply, customer services, HSE, climate change, employee visual trainings, giving lectures in universities and hosting site development and social welfare. We have started the research visits by journalists. This enables our shareholders, employees, works on formulating an improved CSR work plan to define the customers, partners, government, media and the general public objectives, tasks, basic philosophy and guarantee measures for to understand and monitor the implementation of our social social responsibility. responsibility work. Meanwhile, our best practice is a showcase to encourage our partners to be socially responsible. We have initially established the organizational system, institutional system and responsibility system for CSR management. In 2009, We actively put forward CSR research work through a variety of we established Sinopec CSR Work Leading Group to ensure methods. We have established a research base with the CASS social responsibility concepts thoroughly implemented in our dayResearch Center for Corporate Social Responsibility. In addition, to-day businesses. we initiated CSR Report rating system for Chinese companies, which advanced the rating work of CSR reports among Chinese The slogan of “Making Every Drop Count” is initiated to ensure companies. Taking this research base as a pivotal point, we CSR embedded into our corporate strategy, operation, corporate made great progress in expanding CSR trainings, workshops and culture and social practices. We also aim to better implement subject-specific researches, communicating CSR concepts to a CSR across our subsidiary companies. In the process of collecting broader audience. This enabled us to continuously improve our CSR slogans and promoting CSR trainings, We spare no efforts social responsibility work. to timely apply CSR concept to corporate management and operation. Our Story: The Birth of Sinopec CSR Slogan In order to well develop and communicate CSR concept to the public, by being invited as a journalist to write CSR slogan for Sinopec”, says Ms. Sinopec started in February 2010 collecting Sinopec CSR slogan from Li Chenlei, a journalist with a Chinese finance magazine, “I am touched by Sinopec employees and major domestic mass media. By March 10th, the responsible attitude of Sinopec towards the society and the general 2010, the Company collected over 5, 000 slogans from individuals and public. I am touched by the good ambiance created across Sinopec. And institutions. Many Sinopec employees including Chairman Su Shulin actively I am touched by Sinopec’s commitment to building such a longstanding participated in this activity. concept within the company. Thus I am honored to get involved in this activity and offered my version of Sinopec CSR slogan as ‘Ensured Clean “Create Value, Conserve fuels and Contribute to Clear Sky”, “Openness Energy and Unchanged Customized Services’ ”. and Competition, Practical Operation, People First and Joint Value Creation” are only part of the 5, 000 collected slogans. It is fair to say CSR On April 29th, 2010, Sinopec officially set forth “Making Every Drop Count” has been deeply rooted in the hearts of our employees. The philosophy of as its CSR slogan. At Sinopec Quality Work Conference on August 18th, “human solicitude” and “environmental friendliness” has been indicated in Chairman Su Shulin announced this slogan as Sinopec’s solemn promise these slogans and demonstrated in daily operations. “I have been touched to the society. Sustainable Development Report 09 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance is the important bedrock supporting Auditing Committee, and Remuneration and Performance Sinopec’s sustainable development. We strive to improve Examination Committee. The three committees provide the Board corporate governance to protect and balance the interests with consultation for specific issues. of shareholders, clients, employees, the society and other Based on a standard corporate governance system, the Company stakeholders. Improved corporate governance allows the is open to the supervision by the capital market and the general company to make rational decision-making, mitigate risks, achieve public. As a company listed in Shanghai, Hong Kong, New York operational excellence and sustainable development. and London, Sinopec strictly abides by the laws and regulations We have defined the respective responsibilities, by-laws and of the listing places. The Company has gained the recognition of work-flows for shareholder meetings, Board of Directors, Board the capital market by doing a good job in information disclosure of Supervisors and executive management team. Independent and investor relations. In 2010, Sinopec obtained the “Shanghai directors account for one third of the Board of Directors. Under Stock Exchange Information Disclosure Award”. the Board level are three committees: Strategic Committee, Members of the fourth session of the Board of Directors Name Job Title at Sinopec Term of Office Name Job Title at Sinopec Term of Office Su Shulin Chairman May 2009 May 2012 Li Chunguang Board Director May 2009 May 2012 Wang Tianpu Vice Chairman and President May 2009 May 2012 Dai Houliang Board Director and Senior Vice May 2009 May 2012 President Zhang Yaocang Vice Chairman May 2009 May 2012 Liu Yun Board Director May 2009 May 2012 Zhang Jianhua Board Director and Senior Vice May 2009 May 2012 President Li Deshui Independent Non-Executive Director May 2009 May 2012 Wang Zhigang Board Director and Senior Vice May 2009 May 2012 Xie Zhongyu Independent Non-Executive Director May 2009 May 2012 President Chen Xiaojin Independent Non-Executive Director May 2009 May 2012 Cai Xiyou Board Director and Senior Vice May 2009 May 2012 President Ma Weihua Independent Non-Executive Director May 2010 May 2012 Cao Yaofeng Board Director May 2009 May 2012 Wu Xiaogen Independent Non-Executive Director May 2010 May 2012 10 Sinopec Corp. Members of the fourth session of the Board of Directors Other Senior Executives Name Job Title at Sinopec Term of Office Name Job Title Wang Zuoran Chairman of the Board of Supervisors May 2009 May 2012 Wang Xinhua Chief Financial Officer Zhang Youcai Vice Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, May 2009May 2012 Zhang Kehua Vice President Independent Supervisor Zhang Haichao Vice President Geng Limin Member of the Board of Supervisors May 2009 May 2012 Jiao Fangzheng Vice President Zou Huiping Member of the Board of Supervisors May 2009 May 2012 Lei Dianwu Vice President Li Yonggui Independent Supervisor May 2009 May 2012 Ling Yiqun Vice President Zhou Shiliang Employee-Representative Supervisor May 2009 May 2012 Chen Ge Secretary to the Board of Directors Chen Mingzheng Employee-Representative Supervisor May 2009 May 2012 Jiang Zhenying Employee-Representative Supervisor December 2010 May 2012 Yu Renming Employee-Representative Supervisor December 2010 May 2012 Sinopec 2010 Corporate Governance Progress Compliance · While carrying out operating activities, Sinopec strictly follows the laws and regulations, abiding by social morality and business ethics, insisting on integrity, honoring commitment and subject to the scrutiny by the government and the public. · Issuing in 2010 a booklet called Learning from Practice: Laws and Regulations on Corporate Management (New Edition) and deepening the understanding across the Company on 20 relevant laws and regulations. The spirit of Making Every Drop Count slogan has been incorporated into business contracts and agreements. · Launching “Walking with Laws” knowledge contest in which hundreds of thousands of employees participated. Internal Control · Continuously developing internal control system by advancing rational, standard and meticulous management approach. · Compiling Internal Controls Handbook, deepening compressive budget management and cost objective management for all employees, pressing ahead with centralized accounting system, risk management and centralized material procurement and supply. Audits · Promoting the institutionalization and standardization of audit work supported by IT platform. · Having conducted 5 training courses for pre-auditing and AIS standards training, covering 670 Sinopec auditor trainees, replacing lecturing-mode training with audit-practice training on 50 audit pros, whose mindset and proficiency were both upgraded. Discipline Investigation · Standardizing open business management and online monitoring work by drafting in 2010 The Administration Methods of Open and Supervision on Open Business Management and Online Monitoring Management Methods. Business Management · Increasing transparency in online purchasing with total purchasing volume exceeding RMB 900 billion and online purchasing rate reaching 95%. · Making a thorough investigation on and serious punishment to Anyang Subsidiary of Henan Province for violating laws and regulations by supplying problem oil products in the market, fully showcasing the function and role of the discipline investigation and supervision in addressing the root cause of malpractice. Anti-Corruption · Making steps to advance anti-corruption by controlling the source and key links, combating corruption in major areas as well as rendering serious punishment to malpractice and mismanagement arising from corruption. · Signing “the Agreement on Adhering to Business Ethics” with its suppliers to fight against commercial bribery, creating level playing field for business transactions. · In 2010, the proportion of responsible procurement reached 100%, the proportion of local procurement reached 95% and supplier contract execution rate hit 99%. Anti-Monopoly · Promoting fair competition and opposing market monopoly, strictly following Chinese laws and regulations against monopoly and unfair competition. · Adhering to integrity in operation and fairness in competition, paying due respect to competitors, respecting intellectual property rights as well as the interests and rights of customers. Sustainable Development Report 11 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our stakeholders include the government, employees, mutual support, mutual benefits and win-win cooperation. shareholders, customers, suppliers, contractors, communities, By joining hands with them, Sinopec is proud to fuel China’s general public, NOGs and other organizations. We have built with economic growth, protect the environment and promote social all the stakeholders a partnership based on active interaction, progress. Stakeholder Expectations on Sinopec Communication Channel Sinopec Response Approach and Effects Government Compliance in operation and risk aversion Announcement of laws, regulations and Operating based on integrity and in accordance with laws Response to the state macro-regulation policies Disclosing accurate information on a timely basis policies Subject-specific report and meetings Creating job opportunities Providing job opportunities Increasing contribution to society Driving regional economic growth Abiding by the State policies Customers Quality products Meetings with and comments collection Continued innovation on products Quick response from customers Improve customer relation management (CRM) Customization Day-to-day contact Improve customer satisfaction Fast solutions to complaints Customer feedback Increase the handling rate of customer complaints Excellent post-sale services Hotline services Online services Employees Assurance of employees’ lawful rights and Contact mail-box for suggestions and Engage employees in corporate management benefits complaints Protect the lawful rights and benefits of employees Satisfactory payment Dialogue Focus on people development Good work environment Office Automation (OA) system Improve incentive plan Fast career development Higher employee satisfaction Lower in job-quitting rate Labor Union Labor rights and benefits Employee-representative conferences Enhance communication via collective negotiation Democratic management grassroots labor union organizations Improve democratic management Openness and transparency in corporate affairs Shareholders Stable credit rating Regular reporting Strict risk controls and Creditors Accuracy, authenticity, timeliness and Corporate report Profit-making momentum completeness in information disclosure Corporate presentations and road shows Maintain the dividend or interests payout to shareholders Protect the rights and benefits of shareholders Shareholder dialogue and feedback or creditors and creditors Good credit rating Reasonable returns on investment Fair enterprise value Suppliers Fair procurement Negotiations Observing fair and square principles Honoring the contract Communications Strict contract excecution Strategic partnership Tender-offer meetings High supplier satisfaction Win-win result Purchase cost effectiveness Financial and Effective financing cost Negotiations Research on financial and insurance policies Insurance Minimum risks Regular meetings Adjusting corporate strategies to lower fund-raising risks Companies Timely repayment Business Complementary in respective advantages Negotiations Adhering to principles of integrity, mutual benefits and Partners Mutual trust based on mutual benefits Regular meetings equal consultation Information sharing Executive meetings Innovation on cooperation areas and business modal Routine correspondence Effective partnership Regular exchanges 12 Sinopec Corp. Stakeholder Expectations on Sinopec Communication Channel Sinopec Response Approach and Effects Communities Pay close attention to social development Singing agreement to support public Jointly build a civilized community Contribute to harmonious community welfare Donation to public charity programs Involved in volunteer campaigns Volunteer services Regular meetings Support education and rural development Media Timely information disclosure Press Conference Improve media environment Good media relations Press release Build good reputation through media reports Quarterly reports Heighten Sinopec brand awareness among media Spot coverage organizations Media meetings Interact and work with media NGOs Joint advocacy on sustainable development Regular meetings and activities Enhance Sinopec brand awareness among NGOs Keep in touch with each other Interact and work with NGOs Our Story Grow Together by Working Together It is our aspiration to work in allies. While strengthening our own Tianjin Iron & Steel Group, China First Heavy Industries (CFHI), China development, we have also developed increasingly close partnership with Second Heavy Industries, and Shenyang Blower Works Group (SBWG). local governments, suppliers and industrial peers in wide areas. We are By having reliable access to resource and materials supply, we are assured extending service network and fueling the growth of regional economy and with secure and timely material supply at low cost. In return, our strategic its industry, which is a win-win result. suppliers also achieve sustainable development based on a cemented market share. In the process of this win-win cooperation, domestic We launched the third round of strategic cooperation in 2010 with suppliers manufacturers witness robust growth. CFHI, for example, has become after the same experience in 2004 and 2007, signing 5-year strategic a world-class player in hydrogenation unit manufacturing. SBWG has cooperation agreements with 22 large-scale domestic coal, steel and become one of the companies in the world capable of manufacturing largeequipment manufacturing enterprises. These enterprises include Shenhua size compressors used on million-ton-capacity ethylene facilities. Group, China Coal, Baosteel, Angang Steel, Wuhan Iron & Steel Group, Our Story Journalists Take a Close Look at Sinopec From June 7th to June 10th, 2010, 48 journalists with 46 media Expo has brought to Sinopec and caught a glimpse of their happiness and organizations including The People’s Daily, Xinhua News Agency, CCTV and hard work. Quoting Xu Yuhai, a journalist with Shanghai Securities News, it CNTV have attended a site tour organized by Sinopec in Shanghai. is admirable to see Sinopec employees devote to their work and make the best contribution to the World Expo with good and effective services. The journalists visited our service stations in Wanping Road and Kaicheng as well as Easy Joy convenience stores. From chatting with the working The journalists visited Sinopec Shanghai Gaoqiao Petrochemical staff there, the journalists felt excited to know how big changes the World Corporation, coming to understand “the birth” of fuels. They were deeply impressed by Sinopec’s endeavor to supply clean and quality fuel products during Shanghai World Expo. This success was attributable to oil products upgrading and de-bottlenecking programs. To ensure product quality, our products shall go through over 10 times of sampling check before being delivered to customers. The journalists were convinced what Sinopec had done to contribute to the Shanghai World Expo. Sustainable Development Report 13 Making Every Drop Count CONTINUOUS ENERGY SUPPLY 14 Sinopec Corp. Energy is fundamental for people’s livelihood and social development. Crude oil, or the “black gold”, is the wellspring of the entire oil and petrochemical industry. Natural gas development prevails in clean fuel development and plays an import part in power generation, town gas and chemical production. However, the hydrocarbon resources deep underground are non-renewable and their distribution is highly uneven. Thus we are faced with grim challenges in developing resources, such as limited resources access, quality degradation, harsh operating conditions and rising lifting cost. As an integrated energy and petrochemical company, Sinopec relies on technological innovation and the concerted efforts of all employees to overcome difficulties one after another. We aim to continuously explore and develop valuable energy resources underground and contribute to sustained energy supply. Sustainable Development Report 15 1.1 A Solid Resources Base Ensure energy supply through international trade The healthy and rapid growth of the Chinese economy and the In order to source safe and stable energy supply at best cost, continuous improvement in people’s living standard boosted the Sinopec forged ahead in both production and trading activities. demand for energy. To better ensure the stable supply of crude We actively invest in the exploration and development of oil and oil, we have taken all approaches possible to stabilize production gas resources while making full use of the global trade channels. growth. In addition, we have also expanded crude trade volumes Hence the Company enjoys strong resource base and everbased on international cooperation, through diversified channels improving capability to secure energy supply. and optimized logistics system. In 2010, Sinopec’s total crude oil trade volume hit 186 million tons. Tide over difficulties to maintain stable production growth Sinopec relies on technological advancements and precise Our Story management to attain stable oil production growth as well as Overcome the Impact of Natural Disasters rapid ramp-up in natural gas output. In 2010, crude oil production and Properly Handel Crude Production was 46.18 million tons. The crude production in eastern mature oilfields maintained steadily at 34.5 million tons per annum. At the beginning of 2010, strong winds, icy storms and blizzards severely Production in western frontier oilfields has risen by 70% in 5 hit Shengli oilfield. In early summer of the year, serious thunderstorms and flood hit Zhongyan oilfield and Henan oilfield. During autumn and winter, consecutive years to reach 8.01 million tons. Natural gas output in some oilfields were affected by limitation in power supply and consumption. 2010 hit 12.5 billion cubic meters, doubling the output five years Amid the grim circumstances, Sinopec subsidiaries did all they could to ago. Five major natural gas production sites are set up in Sichuan, fight natural disasters and restore production. Production in the eastern mature oilfields remained steady thanks to rational production management Ordos, South Songliao, Tarim and Bohai Bay. and advanced technologies. In the western areas, we have maintained production momentum based on ramp-ups in frontier areas. Liquids and gas gushing out of wells witnesses the valuable miracles created by Sinopec in the remote areas and under harsh conditions. Those are the results of our technologies, perseverance and hard toils. Our cartoon Youdi (oil drop) will unveil the story of oil. Check it out at Sinopec website (www.sinopec.com.cn) A Picture featuring Sinopec drilling machines 16 Sinopec Corp. 1.2 Continued Pursuit of Technological Progress Exploring the secret of science is the driving force for continuous Our Story development of human being, as well as the unremitting aspiration 20 Years of Work on “Ten Dragons” for Sinopec. We achieve growth built upon technological innovation, Flagship Technology Projects management innovation and high-caliber talent pooling. We leverages the R&D strengths across the integrated business value “Ten Dragons” stand for the key technology development projects chain and takes market-pull and technology-push approach for at Sinopec. It is also an organization mode uniquely for Sinopec to make technology breakthroughs. In 1991, former China Petrochemical technology commercialization, emphasizing the “propeller” function Corporation (now Parent of Sinopec Corp.) called for all-round innovations of technological innovation in production and operation. While across the complete value chain by tapping the resources in technology growing together with our customers, we are proud to contribute research, engineering, production, equipment manufacturing and construction segments. One of such innovation was initially called “One to the national economic boom and help shift the country’s Dragon” project. Ten of such projects were selected in 1991 and named “Ten development pattern. We make sure a continuous input in R&D. Dragons” Projects. Year by year, there have been more than ten of such In 2010 we invested RMB 4.8 billion in R&D development and projects listed into “Ten Dragons”. The name is still in use today but not confined to ten projects. By “Ten Dragons”, we take a progressive approach earmarked a total RMB 18 billion for five years running. to advance the development of new technologies and commercialization of mature technologies in parallel with the preparation for future technologies. Continued improvement in R&D management system By benchmarking with international peers, we take technology challenges We embrace new ideas in R&D management to drive technology of common features and significance, running single pilot program before rolling them out throughout the company to create maximum profits. In progress. Through continuous reforms we have developed our 2010, there were 26 projects of this kind listed into “Ten Dragons”. R&D team equipped with strong competitiveness in various specialized areas. We have further improved management on R&D programs and incentive mechanism. Based on a centralized Technological innovation boost company’s growth planning, our R&D team takes specialized research to support Sinopec owns a series of core technologies and proprietary different business segments. technologies with international competitiveness across our value chain, making us among leaders in technology worldwide. Comprehensive Sinopec R&D Department Technology Helps Finding Oil planning and centralized management We support resource development portfolios with new upstream technologies which help us better understand sub-surface oil Exploration and Sinopec Petroleum Exploration and Production Production Research Institute (PEPRIS) and gas resources, bring new fields into production and revitalize Sinopec Petroleum Engineering Technology mature fields. Research Institute Sinopec Geophysical Research Institute Technology Helps Process Oil Refining Sinopec Research Institute of Petroleum Processing New refining and chemical technologies help transform crude oil (RIPP) Sinopec Fushun Research Institute of Petroleum & into products with premium quality and high performance. Petrochemicals (FRIPP) Technology Helps Develop New Energy Chemicals Sinopec Beijing Research Institute of Chemical Industry (BRICI) Breakthroughs in alternative energy, energy saving and emission Sinopec Shanghai Research Institute of reduction as well as CCS help keeping the company on Petrochemical Technology (SRIPT) sustainable track. Others Sinopec Qingdao Safety Engineering Institute Sustainable Development Report 17 Exploration, Development Major breakthroughs in marine-phase exploration help finding Puguang Gasfield in Sichuan basin, China’s most abundant gas mono-block. and Production The exploration and development technology applied to the oil and gas fields of Ordovician carbonate rock in Tahe support the ramp-ups of western frontier oil field. Precise water injection, tertiary recovery, auto-vertical drilling further developed and applied to key oil fields. Refining Complete proprietary refining technology package enables us to build refinery above 10-million-ton in capacity. Technologies catered for low-grade crude processing. Quality upgrading program: newly commercialized technologies support our gasoline and diesel on GB-IV emission standard (comparable to Euro IV standard). Chemicals Being a pioneer to commercialize amorphous alloy catalyst and magnetic-stabilized bed process in the world. Capable of independently building ethylene cracker of one-million-ton capacity, commercializing the process for 300,000 tons/year cumene and caprolactam facilities. Alternative Energy Pilot-plant-scale development for Bio-diesel oil and syngas-to-liquids, starting researches on cellulose-to-ethanol and micro-algae based bio diesel. Year 2006-2010 Technology investment over RMB Domestic patent grants Overseas patent grants 18 billion 4,115 405 Until the end of 2010 1 45 289 Highest National National National Prize Prizes for Prizes for for Science and Technology Technological Technology Inventions Progress Our Story Technological Innovation Boosts High-Efficiency Exploration and Development In 2010, Sinopec was awarded the National Prize of Technological Progress to find similar technology or experience at home and abroad. Facing for its exploration and development technology applied to the oil and gas the difficult challenge, our R&D team unveiled the secret of the fractured fields of Ordovician carbonate rock in Tahe. It is a significant and new carbonate rock in 5,000 meters deep underground through continued technology supporting the ramp-ups of western frontier oil field. technical breakthroughs. Production and reserves in Tahe both rose. Tahe has become Sinopec’s second largest oilfield and top-ten onshore oilfield in Tarim basin is China’s largest oil and gas bearing basin with promising China. potential. Tahe in this basin represent the only marine-phase carbonate rock oil and gas field in China. The reservoir formation was too complex 18 Sinopec Corp. To secure sustained energy supply is considered the most important corporate mission by Sinopec people. We maintained stable production growth thanks to R&D endeavors, meticulous management and concerted efforts of all the employees. Oil and gas resources are available only within limited timeframe and at constrained quantity, while the potential of people can always be unleashed and further tapped to find them. In the future, we at Sinopec remain a responsible player making bold moves towards challenges, accessing and utilizing resources more efficiently as well as securing sustained and stable energy supply to support economic growth and social development. Sustainable Development Report 19 Making Every Drop Count PREMIUM CUSTOMER SERVICES 20 Sinopec Corp. Petroleum and petrochemical sector is the cornerstone for national economic development and provides important material resources vital to people’s daily life. In the aspects of automobile, textile, printing and dyeing, electronics and electrical appliances, construction materials, packaging, transportation, agriculture, aerospace and aviation, we will be always right there at your service. As an integrated energy and chemical company, we never stop creating new ways in management and R&D. And it is always our aspiration to make your life more splendid with our products and services. Sustainable Development Report 21 2.1 Diverse Products, Colorful Life Diverse products in all aspects of life We offer crude oil, natural gas and other resource products, In addition to the products serving people’s daily life, we gasoline, diesel oil, kerosene, lubricants, asphalt and other are dedicated to developing more technology-intensive and petroleum products, as well as multi-thousand varieties of specialized products to satisfy the unique needs by other industrial chemicals. sectors, such as aerospace, aviation and high-speed railway. 290 551 kg per capita of oil kg per capita of oil consumed on clothing. consumed on food. 3,790 3,838 kilograms per capita of oil kilograms per capita of oil consumed on housing. consumed on mobility. Note: Data from Shanghai World Expo Oil and gas Feedstock for petrochemical production and fuel for power generation Gasoline, diesel oil, kerosene and other Transportation fuels for automobiles, motor cars, ships and air planes refined oil products Lubricants Used in machinery and equipment with lubricating, cooling, sealing, anti-corrosive, insulating, rinsing and energy transfer functions Asphalt Used in airport runways, highways, high-speed railways, city roads, bridge surfaces and other infrastructure Synthetic resin, synthetic rubber and In many areas they are alternative materials to steel, nonferrous metals, timber, paper, cotton, linen, silk, wool, leather, glass, synthetic fibers porcelain, concrete and other traditional materials and widely used in agriculture, national defense, transportation and in our daily life LPG, petroleum coke and catalysts Used in many aspects of industrial sectors and daily life 22 Sinopec Corp. 2.2 All-Employee Engagement in Quality Continuous improvement and quality commitment Commitment Sinopec never stops improving quality management. The oil product quality incident in Anyang, Henan in 2010 merits our Product quality is the lifeblood of Sinopec. Quality problem is strong attention to quality regulation. Although the amount of listed one of the “Four Corporate Dangers” along with HSE problem fuels was 900,000 tons, accounting for a small portion mismanagement, labor-relation claims and corruption incident. of 149 million tons of total annual marketing volume of Sinopec, It is our obligation to strictly manage quality issue and be a the incident rang alert bells for Sinopec. Lessons learnt from responsible supplier. the incident were translated into concrete measures on quality check. It was at the company’s Quality Work Conference held Top quality for top brand on April 7th, 2010 that April 7th was announced Sinopec Quality Sinopec is growing along with customers thanks to premium Day. It was on the same occasion that “Being a leader in quality quality products. From the quality upgrading of gasoline and management” and “Excellent Quality and Sufficient Quantity for diesel to the breakthrough of lubricants applied to aerospace Customer Satisfaction” were respectively set as the principle and and aviation, ocean shipping and high-speed railway, from 100% objective for quality management. qualification ratio of chemicals to development of new chemical products and differentiated products, we have made solid steps At the Forum on Chinese Industrial Products Quality and in total quality management (TQM). Any possible issues in each Credibility held on September 2nd, 2010, Sinopec signed with 155 link and every detail merit our attention. With strong emphasis on companies the Joint Proposal of Commitment on Quality and brand name, standardization, credibility, service and economic Credibility in which we made a promise to global customers to results, we aim for top quality and top-brand awareness. strive for excellence through TQM. In 2010, Sinopec was listed Global Competitiveness Reports TOP10 Brand in China by International Digital Group (IDG) Our Story and Stanford University of USA. Sinopec brand gained broad Zero-Tolerance on Quality Incident recognition from the public. The listing was published through a comprehensive assessment on product quality, market share, In March 2010, some auto vehicles in Anyang, Henan, after fuelled brand reputation and customer satisfaction after the nomination with 93# ethanol gasoline of Sinopec, experienced such problems as vibrations, abnormal exhaust emissions as well as damages on valves and by world famous research institutions and based on the tens of spark plugs. Sinopec received customer complaints and there were hot thousands of online public votes. People involved in the selection discussions by media after the incident occurred. were senior executives from famous international brand labels, The Company immediately set up a special team for investigation. experienced experts and academicians on corporate brand According to the investigation, the incident was due to the violation of rules strategy as well as professional third-party evaluators. by a worker with Sinopec Anyang Oil Products Co. and the negligence and mismanagement of quality control staff with the subsidiary. We have made public the investigation result, making apologies to customers and providing timely compensations. The worker and involved staff accountable for the incident were severely punished afterwards. In the meantime, we formulated a long-term quality control system as precautionary approach in the future. Sinopec Quality Day April 7 th Making Every Drop Count announced as our CSR slogan at Sinopec Quality Work Conference on August 18th, 2010 Sustainable Development Report 23 2.3 Perfecting Customer Services Customer satisfaction is our unremitting pursuit. On the one hand, per annum. By the end of 2010, Sinopec’s total refining capacity Sinopec is dedicated to creating a well-developed and convenient hit 222 million tons per annum. And the average capacity of single service system to deliver customers with diverse and quality refinery was 7.47 million tons per annum. The Company also products on timely basis. On the other hand, Sinopec is flexible to markedly improved its adaptability to process heavy and lowprovide creative and customized service to meet various customer grade crude. At the close of 2010, Sinopec’s ethylene capacity needs. was 9.32 million tons per year. And the average capacity of single ethylene cracker reached 630,000 tons per year. The product Well-developed and rapid service network scope for chemicals was developed to cover new products, Sinopec has established a mature service network covering performance compounds and differentiated products. research and development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution. Within the framework of the network, there are We continuously optimized services based on over 30,000 service refineries located mainly in the consumption-intensive markets, stations and widely distributed chemicals storage sites in China. crude terminals, storage facilities and pipelines adjacent to each Sinopec provide over tens of millions of customers through other, as well as over 30,000 service stations nationwide. Our extensive logistics system featured with pipelines, terminals, service network is well developed to support fast local economic storage sites and transportation fleets for crude, oil products and growth. natural gas. Along with products we deliver convenience and We continued to maximize the supply of petroleum and chemical timeliness. At the end of 2010, Sinopec had 12 crude terminals products by building integrated large-scale and clustered refinery with over 250,000 tons of handling capacity for each, longand chemical complex. Currently under Sinopec there are 13 distance crude pipelines of 6,600 kilometers in total length, refineries each with capacity above 10 million tons per annum and product pipelines of 8,420 kilometers and natural gas pipelines of 8 ethylene facilities with respective capacity over one million tons 7,300 kilometers. Build upon robust logsitics services and deliver solid committment 24 Sinopec Corp. N The most northern Sinopec station: Hexiang Road, Qiqihaer, Heilongjiang Province W The most western Sinopec station: Tuerduote, Xinjiang Autonomous Region E The most eastern Sinopec station: Rongcheng 40, Weihai, S (on the border of China and Kyrgyzstan) Shandong Province The most southern Sinopec station: Yalong Bay, Sanya, Hainan Province Extensive Distribution of Sinopec Service Station Non-fuel business and one-stop services Sinopec rigorously develops non-fuel business unpinned by thru restaurants, auto-service, ticketing service, lottery, payment extensive sales network and logistics system. We aim to provide for household water and electricity bills, ATM machine, kiosks one-stop in-station services including fuelling, catering, shopping and cell phone fees re-charging services available. At service and auto-maintenance. By the end of 2010, Sinopec had a total stations in rural areas, we sell farming materials such as chemical of 16,000 in-station convenience stores. fertilizers. In the meantime, we provide value-added services catered to different markets. In the stations of urban areas, we have driveOur Story Our Story Shandong Tsingtao LNG Project Non-Fuel Business in Yunnan Province A new chapter was turned when the kick-off ceremony of Tsingtao LNG Yunnan is a Chinese province with enchanting sceneries. It boasts 25 project was held in September, 2010. The project is expected to add Chinese minority ethnic groups living there and ancient Chinese trading offshore supply to existing onshore pipeline supply for Shandong and even roads. Nowadays along 2,500 kilometers of provincial highways there are North China gas market. It also aims to ease natural gas supply tension in Sinopec service stations combined with service areas which provide a Shandong Province and Shandong Peninsula. home away from home for long-distance travelers. Our nationwide service stations are at your service no matter how remote you travel. We supply fuels, food and other daily necessities to customers’ satisfaction. Quoting one of our customers, “Sinopec service station is like your home, cozy and warm, always by my side on the joyful ride”. Sustainable Development Report 25 Sinopec fuel card—an attractive consumption Communicating with customers experience Upholding the customer-focused philosophy, we witnessed As customer needs and consumption mode change with social increasing customer satisfaction thanks to our quick response to progress, we offer to customers more attractive consumption their needs. experience. The most distinct features of Sinopec fuel card are We maintain close communication with customers through “rapid filling, easy to use, account management and rewarding different means, including customer visits, technical support, open programs”. The number of Sinopec fuel card owners has been on hotlines and online service platform. In addition, we enter into the rise since the launch of the service. Over 11 million fuel cards strategic cooperation with relevant customers to maximized joint were issued in 2010 alone and a total of 48.82 million cards were benefits and carry out customer satisfaction surveys. Thus we issued for years. enable customers to feel happy to buy and use our products. In addition to the rewarding program of Credits for Gifts, we also In the meantime, customer loyalty remained hight. In 2010, we provide insurance and breakdown rescue services. In 2010, we benchmarked with industrial outperformers. The satisfaction rate sent for 1,066 breakdown rescues for free. for Sinopec chemical products was 89.7 points, up 1.9 points against 2009 and 3.6 points above industrial benchmark rate. Customer loyalty rate for chemical products was 98.4 points, 5.3 points above benchmark rate. Accumulative card issuance (10,000 cards) Time Length for Complaint Handling for Chemicals (days) Accumulative card issuance (10,000 cards) Consumption rate of ２９．９％ ２８．８％ Sinopec fuel card ２７．１％ ６０ ４８８２ ２１．０％ ３７１４ １７．０％ ２８７９ ２８ ９．１％ １９９６ １７ １３８１ ８３３ ２００５ ２００６ ２００７ ２００８ ２００９ ２０１０ ２００８ ２００９ ２０１０ Service Hotline (Lubricants) Service Hotline (Fuel Stations) Service Hotline (Chemicals) 95105888 7 400-810-9886 95105988 400-818-9100 26 Sinopec Corp. 2.4 Stable Supply in Special Periods Our Story Assure Summer Peak Season Supply and In time of supply tension, Sinopec takes every measure to stabilize Win Widespread Recognition market supply and meet customer needs so as to ensure national economy and social progress on sound track. When Premier Wen Jiabao visited Henan Province, he sent greetings to Sinopec logistics team and volunteers. He also highly praised Sinopec for Live up to market expectation during summer peak doing a good job in supporting and benefiting local farmers. farming seasons Minister of Agriculture Han Changfu praised that Sinopec’s summer supply Summer peak farming seasons refer to the second and third campaign had won the hearts of local farmers by sending timely fuels to the quarters of a year, the peak time for farmers to harvest, plant countryside. and carry out field management by using farming machines. In Sinopec also offered price discounts in the interest of local farmers during recent years, Sinopec has timely echoed the demand of regional farming season. Quoting Mr. Li, a farm machinery operator, “Sinopec’s governments to consistently provide sufficient fuels on farming price made me save a lot of money”, “I spent RMB 600 less per month on fuelling farming machines. This is indeed a big saving as I earn RMB 3,000 vehicles in major agricultural regions of Henan, Shandong, every month. And it’s awesome to see Sinopec Easy Joy convenience store Jiangsu, Anhui, Hebei, Shanxi and Hubei provinces. Thanks to made a lot of promotions on its non-fuel products, such as mineral water our support, 90% of wheat production in the nation has been and instant noodle.” Mr. Li thumbed up in praise. assured. In 2010, Sinopec tried to its best capacity to assure the supply Our Story and transportation of fuels with good quality, sufficient quantity, Send Warmth with Our Smile best price and post-sale support. We engaged 20,000 volunteers in the campaign, offering rewarding programs to farmers and During Guangzhou Asian Games, we have upgraded the infrastructure in providing free beds for them to rest while fuelling in our stations, service stations. In the meantime, we organized special etiquette training for offering more tangible benefits to farmers. the working staff at service stations. In spare time they diligently exercised skills. When helping customers with fuelling they showed smiling faces, great professionalism and amiable services A big contributor to shanghai world expo and guangzhou asian games In 2010, the Shanghai World Expo and Guangzhou Asian Games mechanism in time of emergency supply, and carrying out “smiling were held in Shanghai and Guangzhou respectively. The two big service” to win customer satisfaction. We refurbished the image of events attracted global attention. Sinopec made active efforts our service stations and proactively guaranteed energy supply to to promoting product quality upgrading and allocating supply, ensure a round success for the two big events. opening green channels for customers, preparing responding A countrywoman rejoicing at Sinopec Volunteer Support in Summer Peak Farming Season Sustainable Development Report 27 We reach out to you in time of diesel shortage Since August 2010, international oil prices have continually risen. Some areas in China have experienced strained diesel supply. In order to effectively address diesel supply tension, we have maximized the refinery utilization to produce more diesel, squeezing product exports and increased imports, offloading diesel inventory and stepping up logistics services. In the 4Q 2010, Sinopec diesel supply was 1.5 million tons higher than planned. The monthly output scored historical record. The refinery utilization remained at 100% for 5 consecutive months. The domestic diesel supply maintained at a stable level. Serving customers in time of natural disasters A number of natural disasters hit China in 2010. On April 14th, Yushu of Qinghai Province experienced a 7.1 magnitude earthquake. In May, some cities in 15 provinces of southern China suffered flooding. On June 28th, Buyi and Miao ethnic minority autonomous counties of Guizhou Province experienced serious landslides. On August 8th, Zhouqu of Gansu Province suffered massive mudslides and rockslides. Natural disasters are like commands. We stay ready for emergency supply. Wherever Offload product inventory to ensure market supply rescue equipment goes, our fuel supply follows. When disaster arrives, Sinopec immediately allocates resources and sends logistics teams to disaster regions. We provided sufficient fuels to rescue vehicles and won valuable time for relief operations. Various Measures against Tight Supply of Diesel Increase refinery utilization Adjust product mix Release inventory Increase diesel supply by 1.5 Suspend million tons in 4Q, exports 2010 Increase imports 28 Sinopec Corp. Customer satisfaction is our greatest reward. No matter when the market is stable in normal times or tight in peak farming season, during World Expo and Asian Games or natural disaster situation, we always stand by customers’ side to help people get through difficulties together and share success stories. 2010 is a year marked by great learning and deep lessons, development and regrets. We aim to be a leader in quality control, a reliable supplier offering quality and sufficient products, striving for customer satisfaction. Like a bugle call leading the charge, these objectives inspired us to step up actions, valuing product and service quality like our lives. Together we work with you for the best that yet to come. Sustainable Development Report 29 Making Every Drop Count SAFE AND GREEN OPERATION 30 Sinopec Corp. Social development tends to be safer, greener and cleaner, and that is what we are pursuing. It is both our mission and responsibility to maintain safe and environment-friendly production. For many years, Sinopec has been promoting HSE management system. The outcome was multi-fold. Major accident rate and casualty rate were effectively controlled, corporate cost reduced, relationship with local government and communities improved, a good corporate image established, and a balanced social, environmental and economic growth achieved. Sustainable Development Report 31 3.1 HSE Management System Our Story Annual HSE examination and Ad-hoc We attach great importance to HSE and implement HSE Inspection management system companywide. Our objective is to minimize the occurrence of accidents, do no harm to human health, cause Annual HSE examinations and ad-hoc inspections are aimed to increase no damage to the environment and deliver internationally-leading safety awareness among employees. Of all annual HSE examinations, the HSE performance. 2010 examination had the highest standards, covered the largest number of companies, lasted for the longest time and achieved the best results. The inspected included 90 tier-1 companies, 634 tier-2 companies and We have a complete HSE management system with an executive1,477 grassroots units. 39 lessons were drawn and 121 pieces of advice level HSE committee, a specialized HSE department in HQ were put forward. HSE management level was improved due to meticulous and HSE positions in all other departments. Every production inspection and in-depth amendment. subsidiary has its own HSE department with HSE engineers We organized ad-hoc inspections and risk assessments on well control, stationed in every key facility. We have developed safe production offshore operation, liquefied hydrocarbon tank farms, light oil tanks, responsibility system and corresponding performance check crude oil depots, jetty and transportation facilities, dangerous chemicals and underground pipeline, covering 59 oil tank farms and 632 spherical throughout the company. hydrocarbon tanks of 10 subsidiaries. We also developed Spherical Hydrocarbon Tank Farm Safety Technology Management Regulation and We keep improving our HSE management system, which Spherical Hydrocarbon Tank Farm Safety Technology Inspection Form, has distinguishing Sinopec features. There is a norm for establishing a long-term mechanism to detect and eliminate potential each operation. No direct operations can be conducted dangers. without operation permit and safety verification. As to newlybuilt, revamping and expansion projects, we strictly observe government’s regulation and ensure that HSE facilities and the 3.2 I Safe main project are synchronized in terms of design, construction and commissioning. We also set up an HSE inspection network Safe production is the basic requirement of company system. development. In 2010, faced with potential safety threats that might be caused by heavy E&P workload, big pressure of well In 2010, we developed and improved 26 regulations concerning control and H 2S prevention, highly utilized refining and chemical HSE observation card, HSE signs, hidden perils control, oil and facilities and higher percentage of low-grade crude processed, gas pipeline safety, well control and offshore operation safety. HSE we continued to carry out “I Safe” activities. Safety responsibility management was adjusted and optimized. system was strictly executed with 11 accidents reported, 25% less than last year, and 3 deaths, down by 53.8%. Our Story To Compare and Compete Competitions themed safe production, environmental protection, occupational health, public safety, hidden peril control and “I Safe” were organized in order to motivate staff to do better than others and than before in HSE. “Safe Construction Site” competition was specially organized pertinent to repeated accidents among contractors. For safety, you can never be too careful 32 Sinopec Corp. Inspiring safety initiative and increase safety Our Story awareness One-Day HSE Monitor The key to safe production lies in workers, who are the performers of production. Only by inspiring safe production initiative among Since “one-day HSE monitor” activity was launched, Sinopec Jinling Company has advanced HSE management level. Jobsite workers serve workers can we achieve safe production. as HSE monitors in rotation on a daily basis. By making inspection rounds, searching and correcting operation errors, the workers find themselves with What is central to safe production is to establish a safety culture, a growing sense of responsibility. in which one take the initiative to work safely instead of being asked to do so. In 2010, we continued to carry out “I Safe” activities. We implemented a more detailed Don’ts in Safe Production, developed Provisional Regulation on HSE Observation Card and Provisional Regulation on Near-Miss Incident Management, and organized multi-level training programs. High attention paid to potential hazard control and safety level of facilities raised Potential hazards can be stings in the heart of safe production. Should they be eliminated in advance, accidents can be avoided. Therefore, potential hazard control is one of our principal ways to lower accident rate. Our Story The focus of potential hazard control is put on monitoring major To Detect Potential Hazards and Eliminate sources of dangers like key facilities and vital parts of production. Them To ensure a successful potential hazard control project, we finalize From last winter, Sinopec Northwest Oilfield has regularly made thorough four defining determinants, namely, overall plan, source of funds, inspections of oil and gas equipments, pipelines, safety signs and all responsible person and deadline for improvement in advance. operation norms and procedures. There were both self-inspections and random inspections. Focus was put on both detection and elimination. Potential hazard control is always on the list of top priorities Deadline was imposed on problematic unit and person in charge to address in annual budget planning. With enormous manpower and the problems. investment devoted over the years, the inherent safety level of the Company has greatly improved. In 2010, we invested a total of RMB 1.554 billion to run 544 potential hazard control projects. Sustainable Development Report 33 Improving emergency response system and abilities Petroleum and chemical industry is highly dangerous with We have established such an emergency response system, which potential risks in every link of production chain. In case of has played an important leading role in time of emergencies. accidents, a matured and efficient emergency response system is the last resort to reduce losses. Sinopec emergency response system 00 Overall contingency plan 01 Well blowout response plan 02 Fire and explosion response plan 03 Beach emergency response plan Production 04 Offshore oil spill response plan 05 Hazardous chemical (including initiating explosive devices) emergency response plan Emergency response plan for tier-1 companies Emergency response plan for companies with Emergency response plan for grassroots units 06 Oil and gas pipeline leak response plan Sinopec major accident response plan 07 Radioactive emergency response plan Public health 08 Public health emergency response plan monitoring and management functions Natural disasters 09 Destructive earthquake response plan 10 Flood disaster response plan 11 Meteorological disaster response plan 12 Oil and gas supply emergency response plan 13 Mass incident response plan Social security 14 Public gathering location emergency response plan 15 Terrorist attack response plan 16 IT system failure response plan 17 Overseas emergency response plan Rehearsal of G403a benzene tank exit Rehearsal of H 2S poisoning emergency by Rehearsal of benzene vessel fire by Sinopec pipe leak by Sinopec Yangzi Company on Sinopec Jinling Company in newly-established Anqing Company at wharfboat No. 8, aimed September 9, aimed to improve collaboration sulfur facilities on December 30th to strengthen prevention and control ability in in time of emergency dangerous chemical loading and ensure oil terminal safety 34 Sinopec Corp. Our Story 0532-83889090: Sinopec National Dedicated Phone Line for Chemical Accidents To make China more capable of dealing with chemical accidents and many major chemical accidents in recent years, we, together with State controlling the harm of chemical accidents, National Dedicated Phone Administration of Work Safety, Fire Department of Ministry of Public Security Line for Chemical Accidents (0532-83889090) was set up the in Sinopec and National Marine Safety Administration, provided contingency plans Qingdao Safety Engineering Institute, which provides emergency via this dedicated phone line, and helped to reduce the impact and losses consultancy services around the clock nationwide. caused by variuos accidents. Since the line was put into operation, we have answered 26,280 phone calls, including 820 calls about chemical accidents and 3,780 calls relating to chemicals information. In emergency response and rescue to Safety oversight of direct operation intensified and emphasis put on suppliers, contractors and temporary staff Our analyses of accidents show that directing and operating against the rules and violation of labor disciplines are major reasons of accidents. Therefore, we put great efforts in monitoring of direct operations, focusing on suppliers, contractors and temporary staff. Concrete measures include risk prevention from the source, rule of joint liability, strict access control to production sites and improved labor management. Public security substantially advanced Sinopec Yangzi Company’s safety management personnel are checking In 2010, we motivated all staff to learn the Law on Petroleum and contractors’ qualifications and operation formalities on an ethylene production site under overhaul. New measures were taken to manage contractors, Natural Gas Pipeline Protection. Based on the Law, we advanced including contract safety clause review and visual management. High HSE safety management of oil and gas fields and transmission pipeline. standards were adopted for contractors. Contractors without qualifications and formalities were denied access to the site Oil and gas transportation management system was worked out and improved, ability of accident prevention and control further strengthened, and long-distance transmission pipeline operation safety and anti-sabotage technologies greatly improved. Meanwhile, we further improved overseas safety management mechanism with strict safety risk assessment, intensified training programs and careful inspections. Continuing the good performance last year, there were no overseas incidents that caused human casualties in 2010. Sinopec Jinling Company 2010 Contractor HSE Meeting. Heads of 50 contractors and operators were present. 2010 HSE Duty Pledge signed Sustainable Development Report 35 3.3 Green Operation The survival of the human race depends on the environment. To risk prevention of water bodies. There were no accidents that protect the environment is to protect ourselves. caused major pollution to the environment and damage to the ecology throughout the year. 96% of discharged effluent met the As a responsible energy and petrochemical mega company, we EP standards and COD content was reduced by 2.1% year-onalways attach great importance to environmental protection. year. Sulfur dioxide discharge went down by 6.9% over the last Our production is clean and so are our products. Three wastes year. We fulfilled the national the 11th Five-Year Plan objectives in treatment continues to improve. Strenuous efforts have been put advance in terms of major pollutant discharge reduction. to develop circular economy, build up an environmentalfriendly enterprise and achieve green growth. Whole process clean management intensified and less pollutants discharged In 2010, following the principle of “he who is in charge is We adopt the whole process clean management covering the responsible”, we put stress on project environmental protection entire industrial chain from production to consumption. We strive (EP) and key EP technology R&D. We intensified pollution control, to control and reduce discharge of pollutants in every link of the further promoted comprehensive utilization of three wastes, took chain, and to be part of the efforts to keep an environment that water-saving and emission-cutting measures, and strengthened features blue sky, crystal waters and luxuriant vegetation on land. Comprehensive utilization Byproducts Emission of NOx, CO, hydrocarbon and particles in Production Clean products Consumption auto exhaust greatly reduced Technologies and green processes Flue gas from coal boilers desulfurized for less CO2 emission adopted for no or little formation of and flare gas recovered pollutants Three wastes Waste water treated and recycled Hydro-desulfurization and hydroIndustrial residue made harmless, reduced and reused as a dearomatics technologies used to resource produce clean refined products Circular economy 36 Sinopec Corp. Clean production and pollutant discharge reduced Results of “clean production enterprise” activities 2005-2010 from the source Number of clean production plans 4,655 Sinopec lays particular emphasis on clean production in the whole Investment RMB 10,000 140,127 process and strives to check formation of pollutants from the source. Wastewater reduced by 10,000 tpa 3,962 CODcr in wastewater reduced by tpa 4,319 We continued to tighten control of potential environmental hazards. In 2010, Sinopec deployed RMB 1.483 billion in Waste gas reduced by 10,000 normal cubic meters 87,130 environmental protection(excluding new projects). 103 potential SO2 in waste gas reduced by tpa 23,136 hazard control projects were carried out and investment of RMB 354 million in control projects concluded. Key projects include Industrial residue reduced by tpa 13,987 those for air pollution control, wastewater discharge standard control and procurement of monitoring devices and apparatus. We intensified project environment management. In 2010, we further rectified the way to synchronize design, construction and commissioning of both HSE facilities and the main project. The rule of sign and countersign was strictly observed. Online monitoring program was implemented with pollutant discharge real-time online monitoring system already set up in some companies. We continued to organize “clean production enterprise” activities. In 2010, we amended Sinopec Clean Production Standards for Refining and Chemical Companies. Evaluation was made against harsher parameters set in the Standards. Three companies An operator from Sinopec Henan Oilfield is connecting workover fluid passed the evaluation. By the end of 2010, 21 refining and recovering pipeline. It was very difficult to recover workover fluids, which chemical subsidiaries have passed the clean production checkwill pollute the well site if not recovered. The closed circular facility Henan up, accounting for 52.5% of all Sinopec refining and chemical Oilfield developed independently made it possible to direct workover fluids to mud tank via recovering pipeline companies. Making clean products and reducing pollutant discharge in consumption We also pay high attention to making clean products, and From 2009 to 2010, Sinopec refining subsidiaries sped up cut down pollutant discharge in downstream business and development of gasoline upgrading plans and revamping of consumption. Upgrading of gasoline and diesel quality is typically production facilities. By 1st May 2010, all automobile gasoline one of our efforts in this direction. produced has met GB III standards or even higher. Given Sinopec’s gasoline output in 2010, SO2 emission in consumption In spite of the adverse business environment in recent years, we can be cut by 25,000 metric tons. spared no efforts to upgrade quality of refined products. From 2005 to 2010, RMB 49.2 billion was invested for that purpose. The total investment in diesel upgrading project is expected to be GB III gasoline upgrading project was completed and GB III diesel completed and put on stream in December 2012. Given Sinopec’s upgrading is accelerating. diesel output in 2010, SO2 emission in consumption can be cut by 23,000 metric tons. Sustainable Development Report 37 Three wastes treatment improved and emission/ Developing circular economy and turning waste to discharge standards met worth Waste generation is inevitable in our industry. We attach great Sinopec is keen on developing circular economy, increasing importance to the treatment of waste gas, waste water and resource efficiency and recycling, and promoting comprehensive industrial residue (three wastes), try our best to meet emission/ utilization of byproducts, with the goal of low energy consumption, discharge standards and mitigate their impact upon the low emission and high efficiency. For example, flare gas recovering environment to the minimum. technology was applied. All flares were extinguished and more than 800,000 metric tons of gas can be recovered every year. We laid particular emphasis on sulfur dioxide emission reduction. By the end of 2010, we have completed desulfurization revamping From 2005 to 2010, Sinopec created RMB 22.4 billion output of all 19 in-house power stations and 107 coal boilers. During the value from comprehensive utilization of resources. 11th Five-Year Plan period, we reduced SO2 emission by 204,000 metric tons, down by 35.7%. We also made efforts to solve outstanding environmental problems. Odorous gases from waste water facilities in some plants, which posed potential threats to residents nearby, were brought under control. Wastewater treatment systems in some plants were revamped for better compliance with discharge standards. A technician from Sinopec Yanshan Company is checking pressure swing tail gas adsorption facility with a PP recovering capacity of 1,630 tpa More efforts to protect and restore ecological environment Production activities like oil and gas E&P and pipeline construction may cause damage to ecological environment. Sinopec pays high attention to eco-environment restoration in areas around abandoned wells and along the pipeline, and tries to lower impact upon the environment to the least possible degree. Installing a new funnel in Sinopec Cangzhou Refinery, which was revamped A worker from Sinopec Zhongyuan Oilfield is maintaining an oil well. during the overhaul for better tail gas treatment. Environment protection There are environment-friendly toilets and dustbins for different garbage units were added or replaced to the existing sulfur recovering facilities. for all drilling teams with no discharge of waste water and castoff. On all All H2S can be recovered and reused, which brings both economic and construction sites, ecological protection standards were met and 100% of environmental benefits pollutants recovered 38 Sinopec Corp. Safe production and environmental protection awareness have been deeply rooted in all Sinopec employees and reflected in everything they do. Safe and environment-friendly production is our mission, responsibility and the cornerstone of a balanced and sustainable development. Many years of experience show that it is sound safety and environment management that can guide our value and secure a sustainable development for us in a complex and changing world. Sustainable Development Report 39 Making Every Drop Count LOW-CARBON DEVELOPMENT 40 Sinopec Corp. Climate change is a major global issue for all humankind. As a responsible energy and petrochemical company, Sinopec regards it as a due responsibility to address climate change. We embrace low-carbon development by finding and using more low-carbon energy resources and promoting energy saving and consumption reduction. We are quickening study on commercial test of CO2 recovering facilities, make efforts to reduce GHG emission, and increase the ability to cope with the climate change. Sustainable Development Report 41 4.1 Saving Energy Resources and Increasing Saving as much energy as possible Energy Efficiency Saving energy is the most immediate and effective way to reduce CO2 emission today. Attaching great importance to energy saving, We continue to optimize and upgrade industrial structure with we try to develop into a resource-saving enterprise. focus on increasing efficiency and reducing consumption. Great efforts were made to form a development mode featuring low During the 11th Five-Year Plan period, while the production input, low consumption, low emission and high efficiency. Given capacities kept growing, Sinopec achieved good results in energy energy consumption structure unchanged, to lower energy saving and consumption cut with more effective management, consumption per unit output and raise efficiency means less CO2 new technologies and equipments and special emphasis on emission. energy saving in production process. In 2010, energy intensity of refining and ethylene production went down by 3.8% and 0.8% Industrial restructuring respectively. We stick to industrial restructuring with integrated production capacities and operations. Energy and material consumption was considerably slashed and less CO2 was sent out. On the one hand, we increased and integrated the production Our Story capacities by building up new facilities, expansion and technical upgrading of existing ones. In 2010, we completed two 1-mmt Achieve Energy and Consumption ethylene projects, one in Tianjin and the other in Zhenhai. So far, Effectiveness through Better Technology we have thirteen 10-mmt refineries and eight 1-mmt ethylene and Equipment production bases. Despite of a tight budget, Sinopec invested RMB 29.1 billion on 1,110 energy-saving, consumption-cutting, technical reconstruction and On the other hand, we increased average production capacities innovation projects during the 11th Five-Year Plan period. A number of and cut down consumption by phasing out small and inefficient advanced, applicable technologies and equipments were applied to a wide ones. From 2005 to 2010, we shut down and phased out small range of production links and generated good results. and less environment-friendly refining capacities by 17 mmt/ In our oilfields, there were less production losses and energy consumption. year. Dozens of small chemical facilities and oil-fired boilers were System loss and system power consumption were greatly reduced. In closed. Optimization and volume adjustment were made to more refining and chemical subsidiaries, average thermal efficiency of heating furnaces grew by 4 percentage points, a remarkable increase of energy than 500 oil tank farms. efficiency. In refined products marketing subsidiaries, operation, storage and transportation losses went down substantially. With the above parallel actions, average capacities of our refineries rose by 49.3% and that of ethylene facilities went up by 37.0% from 2005 to 2010. Energy efficiency greatly increased during the 11th Five-Year Plan 12.20 million 29.97 million Saving Equal to a cut of metric tons of standard coal metric tons of carbon dioxide 42 Sinopec Corp. 4.2 Developing low-carbon Energy and We are active in developing and using coal-bed methane (CBM) and shale gas. Since 2009, we have continually obtained Optimizing Energy Structure commercial streams of shale gas and begun building up demo Sinopec is active in developing low-carbon energy and improving shale gas production capacity. In 2010, we made breakthroughs energy structure. A comprehensive low-carbon energy business in CBM production. chain covering R&D, production and marketing has taken shape. Our plan is to build up low-carbon energy capacities that can Bio-ethanol consumption are expanding. In 2010, 930,000 tons of supplement main business operations and contribute to the modified fuel ethanol was used and 9.1 mmt of ethanol gasoline Company’s long-term and sustainable development. was sold. We strive to increase natural gas production and facilitate LNG Push forward bio-diesel project. With the 50,000-mt/year bioimport. In 2010, Sichuan to East China Gas Transmission Project diesel demo project in Guizhou, we have begun construction of with a capacity of 12 billion cubic meters per year was completed feedstock base and will start up the project in due time. and commissioned. Shangdong LNG project started construction. We plan to build up a filling and recharging service station network Given the planned capacity of the gas project, we can provide in 13 provinces and cities. In 2010, two recharging stations were 14.57 mmt standard coal of clean energy and cut CO2 emission set up respectively in Beijing and Shenzhen. by 16.97 mmt. Our Story Efficient Procurement of Green Production Facilities In active response to the government’s requirements for energy saving and emission cut, Sinopec quickened its steps in diesel upgrading projects. The number of reactors, heater exchanges and high pressure air coolers we bought in 2010 for hydrogenation facilities was 1.5 times of the total purchased from 2005 to 2009. In order to speed up equipment procurement and of project commissioning, we immediately start technical and commercial negotiation once we get the data of equipments to be purchased, and conclude the procurement agreement as soon as the project is approved. Giving full play to the strategic cooperation with China First Heavy Industries, China Second Heavy Industries and Shenyang Blower Works Group, Sinopec secures sources of supply and shortens the supply cycle. Sustainable Development Report 43 4.3 Developing low-carbon Technologies 4.4 Shifting to low-carbon-oriented and Increasing Low-carbon Development Production, Existence and Consumption Ability For many years, we have kept planting trees to increase carbon We hope to increase our low-carbon development ability by sink. That is one major way to fulfill our social responsibility to solidifying midand long-term low-carbon technology reserve. We preserve and ameliorate ecological environment, and to improve plan to focus on development of technologies that can slow down production and living conditions for our employees. Aiming to GHG emission. They include energy-saving and efficiency-raising build up a garden-like energy company, we motivate our staff to technologies, alternative and new energy technologies, GHG take active part in activities for public good like compulsory tree emission control, disposal and utilization technologies, biological planting. and engineering carbon sequestration technologies, clean and We also spread information about climate change among efficient development and utilization technologies of coal, oil employees, consumers, suppliers, contractors and other and natural gas, CCS technologies, CO2 flooding technologies, stakeholders, calling for changes in mode of production, way of comprehensive utilization technologies of high purity CO2, and life and habit of consumption, and for stronger sense of social microalgae absorption of CO2 for oil production technologies, etc. responsibility and keener awareness to protect the environment. Our Story CO2 Technology Drives Enhanced Oil Recovery Sinopec lays great emphasis on R&D and application of CO2 flooding and sequestration, one of the core low-carbon technologies. Based on lab studies, we are carrying out pilot tests of CO2-driven oil displacement. Our Story IT Support to Low-carbon Production By far, we have performed pilot tests in four oilfields with satisfactory outcome. The tests in three oilfields have entered the phase of oilfield implementation and the test in the remaining one is now under preparation. In Gao 89 block in Sinopec Shengli Oilfield, an accumulated amount of 43,000 tons of carbon dioxide was injected and 7,967 tons more crude produced. Since the lab information management system (LIMS) went online, Sinopec Zhongyuan Oilfield has gradually realized automatic test operation, automatic collection and quick distribution of data, information sharing and Co-existence of a beam pumping unit and the nature paper-free analysis reports 44 Sinopec Corp. Climate change is posing huge threats to human existence. It is a time for immediate actions rather than for arguing. Pursuing low-carbon development, Sinopec takes measures to cut GHG emission, improve low-carbon production capacities, and make contributions in addressing climate change. Sustainable Development Report 45 Making Every Drop Count CARE FOR EMPLOYEES 46 Sinopec Corp. The root has to go deeper before the tree grows taller and the source has to be unclogged before the river runs farther. Every Sinopec product is the representation of Sinopec employees’ effort and devotion. We are engaged in protecting employees’ rights and interests, facilitating their career development and improving their wellbeing. Committed, honest, diligent and efficient employees are the pillars of Sinopec’s sustainable development, which in turn rewards employees with plenty of opportunities of personal development. Sustainable Development Report 47 5.1 Respecting Employees and Protecting Their Rights and Interests Equal and legitimate employment Abiding by the Labor Law of the People’s Republic of China, the Of all employees, 30.7% are female employees who work for the Trade Union Law of the People’s Republic of China and relevant Company in different positions. Of all management personnel, international labor conventions, Sinopec treats every employee 26.25% are female. In accordance with laws and regulations equally and establishes stable labor relationship with employees. on women protection, women committees are included in trade unions of all levels. Attention and help is given to women By the end of 2010, Sinopec has 678,000 employees in total, employees that have difficulties in life and work. Protecting their including 6,120 fresh graduates joining Sinopec in 2010. We legal rights and interests, we make sure that pregnancy, maternity have a considerable number of employees who have worked for and breast-feeding leaves are observed and compensations paid. Sinopec for more than decades. Occupational health and pleasures of work In accordance with international and national conventions and laws, Sinopec prohibits employment of child labor. Meanwhile, Sinopec encourages business A healthy life is the best form of human existence. To be healthy is partners and suppliers to abide by relevant regulations in this regard. the basic right of every employee. For many years, we have been advancing a comprehensive employee health program covering Sinopec respects employees’ right of privacy and never discloses their personal information. Nor does it ever share customer information with others, or occupational health and psychological wellbeing. discloses or sells information of customers or potential customers. We always remember that it is our responsibility to ensure In dealing with matters related to employment, remuneration, promotion, occupational health of our employees. We did well in monitoring dismissal and retirement, there are no discriminatory provisions on the ground occupational hazards, providing labor protection articles, and of race, social class, nationality, religion, physical disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership, political attachment or age. There is no offering occupational health education and training. In 2010, discriminatory behavior in daily work. with our unremitting efforts, we achieved double 90% in both occupational health checkup attendance rate and detection rate Closely following the state labor policies, Sinopec signs labor of occupational hazardous factors. There was no occupational contract with each employee, welcomes collective bargaining and poisoning emergency that affected three or more persons. offers stable and competitive salaries. Sinopec honors its legal We focus on employees’ psychological wellbeing as well as obligations to maintain endowment insurance, health insurance, physical conditions. Only when living and working with a sound occupational injury insurance, unemployment insurance, maternity body and mind, one can make the most values to himself and insurance and housing provident funds for all employees. In 2010, the society. In 2010, we continued to offer employees health the Company launched corporate annuity plan, a valuable addition checkups, personal health records, paid vacations, etc. Paid leave to the mandatory pension scheme. in 2010 averaged 9.5 days. 48 Sinopec Corp. Health checkup for employees Education, training and career development ２００５ ２０１０ There are training opportunities for all over the entire working span. These training programs, substantive in content and １４０ ９９．６％ delivered in novel ways, help staff make constant progress in ９７．６％ ９８．８％ １１０ professional skills and overall qualities. We also continue to ９４．８％ improve training management system with Sinopec characteristics and increase input to staff education and training. During the 11th Five-Year Plan period, we organized training for 6.94 million staff, including nearly 13,000 key talents and 34,000 persons in key Checkup Occupational hazardous Qualified rate of toxicposts. In 2010, Sinopec headquarters invested RMB 188 million attendance rate factors detected dust-generating spots in training 1.7 million key persons. Effective communication and democratic decision-making We are committed to defending employees’ democratic rights with an effective communication mechanism. We value employees’ opinions and suggestions, encourage them to speak up, thus creating an equal, democratic and harmonious working atmosphere. We give full play to the trade union, keep holding staff congress and welcome suggestions from employees. There are open days when employees can communicate face to face with the leadership and get involved in company management. That is what Sinopec does to protect employees’ rights to know and Passage to growth expanded and work practice monitor. In 2010, we achieved 100% trade union membership. emphasized Staff’s voices were heard and addressed. The Company We keep expanding the passage to personal development. developed while compromising not a single right and interest of We are engaged in changing the “management-oriented employees. promotion” to a diversified personal development featuring “career development”. There are 3 parallel categories in HR management 5.2 Facilitating Personal Development and training, which are for managers, for technicians and for operators. For every staff member, whatever category he is in, We embrace the philosophy of mutual development of the there is always room for growth and there are always passages Company and individual employees. There are professional training for development. programs, widened passage to personal growth and a matured mechanism of open competition and selection of the best. Our Story College Dream Came True April 15th was a day of exultation. A commencement was held for 10 production-line workers from Sinopec Yanshan Company, who obtained junior college diplomas after attending the Credit Bank education program jointly developed by the company and the vocational education agencies in Beijing. Zhao Guolong, extremely excited, said that he had never dreamt of getting a diploma via installment saving of credits and for him it was a lifelong dream coming true. Sustainable Development Report 49 Professional performance assessment and effective Our Story motivation A “Happy Birthday” Song at Service Station It is our objective to find the right persons and let them grow while working for Sinopec. We have set up an assessment system for technical talents focusing on morality, knowledge, competence and performance, and an assessment system for highly skillful operating talents focusing on skill, performance and onsite recognition. The results of the assessment will be taken into consideration for professional rank appraisal, professional skill appraisal and talent selection. Activities like “Strive for performance excellence” were organized to inspire staff to work harder and work as one team for greater development. 5.3 Call of Corporate Culture Sinopec Chairman Su Shulin singing happy birthday song with staff in the canteen of a Sinopec service station in Harbin For decades, our corporate culture has been guiding our staff to realize every core value of the company in their daily work. Caring for retirees We have a corporate spirit of “Love for China and commitment Respect and care for the senior citizen is a traditional virtue in to a prosperous Sinopec”, a working style of being “meticulous, China. In Sinopec, retirees have won colleagues’ respect and prudent, practical and innovative”, and business principles of recognition with their integrity, hard work and contributions to “honesty, compliance, cooperation and mutual benefits”. the company. We are doing what we can to add comfort and joy to their life, such as visiting them from time to time and staging Faith in corporate culture various cultural activities for them. Corporate culture is the collection of values and norms that are formed over time and shared by all members of a company. Sinopec has developed its own culture which is firmly recognized by and shared among all the staff. It is this culture that underlies sustainable development and leads the company to excellence. We have developed Sinopec Staff Code that lays down rules about work ethics, codes of conduct, workplace protocols, HSE and confidentiality. Cultural activities Sinopec is always ready to lend a helping hand to employees in need. In addition, we organize singing competitions, painting exhibitions, photography shows and offer networking opportunities to keep up morale and team spirit. 50 Sinopec Corp. To kindle the glorious light of human nature, to go back to the true values of life, to create prosperity and happiness together”. Every drop of oil is to serve people. Every drop of oil encourages people to advance further. The growth of Sinopec is a great epic created by millions of its employees with their hard toils. Protection, respect and care for every employee are Sinopec’s unshakable promises. Sustainable Development Report 51 Making Every Drop Count WHOLEHEARTEDLY REWARDING SOCIETY 52 Sinopec Corp. For many years we have promoted the unity of the Company’s economic, social and environmental responsibilities. While accelerating the pace of development, we also conscientiously fulfill the corporate social responsibilities, and actively push forward the harmonious development of both the company and the society. Every drop of oil contains our unlimited love for the society. Our love is like the rain of early spring that soaks the land softly in silence. Sustainable Development Report 53 In 2010, the impact and repercussions of the global financial “Sinopec’s Regulations on Management of External Donations”. crisis still lingered and the business environment faced huge We further improved the standardization management for external challenges. However, we continued to actively support and donations and thus ensured that external donations would participate in many public welfare undertakings, and always bear become even more standardized, orderly, timely and effective. In in mind the interests of the society as a whole. We have made 2010, we donated a total of RMB 177 million and over 30,000 positive contributions in a number of areas: building harmonious Sinopec volunteers were engaged in social services. In 2010, communities, disaster relief, poverty alleviation and aiding Tibet, Sinopec received the nomination of the “China Charity Prize” and health care, donation for education and supporting poor students, was awarded the “China Red Cross Medal” and the “Special Prize and helping to develop national sports and promoting health. In for Brightness Service”. accordance with the requirements of SASAC , we strictly enforce 6.1 Community Building Building harmonious community In China, we have been enhancing the environmental We place great emphasis on promoting harmony between the improvement of the communities around our mining sites and subsidiaries and local residents, safeguard ethnic unity and subsidiaries. We have made strenuous efforts to create a safe, carry forward the spirit of “Dedication, Friendship, Mutual Help convenient, clean and beautiful environment for community and Advancement”. Each of our subsidiaries proactively helps residents. The community service includes the removal of hidden local people build country roads and water wells to address the perils, infrastructure improvement for water, power and heating issues of transportation and getting access to drinking water system, municipal administration, cultural and sport service, and education faced by farmers and herdsmen. These efforts administration of the retired and other non-incumbent staff, rehave been highly commended by local authorities, farmers and employment service, social insurance, community sanitation herdsmen. At the same time, the subsidiaries have systematically service and property service. mobilized units at the primary level to establish mutual-assistance In 2010, every subsidiary of Sinopec has continued to execute relationship with local governments and residents, and conduct projects for the building of harmonious communities. With the long-term designated poverty alleviation programs. completion of the projects, the supporting facilities of each mining site and subsidiary have been improved, the heating fuel mix Our Story further optimized, and heating, sewage and garbage handling “A Great Community Stage, A Place for capabilities significantly upgraded. The conditions of roads, Happy Get-together” electricity, and water supply and drainage facilities in mining areas have also been improved. Community service functions were In order to give full play to young volunteers for their positive role in the building of harmonious oilfields, Shengli Oilfield launched the convenient further strengthened, and the working and living conditions in the service event “A Great Community Stage, A Place for Happy Get-together” communities continued to get better, laying a solid foundation for through which young volunteers provided various kinds of service for local the building of a harmonious society. residents in Gudao Square, thus creating a “Harmonious Gudao” through their actions. This activity was warmly welcomed by the residents. 54 Sinopec Corp. Our Story Puguang Gasfield Boosts Local Economic Development Sinopec has always given top priority to natural gas exploration and development as well as gas supply in Sichuan. In the past decade, Sinopec has invested over RMB 70 billion for exploration and development activities in Sichuan. In 2010, commercial gas output reached 6.33 bcm. Sinopec has put great emphasis on supporting local infrastructure construction. During the construction of Sichuan-to-East China Gas Transmission Project, we helped build local factories for the production of bricks, stone materials and woven bags. We increased investment for the construction of local infrastructure such as roads and bridges, and planned to jointly build over 140 km of road with the local government. We also supported the local infrastructure construction of hospitals, schools, methane tanks and deep water wells and provided extra fire-fighting and contingent rescue facilities and equipments to improve the medical care, education and living conditions for local residents. After the development breakthrough in Sichuan’s northeast Heba block, Sinopec invested RMB 218 million to build the natural gas transmission pipeline from Tongnanba to Bazhong, which supported for local economic development. Service for cultural and sport events It is Sinopec’s consistent social responsibility to support sport and theme of “Oil, Extending City Dreams” and explicitly illustrated cultural undertakings and improve people’s health. We spared no oil’s significant influence on the development of human society efforts to provide service for the Shanghai World Expo from May and civilization. The Oil Pavilion became one of the most popular 1st to October 31st and the 16th Asian Games in Guangzhou from Shanghai World EXPO pavilions and was highly appraised by November 12th to 27th. sponsors and visitors. In 2010, over 6,000 Sinopec staffs were directly involved in the service for the World Expo and the Asian Sinopec has also provided important financial, material and labor Games. In 2011, the Company also designated USD 7 million to support for grand sport and cultural events both at home and support Beijing’s bid to host the 2015 IAAF World Championships, abroad, and sent teams of highly-qualified volunteers. Together becoming an official partner of the International Association of with our domestic industry peers, we jointly built the Oil Pavilion Athletics Federations. in the Shanghai World Expo which perfectly illuminated the The Oil Pavilion at the World Expo On the morning of October 16th, the IAAF/Sinopec World Half Marathon Championships kicked off in Nanning Sustainable Development Report 55 Our Story providing oil and water for them. In addition, we sent letters of consolation and donated RMB 15 million to Yunnan, Guangxi Sinopec Wholeheartedly Served the and Guizhou provinces. These anti-drought measures were like “Green” Expo timely rain that not only “watered” the hearts of the people in The Oil Pavilion located in Puxi Park at the Shanghai World Expo was the affected areas, but also contributed to the victory in the fight one of the most popular pavilions at the Expo. Sinopec’s service guides against the drought. shortened the distance between oil and life with their polite smiles. What impressed people was not only the state-of-the-art 4D motion theater, but Emergency rescue of fishermen shipwrecked in the south china also the smiling service of the ritual girls. They gave the commentary on the Pavilion to tens of thousands of visitors everyday, and the sincere smiles sea. On March 29th, 2010, the wind was strong and the waves from their heart were the most beautiful expression at the Expo. were turbulent in the South China Sea. The vessel “Eastern Warrior No. 2” was sent by Sinopec Shanghai Offshore Oil & Gas Outside the Oil Pavilion, Sinopec volunteers and its subsidiaries in Shanghai took practical actions to “fuel” the green World Expo. To provide the best Company for field operation in the South China Sea. At 2:50 AM, service for the Expo, we carried out the “Four Zeros” service: zero distance the command center of the Maritime Safety Bureau of Zhanjiang, when serving clients, zero obstacles in communicating with customers, Guangdong Province reported an emergency situation. A fishing zero flaws in customer service, and zero quality complaints. The service and measures to ensure fuel supply to the Expo, which we took as an boat positioned at 20 degrees 49 minutes latitude north and honor, received good comment from the public. 111 degrees 03 minutes longitude east had been struck and was in danger of sinking. The 10 fishermen on board called for an immediate rescue. Their lives were at stake! Sinopec started search and rescue work immediately. At that time the southeast wind had already reached 6 or 7 on the wind scale. After a difficult search, at 3: 58 AM, the 10 fishermen were rescued one by one and taken on board the “Eastern Warrior No. 2”. The fishermen expressed repeatedly their heartfelt gratitude before leaving. Provide aid to yushu. On April 14th, a 7.1 magnitude earthquake crippled the remote Yushu county in Qinghai Province. Sinopec immediately launched an emergency response plan for rescue operations and oil products supply. Rescue teams from Sinopec Haibo, Mascot of Shanghai 2010 World Expo and Youbao, Mascot of the Oil Pavillion Qinghai Oil Products Company travelled 900 kilometers overnight to the affected areas with 50 tons of oil products as well as water and food. The 20 service stations along the roads to the affected 6.2 Aid Those in Need, Help Those in Difficulty areas also opened a “green corridor” which gave refueling priority to disaster-relief vehicles, provided drivers with free water and Aiding disaster areas food and ensured sufficient fuel supply for those vehicles. At the Natural disasters are merciless, but people can be caring and same time, we made intensified efforts in resource allocation, supportive. Every single drop of oil contains such care. Sinopec providing an extra of 2,000 tons of fuel per day in addition to the lends a helping hand to those that find themselves in a difficult scheduled amount. Sinopec donated RMB 15 million to Yushu for situation because of natural disasters and unexpected accidents. post-disaster reconstruction. Sinopec volunteers not only give disaster victims water, rice and smiles. but also the courage for post-disaster reconstruction and the confidence to live on. Love moistens drought-stricken areas.In spring 2010, China’s southwest Yunnan, Guangxi, and Guizhou provinces were struck by a very rare and prolonged drought, affecting an area of nearly 100 million mu (1 mu=0.0667 hectare). Confronting the worsening drought, we made all-out efforts to render our support and conducted relief work by helping local people dig wells and Oil tanker trucks got ready to leave for disaster-hit Zhouqu 56 Sinopec Corp. Sinopec fuel tank trucks headed for earthquake-hit Yushu A Sinopec employee helped farmers with “Supply Team” was helping people pitch a tent of Qinghai province irrigation in the drought-stricken region Fight against floods. Since the beginning of the flood season in 2010, China experienced large-scale heavy rainfalls on multiple occasions. Fujian, Guangxi, Guangdong, Jiangxi and other areas experienced serious flooding disasters as well as mountain torrents, mudslides and landslides. Under the coordinated arrangement of Sinopec, the local subsidiaries launched contingency plans immediately and actively allocated their resources to provide fuel, money and people for disaster relief work. We not only fulfilled our social responsibilities, but also demonstrated good corporate image. Sinopec provide relief assistance in flood-hit Jiangxi Assisting impoverished counties In 2010, Sinopec continued to follow the guidance set out in in Anhui Province, and Luxi and Fenghuang in Hunan Province, “Outline for China Rural Poverty Relief and Development (2001constantly improving local self-reliance capacity. Since the 2010)” and supported infrastructure construction, industrial beginning of a new round of poverty alleviation work launched development, labor export training, and education in impoverished in 2002, Sinopec has invested RMB 100 million for poverty areas. Sinopec earmarked RMB 11.8 million in four statealleviation and disaster relief work in the four designated counties. designated poverty-hit counties including Yingshang and Yuexi Sinopec’s funding to the four national impoverished counties Yingshang and Yuexi in Anhui and Luxi and Fenghuang in Hunan in 2010 · Sinopec invested RMB 7.85 million to build 16 cement roads connecting villages, with a length of 68.7 kilometers, in the four designated counties, which solved the transportation problems of 22 poor villages and over 40,000 people. · In Yingshang county, Anhui Province, with the implementation of the entire-village improvement program, we built 4 kilometers of roads surrounding two villages and improved the agricultural production and living environment of 815 Basic Infrastructure Construction households and 2,884 people, with 390 mu of land conserved or recovered for planting crops. · In Luxi and Fenghuang, Hunan rovince, we completed two drinking water projects which addressed the issue of safe drinking water for over 4,600 people. Two offices were built, which resolved the problem of office space in two villages in which there had been no working place for the village officials. · Sinopec invested RMB 1.4 million to train 2,794 people in the four designated counties. Successful Labor Export Training · Since 2003, Sinopec has provided RMB 2.13 million in training funds for the Yuexi County Poverty Alleviation Training Programs Center. A total of 2,700 young people from poor families received free training. Over 95% of them are employed afterwards, earning over RMB 30 million for their families every year. · Sinopec provided RMB 2 million for 1,260 poor students in the four counties. · Since the founding of Sinopec Tuition Fund in 2008, Sinopec has provided funding for a total of 3,784 poor students. Sponsoring Poor Students for Education · The financial assistance for excellent students from poor families has been warmly welcomed by local governments, students and their parents, and achieved good social results. · Up to date, we have received hundreds of letters from the supported students expressing their gratitude to Sinopec. Sustainable Development Report 57 Aiding tibet Sinopec places great emphasis on the work of aiding Tibet. For Sinopec’s people-benefiting projects spread across the Bange this purpose, Sinopec not only worked out specific work plans, grassland like flowers. The implementation of these projects but also set up Aiding-Tibet leading group and its affiliated office. not only enables Bange county to make great leaps forward in A dedicated bank account was opened to manage the fund for economic and social development, but also forges a profound Tibet poverty alleviation. We care about people’s livelihood and friendship between Sinopec and the ethnic groups living in Bange. support the fundamental and public welfare projects to improve people’s well-being. We started from the improvement of local Projects to improve the well-being of people living on bange production and living conditions, and built and improved a number grassland. In 2010, we strengthened our support to Bange of infrastructure and public welfare facilities which are closely county. A group of major projects were consecutively completed, connected with the working and living conditions of farmers and including the construction of Bange Primary School, homes for herdsmen. These efforts have achieved good results, and Sinopec herdsmen, solar lighting in herding areas, education and training, was chosen as the “Poverty Alleviation Model Unit” by the Poverty etc. The housing construction project in Bange county covered Alleviation Leading Group of the State Council. By the end of 10 towns and 86 villages with a total of 1,026 households. We 2010, Sinopec had aided Tibet for 10 years and allocated a total provided 271 sets of solar lighting equipments combining the of RMB 136 million among which RMB 25.834 million was given functions of both lighting and televisions for local households with out in 2010. lighting problems. We trained 30 teachers, 35 country volunteers, 35 veterinarians and 100 herdsmen. During 11th Five-Year Plan period, Sinopec has supported the Comfortable Housing Project for the 5,279 farmers and herdsmen households in Bange County, Tibet The “Happy Road” built with Sinopec’s assistance in Bange county is like a silver belt that crosses the center of the Bange county in Tibet Caring for children from the herding areas and building the sinopec Our Story bange primary school. At the end of 2010, the construction of the A Thank-you Letter from Bange primary school in Bange county was completed. Sinopec invested RMB 36 million to build this school to solve the education problem In June, Sinopec received a thank-you letter from Bange County which for the children in Bange. It is the largest single investment since is located on the snow-covered plateau. “95 delegates of the People’s the beginning of Sinopec aiding-Tibet efforts. The building area Congress and 33 members of the People’s Political Consultative of the school is 12,700 square meters, including one teaching Committee of Bange county, in the name of the respective institutions they represent and on behalf of the 30,000 people in the county, expressed the building, six student dormitory buildings, four staff dormitory most sincere thanks and highest respect to Sinopec for the selfless and buildings and relevant facilities. The school was highly praised by wholehearted assistance to Bange in the past eight years.” the Tibetan people and dubbed as “the best project” in Bange county if not in the entire Naqu Prefecture, by Bata, the Party Secretary of the CPC Bange Committee. Young people from Bange county and Sinopec Sichuan Mianyang Oil Sinopec Bange Primary School Opened on Time Products Company danced together 58 Sinopec Corp. 6.3 Funding Educational Programs It is the wish of everyone in Sinopec to support education, to care for children from the old liberated areas , female dropouts and the countless children who leave school because of poverty, and to help them go back to school and pursue their dreams. Funding the construction of “hope schools” Everything we do is for the children—this is the kind wish of Sinopec people. For many years, Sinopec has been actively engaged in constructing “Hope Schools” in impoverished areas, giving children in poverty the hope for tomorrow. Every new school, every face of the smiling children, and every picture of the children diligently studying epitomizes the pure benevolence of Sinopec people. Sinopec actively funds the construction of Hope Primary Schools, Sinopec Shangban Hope Primary School Put in Use and have built 15 Hope Primary Schools in Anqing area in the past four years. The total investment was about RMB 7.5 million. Our Story Funding “spring buds” female students One day of the Children’s in Tianjin SOS Sinopec “Spring Buds” project has already been very fruitful. In 2010, Sinopec once again allocated RMB 5.976 million to fund the high-school Children Village education of 9,960 “Spring Buds” students from impoverished areas in Sichuan, Guizhou, Gansu and Hunan. In June 2010, the second group of On the morning of July 13th, children from Tianjin SOS Children’s Village students funded by Sinopec a total of 3,320 high-school students took gathered to welcome several special guests 5 employees of the Sinopec part in the college entrance examination and over 2,500 “Spring Buds” Tianjin Company. Seeing that their uncles and aunts had come once again students were admitted by universities across the country. At present, over to visit them, the children rushed towards them in joy. Over the past few 4,100 Sinopec-funded “Spring Buds” high school students have already years, apart from offering clean energy to the society, staff of the Tianjin realized their dream to be university students. Company have never forgotten to contribute to the society. Over a dozen of children have received their selfless financial assistance. Some have Sinopec’s selfless contribution encourages the “Spring Buds” students to finished school successfully and started working. pursue their dreams and happiness. Through diligent study, more and more of them have lived up to expectations and entered the university. The “Spring Buds” education funding program is the flagship program for developing talents in the impoverished areas in the new era. It is also a successful example of a company fulfilling its social responsibilities and actively participating in building a harmonious society. Sustainable Development Report 59 Our Story Sinopec Helped Me Realize My University Dream Every year, the thank-you letters from our “Spring Buds” students pour your financial assistance helped me realize my dream of pursuing further in like snowflakes. Those “Spring Buds” who have just been admitted to studies and decreased the heavy burden of my parents who are poor and universities send letters and telegrams one after another to inform us of hard-working farmers. I will study more diligently and try to reward your the joyful news. With hardly the words to express their excitement, they compassion by getting the best grades!” gratefully say: “It is Sinopec that helped us realize our dreams and gave us the opportunity to enter the university. We will cherish this opportunity and study diligently!” They all express that during their university studies they will work hard to master knowledge, so that in the future they can contribute to their hometowns and society, rewarding all of those who cared for them. One of Sinopec’s “Spring Buds” high school students named Zhang Xiaofei, from Wuwei No. 18 High School in Gansu Province, said: “Your help was extremely timely. It gives hope for a girl in a remote and poor area. Your compassion is like a book that we need to read earnestly with open hearts”. In impoverished mountainous regions of China, there are bright smiles of Wu Xiaoxia, a third-year high school student, said: “I carried the heavy children who are supported by Sinopec donation program to complete pressure of both study and work when I entered high school. However, education 6.4 “Lifeline Express” Brightness Tour The “Lifeline Express” is China’s only ophthalmology hospital in In 2010, Sinopec “Lifeline Express” went to Mianzhu in Sichuan, a train. Currently there are four such trains, and they are wellKashgar in Xinjiang and Guilin in Guangxin to continue its journey equipped with medical devices and skillful doctors. The treatment of “brightness”. is carried out in the train by excellent ophthalmological staff from Beijing and Hong Kong etc. The “Lifeline Express” is always on Our Story the move along the railway, providing free operations and medical Sinopec Restored My Vision And I Will treatment to cataract patients living in poverty. Reward The Society In Return Sinopec has contributed the most to the “Lifeline Express” project among all the mainland companies. The financial support to “Lifeline Express” started in 2004 and a total of more than RMB 83.5 million has been donated to the Lifeline Express Foundation. Sinopec has also solely funded one “Lifeline Express” train. To date, the Sinopec-funded “Lifeline Express” trains have reached more than a dozen of impoverished areas in China’s remote provinces, and provided free medical treatment to around 18,000 cataract patients. A Doctor on Sinopec Brightness Lifeline Express is treating a patient Hanwang, a town of Mianzhu city in Sichuan Province was a hard-hit area in the earthquake. Many houses collapsed, and the lives of the poor and the sick became even more difficult. One resident named Zhang Zhigui lost his mother and the second elderly brother in the earthquake, and had only his father who was more than 80 years old, and his child who was just over one year old. Because of an external injury during the earthquake, his right eye developed a cataract. The “Sinopec Brightness” Lifeline Express train came to Mianzhu and gave him meticulous medical treatment, and enabled him to regain his sight. Zhang Zhigui said gratefully: “I sincerely thank the medical personnel from Sinopec and Lifeline Express for the free medical Su Fujiao, a 14-year old cataract patient who regained her sight, thanks operation. From this moment on I’m going to work hard with both of my Sinopec for its help on behalf of other recovered patients in Guilin hands to make more contribution to the society”. 60 Sinopec Corp. After all, the wealth created by the company belongs to the society. Sinopec shoulders the long-term development of the society’s overall interests and rationally takes up its share of the social responsibilities, thereby contributing towards a just, harmonious and stable society. Do good deeds for society, and inspire more people to reward the society. Sinopec – this gigantic ship – is making great efforts to take up even more social responsibilities. Moving forward on its journey, carrying responsibility and benevolence vessel is sailing into the future, doing all it can to spread the spirit of selfless dedication and public welfare awareness. Sustainable Development Report 61 2011 OUTLOOK Permanently Ensure Energy Security continue to achieve world-class HSE performance and support In 2011, we will continue to carry out our resource development the corporate sustainable development through meticulous and strategy of “stabilizing output in eastern fields, expanding effective work, strict and fine management as well as advanced production in western areas, accelerating development in southern and proven technologies. blocks, pushing forward offshore exploration and development, Promote Low-carbon Development making breakthrough in unconventional resource development, In 2011, we will continue to promote the low-carbon development depending on technologies and building up upstream strength”. In concept and actively take various measures to reduce greenhouse addition, we will enhance theoretical, technical and management gas emission. We will continue the adjustment and optimization innovation, optimize investment portfolio, strengthen cost of the industrial structure, expedite the improvement of energy control, and realize continuous increase in hydrocarbon reserves utilization and efficiency, intensify low-carbon technology research and output to establish a positive opening for the accelerated and development, step up to build low-carbon capabilities and development of the “12th 5-Year Plan” and make even greater actively address climate change. contribution to ensuring national energy security and promoting the steady and rapid development of the national economy. Employee-oriented Practice Provide High-quality Service In 2011, we will continue to promote internationalization, IT application, system building and standardization of human In 2011, we will continue to adhere to the guiding principle resource management. We will also make intensified efforts in the of “Being a leader in quality management ” and focus on the establishment of corporate culture and humanistic care to achieve goal of “Excellent Quality and Sufficient Quantity for Customer harmonious development of the employees and the company. Satisfaction”. We will continue to upgrade product quality, improve distribution networks, accelerate the development of non-fuel Wholeheartedly Rewarding the Society business with high standards, and further strengthen process In 2011, we will continue to play a proactive role in fulfilling social monitoring and meticulous management. With high-quality responsibilities, providing strong support for public welfare and products and services for customers, we will contribute to a faster enabling more people to share the benefits of the Company’s transformation of China’s economic development pattern. development. We will continue to help impoverished areas with Safe and Green Operation their economic and educational development and improve their In 2011, we will adhere to the HSE concept of “Safety is the self-developing capabilities. We will actively respond to the call prerequisite for profitability, growth, stability and harmony” and of the government, intensifying the establishment of harmonious focus on the HSE theme of “Health, Safety, Environmental communities. Protection, Stability, Harmony and Development”. We will 62 Sinopec Corp. COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC Sinopec’s unremitting efforts in fulfilling social responsibilities earned widespread approval and praise from all walks of life within both at home and abroad. In 2010, the major relevant prizes received by Sinopec were as follows: The CPC Central Committee, the State Council, and the Central Military Commission awarded Sinopec Qinghai Oil Products Company the honorary title of “National Earthquake Disaster Relief Hero Team”. The CPC Central Committee and the State Council awarded Sinopec Shanghai Oil Products Company the honorary title of “Shanghai World Expo Outstanding Team”. In the online essay and knowledge competition “Civil Internet Use, Joint Building of Harmony”, Sinopec received the Outstanding Contribution Award. Sinopec received the “China Corporate Social Responsibility Outstanding Enterprise” award, ranking the second on the list; Chairman Su Shulin was awarded the “China Corporate Social Responsibility Outstanding Individual” prize, ranking the first (sponsored by Xinhua News Agency). Sinopec received the 2010 annual “People’s Social Responsibility Award” (sponsored by People’s Daily Online). Sinopec was awarded the 2010 annual “China Red Cross Medal” by the Red Cross Society of China. Sinopec received the only “Special Prize for Brightness Service” awarded by the Chinese Foundation for Lifeline Express. Sinopec’s website ranked the 3rd in the 2010 annual website performance assessment of centrally-administered SOEs sponsored by SASAC. In the “Corporate Social Responsibility Index of 100 Top Companies in China” released by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Sinopec rose to the 6th in 2010 from the 14th in 2009, making it a leader among centrally-administered SOEs in fulfilling social responsibilities. Sustainable Development Report 63 2010 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EVENT CHRONICLE January April Sinopec Tianjin 1 million-ton-per-year Ethylene Project and its After the 7.1 magnitude earthquake in Yushu, Qinghai Province, affiliated project were put into production. Compared with similar Sinopec sent disaster-relief teams with hundreds of tons of refined plants in China, this project has the highest content of Chineseoil products to the disaster-hit area at the first possible moment, made equipments. It can boost Tianjin’s industrial output value actively participated in the relief work and donated RMB 15 by more than 4%, spurring hundreds of billions of downstream million. investment. 28 Sinopec employees were awarded “2010 National Model Worker” honorary titles. February Sinopec collected ideas for its corporate social responsibility May slogan from all employees and dominant domestic media. For the first time, Sinopec held an open-door corporate social responsibility report meeting, strengthening and promoting the communication with stakeholders and the public with regard to March the Company’s social responsibility work. Investment for environmental protection of the Tianjin Ethylene “China Corporate Social Responsibility Research Base”, jointly Project and its affiliated project amounted to RMB 2 billion. The founded by Sinopec and the CSR Research Center of the Chinese daily industrial water required uses entirely desalinated sea water, Academy of Social Sciences, was inaugurated. This project is an becoming China’s first large-scale ethylene project to only “drink” important and innovative measure taken by Sinopec to advance sea water, with zero industrial wastewater emission at the macro corporate social responsibility work. It is also the first cooperative level. research base established by the CSR Research Center of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences together with an enterprise. “Sinopec Brightness Lifeline Express”, sponsored solely by Sinopec, provided free medical treatment for cataract patients in Sinopec launched a model employee selection activity for youth three poverty-stricken areas respectively in Sichuan, Xinjiang and development entitled “Model by My Side”, with 10 employees Guangxi whereby the patients regained sight. standing out from one hundred candidates. The Company donated RMB 15 million to drought-hit areas in Yunnan, Guangxi and Guizhou. June Sichuan-to-East China Gas Transmission Project, a key project during the “11th Five-Year Plan” period, came on stream. This Sinopec started the activity of “Striving to be the First and the project played a significant role in optimizing China’s energy mix, Best”. and pushing forward the coordinated economical and social development in the mid-west and east China. 64 Sinopec Corp. July October Sinopec accomplished fuel supply for harvesters that reaped Sinopec provided exclusive lubricating products for the “Chang’e 90% of the country’s planting area for summer grain crops, 2” spacecraft. guaranteeing the timely and stable oil supply for summer harvest, plough and sowing. Sinopec Donghai Brand asphalt was used in the high-speed rail November between Shanghai and Nanjing, contributing to the development of high-speed rail engineering materials. Sinopec actively promoted the “Conserving Oil” green development, successfully guaranteeing oil products supply during the World Expo. August The Central Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine selected 360 service stations in 22 provinces, Sinopec held a quality work conference, making a solemn prefectures and cities for inspection. More than 100 Sinopec promise of “Making Every Drop count” to the public. service stations were among those which were inspected, and all of them met the standards. China’s sole national-level research center for oil refining technologies—the State Energy and Oil Refining Technologies Sinopec took various measures to increase diesel production to Research and Development Center—was established and settled relieve the supply tension in the market. down in Sinopec. During the period of Guangzhou Asian Games, Sinopec spared Sinopec was actively engaged in the relief work in disaster-hit no effort to ensure oil products supply and provide convenience Zhouqu, Gansu Province, ensured oil products supply by sending service. fleets of oil tank trucks and donated RMB 5 million to the disaster area. Sinopec received the only “Special Prize for Brightness Service” awarded by the Chinese Foundation for Lifeline Express. Sinopec Qinghai Oil Products Company was awarded the honorary title of “National Earthquake Disaster Relief Hero Team” by the CPC Central Committee, the State Council and the Central Military Commission. December Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical Co., Ltd. was awarded the title of “Environmentally Friendly Chinese Company” by All-China September Environment Federation, becoming the first chemical company in Shanghai to receive this title. Sinopec conducted the 2010 Professional Skill Competition, with 30 individuals winning golden prizes, and 11 enterprises As the largest supplier of emulsified asphalt mortar for the Beijing-Shanghai high-speed rail, the asphalt which Sinopec winning group prizes. produced and supplied met standards 100%, and there were no 62 teams and 62 employees of Sinopec were awarded the customer complaints. honorary titles of “Red Flag Team” and “Exemplary Employee” by SASAC. Sinopec held the Human Resource Work Conference, formulated the Sinopec Talents Development Summary Plan for the 12th Five-Year Plan Period and the Future 10 Years which requires the Company should manage human resource as its core asset and carry out dynamic and systematical talent development programs. Sustainable Development Report 65 THIRD-PARTY ASSESSMENT Rating report on China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation Sustainability Report 2010 Upon the request of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation, CSR Research Center of Economics Division of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences selected experts from Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating to form China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation Sustainability Report 2010 Rating Team. The rating team rated China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation Sustainability Report 2010 (“report”) based on the relevant criteria specified in Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 1.0). 1.Basis of rating （★★★★ ） Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Creativity Enterprises (CASS-CSR 1.0) published jointly by the aforesaid Center, With the social responsibility concept of “every drop of oil makes a China WTO Tribune and China Committee of Corporate Citizenship. promise”the chapter headings of this report relates to “every drop of oil makes a promise” closely, the layout design fully embodies the oil drop”, 2. Conclusions the examples are told by “the story of one drop of oil”, so it owns highly Completeness（★★★★） innovative. （★★★★ ） The Report discloses information on social responsibility practices Overall rating and performance of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation in terms Through evaluation and deliberations, the rating team agreed to rate China of responsibility management, economic, social and environmental Petroleum & Chemical Corporation Sustainability Report 2010 as leading responsibilities and covers all stakeholders with better coverage of the CSR report by giving a four-star semirating to it. core indicators of Oil and Natural Gas industry and Petrochemical industry. Materiality（★★★★ ） 3. Suggested improvements This report discloses the key social responsibility issues of Petrochemical (1) Disclose more core performance indicators for greater completeness. industry like energy supply, products and services quality, safe operation, (2)Chronologically disclose more key performance correlation data to low-carbon development and positively responses to the concerns of improve vertical comparability. stakeholders. (3) Disclose key performance data of the same industry to improve Balance（★★★★） horizontal comparability. This report discloses the year on year rate of change of the accident and employee casualties, etc., especially, it even discloses oil quality event 4. Rating team happened in Anyang city of Henan, elaborating the cause of the accident, Team leader: Peng Huagang, Vice President of Executive Council of the the counter-measure and the improved mechanisms, it has better balance. Center and Director General of Research Bureau SASAC of the State Comparability（★★★ ） Council. This Report discloses data on some key performance indicators of three Team members: consecutive years and therefore bears considerable vertical comparability. Yang Jinzhong, Senior Manager with Shanghai Stock Exchange Readability（★★★★） Yin Gefei, Vice President of China WTO Tribune The main part of the report with masterstroke of “every drop of oil makes a promise” expounds from six aspects, the distinct logic, clear hierarchy, Guo Peiyuan, General Manager of SynTao understandable language and illustrated expression makes this report Zhong Hongwu, Director of CSR Research Center, Economics Division, quite readable. Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Chen Jiagui Peng Huagang President of Executive Council of theCenter Head of the Rating Team Member of the Standing Committee of the NPC Vice President of Executive Council of the Center Acting Chairman of Presidium of Divisions, Director General of Research Bureau of SASAC of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences the State Council 66 Sinopec Corp. About The Report Dear readers, this is the Company’s fifth Sustainable Development Report This report follows the 2008 Notification on Listed Companies’ Disclosure which covers the period from 1st January 2010 to 31st December 2010. of Social Responsibility Report and Internal Control Self-assessment The Report objectively and thoroughly describes Sinopec’s sustainable Report released by Shanghai Stock Exchange. It covers Shanghai Stock development concept and practices through which the Company fulfilled Exchange’s basic requirements for social responsibility report of listed its corporate social responsibilities in 2010. Before compiling the Report, company, whereby the listed company shall disclose its efforts to facilitate we had a number of meetings to seek advice and opinions from all social the sustainable development of society, environment, ecology and sectors on the Report compilation and how to improve the Company’s economy. corporate social responsibility practices. We also invited the Company’s The business and financial data is extracted from the Company’s 2010 relevant departments and people outside the Company to join in the Annual Report. The financial statements, prepared under the PRC compilation of the Report. We hope that the Report will serve as a Accounting Standards, have been audited by KPMG Huazhen. platform of information exchange and enable us to hear the voices of all stakeholders. This Report follows the four reporting principles of Global An electronic version of this Report is available on our website Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 Guidelines, namely materiality, stakeholder www.sinopec.com.cn inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness, along with its defining principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, time efficiency, clarity The Report has been submitted concurrently to the United Nation’s Global and reliability. However, the Report does not include all relevant indicators. Compact Office and Shanghai Stock Exchange and will be made public on Please refer to www.globalreporting.org for details of GRI. their websites. THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND OUR REPORT The Global Compact Principles Corresponding Chapters in the Report Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally5.1 Respecting Employees and Protecting Their Rights and Interests proclaimed human rights 6.1 Community Building 6.2 Aid Those in Need, Help Those in Difficulty 6.3 Funding educational programs 6.4 “Lifeline Express” Brightness Tour 2 Business should make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuse. 5.1 Respecting Employees and Protecting Their Rights and Interests Labor 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 5.3 Call of Corporate Culture recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and 5.1 Respecting Employees and Protecting Their Rights and Interests compulsory labour. 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 5.1 Respecting Employees and Protecting Their Rights and Interests 6 Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of 5.1 Respecting Employees and Protecting Their Rights and Interests employment and occupation. Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Address from Chairman challenges. 3.2 I Safe 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Address from Chairman responsibility. Celebrating the First Decade 3.3 Green Operation 4.1 Saving Energy Resources & Increasing Energy Efficiency 4.2 Developing Low-carbon Energy & Optimizing Energy Mix 4.3 Developing Low-carbon Technologies & Increasing Low-carbon Development Ability 4.4 Shifting to Low-carbon-oriented Production, Existence and Consumption 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of Address from Chairman environmentally-friendly technologies. 3.3 Green Operation 4.1 Saving Energy Resources & Increasing Energy Efficiency 4.3 Developing Low-carbon Technologies & Increasing Low-carbon Development Ability 4.4 Shifting to Low-carbon-oriented Production, Existence and Consumption Anti-corruption Issues 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Corporate Governance extortion and bribery. Sustainable Development Report 67 Shanghai Stock Exchange and Our Report Shanghai Stock Exchange Basic Principles Corresponding Chapters in the Report 1 Health and safety protection for employees; Address from Chairman Celebrating the First Decade 3.2 I Safe 5.1 Respecting Employees and Protecting Their Rights and Interests 2 Protection and support for local community; Address from Chairman Celebrating the First Decade Our Stakeholders 6.1 Community Building 6.2 Aid Those in Need, Help Those in Difficulty 6.3 Funding Educational Programs 6.4 “Lifeline Express” Brightness Tour 3 Check on production quality. Our Stakeholders 2.2 All-Employee Engagement in Quality Committment 3.3 Green Operation Environment and Ecology 4 How to prevent and reduce environmental pollution; 3.3 Green Operation 5 How to protect water resources and energy; 3.3 Green Operation 4 Low-Carbon Development 6 How to protect inhabitation of local community; 3.3 Green Operation 4.4 Shifting to Low-carbon-oriented Production, Existence and Consumption 7 How to protect and improve biodiversity in local community. 3.3 Green Operation 4.4 Shifting to Low-carbon-oriented Production, Existence and Consumption Economy 8 How to create values for customers through production and service; Address from Chairman Our Stakeholders 2.1 Diverse Products, Colorful Life 2.3 Perfecting Customized Service 2.4 Stable Supply in Special Periods 3.3 Green Operation 9 How to create better opportunity and future development for Address from Chairman employees; Celebrating the First Decade Our Stakeholders 5.2 Facilitating Personal Development 10 How to bring high returns for stockholders. Company Profile Address from Chairman Celebrating the First Decade Corporate Governance Our Stakeholders Environmental protection information 11 Environmental protection policy, annual objective and effect; 3.3 Green Operation 12 Annual total resources consumption; 3.3 Green Operation 13 The company’s environmental protection investment and technical 3.3 Green Operation development status; 4.1 Saving Energy Resources & Increasing Energy Efficiency 4.2 Developing Low-carbon Energy & Optimizing Energy Mix 4.3 Developing Low-carbon Technologies & Increasing Low-carbon Development Ability 14 Category and quantity of pollutants; 3.3 Green Operation 15 The construction and operating status of environmental protection 3.3 Green Operation installations; 4.1 Saving Energy Resources & Increasing Energy Efficiency 4.2 Developing Low-carbon Energy & Optimizing Energy Mix 4.3 Developing Low-carbon Technologies & Increasing Low-carbon Development Ability 16 The processing and disposal of waste created in production and the 3.3 Green Operation recovery and comprehensive utilization of rejected products. 68 Sinopec Corp. Reporting Guidance Indicators Headline CASS-CSR 1.0 IPIECA / API GRI PAGE Company Profile P3.1-P3.3 SOC-1 2.1-2.9 Inside Front Cover Address from Chairman P2.1-P2.2, G1.1-G1.3 1.1, 1.2, 4.16 2-3 Celebrating the First P3.4, P4.2, S1.2 4-7 Decade Making Every Drop G2.1-G2.5, G3.2, S4.14 4.9, 4.12 8-9 Count Corporate Governance P3.5, G1.4, G4.1-G4.3, M3.4, M3.7 SOC-2 10-11 Our Stakeholders G3.1, G3.3-3.5, S2.20 12-13 Continuous Energy A Solid Resources Base 2.5 16 Supply Continued Pursuit of Technological M2.10-M1.12, M2.14 ENV-A8, ENV-3 17-18 Progress Premium Customer Diverse Products, Colorful Life SOC-8 4.16, 2.2 22 Services All-Employee Engagement in Quality M2.6-M2.8 4.12 23 Committment Perfecting Customized Service M2.1-M2.5, M2.9 4.16 24-26 Stable Supply in Special Periods 4.16 27-28 Safe and Green HSE management system S3.1, S3.2, E1.1, OGE3.8, OGE3.9 H&S-1, H&S-2, H&S-4, ENV-6 32 Operation I safe OGS3.1, S3.3-S3.6 ENV-1, ENV-A8, SOC-9 LA7, LA9 32-35 Green operation E1.3-E1.10, E2.3, E2.8-E2.10, E3.7, ENV-2, ENV-A1, ENV-A2, ENV-A3, EN1, EN2, EN10, EN11, EN12, 36-38 OGE3.1, OGE3.2, OGE3.3, OGE3.5, ENV-A4, ENV-A5, ENV-4, ENV-A6, EN13, EN20, EN22, EN23, EN26, OGE3.6, OGE3.7, OGE3.10 ENV-A9 EN30 Low-Carbon Saving Energy Resources and E2.1, E2.2, E2.5-E2.10, E3.8, E3.9, ENV-3 EN3, 3N4, EN5, EN7, EN17, EN18 42 Development Increasing Energy Efficiency OGE2.2 Developing Low-carbon Energy and E3.8, OGE2.1 ENV-5, ENV-A8 EN6, EN18 43 Optimizing Energy Structure Developing Low-carbon Technologies E3.8 EN18 44 and Increasing Low-carbon Development Ability Shifting to Low-carbon-oriented E2.9, E2.10, E3.8 EN18 44 Production, Existence and Consumption Care for Employees Respecting Employees and Protecting S1.5, S2.1-S2.6, S2.8, S2.10, SOC-1, SOC-7, H&S-2, H&S-3 48-49 Their Rights and Interests S2.12-S2.15, S2.20, S2.22, PES 2.1 Facilitating Personal Development S2.17-S2.19 SOC-4, SOC-5, SOC-A3 LA10, LA11 49-50 Call of Corporate Culture S2.23 ECO-A2 50 Wholeheartedly Community Building S4.1-S4.3, S4.5, S4.7-4.8, S4.10 SOC-8, SOC-A4, SOC-A5, EC1 54-56 Rewarding Society SOC-A6, SOC-A7 Aid Those in Need, Help Those in SOC-8, SOC-A4 EC1 56-58 Difficulty Funding Educational Programs SOC-8, SOC-A4 EC1 59-60 “Lifeline Express”Brightness Tour SOC-8, SOC-A4 EC1 60 2011 Outlook A1 62 Comments from the P4.3 63 Public Third-Party Assessment A2 2.10 64 About The Report A3, P1.1-P1.9, A4 3.1-3.8, 3.12 67 Sustainable Development Report 69 Glossary Occupational Diseases Accident Diseases that workers suffer during production activities due to An incident that causes casualties or property loss. exposure to occupational hazards. Per Million Man Hours Occupational Health Supervision Per million man hours approximately equal the total work-hours Occupational health supervision is a series of health examination of 500 workers in a year. Total work hours include training and measures taken to protect working people from occupational overtime, but exclude vacations, sick leaves, and time of other hazards and improve their healthiness. It mainly consists of absences from duty. occupational health examination, and occupational health supervision file management and other relevant activities. Environment The combination of all living substances, lifeless substances and Occupational Health Checkup their interrelations. Physical examination conducted on workers exposed to occupational hazards. The scope and cycle of occupational Health checkup should be determined according to the Environmental Impact Assessment categories of occupational hazards involved and the provisions Evaluation of the impact of a construction project on the of Occupational Health Checkup Scope and Cycle. Occupational environment before the project is planned or implemented. health checkup comprises health examination of employees before and during work, at the time of separation and in case of emergency. Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) The quantity of a strong oxidizer consumed when a water sample is treated using such oxidizer under certain conditions. It is a Coverage of Occupational Health Checkup composite parameter used to measure the pollutants discharged The proportion of employees exposed to occupational hazards into water body and the potential impact of such discharge and subjected to occupational health checkup to the total number on the natural environment. The higher the value of COD, the of employees that are required to undergo occupational health more seriously polluted the water body would be by reducing checkup on an annual basis. substances. Coverage of Workplace Inspection Female Managerial Staff Proportion The proportion of workplaces involving occupational hazards that The proportion of female managerial staff to the entire operational are examined to the total number of workplaces required to be management team in a company. examined on an annual basis. 70 Sinopec Corp. DISCLAIMER This report includes forward-looking statements. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that address activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future (including but not limited to projections, targets, and other estimates and business plans) are forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual results or developments may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors and uncertainties. The Company makes the forward-looking statements referred to herein as at March 2011 and undertakes no obligation to update these statements. COMPANY INFORMATION Name China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation Company Registration Date February 25th, 2000 Registered and Headquarters Address 22 Chaoyangmen North Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China Post Code 100728 Telephone 86-10-59960028 Fax 86-10-59960386 Website http://www.sinopec.com.cn Places of Listing of Shares Shanghai, Hong Kong, New York and London Stock Name SINOPEC CORP. Stock Code Shanghai: 600028, Hong Kong: 0386, New York and London: SNP 72 Sinopec Corp.
