ReachingBeyond Purpose beyond profits Beyond Beyond Beyond Beyond Beyond Beyond Disclosure Profits Compliance Efficacy Hierarchy Philanthropy SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SUMMARY BeyondBasics Chairman's Message Dear Stakeholder, True sustainability can only be achieved through a balanced Beyond Progress health, environmental, and development agenda that addresses the needs of every social stratum and facilitates Over and above economic and social, our concern for the inclusive growth along with democratic access. environment is the third strategic pillar in our model. All three are intrinsically interwoven into our objectives and are a way of life at Dr. Reddy's. Beyond the Privileged We have further integrated green principles and concepts in In a country which represents approximately one sixth of our operation and augmented ongoing ones like solvent humanity, the right to health only remains enshrined in the recovery systems to water recycling and energy saving to letter of the Constitution, but not implemented in practice. raw material productivity. In spite of the great advances in medicine, its healing touch does not reach the grassroots. Green chemistry is one such pertinent example. At Dr. Reddy's, we explore the potential for green chemistry Moreover, the economic inequalities in society keep the right from the very initial stages of drug development. This vulnerable sections bereft of healthcare. Even as helps us reduce the external impact of our processes, build in international medical tourism flourishes in India, 39 million economic efficiencies and arrest any potential business Indians are pushed into poverty each year because of interruptions. personal expenditure on healthcare, as public spending on health remains abysmally low. Sustainability is not an overlay on our business process, it is our business process. Thus, it is no surprise that we continue to operate our business in a sustainable manner in times of Sustainability The Antidote calm or crisis. It has been our ongoing mission to rectify this malady, and I would like to sum up with an inspiring quote from the make India a true healthcare democracy, where every Upanishads that will help us be faithful to the sustainable path. individual can avail of cure with dignity. Dr. Reddy's was founded on this very premise to provide access to affordable medicine. You are what your deep driving desire is. Our solution to this problem goes beyond the basics. We are As is your desire, so is your will. bridging the gap by working on both the shores: As is your will, so is your deed. As is your deed, so is your destiny. Providing Affordable Medicines A strong desire is all we need to create a healthier and Enhancing Income Levels cleaner world for our future generations. So let's traverse beyond artificial limitations, beyond prejudices and beyond We are also building the necessary capabilities and soft skills basic business to make a lasting difference. among medical support professionals, through DRFHE programmes with an aim to strengthen the healthcare Regards, delivery system. Today at Dr. Reddy's we have successfully blended the economic and the social to create a profitable business model Dr. K. Anji Reddy that is inclusive and stands tall on the foundation of care. Founder Chairman, Dr. Reddy's 1 BeyondSatisfactory Message from Vice-Chairman & CEO Dear Stakeholder, 2010 could have been better. We continued on our journey branded drugs; the remodeling of our Discovery Research of sustainability, but the pace could have been faster. We did division; and the in-licensing deal with Russia's R-Pharm, small things, for instance, we made our buildings more will help synergistically leverage existing assets and raise environment friendly, more energy efficient, and used less the sustainability quotient for both us and our energy-intensive lighting. collaborators. But we expect more from ourselves and need to reach As we build our future, we need to continue giving space beyond the low hanging fruit to the next level of maturity to professionals in the workplace and go beyond legacy along the sustainability curve. We need transformational staffing principles. We aim to match jobs to individual change. We know what we want to achieve, but sometimes competencies and ambitions, instead of just matching falter in the face of short term pressures. individuals to jobs. We faced a fair share of unexpected events this year. The In pursuit of our core goal to 'provide affordable and world economy hit the bottom of its worst slump. Pricing innovative medicines for healthier lives', we need to go pressures increased and so did government regulations. beyond the usual price cuts and continue to invest in We also had to navigate two product recalls, which research and development that is relevant to diseases although should not have happened in the first place, affecting large sections of society, pursue a collaborative helped us emerge stronger from the experience. Our approach to Intellectual Property Rights, formulate new transparency during the exercise; the speed with which we models that generate profits for the entire industry, acted and the alertness of our Pharmacoviligance including for the originator. department were the silver lining. We strongly believe that business has a central role to play Our objective is to leverage sustainability to create significant in driving progress and change in society. Our social stakeholder value, as opposed to merely mitigating risk. interventions continued to gain ground across all three life-altering domains of Education, Health and Livelihood. Though our main business today is Going forward, we wish to institutionalise a self-powered continuous cycle wherein we listen to stakeholders and to generics, our goal is to be innovators in the Earth's biology, analyse humanity's social contracts, sustainability; to discover new means and and drive change to harmoniously deliver across all three bottom lines. to establish new benchmarks. We encourage you to engage with us and share your views on how we can enhance our sustainability quotient and its Towards fulfillment of this aspiration, we have significantly reporting. Do write to us. enhanced leadership capacity throughout the organisation. This will allow us to achieve considerably superior rates of Regards, resource productivity across all three key resources human resources, natural resources and financial resources and ensure abundant supply in each stream. Collaboration and symbiotic relationships are at the heart of sustainability. Collaborative approaches such as our strategic G.V. Prasad alliance with GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) to supply over 100 Vice-Chairman & CEO, Dr. Reddy's 2 BeyondLegacy MD & COO's Message Dear Stakeholder, Talent Connect The weather is not the only thing that is changing. The global New investments, new facilities and new capabilities all business climate and the social environment are equally translated into an increase of over 2,500 employees. tumultuous. Communication aimed at aligning vision, roles and responsibilities took center stage. The generics industry too is feeling the impact. The economic slowdown, a large patent expiry pipeline, authorised generics, pricing pressures, changing regulatory frameworks and an Environment Connect enhanced demand for generics by insurance companies are We introduced a holistic approach to product development giving birth to new market paradigms. and process selection, which has led to environment Environmental concerns about water usage and discharge are impacts being factored in right from the start. Investments rising to the forefront. On the social front, the impact of required to preserve the environment are budgeted and various global epidemics such as Swine Flu, SARS et al. and form an integral part of the selection criteria. affordability have attracted unprecedented media attention to Our commitment to pursue environmental goals ensures the industry, resulting in intense government-industry-society that environmental performance is integrated at engagement. Dr. Reddy's and remains the foundation of our past and future successes. At Dr. Reddy's, we are going beyond legacy Community Connect and reinforcing our connect with stakeholders. Caring for communities comes naturally to Dr. Reddy's and commendable work has been done in this area over the We are proactively harnessing emerging opportunities and years through Dr. Reddy's Foundation. The big change adopting mechanisms to mitigate risks. this year was the active participation of employees in social interventions. They helped identify the needs of the local community and devised suitable programmes that not only Market Connect catered to them but also leveraged the core competency of Our strategic association with GlaxoSmithKline helped us the organisation. This has helped weave a symbiotic tap emerging markets. This enabled us to not only provide relationship between Dr. Reddy's and local communities. affordable medicine to a larger population, but also cater to Our performance across the triple bottom line is not due to a broader spectrum of medical needs. one or two activities or interventions. It is because the team understands the core philosophy of sustainability and having Quality Connect experienced its positive outcomes, is self-motivated to go beyond and make a difference. We initiated two key quality concepts this year. Quality by Design (QbD) is a structured approach to build in quality Regards, right from the design stage. Secondly, we covered significant ground in embedding our quality systems across our supply chain. Several customer audits conducted during the year helped K. Satish Reddy refine our systems and processes even further. MD & COO, Dr. Reddy's 3 We are the 2nd largest pharmaceutical from India Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. (NYSE: RDY) is an integrated global and were the youngest among our peers to cross pharmaceutical company, committed to provide affordable and the USD 1 Billion mark innovative medicines for healthier lives. in FY 2007. Business Portfolio PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES GLOBAL GENERICS PROPRIETARY PRODUCTS AND ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Through our branded and Our Proprietary Products Through our PSAI business, which unbranded Global Generics business comprises New Chemical comprises the Active Pharmaceutical business, we fulfill our purpose of Entities (NCEs) Research, Ingredients (API) and Custom providing affordable medicines to Biologics and Differentiated Pharmaceutical Services (CPS) more people around the world by Formulations. In each of these businesses, we offer Intellectual offering lower-cost alternatives to areas, we are building world-class Property (IP) advantages, speedy highly-priced innovator brands both capabilities and partnerships to product development and costdirectly and through key accelerate the discovery and effective manufacturing services to partnerships. Our capabilities span development of new and our customers generic companies the entire value chain from process improved therapies in the areas of and innovators. This allows us to help development of the API to bacterial infections, metabolic make quality medicines available to submission of the finished dosage disorders and pain & more people around the world. dossier to the regulatory agencies. inflammatory diseases. Global Presence RUSSIA UK GERMANY Headquartered in Hyderabad, India, we have a global US EUROPE CHINA presence and an extensive marketing network through INDIA international subsidiaries, marketing partners and joint MEXICO ventures. With the marketing deal signed with GSK in June 2009, BRAZIL SOUTH we now have the power of around seven thousand sales AFRICA AUSTRALIA representatives of GSK in the emerging markets, through which our products would reach patients across the globe. 4 Beyond Disclosure Sustainability is embedded in our DNA. Transparency, governance and ethical behaviour are routine at Dr. Reddy’s and evident in policies and actions. DNA of Sustainability Protecting the environment, caring for the community or providing affordable and innovative medicine have been key ingredients of our business strategy. Some of the strategic initiatives interwoven with our daily operations include: Quality by Design | Principles of the Theory of Constraints Leadership Development | Lean Manufacturing Sustainability Framework In FY 2009, we undertook a detailed structured exercise involving the identification of our stakeholders, understanding stakeholder concerns and perspectives through one-on-one engagements, identifying issues that are important to us and our stakeholders through a materiality assessment in consultation with the Management Council and finally crystallised our Sustainability Framework comprising six key material issues. Providing Affordable and Environmental Management and Innovative Medicines Climate Change To enhance the reach of our affordable generics we regularly We integrate environment concerns right at the development enlarge our footprint by entering new geographies and and process design stage and analyse every decision through a penetrating deeper in our existing markets. green prism. Sustainable Sourcing Product Responsibility From raising awareness, to empowering them through training, The quality, benefits and safety including reliable storage and to equipping them with technology and best practices, to supply are integral to our drugs. All our products meet extending resource assistance, we proactively help our supply regulatory and safety standards and approvals. partners raise their sustainability quotient. Being an Employer of Choice Caring for Communities Our vibrant work environment allows our employees to We go beyond episodic philanthropic assistance to create real perform at peak potential, encourages transparent employee opportunities for those who do not have access to them. The communication and policies, provides ample growth focus is on three life-altering areas: patient care, education and opportunities and rewards merit and results. livelihood. 5 Beyond Profits The purpose of our business is to provide affordable and innovative medicines for healthier lives. Economic Performance At Dr. Reddy's, we believe that what a business is driven by determines its value. Profit alone cannot sustain success. To remain relevant, a business needs to be piloted by a purpose. We understand that our true value is the sum of our core values. It is determined, not just by the profit we earn, but also by the societal and environmental wealth that we generate. Our business strategies are inclusive and aim to protect the interests of each and every stakeholder employees, customers, business partners, communities and the planet. However, we are aware that a healthy economic cycle strengthens societal and environmental support systems and is, thus, imperative to sustainability. Therefore, as an organisation we are committed to the creation and distribution of economic value. Economic Value Generated Revenue & Profit INR Million Dr. Reddy's was listed Revenues from the 2008-09 2009-10 amongst the Top 10 Indian formulation 69,441 70,277 generic companies in the market crossed the US market thereby INR 10,000 million mark. Revenue recognising our abilities This represents a % % Profit* to compete and thrive in healthy growth of this important territory. 20% in 2009-10. 8,352 9,214 *Net Adjusted Profit Economic Value Distributed Total Personnel Cost (R&D Excl.) Total Taxes Paid 3,545 Supplier Cost INR Million INR Million INR Million 12,002 24,390 2,909 24,121 9,785 18,536 7,534 1,971 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 6 Affordable & Innovative Medicine At Dr. Reddy's, it is our constant endeavour to hone our competitive edge and provide access to affordable and innovative medicines across the globe. We think beyond set norms and outside the box to unearth opportunities that meld affordability for people everywhere with revenues for the organisation. 2009-10AIMTIMELINE Increasing affordability and accessibility around the world, creating innovation-driven businesses for long-term value creation and embracing the triple bottom-line approach to sustainability, define us. Throughout the year, a steady stream of initiatives were undertaken as detailed below: July 2009 June September Our Hyderabad Drug 2009 2009 April Discovery business unit 2009 was remodelled into the May Entered into a Proprietary Products 2009 partnership with business, to follow a An agreement was GlaxoSmithKline plc. semi-virtual business model We concluded a inked with Natco Investigational New (GSK) to develop and based on an approach that is transaction in the Pharma Ltd. for the Drug (IND) filing for market select products governed by market-driven, US for the development, DRL 17822 was accepted across emerging markets clinically unmet needs in purchase of an manufacturing and by the US FDA. The first outside India. As per the contrast with the earlier ANDA, Antara® supply of a portfolio human subjects were agreement, GSK has science-driven format. (fenofibrate of value-added successfully treated in a access to our diverse capsules), from generic oncology phase-I study with portfolio and future The Proprietary Products Lupin Ltd. As part drugs. DRL 17822, a selective pipeline of more than unit will be responsible for of this transaction, inhibitor of 100 branded building our NCE we obtained the Cholesterylester Transfer pharmaceuticals in (New Chemical Entities) and NATCO rights to launch Protein (CETP), for the certain therapeutic Differentiated Formulations this product at a treatment of segments. portfolio in collaboration time prior to the Dyslipidemia, with various partners and expiration of the Atherosclerosis and service providers. listed patents. associated cardiovascular Post-remodelling, we also diseases. closed down our Discovery Research facility in Atlanta, Georgia, in the US. All the trademarks and copyrighted material used in the report are of respective owners and are not used for any commercial benefit. SUSTAINABLE 1 2 3 BUSINESS SUSTAINABLE CONSERVATION Sustainable Sourcing PARTNERSHIPS LOGISTICS OF RESOURCES We recognise that to be a truly Quality control Set up supplier Inventory sustainable organisation, we must facilities in the management reach beyond our boundaries and Compliance vicinity of our replenish to take our strategic business partners Facility design operations consumption and customers along with us on this Safety and health Import-routing Moving towards a journey. Our key focus areas are: paperless optimisation Sustainable Business Partnerships Risk analysis and organisation remedial measures Sustainable Logistics Reduce and reuse Conservation of Resources 7 December 2009 January November 2010 2009 We launched omeprazole February magnesium OTC 2010 as a private label We entered into an In partnership with October product in the US. agreement with Forest Rheoscience A/S 2009 Laboratories Inc., (Rheoscience), A part of our North which allows us to we announced the America Generics manufacture and market results of the first business was We have also agreed memantine the generic phase-III study for the reorganised to on a settlement with version of Forest Investigational Agent, centralise all Novartis International Laboratories Inc.'s Balaglitazone (DRF commercial and AG (Novartis) for a Namenda® tablets prior 2593), a partial PPARbusiness functions at generic version of to patent expiry. gamma agonist which our New Jersey office Novartis' Lotrel® tablets, has been developed for as well as operational which involves a the treatment of type-2 and logistics functions stipulation of dismissal Diabetes. at our Louisiana facility. of the lawsuits in the This is expected to enhance the simplicity US relating to our ANDA. Under the r and scalability of our US Generics Business, terms of the settlement agreement, we will rheoscience allowing us to improve launch the generic our service to version prior to the customers, and also to expiration of the support the significant Orange Book patents growth we anticipate in for the product. the next several years. In the reporting year, various steps were taken towards building a more robust sustainable supply chain. Below are a select few: Green Packaging Previously, BOPP lamination was used on product cartons that were exported. This has now been replaced with Aqueous varnish or UV varnish which is more environment friendly. Additionally, the new cartons have reduced the usage of plastic. Towards a Paperless Organisation At Dr. Reddy's, we make a conscious effort to identify and restrict processes that use paper. All the administrative work at our offices takes place through emails. We have also started issuing purchase orders to our vendors through email. Efforts are on to extend the use of paperless alternatives in all our processes. We understand that implementing this throughout the organisation (particularly packaging) is not feasible currently, but we continue to strive to make Dr. Reddy's a completely paperless organisation. 8 Beyond Compliance Compliance is our cornerstone. Every employee is encouraged to be an environment custodian and strategic initiatives like Green Chemistry have been championed by individuals. Environmental Performance At Dr. Reddy's, we recognise the importance of a clean environment and it is our constant endeavour to go beyond regulatory compliance to contribute to it. This consciousness underpins our strategy and business model, which are focused not just on mitigating the environmental after-effects of business, but on containing them from the very start. Instead of adopting an 'end of pipe' solution approach, we give significant thought to the design of products, processes and plants, so that they have a sensible environmental footprint from day one. As we continually seek new and more effective ways of minimising our impact on the environment, we are acutely aware of the correlation between global warming and the incidence of infectious diseases. In FY 2009-10, our expenditure on and investment in environmental protection amounted to INR 17.02 million. As in previous years, we continued to build on our green initiatives by adopting new ones like the industry Green Rating initiative and giving traction to ongoing ones. Energy Energy Conservation SPECIFIC ENERGY USAGE Unit Sale (mn) | FY 03-04 = 100 108 Energy saved due to conservation and 100 efficiency improvements during 2009-10 94 86 Million kwh 73 69 57 In-house Energy Projects 3.35 TERI Audit Implementation 1.82 Total (in GJ: 18,622) 5.17 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 ABSOLUTE ENERGY USAGE (‘000 GJ) Energy 1,847 Composition 1,693 1,759 Direct Energy 1,346 1,251 1,060 1,132 1,020 596 Direct Energy: Indirect Energy Estimated based on fuel ‘000 GJ energy usage. 1,847 FY 2009-10 Indirect Energy: 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 From grid. 9 Water At Dr. Reddy's, we consider the judicious use of fresh water as a prime responsibility. We recognise that high-quality water is vital for consistent and top-quality production. Over the years, our water conservation initiatives have taken hold and gained ground within the organisation. The highlight of this year has been the commissioning of our second wastewater treatment facility in formulations. 'Wastewater discharged' plummeted to 3,740 m3 as compared to 37,000 m3 last year. Post commissioning of the Zero Liquid Discharge Plant (ZLDP) in FY 2008-09, the absolute water consumption at the Biologics Development Center has reduced by 50%. During FY 2009-10, 28% of our water requirement was met through recycled water. Our recycled water usage increased by 9% to 558,000 m3 in FY 2009-10, up from 510,000 m3 in FY 2008-09. Water Conservation Initiatives Installation of Initiation of Introduction of Water Modification of ETPs Online Monitoring Air Cooled Chillers Water Balancing Recycling at FTO-1 for Better Efficiency Systems for Boilers Water Consumption Trend SPECIFIC FRESH WATER USAGE ('000 m 3 / INR million sales) | FY 03-04 = 100 100 100 83 69 59 57 47 Our specific water consumption continued to demonstrate a downward trend. 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 ABSOLUTE FRESH WATER USAGE ('000 m3) 1,430 1,339 1,254 1,024 949 912 924 Due to enhanced production, our absolute water consumption rose by 7% this year. 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 10 Waste This year, the total quantity of hazardous waste disposed was 13,045 tons, a significant reduction of 37% over FY 2008-09. This decline was on account of a large proportion of hazardous waste being upcycled to cement companies as an alternative fuel. HAZARDOUS WASTE (Tons) 23,021 22,841 18,578 13,045 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (Tons) The three-year growth 18,614 18,127 in the production of 16,540 non-hazardous 9,502 waste too was arrested this year as it marked a decline of 3%. 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Solvent Management Responsible Disposal Disposal of Organic Residue At Dr. Reddy's, minimising the We take solvent disposal In the reporting year, over consumption of solvents and their seriously. This year one of our 1,700 metric ton, constituting prudent disposal is a key priority. teams travelled all the way to about 50% of the Company's We have substantially reduced Surat from Visakhapatnam, to organic residue generation, was use of Class I & II solvents. We confirm that the final usage of sent to the cement industry for are particular that any solvent we solvent disposed from our use as auxiliary fuel, and the use is benzene free and therefore facilities was indeed for balance was incinerated. we have adopted the use of productive use in textile units. solvents like 'Hexane'. 11 Emissions At Dr. Reddy's, refining our processes to minimise the impact on the environment ranks high on our list of priorities. Our efforts are focused on being more eco-efficient and reducing our existing carbon footprint. SPECIFIC GHG EMISSIONS Unit Sale (mn) FY 07-08 = 100 ABSOLUTE GHG EMISSIONS '000 MT CO2 e 100 278 95 95 250 213 75 192 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 The increase in absolute GHG emissions for FY 2009-10 was on account of the expansion of our FTO 3 and FTO 6 units. The increased fuel usage due to power outages also contributed to the rise in emissions. The silver lining to the emission cloud was that the rate of increase has come down from 17% last year to 11% this year. Green Chemistry We are spearheading the uptake of Green Chemistry not just within the Company, but also within Dr. Reddy’s is the the Indian pharmaceutical industry. To entrench this concept within Dr. Reddy’s and to give it an world’s first generic industry-wide impetus in India, we have joined the Pharmaceutical Roundtable, a partnership pharmaceutical between American Chemical Society (ACS) Green Chemistry Institute® and global pharmaceutical company to become companies. The roundtable was founded in 2005 to promote innovation while catalysing the a member of integration of green chemistry and green engineering in the pharmaceutical industry. ACS – GCI. Our approach to green chemistry follows a four step process: 1 Selection of the Right Route 2 Screening of Reaction 3 Optimisation of Process 4 Efficient Scale-up Follow a process efficiency Decide the best solvent, Achieve a minimum Currently the pharmaceutical matrix that allows us to the best catalyst and the 90% yield. industry produces 50 kg of waste zero in on the right atom best reagents for the for one kilogram of product. efficiency by comparing reaction. It also includes At Dr. Reddy's, we are in the process various factors such as the optimising the reaction of setting an industry benchmark of right yield, maximum cost temperature. cutting the wastage down to 20-25 kg benefit and the amount of per kilogram of product. solvent and water being used or wasted. Green Chemistry is an organisational initiative of Dr. Reddy's and a Centre of Excellence has been set up at our IPDO to steer this initiative. Generic pharmaceutical companies such as Dr. Reddy's in collaboration with the scientific community such as GCI have the potential to provide critical leadership in engaging and educating the future generation of scientists for a sustainable planet. 12 Beyond By embracing the QbD approach, migrating from batch processes to continuous process, enhancing automation and implementing proactive pharmacovigilance practices we are integrating quality, safety and environmental care in each of our product. Product Responsibility We are committed to ensure that the drugs we develop, manufacture and market are safe, effective, meet the required quality norms and are accessible and affordable to the largest possible section of society. We comply with some of the most stringent regulations and standards in the industry; and do so consistently. We take care that our production line is imbued with quality, integrity and a sense of ownership, at all times. Quality Management When it comes to quality, we pursue an integrated systems approach. Our commitment to quality permeates our processes, our people and our products. We meticulously adhere to quality systems and parameters as specified by regulatory requirements in each of the geographies in which we operate. To ensure a continuous stream of improvement, we have introduced processes such as: Corrective and Preventive Action The objective is to optimise business performance by identifying a problem, addressing it and chalking out an action plan to ensure zero error repetition. Critical Process and CPK Reviews The process capability index (CPK), also known as the process capability ratio, is a statistical measure of MONITOR process capability or the ability of a process to produce output within specification limits. This statistical measure was implemented this year and we expect data to start flowing in next year. TIME QUALITY ANALYSE Quality by Design In order to advance product and process quality and as a vehicle to transform how we discover, develop, and commercially manufacture drugs, we have adopted the Quality by Design (QbD) IMPROVE approach. A successor to the Quality by Inspection approach, QbD is an approach wherein quality is achieved through understanding of the product and process by which it is developed and manufactured along with a knowledge of the risks involved in manufacturing the product and how best to mitigate those risks. 13 Migration from Batch to Continuous Process At Dr. Reddy's, we are migrating from batch processes to continuous process. This will lead to enormous energy savings and waste reduction. Automation We have undertaken a massive automation drive with the objective of enhancing quality, reliability and consistency. As a result of using automation and new technologically advanced machines that minimise the dependence on human inspection, the instances of defects have been, by and large, eradicated. Material Sourcing Quality Assurance Group The Material Sourcing Quality Assurance Group (MSQA) successfully implements Dr. Reddy's quality and regulatory initiatives at strategic business partner sites. Through the model of contract manufacturing and strategic sourcing, MSQA works for the continuous development of selected partners. Quality Assurance Development Quality Quality Assurance We achieve quality assurance through a two-tiered approach: Assurance (DQA) R&D (QA) Commercial Regulatory Compliance Our compliance levels have increased significantly and so has our proactive engagement with the regulatory bodies. In the pharmaceutical sector, the demands of compliance are very high. Our constant effort is to eliminate irrational processes and, through training and leadership, instill sustainable processes into the psyche of every individual within our sphere of operation. Our regulation and compliance department makes periodic visits to the offices of the regulator and actively engages with them in order to seek their advice on major issues relevant to Dr. Reddy's and the impact of imminent regulations. This enhanced engagement has also helped us understand how the regulators interpret compliance criteria and has thereby helped us contain the risk of misinterpretation. Based on this knowledge we have recalibrated our systems and processes. To comply with global regulatory requirements that ensure product quality and safety requirements as laid down by key governing bodies, namely FDA and MHRA, we follow the ICHQ7 guidance document for API, 21CFRPart 210 and 211 for Formulations, applicable European regulations and Indian Drugs and Cosmetic rules. Apart from regulatory audits, customers too conduct audits across our units. During these audits, we receive valuable feedback and we work towards refining our quality system based on this feedback. 14 Pharmacovigilance Patient care is of utmost importance. This is the core principle of duty of the healthcare sector and we never compromise on patient safety. As a consequence of this key concern, the Pharmacovigilance (PV) and Clinical Strategy Group have been increasing both in size and knowledge at Dr. Reddy's. The PV team now intervenes at an early stage, rather than acting as a watchdog. It is an integral part of the strategy team that decides on product development. It facilitates informed decisions by bringing to the table the merits and demerits of a given drug. As a result, our processes have become more robust and key decisions have become more and more dependent on PV. This strategic role of the PV team will develop even further in the coming years. Addressing Counterfeit Drugs The problem of counterfeit drugs is known to exist in both developed and developing countries. We have instituted a number of systems and initiatives, to prevent counterfeiting of our products. These include: Use of a specific sequence for batch Use of hologram numbering, manufacturing and expiry date stickers Employment of specialised printing techniques Implementation to safeguard products from cheap counterfeits of a coin reactive zone Looking Ahead The Generics market looks promising in the near future with a number of molecules going off patent in the next couple of years. Through widespread implementation of robust systems and processes like QbD, we aim to synergise product quality, safety and compliance as we continue to pursue our goal to attain first-mover advantage. We expect Biosimilars to hold center-stage in the coming years and our expertise in pharmacovigilance will be put to test. We are determined to restrict the proliferation of counterfeit medicines and will continue to invest in innovative packaging techniques. 15 Beyond Hierarchy Regardless of age, gender, rank and status each employee at Dr. Reddy’s has a voice which is heard and is empowered to take healthy risks and grow not just as a professional but also as an individual. Talent Management Our total workforce crossed the 13,450 At Dr. Reddy's, the 'One Team' concept is long prescribed in our work culture and is an active mark, including 2,600 ingredient of our talent management formula. By going beyond hierarchy, we are building bonds with employees based at each of our employees right from the management board to the machine operator. Together they are challenging the status quo, raising the bar and performing beyond potential. locations outside India. TALENT SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS 192 employees were encouraged to pursue a Master's Degree in disciplines such as Management, Pharmaceutics and Pharmaceutical Chemistry. 1 A series of leadership training 3,200 trainees were offered initiatives were conducted for a 8 2 induction training that focused on stream of employees across senior, work ethics, skills and corporate middle and junior management. culture, among others. A total of 6,568 man days Technical and behavioural of training was provided. 7 3 training was conducted for 2,280 employees. During the year, around 4,100 Various recreational programmes new employees were hired, 6 4 were conducted for our employees including replacements. across our locations. 5 Nominations for promotion to and within Senior Management were taken through the Talent Management Board (TMB) process for the first time on a pilot basis. 16 Beyond Work A monthly employee engagement event called 'Color Club' was celebrated across PSAIs. The event drew enthusiastic participation from staff and workmen alike. The event included welcoming new recruits, birthday felicitations and other games. 3rd Leadership Summit This year, the third successful leadership summit was hosted in Boston with a focus on 'Building Towering Competence in Product Development'. Flagged-off in 2008, the annual leadership summit, is an event personally anchored by our CEO and COO. Employees' Suggestion Platforms An employee involvement initiative, 'Simplify' provides our employees the platform to give suggestions on process improvements. Valid suggestions are not only recognised by the Plant Head, but also get implemented by the concerned Head of Department. Self Managed Teams We are the first pharmaceutical company in India to implement the Self Managed Teams (SMTs) initiative. What makes the SMT unique is that it has no hierarchies, and it encourages employees to feel responsible, become accountable and believe that they are significant contributors to the entire operation. This initiative undertaken at our Baddi and Yanam plants has proved effective and successful. Diversity Management At Dr. Reddy's, diversity is celebrated in culture, age, gender, caste, religion, language and ethnicity. We continuously enhance the diversity of our workforce by amplifying our global talent pool, At Dr. Reddy's, we inducting young and fresh talent, employing differently-abled individuals, and increasing the ratio of female employees. encourage diversity in thinking, and Globally, our employees hail from 25 nations. This diversity is also reflected at the highest level, where commonality in 30% members of our Board of Directors are foreign nationals and 10% members are women. execution. GENDER DIVERSITY Employee Strength * Employee Turnover Diversity for us is the 866 129 interplay of different Female Female modes of thinking that broadens the 9,005 1,210 Male Male length and breadth of imagination, innovation, ideas * break up of India-based employees (excludes Aurigene) and creativity. 17 Safe & Healthy Workplace At Dr. Reddy's, our constant pursuit is to provide a positive, secure and healthy work environment wherein employees can work undisturbed with passion and commitment. We are aware that the impact of our safety and health practices transcends our immediate workforce and affects their family, dependents and society at large. One of our key priorities is to oversee that our employees and contractors are shielded not only from physical injuries, but also from exposure to occupational health hazards such as chemicals, noise, heat, To ensure proper radiation and vibration. health, safety and In the reporting year, a methodical tracking of leading indicators continued in the health and safety workplace rights we arena. SHE personnel safety rounds, statutory inspections, safety awareness, audits, safety meetings, have adopted a to name a few. This year, we also initiated workplace monitoring and our Personal Protective proactive approach to Equipment (PPE) usage compliance increased to 70%. workplace compliance. Furthermore, in the reporting year, various other monitoring tools were implemented to reinforce We conform to an OHS. We continued to focus on building capabilities which can effectively handle emergencies. 33 array of laws and mock drills, 54 fire drills and 23 first-aid training programmes were conducted. As on 31st March regulations. 2010, 835 trained first aiders and 1,315 trained fire fighters stand vigil at various locations. Work-life Balance We acknowledge the role of individuals beyond their professional lives. Hence, we stress on striking a healthy work-life balance that goes beyond just stress management at work. By allowing flexibility in work, conducting rejuvenation programmes and availing of a host of leave benefits as well as tangible and intangible incentives, we ensure that our employees lead a balanced, stress-free and fulfilling life. In FY 2009-10, we introduced several new policies such as flexible work timings, sabbatical leave, part-time work, paternity & maternity leave as well as leave for those adopting a child. For the ease of our employees, we provide them with laptops on weekends. This enables them to work from home and cut commuting time. Employees are provided with free medical check-ups as well as medical insurance. They also have access to over 3,500 network hospitals and nursing homes across India. Beyond employee healthcare, we also extend medical support to employees' parents. In fact, 65% to 70% of our spend on medical insurance accounts for our employees' parents. Our health check-up facility is also available to the family at discounted rates. 18 Beyond Philanthropy We empower doctors by enhancing the medical knowledge of their assistants through Sarathi, a comprehensive training program. The initiative complements doctors’ efforts in offering better patient care. Social Performance Social responsibility at Dr. Reddy's transcends cheque-book charity. It is about enhancing healthcare, imparting education, developing skills, providing opportunities, and unlocking the doors of progress. Our focus has primarily been on three life-altering areas Patient Care Education Livelihood OUR APPROACH TO COMMUNITY CARE We inject business efficiency into community care and invest professional resources, talent and technical expertise in it. We approach community interventions as we do successful product launches. We research community needs, develop and pilot new projects, scale them up, and once proven, collaborate with the government and various Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) to roll them out. OUR TWO-TIER ENGAGEMENT MODEL We engage with the community at two levels, one being in and around our campuses with the active involvement of our employees and the other wherein we lend support to Non-Profit Organisations such as Dr. Reddy's Foundation (DRF) and the Centre for Social Initiative and Management (CSIM). Across our Campuses, Around the World INDIA Our pan-India presence offers us the perfect opportunity to usher in relevant change, with our initiatives. PATIENT CARE INITIATIVES Through Sparsh, we ensure that the underprivileged patients identified by Oncologists are treated free of cost. Since its inception in 2006 to 31st March, 2010, Sparsh has benefited 4,250 patients, providing 3,500 treatment cycles. Reditux alone has been made available to more than 1,000 patients. Support has been extended to the tune of INR 240 million @ PTS Value in FY 2009-10. Health Camps At our health camps, we not only offer treatment and medicines free of cost, but also create health and hygiene awareness, especially among children and the rural population. In the reporting year, six camps were conducted by Dr. Reddy's. Volunteers also donated 656 units of blood. 19 EDUCATIONAL INITIATIVES Power of 10™ Every month, our employees contribute INR 10 or multiples of 10 to Naandi Foundation, a Non-Profit Organisation (NPO), which provides health and education facilities through various programmes. To encourage this culture of giving which has been espoused by our employees, Dr. Reddy's too makes a contribution to the Power of 10™ that matches employee contribution. During the year, Dr. Reddy's employees together contributed over INR 2,440,000. Operational Support We identify infrastructure and operational gaps and plug them. We discovered that the student dropout rate in Andhra Pradesh was on the rise in some schools. This was due to a haphazard mid-day meal service owing to lack of utensils. We supplied stainless steel plates, glasses and other utensils to schools and thereby facilitated the effective implementation of the Government's mid-day meal scheme. DISASTER RELIEF Dr. Reddy's played an active part in providing relief to the flood victims of Andhra Pradesh, India. Health camps were organised to provide immediate health services to the needy. We also made available free treatment, essential medicines and technical advisers, whereas DRF carried out community mobilisation and camp management activities. In a week-long operation from 13th to 19th October 2009, close to 5,800 patients from over 30,000 families were treated in 38 villages and 21 urban slums. The Company also made a contribution of INR 10 million to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund and employees based in India contributed a day's basic salary towards the cause. AROUND THE WORLD Our commitment to care for community transcends boundaries. We believe that it is our duty to go beyond just setting up economic engines in the regions in which we operate. It is our goal to integrate with the community and establish social transformation engines. We keenly observe a nation's social fabric and leverage our core competencies to accelerate change and make a difference. Germany Through betainstitut supported by betapharm, Dr. Reddy's German subsidiary conducts a range of programmes which serve children, cancer and stroke patients, doctors and healthcare workers. Romania Similar in concept to the 'Power of 10™', 'Power of 20™' is also an employee giving programme. Employees contribute an amount in multiples of INR 20 from their salary to support 'Young People in Transition', a project aimed at preventing the street children phenomenon, and assisting youngsters brought up in foster care. North America The North American operations of Dr. Reddy's recently launched a community service programme that encourages employee volunteering at all levels. The NA Generics IT and HR teams have initiated two inspiring projects as part of the programme. The IT team donated computers to the Pilgrim's Inn located in Rock Hill, South Carolina. The HR team hosted free nutritious meals for the needy through Elijah's Promise Soup Kitchen in New Brunswick, NJ. UK • Dr. Reddy's UK has a continuing relationship with IHP (International Health Partners) and has been providing medicines for 'Doctor Packs' since 2006. Each pack contains more than 50 essential medicines, and can be used during natural calamities and medical emergencies across the globe. • A portion of the land at Dr. Reddy's Mirfield plant, UK, has been allotted to a local charity organisation, which provides recreational facilities to disabled children. 20 Dr. Reddy's Foundation (DRF) Set up in 1996, Dr. Reddy's Foundation is a social arm of Dr. Reddy's Laboratories. DRF plays the role of a catalyst in bridging the gap between potential and opportunity through consistent and innovative interventions broadly divided into two sectors: Livelihoods and Education LIVELIHOODS DRF's livelihood programmes continued to gain traction with higher enrolment, new curriculum and more corporate partnerships. ONGOING PROGRAMMES Livelihood Advancement Business School, an ongoing programme of DRF, L A B S that empowers minimally skilled youth to gain a foothold in the competitive The Livelihood Advancement Till date the impact of Business School job market, has till date trained more than 200,000 youth. LABS has touched more In FY 2009-2010, a total of 20,820 livelihoods were generated through various corporate and than 200,000 youth. government partnerships. A total income of over INR 611 million was generated. Skilling Rural India (SRI) A programme under the Rural Livelihoods Initiative, Skilling Rural India (SRI) aims to promote skill development among rural youth to gain employment in the growing economies of small towns in India. Spurred by the success of its pilot project, DRF has entered into collaborative projects with other corporate organisations to scale up the SRI programme. The programme now works towards training and placing more than 1,000 youth from the communities in the vicinity of the plants and mines of the partner corporate organisation. DRF has also tied up with Government of Andhra Pradesh to train 1,100 youth from some of the most impoverished villages of Andhra Pradesh. New Programme Launches Programme for MoU with NASSCOM Programme for Prisoners Foundation Home Managers To enhance the employability DRF signed an MoU with A comprehensive 30-day of convicts and help them NASSCOM Foundation and module covering life skills, reintegrate into society after Accenture to train housekeeping, first aid, their release, DRF launched NASSCOM Knowledge cooking, child and elderly the 'Prisoners Programme' Network Partners and care along with practical which provides technical associated NGOs who work training was provided to skills in two domains in similar areas of operations 32 unemployed girls and automobile mechanism and to support these teams in women to help refrigeration and air terms of process, curriculum them become conditioning. A three-month and content, life skills and home managers. programme was conducted other operational issues. in Charlapally Jail in Hyderabad for 50 prisoners. EDUCATION Over the years, DRF has instituted various education programmes that cater to demographically diverse groups of society. During the reporting period, most of the initiatives gained impetus and broadened their footprint by inducting more students and enhancing their reach through the establishment of additional centres. A snapshot of such initiatives include: • Six new Yuva Youth Learning Centres were established with four teachers in each centre. • 17 non-residential bridge centres, with a total strength of 38 teachers, provided education to 575 students. Another 360 students were taught by 20 teachers at four residential bridge centres. • Four Pudami Neighbourhood Schools set up in Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy districts imparted education to a combined strength of over 1,400 children drawn from all sections of the society. 21 • 29 Pudami English Primaries (nursery to class five) in Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy districts in Andhra Pradesh served a combined strength of 4,700 students (2,491 pre-primary and 2,209 primary) through 238 teachers. • The Kallam Anji Reddy Vidyalaya at Hyderabad provides education to about 1,200 students in both English and Telugu. • Kallam Anji Reddy Vocational Junior College at Hyderabad offered intermediate level two-year vocational courses to 450 students in five diverse disciplines like automobile technology, computer graphics and animation, etc. • 10 Early Childhood Care & Education (ECCE) centres funded by World Bank and 20 ECCE centres supported by Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), a Government of India initiative, helped 1,340 children with the assistance of 15 teachers and 10 assistant teachers. • Bridge School at Juvenile Home For Girls got inaugurated in January 2010, at Nimboliadda, Hyderabad. The school campus houses close to 84 girls. Dr. Reddy's Foundation for Health Education (DRFHE) DRFHE programmes aim to equip medical support professionals with the necessary capabilities and soft skills to strengthen the healthcare delivery system for better patient care. Education Initiatives Post Graduate Diploma in Certificate Programme in Healthcare Management (PGDHM) Cancer Counseling The seventh batch of Post Graduate Diploma 15 candidates were trained in three in Healthcare Management (PGDHM) programmes in Cancer counselling and were commenced in July 2009 with 16 students. placed as 'Case Managers' under leading Oncologists across India. Training Initiatives Abhilasha Sarathi 148 programmes were conducted benefiting 60 programmes were conducted to train 3,800 nurses. 1,474 doctor's assistants. Inner Circle Sanjeevani 53 programmes were conducted in 42 programmes were conducted benefiting FY 2009-10, benefiting 1,809 doctors. 672 pharmacists. Patient Initiatives Living Well DRF-LABS In partnership with the Art of Living , this DRFHE has also collaborated with DRF-LABS programme, aims to help people reduce risk programme to provide livelihood to one factors and increase their resistance levels member of a family where the earning member through awareness and lifestyle modification. has been a victim of cancer. During the year, Seven programmes were conducted during in addition to Hyderabad, this service was also FY 2009-10, and benefitted 70 patients. launched in Bengaluru, Mumbai, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Kolkata, Cochin and Coimbatore, benefiting 2,048 cancer patients. Life At Your Doorstep (LAYD) Based on the 'Home Care' aspect of Palliative Care, this initiative aims to improve the quality of life for terminally ill patients by providing access to physical, psychological, emotional, social and spiritual support in an appropriate manner. A well-equipped medical van with a team consisting of a doctor, a nurse and a patient counselor goes to the patient's doorstep to provide home-care service. 22 Empowerment beyond employment Mentoring beyond preaching Commitment beyond compliance Well-being beyond philanthropy Best practices beyond old habits Invention beyond convention Listening beyond hearing Excellence beyond competition Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. Greenlands, Ameerpet, Hyderabad 500 016, India. www.drreddys.com To view the complete report, please visit: cognito www.drreddys.com/sustainability
