Communication on Progress Year: 2010 P 1/9 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The UN Global Compact is a premeditated policy initiative for business that is committed to aligning their operation strategies with ten entirely accepted principles in the areas of human rights, international labour standards, environment and prevention of corruption. We have been a proud signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2008 and joined so that we may establish more global contacts and share best practices, both of which will help us continue to improve sustainability performance. The mining and minerals industry is one in which there are real discrepancies between wealth creation for the few, and environmental and social costs for the many. Our sustainability report for 2010 is once again a catalogue of attainments that demonstrate how our commitment to sustainable development adds value to our organisation and represent the foundation for sustainable business practice. Social responsibility is something we seek to embed in all our activities, regardless of how tough the competition gets. In line with this we have updated our Code of Conduct. Our new Code of Conduct addresses many of the issues we may face in our everyday tasks, ensuring our behaviour always lives up to the highest ethical standards. We are also is a proud owner of the ISO 9001:2008 certificate since 14/05/2010. The Company’s operations are guided by the concepts of responsible environmental management, proactive community relations, health and safety for employees and their dependents, as well as respect for the needs of the present and future generations. We look forward to a wealthy and sustainable future Zurab Kervalishvili General Director “Quartzite” Ltd. March 2011 Contact: Mariam Tabagari, Quality Management Specialist Email: tabagarim@quartzite.ge Phone: 995 32 474343 Fax: 995 32 474447 P 2/9 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS “Quartzite” Ltd gold mine was founded in 1994.The mine site is located in Kvemo Kartli region of Southern Georgia, on the foothill area between Kazreti and Zemo Bolnisi. Bolnisi region is distinguished for its diversity and riches of mineral recourses. The massive sulfide deposits are the part of Eastern Europe Alpine Fold and serve as major suppliers of copper, lead, zinc, gold and silver around the world. Technology Heap Leach method used in the Company implies the application of weak cyanide solution onto a heap of crushed ore within a totally closed production cycle. This is the most cost efficient and environmentally acceptable means of precious metal extraction technique recognized worldwide. The theoretical method of gold extraction from ore by cyanidation was first suggested by a Georgian engineer and scientist Petre Bagrationi, in 1843. Production Capability Extraction of precious metals involves geodesic, mining, metallurgical, mechanical, technical and other types of works carried out through a continuous 24 hour cycle. The increase of production efficiency is achieved through highly qualified personnel, modern equipment and appropriate infrastructure. Production capacity of the Company has reached 3,200,000 tons of processed ore per annum up to date (75% increase) by implementing of new technologies. At present “Quartzite” Ltd has 461 employees, its top and middle level management accounts for 12% and 88% is staffed by low level personnel. It should be mentioned herein that 90% of employees are locals. With the aim of prompt implementation of the latest scientific, technical and economic ideas in the production, the Company is planning to introduce continuous staff re-training and qualification improvement schemes. Deep knowledge of ore mining and processing and considerable practical experience enabled us to carry out research into the production process and its documentation corresponding to the worldly recognized normative requirements, which proves that the management capacity system of the Company has been built in accordance with ISO standards. Company owns ISO 9001:2008 certificate since 14/05/2010. P 3/9 Environmental Policy The Company has put Environmental Management System and Industrial Safety modern standards to operation. Easily proliferating trees and herbs have been planted to restore the ground vegetation. The engineering solution, construction and operation of “Quartzite” Ltd Heap Leach Production Process meet the worldly acknowledged standards of mining operations. The Company actively participates in the improvement of its employees’ social conditions, providing appropriate work environment and other types of assistance. “Quartzite” Ltd employees enjoy pension and medical insurance schemes. The employees are provided with medical services and medication available on the territory of the mine. Production Efficiency and Charity The increased level of production efficiency provides the grounds for the company’s active participation in the growth of Georgian economy: the export share of “Quartzite” Ltd makes up 10% of the total export of the country and it has made over 100,000,000 GEL contributions to the state budget so far. The Company is actively involved in charitable activities. The most part of projects funded by “GeoProMining” group falls on “Quartzite” Ltd account. Over the past three years the company has sponsored about 30 projects with the total contribution of more than 2,000,000 GEL. Strategy and Future Plans Company’s Leadership Team realizes that to be truly effective, its governance practices and ethical conduct must be embedded in the everyday culture and operations of the Company. “Quartzite” Ltd is committed to the highest standards in all aspects of its business. The Company expects its directors, managers and employees to comply in every respect with all applicable laws and regulations and to conduct the Company’s business in a way that protects and promotes our valuable reputation. This always has been a cornerstone of Company’s business philosophy. P 4/9 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES ACTION TAKEN & IMPACT ACHIEVED and/or Plans for the upcoming Year “Quartzite” Ltd. during the certain period has continued its sustenance for human rights respect performed in the organisation. Human rights are respected wherever we operate, and complied with local laws and our own corporate policy. Company human rights policy is a vital part of maintaining positive maintaining positive relationships with our communities and others, which in turn is essential in preserving our licence to operate. We train our employees to be aware of what the company expects of them regarding the rights of our people and the communities in and around our operations. Employees must comply with our commitments, which are set out in our statement of business principles. Company human rights policy determines how we are expected to respect human rights, and how we would respond if there was a breach of those rights. We build on compliance with local laws and where our policy and procedures are more stringent, we operate to these standards. We developed a code of conduct which has been signed by all our members. We use the concept of peer review to ensure that all our members respect the rights of other people. We permanently complete a comprehensive Internal Controls Questionnaire in accordance of ISO 9001:2008 requirements to demonstrate our compliance in the area of human rights. With the aim of prompt implementation of the latest scientific, technical and economic ideas in the production, the Company implemented continuous staff re-training and qualification improvement schemes. There are no records of human rights abuse against the Company. P 5/9 LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION ACTION TAKEN & IMPACT ACHIEVED and/or Plans for the upcoming Year “Quartzite” ‘s shared values and ethical principles dictates that all interaction between Company and its employees, as well as interaction between employees, must be characterized by integrity, trust and mutual respect. Company regularly conducts anonymous people commitment surveys to lend a voice to employees through which to communicate with leadership. Results are collected and analyzed in each department, and problems are addressed in a constructive manner. In addition, as part of the implementation of “Quartzite” ‘s Ethical Principles management has put procedures in place to address employee grievances. “Quartzite” ‘s ethical principles also include non-discrimination and inclusion as an integral part of the way the organization works. While Company is united by this vision of inclusion, employees respectfully recognizes that implementation of related programs will be shaped by local and national cultures. Where appropriate, employees also address non-discrimination and inclusion in the community. “Quartzite” ‘s Excellence Model helps to guide employees so that professional performance and promotions are managed in a fair and transparent manner. Ongoing training and education also helps professionals develop the skills necessary to work cross-culturally The Company commits to developing motivated, competent and experienced teams of employees through appropriate recruitment, retention and development initiatives. An emphasis is placed on the identification of potential talent, mentoring and personal development planning. Each employee (including contractors) is held accountable for ensuring that those employees, equipment, facilities and resources within his or her area of responsibility are managed to comply with the Company Labor policy and to minimise environmental risk. The Company is actively involved in charitable activities and has contributed monetary support to orphans and low income people support foundations. P 6/9 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES ACTION TAKEN & IMPACT ACHIEVED and/or Plans for the upcoming Year The potentially most significant environmental issue associated with the “Quartzite” heap leach operation is a major chemical spill resulting in an emergency or crisis situation due to the potential environmental degradation that might result. The Emergency Response Plan is the umbrella document which documents the way “Quartzite” would react to any crisis event. A chemical spill is one particular crisis event. The company ensures that environmental guidelines and procedures are periodically reviewed to ensure that they remain current and effective. The HSE Coordinator has the sole authority to issue new, or amends existing, guidelines and procedures. The HSE Coordinator has primary responsibility for tracking regulations and international standards, as well as the identification and monitoring of environmental permission requirements, issued by regulators. The HSE Coordinator, with assistance of senior management, are responsible for identifying environmental monitoring and to develop comprehensive, documented guidelines and/or procedures to implement these requirements. These guidelines and procedures are reviewed and updated at least annually or when operations and/or external circumstances change significantly. Similarly, HSE Coordinator is responsible for reviewing company’s regulatory commitments, which are then disseminated to management who ensure physical and/or management controls are implemented to ensure compliance. Similarly employees and contractors permanently attend departmental safety meetings as well as tool box meetings for individual crews. P 7/9 ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY ACTION TAKEN & IMPACT ACHIEVED and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Company’s Code of Business Conduct is an example of our absolute commitment to honesty, transparency and the highest standard of ethical behaviour. The “Quartzite” complies with all the laws of Georgia. We treat all employees and stakeholders fairly, honestly, and with respect. We also promote the diversity of company work force, deal fairly with our publics and avoid conflicts of interest, keep accurate records, provide accurate disclosures to regulators. P 8/9 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? The COP will be posted on the Company’s website. Any feedback from “Quartzite” Ltd stakeholders is appreciated trough an e-mail and personal conversation. P 9/9
