Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – Next › Our future Sustainability Report 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › BHP Billiton locations Petroleum Aluminium Ref Country Fields Description Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 1 Algeria Ohanet Joint operator with Sonatrach 45% 14 Australia Aluminium A joint venture where we operate 86% for onshore wet gas production (a) Australia the Worsley alumina refinery 2 Algeria ROD Integrated Onshore oil production (a) 38% and Boddington bauxite mine Development in Western Australia 3 Australia Bass Strait Offshore Victoria oil, condensate, LPG, 50% 15 Brazil Alumar Integrated alumina refinery and 36–40% natural gas and ethane production (a) aluminium smelter (a) 4 Australia Minerva Operator of offshore Victoria 90% 16 Brazil Mineração An open-cut bauxite mine (a) 14.8% natural gas production Rio do Norte 5 Australia North West Offshore Western Australia oil, 8.3–16.7% 17 Mozambique Aluminium A joint venture where we operate 47.1% Shelf condensate, LPG, natural gas and Mozambique the aluminium smelter (Mozal), LNG production (a) located near Maputo 6 Australia Pyrenees Operator of offshore 40–71.4% 18 South Africa Aluminium Hillside and Bayside aluminium 100% Western Australia oil production South Africa smelters, located in Richards Bay 7 Australia Stybarrow Operator of offshore 50% Western Australia oil production Base Metals 8 Pakistan Zamzama Operator of onshore natural 38.5% gas production Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 9 Trinidad Angostura Operator of offshore oil and 45% 19 Australia Cannington Underground silver, lead 100% and Tobago natural gas production and zinc mine, located in 10 UK Bruce/Keith Offshore North Sea oil and Bruce – 16% northwest Queensland natural gas production (a) Keith – 31.8% 20 Chile Pampa Norte Cerro Colorado and Spence open-cut 100% 11 UK Liverpool Bay Operator of offshore Irish Sea oil 46.1% mines producing copper cathode in the and natural gas production Atacama Desert, northern Chile 12 US Fayetteville Operator of onshore natural .03–100% 21 Chile Escondida Comprises the world’s largest copper 57.5% gas production mine, concentrators and solvent extraction plants and port operations 13 US Gulf of Mexico Offshore oil, LPG and natural gas production from several fields 22 Peru Antamina A joint venture open-cut copper 33.8% • Shenzi 44% • Atlantis 44% (a) and zinc mine, located in the Andes (a) • Neptune 35% • Mad Dog 23.9% (a) north-central Peru • Starlifter 31% • Genesis 5% (a) 23 US Base Metals Includes the Pinto Valley open-cut 100% • West Cameron 33.8% North America copper mine, located in Arizona (a) Jointly or non-operated BHP Billiton Assets or Fields (monitored assets). (b) Uranium forms part of the Base Metals Customer Sector Group. Percentage ownership figures have been rounded to one decimal place. 25 BHP Billiton office locations Ref Country Office Location Business Area 40 Australia Adelaide Uranium Head Office 48 Marketing Office 41 Australia Brisbane Metallurgical Coal Head Office Marketing Office 49 Project Hub 42 Australia Melbourne Global Headquarters 66 Marketing Office 12 43 Australia Newcastle Marketing Office 39 64 44 Australia Perth Iron Ore Head Office 23 65 Stainless Steel Materials Head Office Marketing Office Minerals Exploration Office 13 Project Hub 45 Australia Sydney Energy Coal Head Office 46 Belgium Antwerp Marketing Office 47 Brazil Rio de Janeiro Marketing Office 9 48 Canada Saskatoon Diamonds and Specialty Products Head Office 49 Canada Toronto Project Hub 37 28 50 Chile Santiago Base Metals Head Office Marketing Office Minerals Exploration Office Project Hub 16 15 51 China Shanghai Marketing Office 22 52 India New Delhi Marketing Office 53 Japan Tokyo Marketing Office 54 Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Global Shared Services Centre 20 30 55 Netherlands The Hague Marketing Office 47 56 Pakistan Islamabad Marketing Office 21 57 Russia Moscow Representative Office 58 Singapore Singapore Corporate Centre Marketing Head Office Minerals Exploration Head Office 59 South Africa Johannesburg Manganese Head Office 50 Marketing Office Minerals Exploration Office 60 South Africa Richards Bay Marketing Office 61 South Korea Seoul Marketing Office 62 Switzerland Baar Marketing Office 63 UK London Aluminium Head Office Corporate Centre 64 US Farmington Marketing Office 65 US Houston Petroleum Head Office Marketing Office Project Hub 66 US Pittsburgh Marketing Office Projects and exploration activities are not shown on this map. Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Uranium (b) Manganese Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 24 Australia Olympic Large poly-metallic orebody and the world’s 100% 31 Australia Manganese Producer of manganese ore in the Northern 60% Dam largest uranium deposit, producing copper, Australia Territory (GEMCO) and manganese alloys in uranium, gold and silver Tasmania (TEMCO) 32 South Africa Manganese Mamatwan open-cut and Wessels 44.4–60% South Africa underground manganese mines and Diamonds and Specialty Products the Metalloys manganese alloy plant Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 25 Canada EKATI Open-cut and underground diamond 80% Metallurgical Coal Diamond mines, located in the Northwest Territories Mine of Canada Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 26 South Africa Richards Bay Integrated titanium smelter and mineral 37.8% 33 Australia Illawarra Underground coal mines (West Cliff, Dendrobium, 100% Minerals sands mining operation (a) Coal Appin) in southern NSW, with access to rail and port facilities 34 Australia BHP Billiton Saraji, Goonyella Riverside, Peak Downs, 50% Stainless Steel Materials Mitsubishi Norwich Park, Gregory Crinum, Blackwater Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Alliance and Broadmeadow open-cut and underground mines in the Queensland Bowen Basin and 27 Australia Nickel Mt Keith and Leinster nickel-sulphide 100% Hay Point Coal Terminal West mines, Kalgoorlie nickel smelter, Kambalda nickel concentrator and 35 Australia BHP Billiton South Walker Creek and Poitrel open-cut coal 80% the Kwinana nickel refinery Mitsui Coal mines in the Queensland Bowen Basin 28 Colombia Cerro Integrated laterite ferronickel mining and 99.9% Matoso smelting operation in northern Colombia Energy Coal Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Iron Ore 36 Australia NSW Mt Arthur open-cut coal mine 100% Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Energy Coal 29 Australia Western Integrated iron ore mines (Area C, Jimblebar, 85–100% 37 Colombia Cerrejón An open-cut coal mine, with integrated rail 33.3% Australia Yandi, Newman and Yarrie), and rail and and port operations (a) Iron Ore port operations in the Pilbara region of 38 South Africa Energy Coal Khutala, Middelburg, Klipspruit, Wolvekrans 50–100% Western Australia South Africa open-cut and underground mines and coal 30 Brazil Samarco Open-cut mine that produces iron ore pellets (a) 50% processing operations 39 US New Mexico Navajo open-cut and San Juan 100% Coal underground mines 10 57 11 63 55 46 62 61 53 2 56 51 1 8 52 54 58 31 5 6 19 7 29 34 35 59 38 17 41 32 18 26 27 24 36 60 44 43 14 40 45 42 33 4 3 31 Offices Iron Ore Petroleum Manganese Aluminium Metallurgical Coal Base Metals Energy Coal Diamonds and Specialty Products Uranium Stainless Steel Materials Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › About this Report BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective Materiality subsidiaries operate as BHP Billiton. Throughout this Report, Materiality, in the sustainability context, refers to the issues unless otherwise noted, ‘BHP Billiton’, the ‘Company’ and the and activities that are considered by our internal and external ‘Group’ refer to the combined group. We engage through various stakeholders to be the most significant and relevant to our means with key stakeholders; however, this Report is prepared industry, our Group and our operations. This is discussed for general readership and does not attempt to address all in more detail on page 5. stakeholder issues. See our website www bhpbilliton com Report boundary and scope for further information. This Report covers assets wholly owned and operated by BHP Billiton’s mandatory Health, Safety, Environment and BHP Billiton or operated by BHP Billiton in a joint venture Community (HSEC) performance requirements are prescribed operation (i.e. controlled assets) during the 12 months in our Group Level Documents (GLDs) and the process of to 30 June 2011. At controlled assets, BHP Billiton sets the implementing the GLDs across the Group continues. All our performance requirements and enforces those requirements businesses are committed to this implementation process; through direct supervision. At monitored assets that we do however, compliance with all the requirements is not yet not control, we provide our requirements and seek to influence in place at every operation. Our Sustainability Framework the operation to follow them. Assets include those under on page 39 provides a summary of the key performance exploration, projects in development and execution phase requirements from the HSEC GLDs. and closed operations. Group Functions are also included. Reporting approach and the GRI Case studies Our reporting is prepared in accordance with the Global This Report is supported by case studies on our website listing Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, specific activities that explore our approach to sustainable including the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. The GRI development. Where you see this symbol, , it denotes guidelines encourage companies to report on practices and more information available on our website www bhpbilliton com. performance that relate to sustainability in a manner that is clear and open and uses a globally shared framework of indicators. We report to an A+ Application Level and a copy of the GRI statement is available on page 46. The Sustainability Reporting Navigator assists in locating information related to the GRI and principles of the United Nations Global Compact and International Council on Mining and Metals and is available on our website www bhpbilliton com. Contact details – Send us your feedback External assurance Email: hsec bhpbilliton.com KPMG has conducted reasonable assurance over our greenhouse Telephone: 1300 55 47 57 (within Australia) gas emissions and limited assurance over a selection of other +61 3 9609 3333 (outside Australia) disclosures. A copy of KPMG’s assurance report is available Facsimile: +61 3 9609 3015 on page 47. Website: www bhpbilliton com In this Report Chief Executive Officer’s review 1 Making a positive contribution to society 22 Our sustainability approach 2 Reporting transparently and behaving ethically 25 Our performance 4 Effectively managing our material risks 27 Our focus areas 5 Appendix 29 Keeping our people safe and healthy 6 Our successes, challenges and commitments 30 Employing and developing our people 9 Performance data 31 Reducing our climate change impacts 12 Our Sustainability Framework 39 Managing our water use 14 GRI Application Level Check Statement 46 Enhancing biodiversity and land management 16 Independent assurance report to the Directors Ensuring meaningful engagement with our stakeholders 18 and management of BHP Billiton 47 Understanding and managing our human rights impact 21 Cover photo: The technical nature of operations such as our copper mine at Spence, Chile, requires that we develop our people to ensure they have the skills to deliver on our sustainability objectives. Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Chief Executive Officer’s review BHP Billiton is committed to operating sustainably; it is our first value. Marius Kloppers Chief Executive Officer By defining our social, environmental, ethical and economic responsibilities and opportunities, we can be accountable for delivering on our commitments. We deliver on our commitments in a manner consistent with our values, which include doing the right thing and focusing our efforts on the things that matter most. The safety and health of our people is core to every aspect of our business. Tragically, we lost two colleagues at BHP Billiton controlled operations during FY2011. We extend our sympathy to their families, friends and colleagues. We are accountable for each employee returning home safely at the end of each working day. We believe we are successful when our people start each day with a sense of purpose and end the day with a sense of accomplishment. Our focus remains on growing our business and using fewer natural resources to do so. For this we need the right people in the right jobs. Importantly, we believe a workforce that is broadly representative of the communities In FY2011, we have not met our five-year targets in relation in which we operate will position us well to meet the increasing to zero fatalities, land rehabilitation index and occupational demands for skilled staff. exposures. The total recordable injury frequency, while an improvement on last year, will need to improve significantly Respect and integrity are fundamental values at BHP Billiton to meet the five-year target of a 50 per cent reduction by and success is when our communities, customers and suppliers FY2012. We are on track to meet all other five-year targets, value their relationship with us. Only through engaging with which are due to expire next year. stakeholders and careful listening can we better understand our communities. We measure how effectively we do this through In establishing our new HSEC five-year targets, our emphasis is perception surveys. Our community development programs focus on fact-based measurement and quality data. Accountability at on improving quality of life for people in our host communities. BHP Billiton means being clear about what needs to be done to achieve our targets and a commitment to deliver. Our goals will As a globally significant producer, exporter and consumer be achievable because they are directed towards the simplicity of energy, BHP Billiton is preparing for a low carbon dioxide of understanding the core issues and getting the basics right. emissions world. We use the defined set of principles described in Our Sustainability Framework as the underlying structure Managing and eliminating the material risks that our teams for engagement with all stakeholders regarding climate change face is critical, particularly in our period of rapid growth. policy. Improving energy efficiency has an important role in Implementing and maintaining critical controls is essential any comprehensive greenhouse gas abatement strategy and to delivering a safe and healthy workplace. This includes the our businesses continue to progress energy efficiency plans. reduction and control of potential workplace occupational health exposures to ensure we eliminate long-term harm. In this Sustainability Report, we describe how we identify and prioritise our key sustainability issues and also how we manage I would like to thank all our employees and contractors for them. It is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting their ongoing commitment and their work towards achieving Initiative (GRI) framework and the Sustainable Development our sustainability objectives on behalf of BHP Billiton. Framework of the International Council on Mining and Metals. We also report our progress relative to the UN Global Compact in our Sustainability Reporting Navigator. Our public commitments also include the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. Marius Kloppers This year, we are including additional sustainability material in Chief Executive Officer our Annual Report, reflecting our commitment to transparent reporting. Our suite of annual reports can be found on our website www bhpbilliton com and we welcome your feedback. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 1 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Our sustainability approach By integrating sustainability concepts into our culture, policies and processes, we are able to make an enduring contribution to society. Engaging in conversations with key stakeholders The Forum on Corporate Responsibility meeting discussions are robust and give our Executives an insight into some of society’s current priorities and a chance to understand and debate issues from a range of viewpoints. Understanding our people and our communities A global view and local actions The most important element of sustainability in our business Our stakeholders range from local community members at our is the safety, health and wellbeing of people – the people operations to host governments, employees and contractors, working in our businesses and the people we impact in the investors, regulators, suppliers, customers and non-government communities within which we operate. As an organisation organisations (NGOs). with diverse stakeholders and a workforce of around 100,000, As a global and diverse company, we recognise that our social including contractors, we also acknowledge our capacity to responsibilities are extensive, ranging across many stakeholders, support our workforce to make a positive contribution to society. countries and issues. We seek to collaborate, share knowledge We facilitate opportunities for our employees to assist and engage on matters that may relate to our Group, where others through arrangements such as our Matched Giving appropriate. This may apply to our joint venture partners where Program, where employees’ charitable efforts, including cash, we do not have a controlling share, as well as to industry peers, fundraising and volunteer hours to not-for-profit and community governments and communities in areas where we operate. organisations, are matched with a dollar-for-dollar donation The discussion on principles of climate change policy is an by the Group. example of how we engage on issues of global significance. Our operations are required to have stakeholder engagement We focus our community development efforts in areas where management plans, in accordance with the Community Group we have a presence, as we believe this is the most effective Level Document (GLD), that include stakeholder identification way to enhance economic benefits from our operations and and analysis and a plan of consultation activities that address contribute to poverty alleviation. the specific needs of different stakeholders. The stakeholder In addition to building relationships with stakeholders locally, engagement management plans may comprise a range of engagement with civil society is highly valued by BHP Billiton engagement activities, from regular meetings of community senior management. In 1999, we established the Forum on consultative committees and special interest groups, to one-off Corporate Responsibility as a mechanism by which representatives visits to our facilities and open public meetings. Community from NGOs could discuss, challenge and actively influence the engagement activities aim to be socially inclusive by involving Group’s approach to sustainable development issues. The Forum disadvantaged and vulnerable groups. is discussed in more detail on page 19. 2 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › BHP Billiton acknowledges primary responsibility for the Our GLDs specify our Group-wide performance requirements. environmental and social issues associated with activities The GLDs are deliberately succinct, focusing strictly on critical at our controlled operations. However, we also acknowledge content. We are embedding these performance requirements that, along with others, such as our suppliers, customers and in the organisation across all CSGs. regulators, we share responsibility to ensure the safe use Applying our sustainability approach of our products across their life cycle. To this end, we have The systems that support our Sustainable Development Policy engaged in a number of product stewardship initiatives, are in line with our wider corporate governance processes. such as the Responsible Jewellery Council, Steel Stewardship The Sustainability Committee of the BHP Billiton Board continues Forum and Responsible Aluminium. For other commodities, to oversee this Policy. including uranium, copper and nickel, the stewardship programs are incorporated within established associations, such as the Management is accountable for sustainability-related processes Australian Uranium Association and World Nuclear Association. and performance. Our HSEC GLDs set mandatory performance Managing the life cycle of uranium requirements and performance controls, which are the basis for developing and implementing management systems at all Requirements for contractors, suppliers and products BHP Billiton operations. The key performance requirements are Our contractors and suppliers have requirements in their summarised in Our Sustainability Framework in the Appendix. contracts consistent with The BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct and Health, Safety, Environment and Community GLDs. We conduct regular internal audits to test compliance with the Requirements for suppliers cover a number of human rights, requirements of the GLDs. Audits are led by professional audit including labour rights, humane treatment of employees managers and supported by experienced personnel drawn from and living wage. across the organisation. Audit results are used by management to create detailed action plans where the businesses have not All contracted suppliers are segmented into global and local yet achieved full compliance with the requirements. Key findings categories, based on their sustainability risk, and a procedure to are reported to senior management and summary reports engage with each supplier is developed appropriate to this risk. are considered by the Sustainability Committee of the Board. Our sustainability governance structure Risks specific to BHP Billiton’s performance in the areas of Our approach to sustainability is reflected in Our BHP Billiton health, safety, environment and community are also overseen Charter, which defines our values, purpose and how we by the Sustainability Committee of the Board. measure success, and the BHP Billiton Sustainable Development A key element of our Sustainable Development Policy is Policy, which defines our public commitments to safety, health, to regularly review our performance and publicly report environmental and social responsibility. our progress. This Report is an example of our approach The approach is also reflected in our Operating Model, which to stakeholder engagement, accountability and transparency. articulates the relationship between the component parts The Report also serves as a public reference, providing a collation of the organisation – our Customer Sector Groups (CSGs) and of performance data and statements of key issues and related our 16 Group Functions, Minerals Exploration, Marketing – management approaches. with a premise of simplicity and accountability. BHP Billiton Sustainable Development Governance This structure provides the mechanism for employees and contractors to provide feedback and proposals to our senior management. RISK & AUDIT SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE BHP BILLITON BOARD COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF THE BOARD EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT* GROUP HSEC CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUPS (CSG) CSG HSEC REPRESENTATIVES BUSINESS LINE MANAGEMENT HSEC PERSONNEL * Authority to manage the business is delegated to the CEO. The CEO on-delegates authority to committees, including the Group Management Committee, and individuals. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 3 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Our performance The table below shows our performance for FY2011 against the FY2007 – FY2012 targets. Not achieved On track Behind schedule No change Improvement Deterioration Target* Performance Target date Zero Harm Result Trend** Commentary Zero fatalities Two fatalities at our controlled operations Annual Zero significant environmental incidents No significant environmental or community Annual and zero significant community incidents incidents reported Health All operating sites to finalise baseline health Finalised FY2010, target met 30 June 2010 exposure assessments on occupational exposure hazards for physical exposures 15% reduction in potential employee exposures Total employees† exposed 21,464 (reduction of 7.8% 30 June 2012 (but for the use of personal protective equipment) on FY2007 base year) over the occupational exposure limit 30% reduction in the incidence of occupational disease We are on track to meet the public target with 68 fewer 30 June 2012 cases than reported in FY2007 (39% reduction) Safety 50% reduction in total recordable injury The TRIF for FY2011 was 5.0 30 June 2012 frequency (TRIF) at sites (32% reduction since FY2007 base year) Environment Aggregate Group target of 6% reduction in GHG emissions intensity is 18% lower than FY2006 30 June 2012 greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production base year Aggregate Group target of a 13% reduction Energy intensity is 17% lower than FY2006 base year 30 June 2012 in carbon-based energy per unit of production Aggregate Group target of a 10% improvement Our water use index is currently tracking at 8% 30 June 2012 in the ratio of water recycled/reused to high-quality improvement on our FY2007 base year water consumed Aggregate Group target of a 10% improvement There has been a 1% improvement on the FY2007 30 June 2012 in the land rehabilitation index base year rehabilitation index Community 1% of pre-tax profits to be invested in community US$195.5 million invested in community programs, including Annual programs, including cash, in-kind support and US$30 million deposited into BHP Billiton Sustainable administration, calculated on the average Communities, our UK-based charitable company of the previous three years’ pre-tax profit * The baseline year for the target is 1 July 2006 – 30 June 2007, except for Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, where it is 1 July 2005 – 30 June 2006. ** Trend compared with previous year. † Operational assets are the only ones to provide occupational exposure data. Progress against setting new targets The current Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) five-year targets are due to expire in FY2012 and we are establishing our next five-year HSEC targets. In setting these targets, we have undertaken a comprehensive internal process to develop fact-based measurement, supported by appropriate and accurate data. The new targets will align with BHP Billiton’s five-year business planning. The targets will continue to be based around the key areas of health, safety, environment and community. To ensure delivery on these targets, we will be creating annual key performance indicators (KPIs) internally for senior Executives, including the Group Management Committee. Other key performance data – a snapshot EBIT (Underlying Greenhouse Earnings Before Lost Time Gases – Total Water Use – Occupational Average Average Interest and Tax) Injury Scope 1 & 2 High-quality Total Illnesses Employees Contractors US$M Frequency Mt CO2-e ML Number Number Number FY2011 31,980 1.1 40.8 152,000 148 40,757 64,548 More detail on our performance is available in the Appendix of this Report. 4 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Our focus areas Identifying our sustainability issues We identify the sustainability issues included in this Report through our three-step materiality process. Step one of the process includes identifying issues by reviewing our internal risk registers, requests from our shareholders and investors, daily print media coverage and an independent review of issues raised by non-government organisations (NGOs) and global electronic and print media. Step two involves rating the significance of these issues to our stakeholders and the potential impact on our business as low, medium or high. Our third step is to review the issues and seek feedback. One of the ways we do this is through our Forum on Corporate Responsibility. We also ask our HSEC leaders in each of our Customer Sector Groups (CSGs) to review the issues, assign ratings and advise of any gaps. The issues are provided to the Sustainability Committee of the Board and reviewed throughout the preparation of this Report. Common themes for a number of material issues were grouped together into focus areas for the purpose of this Report. During the development of our sustainability reporting, we seek feedback from our Report stakeholders including employees and contractors via our internal website, from NGOs as represented by our Forum on Corporate Responsibility, from investors and from the general community through our email enquiry system. Coverage of local-level and regional-level material issues is provided by operations that choose to produce a separate report. Step 1. Identify a broad range of sustainability issues Step 2. Prioritise issues based on significance of each issue to our stakeholders and the potential impact on our business Step 3. Seek feedback and group into common themes for reporting People Keeping our Employing and people safe developing and healthy our people Gove Effectively Reducing our rnan managing our climate change material risks impacts ce Environment Reporting transparently Our focus Managing our and behaving areas in water use ethically FY2011 Enhancing Making a positive biodiversity contribution and land to society management Understanding Ensuring and managing meaningful our human engagement with rights impact our stakeholders Soc iety Each of these focus areas is discussed on the following pages, with detailed performance data provided in the Appendix. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 5 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Keeping our people safe and healthy We do not compromise our safety values and are committed to leading industry practice in health and safety. Risk-based safety at Nickel West, Western Australia We apply uniform expectations for safety outcomes wherever we work in the world and take a risk-based approach to safety. Why this is a focus area Key issues The best investment we can make in any community is to ensure The key health and safety issues faced by the Group in FY2011 our people return home safe and well at the end of each day. were vehicles and mobile equipment interaction, adherence to In the current climate of rapid growth, managing the impacts of isolation and permit-to-work procedures and reducing potential that growth on the safety and wellbeing of our people is critical. occupational health exposures, particularly to carcinogens. Growing safely Our fatal risk controls were developed to improve control of Our ability to grow our organisation safely is essential. We are specific areas of risk, based on detailed analysis of BHP Billiton’s expanding across a number of operations and to support these incident history. Our Group Level Document (GLD) for fatal expansions project hubs were created in Perth, Brisbane, Houston, risk controls articulates the steps to be taken to identify, Santiago and Toronto. The hubs are established using Engineering, assess and mitigate seven fatal risks: vehicles and mobile Procurement and Construction Management (EPCM) contractors equipment; explosives and blasting; ground control; hazardous who develop the projects on our behalf and under our oversight. materials; isolation and permit-to-work; work at height; and lifting operations. While the EPCM model is not new to BHP Billiton, our rapid growth presents a challenge to the effective management of The risk controls implemented are consistent with Articles our health and safety risks. EPCM contractors bring their own 6–12 of International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention individual management and safety approaches to each project 176 – Safety and Health in Mines. We focus on improving our and we recognise the importance of understanding and enabling workplaces, using the recognised hierarchy of controls and work these diverse management systems. We have set minimum practices to minimise the need for personal protective equipment performance requirements, including safety standards, which we (PPE). Where its use is still necessary, PPE is provided to all require our EPCM partners to meet while allowing them to work employees and contractors. to their own internal standards. We review each EPCM contractor Managing material risks to check performance and ensure the standards they are using meet or exceed our own. 6 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Occupational health exposures Serious disease Health risks faced by our people include fatigue, disease BHP Billiton operations with a high exposure to serious diseases, People and occupational exposure to noise, silica, manganese, diesel such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, have education, exhaust particulate, fluorides, coal tar pitch, nickel and sulphuric training and counselling programs in place to assist employees. acid mist. Our goal is to control occupational exposures at their We also offer prevention and risk-control programs to source. This goal is supported by a key performance indicator employees and, where appropriate, to employees’ families assigned to our Group Management Committee. and local communities. Each operation establishes and maintains an ‘exposure risk In some communities where we operate; for example, in profile’ for every employee and contractor and implements South Africa and Mozambique, the incidence of HIV/AIDS Environment appropriate controls. Potential exposures do not take into is among the highest in the world. We accept a responsibility account the protection afforded by PPE. If the potential exposure to help manage the impact of the disease and to care for our exceeds 50 per cent of our occupational exposure limit (OEL), employees, support the wellbeing and development of our then medical surveillance is mandatory. host communities and protect the viability of our operations. Drug and alcohol education programs are conducted, as well For many years, we have adopted a proactive approach to as substance abuse testing where necessary. In late 2010, use of managing the disease within our workplaces, an approach that a synthetic cannabis drug, Kronic, was identified and testing for draws upon the International Labour Organization (ILO) Code this substance became available in May 2011. Risk-based testing of Practice on HIV/AIDS. This includes conducting education Society for Kronic is now included in our program. programs, offering voluntary testing and counselling programs In FY2011, potential carcinogenic exposure was reported by under the strictest confidentiality, seeking to achieve appropriate some of our operations as one of their highest health risks, which access to medical care for employees and their dependants and resulted in a concerted effort to reduce potential carcinogenic reducing hostel-type accommodation for employees, known exposures to below the OEL. To date, we have seen a 20 per cent to be a risk factor for the disease. reduction in the number of employees potentially exposed We contribute to the operation of dedicated care centres to carcinogens above the OEL since FY2009. and programs. BHP Billiton sponsors the Ethembeni Care Centre Specific programs are successfully being applied at an operational in KwaMbonami, near our aluminium smelter at Richards Bay Governance level to reduce the causes of occupational exposures. in South Africa, which provides HIV/AIDS medical and social support to the population of approximately 900,000. In FY2010 Reducing silica dust exposure and FY2011, we also sponsored an HIV/AIDS education and See page 28 for references to fatigue risk. prevention program targeted at men and boys, called The Big Brother Project, while our Manganese South Africa asset supports the Kotulong Community Centre, near Johannesburg, which cares Reducing personnel exposure in for terminally ill HIV/AIDS patients and caters for orphaned and underground mining vulnerable children affected by the disease. As part of its commitment BHP Billiton also has operations in areas where the potential to the safety of our workers, BHP Billiton’s Cannington for exposure to malaria is high. We are reviewing our approach mine in Queensland, Australia to managing malaria to ensure it supports effective risk control. has re-engineered its remote loader capabilities, reducing exposures for underground loader operators. Total Recordable Injury Lost Time Injury Frequency Noise-induced Hearing Loss Other Occupational Illness Cases Frequency 8.0 2.0 200 100 7.4 1.8 178 1.7 80 17 6.0 1.5 150 158 5.9 1.5 149 5.6 1.4 144 5.3 60 63 5.0 4.0 1.0 1.1 100 40 2.0 0.5 50 63 20 Other Illnesses Musculoskeletal Respiratory Diseases FY2011 5 0 0 0 0 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 7 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Keeping our people safe and healthy continued Our safety and health performance The FY2011 total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) performance Security, emergency response and business continuity of 5.0 per million hours worked improved by six per cent Our Asset Protection GLD requires our businesses and compared with FY2010 (5.3). Although we improved, we will operations to have systems in place to identify, manage and require a substantial reduction in total recordable injuries to effectively respond to foreseeable crises and emergencies, meet our five-year target of 3.7 in FY2012. We had two fatalities including returning our operations to full function as swiftly against our target of zero. In response to the fatal incidents, and smoothly as possible. we focused on improving our approach to: risk-based safety, Requirements include: in particular our fatal risk controls; keeping it simple; leaders • identifying potential emergency situations and their impacts; verifying control effectiveness; and ensuring competency • defining response plans, roles and responsibilities; through training and awareness of all aspects of our • identifying, maintaining and testing resources to existing safety programs. ensure their availability; In FY2011, there were 148 cases of occupational illness, • training employees, contractors, visitors and with 43 per cent of these due to noise-induced hearing loss. external stakeholders; The number of cases of musculoskeletal illness has increased • identifying, documenting, sharing and following-up significantly since FY2010, to 63 in FY2011. We believe this on lessons learned from emergency response drills. increase is due to cases previously classified as either not A crisis or emergency may be an incident, extreme climatic work-related illness or as injuries; cases that are now correctly event, disease outbreak, security issue or any other event reported as work-related illnesses. We have increased the focus that poses a significant threat to: the safety or health on identifying and controlling manual handling risks in the of employees, contractors, customers or the public; affected businesses. For personnel with a work-related illness the environment; our reputation; and/or the physical or injury, case management is mandated. integrity of an asset. Establishing measurable goals BHP Billiton is a signatory to, and participant in, the Voluntary We apply uniform expectations for safety outcomes wherever Principles on Security and Human Rights (see page 21 for we work in the world and safety rules and definitions that more detail). classify incidents are applied equally to our people. In FY2011, we committed to adopt the US Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines for reporting. To further improve our performance in controlling occupational health exposures, we test the effectiveness of those controls to ensure they continue to function as designed. Each of our operations regularly records and communicates potential occupational health exposures up to Group level, in accordance with our Health, Safety, Environment and Community Reporting GLD. In FY2011, we conducted regional workshops to support regular audits that check the implementation of health controls at individual operations. Our Group Safety and Security function also ran a series of regional workshops in FY2011 aimed at educating key members of management and supervision on the expectations of each performance requirement. The workshops also enabled Group Safety and Security to gather feedback on the suitability of the requirements. This feedback confirmed the performance requirements are well positioned and required no material changes. Utilising new technology to manage heat stress in Ethiopia The Danakil Depression Heat Stress Management Plan requires that all people wishing to work on the project in Ethiopia undergo a pre-deployment medical assessment regardless of the work to be undertaken. The medical evaluation identifies people with high risk factors for heat stress. Everyone joining the project undertakes training to ensure they understand the hazards associated with heat stress and their personal accountabilities under the Heat Stress Management Plan. New workers also undergo a period of acclimatisation to allow them to become accustomed to the conditions. 8 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Employing and developing our people Our strategy is founded on the need for diversification People – by commodity, geography and market. To succeed we need a workforce that reflects our values and the communities in which we operate. Environment Society Learning and leading at Olympic Dam, South Australia Governance A key part of being a leader at BHP Billiton is developing the capability of your team, peers and employees. Why this is a focus area Plans will be tracked and monitored throughout FY2012 and Finding, employing, developing and retaining skilled people will again form part of the annual performance review process with values that are aligned to ours is crucial to our success. at year-end. Our business is long term in nature. If we do not safely deliver We remain committed to increasing female participation in the growth today, then we cannot leave for future generations Accelerated Leadership Development Program to 40 per cent the legacy we have enjoyed from generations past. by the end of FY2012. Supporting workforce diversity During the year, we also reviewed pay equity based on gender At BHP Billiton, we believe that Our Charter value of respect across our senior management* population, which revealed cannot be met if we do not embrace openness, trust, teamwork a female to male salary ratio of 1.005:1.000. We are satisfied and diversity. that our process of remunerating employees in this grouping We are striving to achieve diversity, in all its forms, at all levels of is based on skills, experience and size of role and is not tainted our organisation. Our Board of Directors, for example, is made up by structural bias on the basis of gender. of 12 members, who represent seven nationalities. Two members Another focus area for us is ensuring that the right gender are female, 10 are aged 50 and over and two are aged between balance is struck in our graduate intake. 40 and 49 years. Recognising innovative ideas The Group Management Committee (GMC) took active steps Our annual Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) in FY2010 to improve the diversity profile of the Group. It oversaw Awards provide us with a way of recognising the contribution the analysis of the profile of each part of the business to better made by our employees to the care of our fellow employees, understand representation by gender, age and nationality. It then the community and the environment. required each business group to develop a diversity plan to address shortcomings. Those plans were completed and assessed as part of the annual performance process. Each plan is targeted at addressing the particular issues facing individual business groups and each contains a range of strategies, including targets. * Senior management consists of organisational levels C and D. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 9 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Employing and developing our people continued Recruiting, developing and retaining skilled people We have enhanced the branding of our graduate program to ensure it is an attractive proposition for a more diverse population. Approach to local employment Fostering mutually beneficial employee relations Recruitment is managed on a local basis by each Customer Relationships with all our stakeholders, including our employees, Sector Group, Minerals Exploration, Marketing and the Group are built on trust, which we regard as a key aspect of Our Charter Functions. Mandatory Group-wide performance requirements value of respect. contained in our Group Level Documents (GLDs) stipulate The breadth and geographic diversity of BHP Billiton means we recruitment standards and ensure candidates possess the have a mix of collective and individually regulated employment appropriate skills, experiences, capability and values. arrangements. We recognise the right of our employees to freely In FY2011, there were local employment policies in place at the associate and to bargain collectively, where they choose to do asset level. Fifty-eight per cent of our workforce and 27 per cent so, with this right not at risk. In FY2011, 53 per cent of our global of management* were drawn from the local** community. workforce was covered by collective arrangements. We work The remote locations within which we operate and the limited closely with contracting companies to encourage them to ensure numbers of appropriately skilled employees can result in the that their employee relations are governed in a manner consistent need for operations to employ staff who work on-site, but reside with Our Charter. outside the community; generally known as fly in, fly out staff. We manage significant organisational change at the local level A workforce of this kind can create challenges and opportunities and consult with our employees about changes that affect them, and we continue to address the impact on our people, as well seeking input and guidance where possible. We are committed as local community concerns, so that together we can identify to complying with applicable legislative requirements across ways in which our operations can make a positive and the myriad jurisdictions in which we work. meaningful impact. In FY2011, there was one labour strike in one of our operations in South Africa of more than one week’s duration. In line with our employee relations approach, we believe that ensuring our Coaching the local football team in Newman, employees are directly engaged with the business and aligned Western Australia, is an with business goals is the most effective way of avoiding example of how we are any form of industrial action. creating leaders within our business as well as within the community. * Management includes GMC members, senior leaders and managers. ** Local community is defined at the operational level and varies as a result of local terms and conditions, but generally relates to the employee’s place or region of birth relative to the location of the operation. 10 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Under Australian law, employees are entitled to take industrial The program is facilitated by business schools in Australia, Chile action on the expiry of applicable industrial agreements, which and South Africa. It is designed to move graduates seamlessly People is protected from challenge. Given this legislative exposure from study to work by complementing site-based technical to potential industrial action, we develop comprehensive development with a combination of classroom-based and contingency plans to ensure that our operations experience as virtual learning experiences, providing a unique insight into little disruption as possible. In instances where we do encounter our business. Graduates develop their decision-making and industrial disruption, our aim is to minimise the impact on our communication skills, access Executive coaching, take part in customers in line with our commitment to shareholders and, intensive residential programs and gain on-the-job experience above all, to avoid compromising the safety of our employees analysing and solving real business issues. Environment and contractors. Graduates are recruited from a variety of disciplines. On recent Developing our employees estimates, approximately 30 per cent of our graduates are We are committed to developing the skills and capabilities female and approximately 70 per cent male, a disparity we of our workforce through regular performance reviews are addressing through our diversity objectives. combined with training and development programs. In FY2011, a formal performance review process was undertaken for all applicable employees, which comprised 71 per cent of the employee population. Due to the structure and provisions Society of some industrial agreements, not all employees participate in individual performance reviews. In FY2011, each employee received an average of 62 hours of training. Training and development programs are designed and implemented at the local operational level to support local requirements. BHP Billiton operations include health and safety training and training on Our Charter and the Code of Business Conduct as part of the mandatory induction process for all employees and permanent contractors. Governance Encouraging female students to become engineers Our practices and processes are designed to ensure performance As a key part of meeting our objectives to develop careers is measured on fact-based outcomes and to reward people for and a pipeline of talented employees, BHP Billiton has their achievements. We seek to ensure strong internal candidate supported a South African program that aims to attract, representation for roles, supplemented with external recruitment retain and develop women engineers, for the past three years. where necessary. Our internal development programs are The GirlEng program uses peer mentors, who are final year therefore the key to succession. engineering students and engineers working at BHP Billiton, Investing in graduate development to inspire high school students and encourage them to Our two-year Foundations for Graduates Program has been study engineering. The program also aims to pair aspirant recognised as a leader in the field and has been designed engineering students with sponsors who can fund specifically for graduates from tertiary institutions. Our aim their studies. is for our graduates to build a long and successful career with BHP Billiton has hired three graduates who are former BHP Billiton. Each year, we recruit approximately 400 graduates mentors and there are also currently 10 BHP Billiton sponsors in meaningful business roles, who each have the opportunity involved in the GirlEng program. to work across teams, businesses and geographic regions. Employees by Geographic Region Contractors Engaged at our Owned and Operated Assets by Region Australasia 40% Australasia 46% Africa 25% South America 24% South America 24% Africa 23% North America 8% North America 3% Asia 2% Asia 3% Europe 1% Europe <1% BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 11 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Reducing our climate change impacts As a global organisation operating in an energy intensive industry, we are committed to manage the risks associated with climate change. Supporting energy efficiency at Nickel West, Kwinana, Australia Reducing the temperatures required to produce steam has reduced energy use at Nickel West. This is part of our US$300 million commitment to support the implementation of energy efficiency and low GHG emission technologies. Why this is a focus area A discussion of regulatory, physical and other risks and We recognise that we have a social and economic opportunities of climate change is included in the Appendix. responsibility to constructively engage on climate change Engaging in policy development issues. By understanding the risks and opportunities around While energy is a significant input in a number of the Group’s climate change, and how these affect our organisation, mining and processing operations, we recognise the global we believe we can reduce our own impact on the environment imperative of minimising carbon-based energy consumption. and make a positive international contribution to the issue. BHP Billiton believes that the mainstream science of climate The potential impacts to our organisation change is correct; human activities are having a negative impact Our energy-intensive operations and fossil fuel products are on our climate and this poses risks to our social and economic exposed to potential financial risks from regulations to control wellbeing. While uncertainty remains, there is enough evidence greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In the medium and long to warrant action in a way that does not damage the economy. term, we are likely to see changes in the profit margins of our GHG-intensive assets as a result of regulatory impacts in the We believe that a global solution to climate change, which countries where we operate. These regulatory mechanisms may includes a carbon price of some form, is likely, but also some time impact our operations directly or indirectly via our customers. away. Until then, nations around the world are likely to continue Inconsistency of regulations, particularly between developed to accelerate their domestic emissions reduction and establish and developing countries, may also affect the investment low-carbon emissions economies, balancing their needs to ensure attractiveness of assets in different jurisdictions. a reliable energy supply and to sustain economic growth. Potential physical impacts of climate change include more A low-carbon emissions power sector could become a source of extreme weather events. These present risks to our personnel, long-term competitive advantage for countries in a world where as well as a loss of business continuity, production interruption carbon emissions will be constrained. BHP Billiton is committed and damaged or lost facilities. Sea level changes may also to contributing to the public debate on climate change, including impact access to ports, a significant issue for many of our assets. sharing our knowledge and experience, but we recognise that Changes in rainfall are particularly relevant to the mining industry, it is for government and society as a whole to decide which where water is a critical resource. These changes vary regionally direction to take. and may involve extended drought or increased flooding. 12 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › We take an active role in climate change policy development in the key regions where we operate and market our products. People Programmable logic We analyse and compare the various policy options by controllers help operators evaluating the degree to which they meet a defined set of maintain optimum levels principles: clear price signal; revenue neutral; trade friendly; of alumina and terminate anode effects in cells at the broad-based, predictable and gradual; simple and effective. Mozal aluminium smelter in See Our Sustainability Framework on page 42. Mozambique. This reduces emission of perfluorocarbon We have actively engaged with the Australian Government compounds, which are as it develops its climate change policy response. In addition powerful greenhouse gases. Environment to recommending a policy approach that is consistent with our principles, we propose that an effective strategy for minimising Australia’s exposure to a future global carbon price includes avoiding the construction of new long-life, carbon emissionsFuture GHG emissions abatement cost curves intensive assets where affordable low-carbon alternatives are In FY2011, our highest GHG-emitting operations worked to available, especially in the power and building sectors. develop GHG emissions abatement cost curves. This work allows Reducing energy and GHG emissions our assets to identify opportunities to save GHG emissions. BHP Billiton continues to strive for significant reductions Energy sourcing and use Society in energy consumption and GHG emissions, in line with and We are working on several fuel-related improvements focused above our FY2012 targets. In FY2011, both carbon-based energy on reducing our consumption of energy and carbon emissions intensity and GHG emissions intensity were lower than the footprint. One project examined our pipework, tanks and FY2006 baseline, by 17 per cent and 18 per cent respectively surrounding work areas to improve the cleanliness of transferred against a target of 13 per cent and six per cent. This was fuel products and ultimately reduce diesel particulate emissions primarily driven by the agreement to use hydroelectric power and lower our fuel consumption. The Illawarra Coal asset at the Mozal aluminium smelter, in Mozambique, which now in Australia established a testing program to identify which provides more than 98 per cent of the smelter’s electricity needs. diesel fuel product, used to power underground mine activities, Governance Within Australia, in compliance with the national Energy will result in the lowest particulate emissions. Efficiency Opportunities (EEO) Act 2006, we also implemented We recognise that the need to control carbon dioxide a number of energy efficiency measures. One example is at emissions has substantial implications for the use of thermal our Mt Whaleback iron ore mine in Western Australia, which coal as an energy source. In March 2011, we made a significant now operates loaded trucks uphill in second gear instead of first investment in natural gas by acquiring all of Chesapeake Energy gear. This has reduced truck operating hours and fuel use, which Corporation’s interests in the US Fayetteville Shale onshore may equate to a saving of approximately 81 terajoules of energy natural gas resource. Our strategy is to invest in natural gas per year. The results of our participation in the EEO program as one of the cleanest burning, lowest carbon dioxide intensity, will be available in December 2011. fossil fuels. We recognise that community concern exists over We continue to track progress against our US$300 million the extraction process, which involves ‘hydraulic fracturing’, commitment to support the implementation of energy efficiency and the possibility of groundwater contamination in certain and low GHG emission technologies. To date, we have exceeded situations. Our shale gas operations will be conducted to the our commitment, with US$325 million worth of projects same standards as all other BHP Billiton Petroleum operations, in implementation stages. with the same goal of protecting the health and safety of our people, the environment and our communities. Using hydraulic fracturing to produce unconventional natural gas Energy Use – Total Energy Use by Source Greenhouse Gas Emissions (1) Electricity 41% 350 Distillate/Gasoline 22% 60,000 Coal and Coke 18% 300 Natural Gas 16% 50,000 306 309 Other 3% 296 250 284 286 Fuel and Process Oil <1% 40,000 Petajoules (PJ) kilotonnes CO2-e 200 21,000 30,000 150 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source (1) 20,000 100 Electricity 51% Fugitive Emissions 19% 19,800 Coal and Coke 13% 10,000 50 Distillate and Fuel Oil 11% Scope 2 (2) 0 Natural Gas 6% 0 Scope 1 (3) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Other Sources <1% LPG <1% (1) Measured according to the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol. (2) Scope 2 refers to indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and steam that is consumed by controlled operations. (3) Scope 1 refers to direct GHG emissions from controlled operations. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 13 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Managing our water use We have a large global footprint and we take the responsibility of managing our environmental impact very seriously. Managing water use for global operations Water scarcity is an ongoing issue for our sites in arid, remote environments such as the Atacama Desert in South America. In other regions, flooding can devastate communities. Why this is a focus area Addressing the issue Water is an essential resource for all of our operations and Water stress is defined as a ‘situation of actual or potential production can be impacted by both the quality and quantity adverse impact on water availability for potable, agricultural, of water available. More importantly, the communities within environmental or cultural needs’. In FY2011, we intensified our which we operate rely on having access to clean, safe drinking focus on addressing water stress and quality, which will allow water. This is critical to sustaining local health, industry and us to reduce our use of water that is most likely to compete a sound environment. with human or environmental needs. Water management as a global issue Our material sites are those where high-quality water use The mining and minerals processing industry uses a wide variety exceeds, or is anticipated to exceed, 3,000 megalitres per annum of water sources for a range of purposes. As with greenhouse for an operation or project, or where water management may gas (GHG) emissions, water management is an issue that be a material risk issue. extends beyond BHP Billiton boundaries. Water risks also By developing water reduction cost curves at our most material vary from region to region and therefore cannot be addressed sites, we identified opportunities including water substitution through a ‘one-size-fits-all’ solution, which makes managing and water stewardship, both of which lend themselves readily our water use a consistently complex and critical task. to our expanded focus on high-quality water and alleviating Water has social, cultural, environmental and economic value at water stress. a local, regional, national and international level and is therefore By 30 June 2012, BHP Billiton controlled assets with material critical to maintaining a ‘social licence to operate’. We support high-quality water use or material water risks will establish the priority considerations of strategic water planning, improving targets to reduce impacts on water resources in the regions operational performance through effective water management, where they operate. identifying conservation opportunities and promoting industry projects. 14 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Managing water within our operations In accordance with our Environment Group Level Document People A BHP Billiton program (GLD), we are implementing water management plans at all in Pakistan provides a our operations, including controls to mitigate the impacts of supply of drinking water water use and discharge. It is expected that these controls are to local communities. monitored and reviewed to verify their effectiveness. Additional controls are expected to be implemented at our material sites. In recognition that water is a critical input for our mining, smelting, refining and petroleum businesses, we continue Environment to identify opportunities for water reuse or recycling, efficient use and responsible wastewater disposal. Our water use index – the ratio of water recycled to high-quality water consumed – is tracking at eight per cent improvement since the baseline The International Council on Mining and Metals is also planning year (FY2007). to pilot the initiative to assess its broader application across The Olympic Dam operation in South Australia has achieved the international metals and mining industry. reductions in the use of groundwater from the Great Artesian BHP Billiton chose to participate in the inaugural CDP Water Basin, a large groundwater aquifer. Actions included research, Disclosure Project in FY2010. An initiative of the Carbon Society implementing several water conservation and recycling measures Disclosure Project, the CDP Water Disclosure Project seeks to and conducting an awareness and education program among provide water-related data from the world’s largest corporations employees and the community. to the investor community. The goal is to help participating Olympic Dam and the sustainability of the Great Artesian Basin companies further understand their water use and water risks. A major challenge for our Olympic Dam operation is to ensure It is also intended to give business leaders greater insight into it has a reliable long-term water supply. If the operation the corporate risks associated with water and ways in which is expanded, the operation’s demand for water will also these risks are being addressed. substantially increase. Significant design effort has been Governance undertaken to minimise the impact of this future demand, Managing wastewater and related waste including the proposed construction of a seawater desalination Mining operations produce large quantities of mineral waste plant to provide the site with high-quality water. that may include waste rock, tailings and slag, which need to be Developing new water accounting standards effectively managed to control potential environmental impacts. Unlike the more developed accounting approach to GHG Our operations have waste management plans to minimise the emissions, there is not yet an internationally consistent approach waste generated and mitigate its impact, in accordance with to water accounting, which adds to the complexity of finding the Environment GLD, which also stipulates that operations solutions to address water quantity and quality concerns. We are monitor transport and disposal of waste to ensure regulatory working with the Minerals Council of Australia to develop the requirements are met throughout the waste cycle. Water Accounting Framework, an industry-wide approach to Tailings dams are also assessed to manage the risk of failure. water reporting and accounting. The framework seeks to Tailings dams are typically unlined and are designed and establish a nationally consistent water accounting and reporting operated to well-established engineering standards. Mineral framework for the minerals industry, which will lead to improved wastes are analysed for physical and geochemical characteristics data transparency and water management. to identify potential impacts arising from erosion, acid rock drainage, salinity, radioactivity and metal leaching. High-quality Water Use by Source Water Use by Classification 180,000 Recycled 44% High-quality 38% 160,000 9,330 Low-quality 18% 140,000 120,000 143,000 Megalitres (ML) 100,000 80,000 60,000 40,000 Water Use – High-quality 20,000 Manufactured Water Use – High-quality 0 from Environment FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 15 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Enhancing biodiversity and land management We enhance biodiversity protection by assessing and considering ecological values and land-use aspects in investment, operational and closure activities. Rehabilitating land in New Mexico, US BHP Billiton New Mexico Coal developed a rehabilitation program that restores the landscape to natural landforms and re-establishes a productive cover of native vegetation. Why this is a focus area Over the years, we have made a number of commitments Securing access to land and managing it effectively are essential with regard to protected areas and threatened species components of our commitment to operate in a responsible (see Our Sustainability Framework in the Appendix). In addition, manner. We fully appreciate the importance of protecting our operations have land management plans, in accordance biodiversity and we also recognise the increasing competition with the Environment Group Level Document (GLD), that include for land and the challenge this presents to all land users. baseline and impact assessments, implementation of controls to mitigate impacts on biodiversity and other ecosystem services, Our approach to biodiversity and land management and monitoring programs to ensure the controls are effective. We take a holistic approach to managing land and biodiversity, which means we assess and manage the potential impacts of our Contributing to conservation operations throughout their life cycle, across social, environmental Biodiversity, and the ecosystem services it provides, is being lost and economic spheres. We have minimum requirements of all at an accelerated rate due to human activities. In recognition of BHP Billiton operations that include adhering to a formal hierarchy this, Conservation International and BHP Billiton from July 2011 process that begins with avoiding disturbance, followed by embarked on a five-year alliance to deliver significant and mitigating negative impacts, rehabilitating the environment lasting benefits to the environment by preserving land of high and undertaking compensatory actions. conservation value in key regions where BHP Billiton operates. This outcome will be achieved in collaboration with local partners. We recognise that effective land management is about optimising all land uses within a given region, whether they are for the In addition, Conservation International will provide technical provision of mining, industrial, agricultural or environmental and professional expertise to BHP Billiton aimed at contributing services. Obtaining community support is most challenging to improved approaches to land management across our Group. when there is strong competition for the use of the land, such The conservation projects we will pursue will be in addition to as a competition between resource development and agriculture. land management actions undertaken at our own sites, such as Our experiences with the Caroona Coal Project in NSW, Australia, minimising land disturbance, rehabilitation and compensatory highlight the community’s concerns in this area. actions for residual impacts. They will aim to broaden our Caroona Coal Project community update environmental activities, to improve land conservation in a way that is more substantial than we can achieve within our sites alone. 16 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › People Managing our responsibilities Our approach to land compensation is undertaken on Total Conservation, Rehabilitated and Disturbed Land a case-by-case basis. We first consider what land we need. We then look at our possible impacts on that land, both short 250,000 term and long term, the present and past use of the land and the effects that our use may have on biodiversity and 200,000 the associated ecosystem services, as well as existing land 129,000 owners and occupiers. Hectares (Ha) 150,000 Environment We implement compensatory activities where residual impacts exceed the acceptable level of impact to biodiversity, 100,000 land use, watersheds and/or water sources. 25,100 50,000 When financial compensation is appropriate, we take Disturbed Land into account relevant legislative requirements, industry FY2011 41,900 Conservation Land 0 Rehabilitated Land practices, standards or norms that may exist within a country or region and any special circumstances that may apply. FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 In some countries and regions, legislation prescribes who Society is to be paid land compensation, the amount, what it is for and how it is to be calculated. In other places, compensation Managing land rehabilitation and mine closures may be by negotiation with the affected parties. Our Sustainability Framework outlines the key Health, Safety, Our preference is to have a substantial portion of Environment and Community (HSEC) performance requirements any compensation payments dedicated to sustainable that are incorporated into the planning of development projects, socio-economic projects or programs that will leave tangible through operation and into closure. Significant projects and long-term benefits for the community or people receiving are governed by the performance requirements of our project the compensation. We also endeavour to ensure that benefits management GLDs. HSEC risks, legislated obligations and are provided to as many people as possible who may be Governance stakeholder requirements are important inputs to the project entitled to them. Where substantial sums of money are planning and execution process. involved, we work to put in place appropriate governance Once in operation, our assets undertake annual life of asset structures so that these monies are managed in a responsible, planning, a process that incorporates all aspects of the business. transparent and accountable manner. In FY2011, detailed closure planning requirements were integrated into the Directional Planning GLD, with each asset required to develop a closure plan as part of their life of asset plan. Land Owned, Managed or Leased FY2011 In addition, a new audit process was implemented focusing Designated Protected Areas on closure planning, cost estimation and closure valuation Australia hectares 52,200 at operating assets. Chile hectares 269,000 We are responsible for a number of legacy operations that High Biodiversity Value Areas are in various stages of decommissioning, rehabilitation or Terrestrial Ecosystem post-closure care and maintenance. The HSEC audit program Australia hectares 22,600 covers the activities of these closed operations. Closure plans Canada hectares 266,000 provide the basis for estimating the financial costs of closure and South Africa hectares 300 the associated accounting closure and rehabilitation provisions. Freshwater Ecosystem Information on our closure provisions can be found in note 18 Chile hectares 24,100 of the Financial Statements in our Annual Report. South Africa hectares 1,550 Delivering a cleaner Hunter River Our commitment to responsible land management includes mitigating potential biodiversity impacts from operations and conducting land remediation where required. The Hunter River in New South Wales, Australia, is the focus of the largest remediation project of its kind undertaken in Australia to clean up contaminated river sediment affected by operations of the former Newcastle Steelworks, which operated for 84 years from 1915. Part of the project involves constructing and populating new habitat areas and implementing a concurrent monitoring and research program for the endangered green and gold bell frog. The required compensatory habitat area for this species was reduced by approximately 85 per cent compared with the original plan, through innovative design of the remediation project’s landfill facility, which conserved the majority of local breeding habitat and mangrove areas. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 17 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Ensuring meaningful engagement with our stakeholders We engage regularly, openly and honestly with our host governments and people affected by our operations and take their views and concerns into account in our decision-making. BMA Blackwater mine in Queensland, Australia, supports the Indigenous Women’s Leadership Group Our aim is to develop and sustain meaningful and trusting relationships with people impacted by, and interested in, our business. Why this is a focus area Systems to ensure dialogue is regular, ongoing Engaging openly with our host communities, governments and effective and other key stakeholders is critical if we are to make We seek to build trust with stakeholders at the earliest possible a positive contribution to the lives of people who live near stage of a project’s life. Our Community Group Level Document our operations and to society more broadly. Only through (GLD) stipulates that our operations implement a stakeholder meaningful engagement are we able to understand and engagement management plan, which is to be in place from address potential impacts and concerns about our projects a project’s exploration phase. The plans identify stakeholders, and operations and create opportunities that are aligned describe their interests and relationships and contain a range with the interests of the affected people. of culturally appropriate engagement activities to encourage open communication. Our stakeholders BHP Billiton defines stakeholders as those who are potentially Engagement activities vary from monthly meetings to impacted by our operations, or who have an interest in what open public forums, with topics ranging from town amenity we do, or who have an influence over what we do. Our key and housing to impacts of growth and expansion projects, stakeholders include: the investment community; shareholders; contractor management, security, cultural issues and social customers; media; business partners; employees and contractors; development. Our responses to concerns or complaints local and Indigenous communities; industry associations; are recorded, as are any commitments we may make. suppliers; governments and regulators; non-government Operations measure the effectiveness of their stakeholder organisations (NGOs); and labour unions. engagement by conducting community perception surveys Our sustainability reporting stakeholders are defined on page 5 in their communities, which, since FY2010, have become and our broader stakeholders are detailed on page 36. mandatory every three years. These surveys provide a valuable external perspective of the quality of our engagement and whether our stakeholders believe we are doing what we say we will do. During FY2011, 14 operations undertook community perception surveys. 18 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Examples of formal consultative groups that are operated by our businesses include: People Business Country Consultation Frequency of meeting EKATI Diamond Mine Canada Indigenous Community Quarterly Pinto Valley Closed Sites US Special Interest Group Monthly Nickel West Kwinana Refinery Australia Local Government Quarterly Trinidad and Tobago Production Unit Trinidad and Tobago Local NGOs Monthly Khutala Colliery South Africa Local Community Quarterly Environment Resolving complaints Our aim is to develop and sustain meaningful and trusting Our operations are currently implementing local-level processes relationships with people impacted by and interested to facilitate resolution of complaints and grievances, as required in our business. by our Community GLD. As part of this process, all complaints There were no reported community resettlements and grievances are required to be acknowledged, documented at BHP Billiton controlled operations during FY2011. and investigated. Appropriate remedial actions are undertaken where a complaint is legitimate, complainants are promptly Engaging with NGOs through the Forum on Corporate Responsibility Society advised of the remedial action and outcomes are documented. More robust processes are to be established in countries with In FY2011, our Forum on Corporate Responsibility comprised high levels of corruption or conflict. five members of our Group Management Committee and 11 leaders from NGOs, who represent current views on In FY2011, the highest number of complaints across the environment, socio-economic, geopolitical and ethical issues. Group was registered at the Mt Arthur Coal operation, in NSW, The NGO members have extensive experience in regions where Australia. Through its community enquiries line, the mine we have business interests, including Chile, Colombia, west recorded 77 complaints from 31 near neighbours and residents Africa, Australia and the United Kingdom. The Chief Executive predominantly about noise, dust and blasting operations. Officer of BHP Billiton chairs the meetings, which were held With four other mines operating around Muswellbrook, blasting, Governance twice during FY2011. noise and the cumulative impacts of multiple mines will continue to present the greatest challenges in the future. While the Group is not bound by the advice of the Forum and the Forum does not necessarily endorse the Group’s decisions, Mt Arthur Coal management is proactively addressing noise the meeting discussions are robust and give our executives and dust issues by trialling electronically timed blasts to minimise an insight into society’s current priorities and a chance to ground vibration in sensitive areas, aerial seeding to minimise understand and debate issues from a range of viewpoints. the amount of windblown dust and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of noise attenuation equipment on machinery. Established in 1999, the Forum allows for and encourages open discussion on sustainability issues. The Sustainable Communities Project is a collaboration with more than 900 local participants to better understand the cumulative Issues discussed by the Forum in FY2011 included: proposed impacts of mining in the Hunter Valley and opportunities for changes in external regulations; standards and policies such Mt Arthur Coal and the industry to mitigate impacts. as free, prior and informed consent; revenue transparency; carbon-related issues; the development of the Group’s new We continue to learn from our experience public targets; strategic discussions on topics such as the Our history contains both positive and challenging examples Group’s role in the world’s future energy challenges; and how of community engagement. We continue to learn from those we can best contribute to the development of communities experiences and to build the capacity of people within our and, more broadly, to society. community teams to improve outcomes for our stakeholders. Successfully responding to community concerns about noise Our Boddington Bauxite Mine in Western Australia is spread over 25 kilometres, with peripheral pits close to residential properties. The development of these pits has led to concerns about noise from mining activities, especially at night. After consulting with neighbours, the preferred strategy to minimise noise disturbance involved creating a network of intermediate run-of-mine stockpiles set in areas where noise was less likely to carry to residents. Day shift operations would mine the pits close to residential properties and build up the intermediate stockpiles. Night shift operations were limited to hauling from these stockpiles to the crusher. Near neighbours have acknowledged the strategy has made a difference to noise disturbance. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 19 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Ensuring meaningful engagement with our stakeholders continued Engaging early in the project life cycle on customary rights Knowing who owns the At a very early stage in a project, before any substantive land is critical to effective work is carried out on the ground, we seek to identify any engagement. As with our landowners, occupiers and users who may be affected by exploration activities in Ethiopia, we seek to engage the project’s activities. very early regarding land use Where land may be used for customary purposes and there may and who may be affected. be no formal titles issued, this information is sought from relevant government authorities with responsibilities for customary land uses and any Indigenous peoples’ representative organisations, such as land and tribal councils. Further enquiries are also made directly with the people in the area. Specific surveys are commissioned to identify the customary owners and Committed to broad-based community support how the land is being used. Depending on circumstances, BHP Billiton requires that any new greenfield project or these surveys are likely to occur at the exploration stage. significant expansion project, such as the proposed Olympic Dam Knowing who owns and uses the land is critical to an effective expansion in South Australia, obtains broad-based community community consultation and engagement program. It helps support – defined as support from the majority of stakeholders to ensure that affected people are fully aware of the project – before proceeding. Broad-based community support is distinct and that they have an opportunity to express their concerns from achieving free prior and informed consent (FPIC), which and aspirations. Arising from this engagement, the work plan we seek when it is mandated and defined by law. We are aware may be amended to reduce potential impacts on landowners that the International Finance Corporation has incorporated and users. Ongoing informal discussions occurred in Yeelirrie, a requirement for FPIC in its performance standards. Western Australia, with traditional owners and other Aboriginal While our businesses actively engage with local landholders, groups throughout FY2011, culminating in a positive meeting there are some challenges for us as a resource company convened by Central Desert Native Title Services in Leinster in relation to FPIC. Some of these include: in March 2011. At this meeting, it was agreed that further • mineral rights are typically vested in the state and our engagement would continue between BHP Billiton and the host governments may wish to retain the right to determine traditional owners group. There were no significant incidents if and when resources are developed for the benefit of involving cultural heritage sites at our operations during FY2011. all citizens; • traditional decision-making processes are highly variable No. of operations located in No. of operations with and may not be deemed appropriate by all parties with or adjacent to Indigenous formal agreements with Country peoples’ territories Indigenous communities an interest in the issue; Australia 22 12 • conflicting claims of ownership over Indigenous lands can be exacerbated by major resource developments; Canada 2 1 • there is a suggestion that FPIC could be applied at each US 2 0 stage of a resource development, which would create Chile 1 0 uncertainty for long-term investments; • FPIC could present ethical challenges as it may appear to While no controlled operations reported any significant disputes confer a special set of rights on a group of people who have relating to land use or customary rights, we continue to work been born into a particular class. with the community and interested parties regarding the Caroona Exploration License Area. We are working with the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) to help develop guidelines for ICMM members BHP Billiton does not have any operations with significant that address some of the issues arising from the FPIC provisions artisanal and small-scale mining taking place on, or adjacent in the International Finance Corporation standards. to, the operation. Developing the Olympic Dam Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) Stakeholder engagement has formed a key component in our design and progression of the proposed Olympic Dam expansion, which has a geographic and social footprint extending from Darwin in Australia’s Northern Territory to Adelaide in South Australia and may impact a large number of stakeholders. The expansion involves developing a new open-pit mine, which will produce uranium, copper, gold and silver. The process to develop an EIS included holding face-to-face discussions with more than 8,000 stakeholders, ranging from government to industry, community stakeholders and the general public. As a result of the process, we have proposed a range of project changes including altering the installation method for the desalination plant outfall pipe; committing to using 100 per cent renewable energy in operating the desalination plant and associated pumping; and realigning the access corridor. 20 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Understanding and managing our human rights impact We respect and promote fundamental human rights People and the value of cultural heritage. Why this is a focus area Security forces and human rights We are committed to operating in accordance with the United Our Asset Protection Group Level Document (GLD) requires Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Global that all our operations have in place preventative controls and Environment Compact. The BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct and a security management plan to address any potential security Our BHP Billiton Charter values, in conjunction with policies and risks to BHP Billiton personnel and property. standards that accord with international laws and regulations The Voluntary Principles (VPs) on Security and Human Rights and strong leadership, support this commitment. We have require organisations to act in a manner consistent with the a responsibility to understand our potential impacts on human laws of the local country while promoting the observance of rights and to mitigate or eliminate them. applicable international law enforcement principles. The VPs Our human rights due diligence process acknowledge that security and respect for human rights can As part of our human rights due diligence process, we require and should be consistent. As a signatory to and participant all operations to identify and document key potential human in the VPs, we take into account these expectations when Society rights risks by completing a human rights impact assessment. developing in-country security plans. The process includes a review of policies, procedures, practice To protect our people and our assets, we employ public and performance. Stakeholder participation forms an important and private security agencies. Regardless of their location, part of the process and the assessments are validated by we stipulate that these agencies comply with the requirements a human rights specialist. Material risks are then managed and intent of the VPs. through action plans, which require employees and contractors to receive human rights training. Security and country risk The nature of our business and our global footprint often Governance In an effort to increase the focus on human rights due diligence see our people working in countries where there is potential in FY2011, completion of the assessments was included as a key exposure to personal and business risk. We require each country performance indicator for the Group Management Committee. to be assessed for the degree of risk associated with visiting, This indicator forms part of a balanced scorecard used to exploring and operating, with appropriate plans in place to determine performance incentive payments to management mitigate identified risks. and employees. Occasionally, it is necessary to provide armed security protection Within our 35 assets, operations and projects, 94 per cent for the safety of our personnel. Firearms are only to be deployed completed their assessments in FY2011. Many businesses, under a set of approved rules of engagement where it is including our Iron Ore operation in Western Australia, reported necessary to protect a human life, for stewardship requirements that the exercise helped employees and other key stakeholders (such as injured livestock management) or as a means of last to understand that human rights aspects are not separate, resort when threatened by dangerous wildlife. but integrated into much of what we do. Themes familiar to employees, such as workplace health and safety, conditions of Criteria for use of firearms and rules of engagement must comply work, discrimination, housing and accommodation and security, with the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers – assisted in making the human rights concepts more accessible. ‘Firearms and the use of force’ guidance (Report number 320, Revision 2). As part of the BHP Billiton Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) audit process, two system findings (no actual impact) were reported during the year against our human rights performance requirements at one of our joint venture monitored assets. Non-controlled assets are not obliged to operate according to BHP Billiton standards; however, we encourage these assets to participate in the audit process to determine the alignment between our standards and their own. Where Conflict resolution there are gaps, we assist our joint venture partners to manage training of subcontractors and resolve those issues. The local management has addressed at our Guinea Alumina these issues. Corporation (33 per cent owned), in west Africa. BHP Billiton believes we have not violated the rights outlined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights during FY2011. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 21 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Making a positive contribution to society We develop partnerships that foster the sustainable development of our host communities, enhance socio-economic benefits from our operations and contribute to poverty alleviation. Why this is a focus area Nationally and regionally, we contribute taxes and royalties to As a large organisation, we have an economic and social governments that, in turn, provide infrastructure and services to responsibility to make a positive contribution to the their constituents and we often develop infrastructure ourselves communities, regions and countries where we operate. that provides community, as well as business, benefits. Examples include airports, roads, community childcare centres and Our broad socio-economic contribution medical clinics. At a global level, we are active participants in industry and sustainable development forums such as the International Training and employing local people is important to us; however, Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and we are members our ability to have a significant impact on unemployment is of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development limited by the nature of our operations, which are highly technical (WBCSD). Our aim is to advocate continual improvement and mechanised. We make a broader economic contribution via of standards and performance across our sector. indirect employment, where we focus on building the capacity of local businesses to provide us with a diverse range of services We actively seek to understand our socio-economic impact on and products. local communities and host regions through our participation in the ICMM’s multi-stakeholder Resource Endowment initiative We also invest in community projects that are aimed at having (REi). The initiative aims to enhance the mining industry’s long-lasting, positive impacts on people’s quality of life. This socio-economic contribution to the countries and communities includes implementing new, and supporting existing, community where organisations such as BHP Billiton operate, by better projects in the areas of education, health and environment. understanding the factors that either inhibit or promote social Economic value and economic development linked to large-scale mining projects. Economic value for regional economies is generated through We engage with governments on a range of policy issues revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and also play a role in advocating transparent and ethical and other community investments, retained earnings and governance, through our own actions and in discussion payments to capital providers and to governments. with opinion leaders. Economic value generated US$ million Economic value distributed US$ million Operating Employee wages Payments to Payments to Revenues (1) costs (1)(2) and benefits providers of capital government (4) Payments to Wages and Economic value Revenue and suppliers, benefits to Shareholder Interest Gross taxes retained (5) Region other income contractors, etc. employees dividends payments (3) and royalties US$ million Africa 6,958 4,458 730 378 49 530 813 Australia and Asia 41,681 12,320 3,122 3,016 28 6,541 16,654 Europe 3,381 2,666 118 1,653 107 157 (1,320) North America 5,600 2,004 592 7 282 326 2,389 South America 14,609 5,549 895 <1 31 2,389 5,745 Total 72,229 26,997 5,457 5,054 497 9,943 24,281 (1) Amounts include revenues and costs and are consistent with the Group’s financial reporting of elements comprising underlying EBITDA. Underlying EBITDA is earnings before net finance costs and taxation, any exceptional items, and depreciation, impairments and amortisation. The amounts are determined on an accruals basis and extracted from the audited financial statements. (2) Operating costs relate to expenses recognised in the financial statements. They include expenditure paid to suppliers and contractors for materials and services and exclude employee wages and benefits, payments to governments, depreciation, amortisation and impairments. (3) This is interest expense on debt for BHP Billiton, determined on an accruals basis. (4) Comprises income tax and royalty-related taxes paid, royalties paid in-kind and production-based royalties accrued, which approximate cash payments. (5) Calculated as economic value generated less economic value distributed. 22 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Helping communities generate livelihoods People In Zululand, South Africa, BHP Billiton Aluminium, in partnership with The Wildlands Conservation Trust, funded the establishment of the Indigenous Trees for Life Program to create livelihoods for disadvantaged community members, while also establishing lasting environmental benefits. The program contracts unemployed members of the Mzimela community to plant and care for seedlings in the local forest and to sell a portion of seedlings to generate income. Participants – named ‘Tree-preneurs’ – are trained in indigenous tree propagation, mentored and given starter packs and a market through which to sell a portion of the trees they propagate. Environment Since launching in 2007, the number of local participants in the program has more than doubled to 280. In many cases, the income generated from the program is the sole source of livelihood for participants and their families. Community development The cash component of our FY2011 community investment Our community development programs are driven by our of US$149.1 million comprises: desire to improve the quality of life of people in our host • direct investment in community programs made communities. BHP Billiton operations implement their from BHP Billiton companies on an equity share basis; Society programs using community development plans that have • contributions to the Group’s charitable foundations, been developed in consultation with local stakeholders. excluding BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities; The plans are formulated from data gathered from an impacts • the Enterprise Development and Socio-economic and opportunities assessment and a baseline social study Development components of our Broad-based Black that includes education, health and environment quality of life Economic Empowerment (BEE) programs in South Africa†. indicators. The requirement that this occurs in all our operations is part of the implementation of Group Level Documents (GLDs). Excluding the contribution to BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities, 53 per cent of our expenditure was invested Governance Community development projects are selected on the basis of in local communities, 22 per cent regionally and the remaining their capacity to impact positively on the quality of life indicators. 25 per cent on programs on a national or international level We monitor progress by tracking changes in these indicators in countries where we operate. every three years. All community projects are assessed in relation to anti-corruption requirements prior to approval and are implemented in accordance with the ethical requirements in The BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct. This approach In FY2011, a number of significant natural disasters is mandated under the Community GLD. occurred in regions where our Group operates, or has During FY2011, our voluntary community investment totalled a strong business interest, US$195.5 million, comprising cash, in-kind support and including Pakistan, Australia, administrative costs and included a US$30 million contribution South Africa and Japan. to our UK-based charitable company, BHP Billiton Sustainable BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities contributed Communities. Our expenditure on community programs during a total of US$17 million the year was significantly higher than our expenditure in FY2010. to disaster relief efforts. Community Investment Expenditure by Geographic Region* Community Investment Target Australasia 57% South America 35% 250 Africa 6% North America 2% Asia <1% 200 30 Europe <1% 165.5 150 US$ million Community Investment Expenditure by Program Category* 100 Education and Training 27% Arts 7% Community Support Health 6% 50 UK Trust (capacity building) 20% Environment 4% Expenditure General Infrastructure 17% Sports and Recreation 4% (Less UK Trust) Disaster Relief 12% Small Business Development 3% 0 Target FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 * Excludes expenditure from foundations and trusts. † Further details on BEE are available in section 2.7.1 of our Annual Report. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 23 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Making a positive contribution to society continued FY2011 – A selection of our community programs FY2011* Asset Country Project Objective (US$ thousands) Aluminium SA South Africa Raizcorp Grow profitable and sustainable businesses by building entrepreneurs’ 1,399 and Energy (Richards Bay Incubator capacity in areas of marketing and sales, strategic planning, financial Coal SA and eMalahleni) Project management, personal development and infrastructure support. Pampa Norte Chile Solar Heater Provide community members with clean, low-priced energy that contributes 642 (Sierra Gorda) Project to families’ economies, as well as improving their health and the environment. Escondida Chile (southern Reconstructing Commencement of a US$16 million project to rebuild two vulnerable public 1,218 regions) Schools schools in southern Chile after the 2010 earthquake. Western Australia Royal Flying Doctor Deliver primary health care education, training, awareness and screening 402 Australia (Pilbara) Service On The services to people living and working in remote locations throughout the Iron Ore Road Program Pilbara, such as pastoral stations, tourist facilities and Indigenous communities. Olympic Dam Australia Arid Recovery Conserve and restore the ecosystem in arid land adjacent to the Olympic 383 (South Australia) Program Dam. Feral animals have been removed from a fenced reserve and, to date, four species of locally extinct mammals have been reintroduced. * The expenditure represents BHP Billiton’s equity share. Supporting employees’ contributions In addition to the social programs directly supported by the Fostering local supplier Group, many of our employees make a valuable contribution to development their local community by giving their personal time and expertise The Chilean-based Cluster to a range of activities. One of the most significant ways we Program sees local companies, support the efforts of our employees engaged in community like tyre supplier Bailac, introduce improvements activities is through our global Matched Giving Program. and innovations that address This program aims to strengthen local communities by supporting operational challenges. and encouraging employees who volunteer, fundraise or donate to not-for-profit organisations. In FY2011, more than 6,000 employees participated in the Matched Giving Program and they spent 71,000 hours in total volunteering in their own time on community activities important to them. Employee contributions In Chile, the BHP Billiton Cluster Program is an initiative where benefited more than 1,300 not-for-profit organisations, which a team from BHP Billiton works closely with a group of local received US$5.8 million from the Group as part of the program. companies to help them develop into world-class suppliers Local procurement for the global mining industry. The BHP Billiton team uses its Due to the scale of our operations, we create a strong demand expertise to mentor and develop the participating companies for products and services. We recognise the potential benefit that in areas including health, safety, environment and community supporting local businesses to meet this demand can bring to our management, vision and strategy, process excellence and host communities and regions. Our approach is to source locally customer value, organisational culture, leadership and innovation. if a product or service that meets our requirements is available The program commenced in 2009 and there were 35 participants locally. In FY2011, 25 per cent of spend was with local suppliers. in FY2011. Matched Giving Distribution of Supply Expenditure* 8 National (excluding local) 71% Local 25% External to home country 4% 6 6.1 5.8 5.4 US$ million 4.8 4 * Local spend refers to spend within the communities 2 2.4 in which we operate and the regions, such as states and provinces, where our operations are located. National spend refers to spend within the home country of operation, excluding local spend. 0 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 24 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Reporting transparently and behaving ethically Wherever we operate in the world we work with integrity People – making the right decisions and doing things the right way. We care as much about how results are achieved as we do about the results themselves. Environment Society Creating and maintaining safety signs at Mount Whaleback, Newman, Australia Governance Our Code of Business Conduct provides guidance for everyone who works for, and on behalf of, BHP Billiton. Why this is a focus area The Code of Business Conduct is supported by the Business Conduct Founded on Our Charter values, the Code of Business Conduct Advisory Service, which includes a multilingual, 24-hour hotline represents our unqualified commitment to uphold ethical business and online case management system. The general public is also practices. The Code of Business Conduct sets standards of able to access the Service via the hotline or the internet. In FY2011, behaviour for how we should work. In following these standards 474 cases, as well as 144 service contacts, were recorded. our people can be confident they are working in the right way. There were 84 instances regarding harassment/discrimination Upholding our Code of Business Conduct and equality in employment. All were reviewed and formal We recognise that at times our people may find themselves in investigations were conducted of 31, with one open as at situations where complying with the Code of Business Conduct 30 June 2011. Disciplinary proceedings, including termination, may appear to conflict with the ability to win or retain business. were instituted in 17 cases. An annual reporting cycle assists The Code of Business Conduct makes it clear that no employee us to identify trends and patterns of reported incidents. may allow anything – meeting production, competitive instincts or even a direct order from a manager – to compromise the commitment to working with integrity. To ensure the requirements of the Code of Business Conduct Business Conduct Advisory are effectively communicated across BHP Billiton, each business Service Enquiries by Region leader has the responsibility for ensuring that all employees and agency contractors attend an annual face-to-face meeting Australasia 66% Americas 15% to discuss the Code. A training and communication plan for Africa 14% each business and function is completed and executed each Asia 4% year. Business leaders report against these requirements on Europe 1% an annual basis and retain records of training undertaken. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 25 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Reporting transparently and behaving ethically continued If an individual is not satisfied with the outcome of an issue Product stewardship raised with management, they are directed to escalate the As BHP Billiton’s primary activities are in the extraction matter by contacting a more senior manager, a Group Legal (and, in some cases, processing) stages of a product’s life cycle, representative or the Business Conduct Advisory Service we recognise that the majority of the life cycle of our products so the matter can be assessed or investigated. The Business occurs after the point of our immediate activity. We also Conduct Advisory Service allows for issues to be raised recognise there is strong business merit in implementing product anonymously. Defined processes exist for the conduct stewardship programs in collaboration with other players in the of investigations. life cycles of each of our products. We seek to work with those Information on non-monetary sanctions and legal proceedings involved in the life cycles of our products and by-products to is available in section 8 of our Annual Report. enhance performance along the supply chain and promote the responsible use and management of those products to minimise Anti-corruption harm to people and the environment. Regardless of the country or culture within which our people As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals work, the Code of Business Conduct prohibits corrupt practices (ICMM), we have also committed to implementing the ICMM to further BHP Billiton’s goals. The Code of Business Conduct Sustainable Development Framework, which requires that requires appropriate due diligence in selecting and engaging we facilitate and encourage responsible product design, third parties, the maintenance of accurate and reasonably use, reuse, recycling and disposal of our products. detailed records of expenditures, and the implementation and maintenance of specific approval requirements for corruption BHP Billiton products are required to have a specific materials sensitive transactions. safety data sheet (MSDS). These MSDSs outline the relevant health, safety and environment aspects of the product and are We also now prohibit the making of facilitation payments, provided to both the customer and the transporter delivering which are payments involving small sums to low-level our products to our customers. government officials to obtain routine services to which BHP Billiton is otherwise legally entitled. Customers An internal investigation is continuing into allegations of We generally sell to industrial customers with whom we possible misconduct involving interactions with government usually engage directly, rather than through brokers and officials. Following requests for information from the US Securities agents. Internal approval processes are in place to support and Exchange Commission, the Group has disclosed to relevant our adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related authorities evidence that it has uncovered regarding possible to marketing communications, such as advertising, promotion violations of applicable anti-corruption laws involving and sponsorship. With the exception of diamonds, our product interactions with government officials. The Group is continuing advertising is limited to industrial uses. to cooperate with the relevant authorities. It is not possible We made it a condition in FY2010 that to do business with at this time to predict the scope or duration of the investigation us, all diamonds customers must be members in good standing or its likely outcomes. of the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) and that, through the RJC certification system, they will have to show compliance Transparently reporting taxes to the RJC standards through third-party audits. We support the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), an international initiative dedicated to the enhancement of transparency around the payments of taxes and royalties derived from resource development. In line with our support for the EITI, we have reported this data on a country-by-country basis and we have also broken the data down into the taxes and royalty payments that we make as BHP Billiton (e.g. corporate income taxes and royalties) and those that we collect on behalf of employees. Our payments to governments in the past year, listed in the table on page 38, included US$10.2 billion in company taxes and approximately US$1 billion in taxes collected on behalf of employees. More than 99 per cent of our payments are made to 14 countries. Of these, our largest payments are made in Australia, where we have the majority of our assets. The ‘other’ category includes minor payments in a further 16 countries. 26 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Effectively managing our material risks We identify, assess and manage risks to employees, People contractors, the environment and our host communities. Environment Society Refuge chambers at Olympic Dam, South Australia Governance While our efforts will always be to prevent major underground incidents, we remain prepared should they occur. Cognisant of recent international mine disasters, in FY2011 we reviewed our preparedness for, and response to, major underground incidents. Why this is a focus area Risk management plans are established to assess, control Identifying and managing material risk is a fundamental part and monitor material risks issues. In FY2011, BHP Billiton of any business and, for BHP Billiton, this includes focusing increased the emphasis on establishing performance standards on sustainability-specific risks for our people, the environment for material risk critical controls and ensuring these standards and our host communities described throughout this Report. are effectively implemented through a Group Management Committee key performance indicator (KPI). The KPI stipulates Our approach to risk management that individual BHP Billiton assets develop performance Our approach to governance and risk management processes standards for safety-related material risks. is based on a precautionary approach to achieving business outcomes. A broader discussion of our risk management The objectives of the risk assessment process are to understand approach is provided in section 5.6 of our Annual Report 2011. the nature and tolerance of the material risk issues for the Group and ensure material risks are well controlled through We have processes in place to ensure the management of material the development and monitoring of critical controls. risk is approached consistently across the Group. The Group Risk Controlling risk through system custodian processes Management Policy and Group Level Documents (GLDs) work together to embed risk management into our business activities, Our risk management processes are consistent with the hierarchy functions and processes. of controls described in Article 6 of International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 176 – Safety and Health in Mines. Assessing material risks and setting appropriate controls BHP Billiton mandates materiality and tolerability criteria to Our Group material risks range from financial and reputation identify material risk issues that consider non-financial impacts issues to potential impacts from changes in regulations such as health and safety, social and cultural, reputation, legal relevant to our products. For example, as a major producer and environmental impacts. The severity of any risk event is of carbon-related products, an area where regulatory standards assessed according to a matrix that describes the degree of harm, and expectations are emerging, we may be exposed to increased injury or loss from the most severe impact associated with that litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen environmental risk event, assuming reasonable effectiveness of controls. rehabilitation expenses. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 27 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Effectively managing our material risks continued Potential events that may materially impact our operations include rockfalls in underground mines, aircraft incidents, vehicle Getting back to work in and mobile equipment incidents, well blowouts, explosions or the Gulf of Mexico gas leaks, uncontrolled tailings breaches, escape of polluting In FY2010, the effectiveness substances or hydrocarbons, human rights breaches, community of our existing deepwater protests or civil unrest. Unanticipated long-term health impacts drilling safety controls was enhanced, including in the due to potential work exposures as well as infectious diseases area of worst-case discharge and pandemics pose potential risks and these effects may scenario planning. This create future lost time and/or financial compensation obligations. involved developing and Additionally, the dissatisfaction of our host communities regarding implementing a consistent modelling methodology. our impacts may potentially affect costs and production and in extreme cases viability; and changing legislative requirements and compliance issues may affect our financial results. Managing fatigue Failure to manage these risks has the potential to adversely Fatigue is an issue that illustrates the pervasive nature of risk affect our reputation and licence to operate. in our industry. While not consistently rated as a material risk, Managing aviation risk the implications of poor fatigue management can be serious. Aviation, and especially chartered aviation, is one of our most Fatigue directly affects health, potentially creates safety risks, significant safety risks. In response, the Group contributed to may impact productivity and can also impact communities the Flight Safety Foundation’s development of the Basic Aviation through the wellbeing of individuals. Our operations are Risk Standard. We took a leadership role to initiate discussions working to implement fatigue management plans consistent centred on developing an industry standard with the Flight Safety with established industry standards, in accordance with Foundation, an independent, not-for-profit group. Introduced the Health Group Level Document. in FY2010, the Standard is intended to achieve consistency Fatigue management was the subject of improvements in aviation safety controls across the industry, while facilitating at some of our operations in FY2011 (see case study). In Chile, continuous improvements. the Escondida operation undertook research to determine the Reviewing underground mine procedures factors that influence poor sleep quality. This resulted in medical In FY2011, we brought together operational teams, safety intervention for some workers, as well as the implementation and rescue specialists, and an independent expert to assess of workshops, motivational activities and the installation our preparedness for preventing and managing major incidents of special lighting on mine equipment. within our 13 underground mines. By the end of the workshop, Assessing risk when entering a new country the team had identified five areas for improvements, including: The performance measure we have set under the Country • mine monitoring systems; Risk Management GLD is that in countries of extreme or high • emergency self-escape systems; governance risk, proposed new activities that expose the Group • immediate response capability; to a material risk issue – such as a reputation, legal or business • systems for notifying all affected personnel; conduct impact – will be assessed to ensure a tolerable risk • systems to identify personnel who are underground. profile. New activities may include establishing new trade agreements, undertaking new community investment programs or interactions with government officials. We regularly audit the effectiveness of our management of material risks and, during FY2011, 31 such audits were conducted. Managing worker fatigue The potential to be exposed to situations that result in fatigue exists in many BHP Billiton operations. Driver fatigue, working long hours and failure to identify the symptoms of fatigue are all major safety concerns. In the specific case of driver fatigue, drowsiness may be exacerbated by shift work and irregular schedules and poses safety risks to drivers and others who share the road. At New Mexico Coal, newly installed technology detects driver drowsiness (which can manifest as micro-sleeps) through infra-red sensors fitted to the dashboard of mobile equipment and gives drivers an immediate audio alert. 28 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Appendix Our successes, challenges and commitments 30 The Development Driller 1 in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Performance data 31 Performance data – People 32 Performance data – Environment 33 Performance data – Society 36 Our Sustainability Framework 39 People 40 Environment 41 Society 44 Governance 45 GRI Application Level Check Statement 46 Independent assurance report to the Directors and management of BHP Billiton 47 BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 29 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Our successes, challenges and commitments Successes Challenges • Achieving an 18 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas intensity • Achieving our zero target for fatalities and our five-year target of our global operations. for total recordable injury frequency presents a challenge • Developing clear defining principles for engagement with despite our improvement trend. stakeholders, including international governments on climate • Working with our operations to identify greenhouse gas change policies. abatement and energy savings opportunities. • Reasonable assurance of our greenhouse gas emissions data • Eliminating the material risks faced by our teams across from external assurer KPMG. the diversity of our business operations. • Focusing on diversity plans being implemented in each of our • Managing our rapid growth in a safe manner and ensuring businesses to improve the diversity profile of our Group. we have the right people in the right jobs. • Being recognised in the field for our Foundations for • Ensuring a reliable long-term water supply and minimising Graduates program. impact of future demand from our operations on the • Achieving a 20 per cent reduction in potential environment and the communities in which we operate. carcinogenic exposures. • Fully understanding the social impacts of our business • Embarking on a five-year alliance with Conservation so we can mitigate and minimise negative impacts and International to deliver significant and lasting benefits to the create the best possible outcomes for people living in environment by preserving land of high conservation value. our host communities. • Achieving 94 per cent completion of human rights impact assessments in FY2011. • Fostering the development of local suppliers and micro-businesses in the communities in which we operate. Voluntary initiatives and public commitments International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Founding member of ICMM and deputy chair in FY2011. United Nations Global Compact Signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2003 and is committed to its 10 principles. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) Supporter of the EITI through our membership of ICMM. World Business Council for Sustainable Development – (WBCSD) Member of the WBCSD since 2000. The Carbon Disclosure Project Participant in the annual disclosure of climate change information. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Organisational Stakeholder of the GRI. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) Participant and signatory of the VPSHR. Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Signatory to the World Economic Forum’s PACI Principles for Countering Bribery (PACI Principles). 30 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Performance data Notes to sustainability data Detailed information on our performance is provided on the following pages. Anyone seeking to use information contained in the Report, or seeking to draw conclusions from the data presented should contact us for verification and assistance. Data are derived from our many operations around the world and may not be strictly comparable year-on-year. Data contained within this Report are reported on a 100 per cent basis for facilities operated by BHP Billiton, irrespective of our equity share. Joint ventures where we are not the operator have been excluded. Exceptions to this include Average Number of Employees and Average Employees by Region, which includes our share of proportionally consolidated entities and operations, and the reporting of our community investment expenditure and payments to governments, which are reported on an equity share basis for both operated and non-operated joint venture operations. All monetary amounts in this document are reported in US dollars, unless otherwise stated. Data included in our People section, excluding Average Employees, were collected through an internal survey covering July 2010 to March 2011 and then averaged for a nine-month period. Significant changes to data after this period that would materially affect the average are included. For Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, we have provided information at the Customer Sector Group (CSG) level. Quantification of energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions involves the use of calculations where direct measurement is not always practical. The emissions and energy content factors and formulae used in these calculations are sourced from relevant industry protocols and national and international standards (for example, the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Australia’s National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting rules and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)) to enable consistent treatment of the uncertainties associated with energy and greenhouse gas reporting, in accordance with industry standards. Global warming potential factors are consistent with the IPCC Second Assessment Report (1996). Acquisitions and disposals In FY2011 there were no asset disposals. In March 2011, we completed the acquisition of Fayetteville Shale gas. Data is not included for FY2011. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 31 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Performance data – People FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 FY2008 FY2007 Average Number of Employees (1) Number 40,757 39,570 40,990 41,732 39,947 Average Number of Contractors (2) Number 64,548 58,563 58,000 61,000 59,000 Employee Turnover (3) % 8.83 8.94 15.50 14.00 12.00 Duration Occupational (5) Average Average Region Fatalities TRIF Rate (4) Illnesses Employees (1) Contractors (2) Africa 2 2.8 55 37 10,061 14,686 Asia 0 0.9 29 0 970 2,084 Australasia 0 7.8 50 98 16,290 29,755 Europe 0 1.6 0 0 492 201 North America 0 4.8 26 9 3,168 2,191 South America 0 1.9 18 4 9,776 15,631 Total 2 5.0 47 148 40,757 64,548 % Turnover (3) % Employees by Employment Type (3) Total 8.83 Full-time 96.25 Male 8.41 Part-time 0.52 Female 11.09 Fixed Term Full-time 3.05 Turnover by Age Fixed Term Part-time 0.07 Under 30 8.78 Casual 0.11 30–39 9.71 Employees by Age Group (3) 40– 49 7.57 Under 30 17.53 Over 50 9.23 30–39 32.96 Turnover by Region 40– 49 28.61 Africa 6.53 Over 50 20.90 Asia 10.02 Australasia 10.33 Gender % Europe 14.19 Total Male Female Group % North America 7.68 South America 8.05 Employee By Category (6) (1) GMC Members 85.71 14.29 0.02 Average Number of Employees and Average Employees by Region include Executive Directors, 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies and Senior Leaders 90.20 9.80 0.86 our share of proportionate consolidated entities and operations. Part-time Managers 85.36 14.64 3.08 employees are included on a full-time equivalent basis. Employees of Supervisory and Professionals 77.81 22.19 32.37 businesses acquired or disposed of during the year are included for the period of ownership. People employed by contractors are not included. Operators and General Support 86.99 13.01 63.67 (2) Average Number of Contractors and Average Contractors by Region include contractors engaged at our owned and operated assets. (3) Turnover, Employees by Employment Type and Age Group are based on average employee numbers, which include the Executive Directors Number and 100 per cent of employees of all BHP Billiton operations. Part-time Safety Fines – Region Levied FY2011 of Fines employees are included on a full-time equivalent basis. Contractors North America US$306,300 321 are not included. (4) Average number of calendar days lost per classified injury (fatalities, Australia A$76,000 1 lost-time and restricted work). (5) Employees only. Pension plans and medical schemes (6) Employees by Category is based on actual employee headcount as Defined benefit pension schemes at 31 March 2011 and defined in footnote 3. Definition of the categories is as follows: GMC Members consists of organisational level A; Senior The BHP Billiton Group has closed all defined benefit schemes Leaders consists of organisational levels B, C and D; Managers consists to new entrants. Existing defined benefit pension schemes of organisational level E; Supervisory and Professionals consists of remain operating in Australia, the Americas, Europe and organisational levels F and G; and Operators and general support consists of organisational level H. South Africa. Defined benefit post-retirement medical schemes The BHP Billiton Group operates a number of post-retirement medical schemes in the Americas and South Africa. All of the post-retirement medical schemes in the Group are unfunded. Full actuarial valuations are prepared and updated annually to 30 June by local actuaries for all schemes. Information on our pension plans is available in Note 29 of the Financial Statements in our Annual Report. 32 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Performance data – Environment FY2011 FY2010 Land Land – Footprint (1) hectares 170,900 166,000 Land – Area of Land Disturbed hectares 129,000 125,000 Land – Rehabilitated Land hectares 41,900 41,000 Land – Set Aside for Conservation hectares 25,100 (2) 13,600 Water Consumption Water Use – Recycled megalitres 176,000 182,000 Water Use – High-quality Total megalitres 152,000 152,000 Water Use – Low-quality Total megalitres 74,200 52,700 (3) Energy Energy Use – Electricity petajoules 117 115 Purchased Electricity by Primary Energy Source (4) – Coal and Oil % 62 83 – Natural Gas % 6 7 – Hydro and Other Renewables % 30 6 – Nuclear % 2 3 – Other % 0 1 Energy Use – Coal and Coke petajoules 53 52 Energy Use – Natural Gas petajoules 44 47 Energy Use – Distillate/Gasoline petajoules 64 60 Energy Use – Fuel and Process Oil petajoules 1 2 Energy Use – Other petajoules 7 8 Energy Use – Total petajoules 286 284 Emissions GHG – Total Scope 1 and 2 millions of tonnes CO2-e 41 46 GHG – Scope 3 – Use of Sold Products millions of tonnes CO2-e 314 324 – Coal Products millions of tonnes CO2-e 254 262 – Petroleum Products (5) millions of tonnes CO2-e 60 62 Other Emissions – Total SO2 tonnes 62,700 55,300 Other Emissions – Total NOx tonnes 62,800 64,400 Other Emissions – Total Fluoride tonnes 978 897 Ozone Depleting Substances tonnes 0.3 0.3 Mercury – Total Hg Emissions tonnes 0.9 0.9 Recycling General Waste – Recycled (on/off-site) kilotonnes 78 69 Non-mineral Hazardous Waste: Total Recycled/Reused kilotonnes 103 22 Waste Hazardous Waste – Mineral Total kilotonnes 35,200 29,500 Non-hazardous Waste – Mineral Tailings kilotonnes 104,000 106,000 General Waste – Disposed On/Off-site kilotonnes 63 89 Water Discharged – Total megalitres 204,046 131,186 – Groundwater megalitres 476 656 – Ocean megalitres 97,500 67,200 – Surface megalitres 103,000 61,100 – Third Party megalitres 3,070 2,230 Accidental Discharges of Water and Tailings (6) megalitres 0 4.2 (1) Total area of land that has been disturbed (includes areas rehabilitated). (2) Increase attributable to Gosse Springs Native Management Plan biodiversity conservation, Olympic Dam South Australia. (3) A reporting change in Petroleum cooling water in FY2011 causes a large variance of 25,000 Ml from FY2010 figures. FY2010 is understated when comparing future years. (4) Data estimated from publicly available primary energy source data for electricity suppliers. (5) For petroleum in use, crude oil is assumed to be used as diesel fuel and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) is assumed to be used for non-transportation purposes. (6) Data reported from potential environmentally significant incidents. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 33 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Performance data – Environment continued Production (1) FY2011 FY2010 Production (1) FY2011 FY2010 Alumina ’000 tonnes 4,010 3,841 Manganese Alloys ’000 tonnes 753 583 Aluminium ’000 tonnes 1,246 1,241 Manganese Ores ’000 tonnes 7,093 6,124 Copper Cathode ’000 tonnes 651 529 Metallurgical Coal ’000 tonnes 32,678 37,381 Copper in Concentrate ’000 tonnes 488 547 Nickel ’000 tonnes 153 176 Diamonds ’000 carats 2,506 3,050 Petroleum Products million boe 159 159 Energy Coal ’000 tonnes 69,500 66,131 Silver ’000 ounces 42,656 45,362 Gold ounces 196,091 141,919 Uranium Oxide Concentrate tonnes 4,045 2,279 Iron Ore ’000 tonnes 134,406 124,962 Zinc tonnes 152,127 198,279 Lead tonnes 244,554 248,486 (1) Production figures are not directly comparable with environmental data as they are based on BHP Billiton attributable production (equity basis). GHG – Total Scope 1 & 2 Energy Use – Energy Use – Customer Sector Group Summary Data ‘000 tonnes CO2-e Total petajoules Electricity petajoules Aluminium 16,600 129.0 72.8 Base Metals 5,400 36.6 17.9 Diamonds and Specialty Products 157 2.3 0.0 Energy Coal 3,280 11.6 2.5 Iron Ore 1,440 16.1 2.2 Manganese 3,430 26.4 8.8 Metallurgical Coal 7,150 22.3 4.8 Petroleum 1,560 17.9 0.1 Stainless Steel Materials 1,790 23.4 7.4 Minerals Exploration 4 0.1 0.0 Corporate 1 0.0 0.0 BHP Billiton Total 40,811 285.6 116.5 Number Environmental Fines – Region Levied FY2011 of Fines South America US$2,454 1 GHG Intensity Index Carbon-based Energy Intensity Index BHP Billiton measures greenhouse gas emissions using the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development 120 120 Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The intensity indices are determined by dividing 100 100 the annual greenhouse gas emissions or energy use by the annual units of production for individual 80 80 assets, then aggregating the results for the Group. The base year for the indices is FY2006. Below % 60 % 60 100 per cent indicates improvement. From FY2010 we revised our energy intensity 40 40 calculations to reflect the total energy consumed to produce the purchased electricity used by our assets, from using the energy content 20 20 of the purchased electricity only. 0 Target – 94% Target – 87% Greenhouse gas intensity index calculation does 0 not include the effect of changes in electricity FY2011 FY2011 Base Year FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Base Year FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 generation factors that are outside our control. 34 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Climate change risks and opportunities Risks Opportunities Regulatory Various states and national governments are considering Carbon pricing could provide a cost advantage for low-carbon impact the introduction of carbon taxes or requiring permits for energy sources, potentially resulting in an increased market all major emitters, which may result in increased operating for natural gas and uranium products. costs. Inconsistency of regulations between developed Focusing on reducing greenhouse gas emissions can lead to and developing countries could lead to trade imbalances energy efficiency improvements and associated cost saving. and competitiveness impacts. Physical Extreme weather events and changes in precipitation patterns Extreme weather events and sea level rise require design impacts could cause flooding and/or extended droughts, exacerbating changes for new capital facilities. Companies with the capital regional water stresses affecting mining operations. strength to build more robust, longer life facilities that can withstand the physical impacts that may occur due to climate change will have an advantage. Potential sea level rise could affect port operations and support facilities and cause disruptions to onshore operations located near coastlines. Sea level changes may also impact access to ports. Tropical cyclones may become more frequent and stronger and cause damage to offshore petroleum operations, including impacts on personnel, as well as loss of business continuity, production interruption and damaged or lost facilities. Rise in average temperature could lead to increased incidence of heat stress illness and thereby impact workforce performance. Other Companies could potentially face increased litigation over Companies viewed as positive contributors to addressing impacts greenhouse gas emissions from their products and operations. the climate change issue could receive increased support There is also potential for reputation risks with communities from external stakeholders and socially responsible investors. and investors if performance and policy commitments fall Natural gas and uranium businesses may benefit from short of public expectations. increased demand in a carbon constrained world. Progressive changes in regulatory environments and public expectations may present trade and market share risks for carbon-based energy products. Companies may face uncertainties regarding future electricity and fuel prices due to carbon pricing and conversion to more expensive low-carbon alternative energy sources. A detailed discussion of regulatory, physical and other climate change risks and opportunities is included in BHP Billiton’s response to the Carbon Disclosure Project on www cdproject net. Selection of Energy Efficiency Projects for US$300 million commitment Asset Country Project Objective Hunter Valley Australia Contribute to Invest in research and development of low emissions and Energy Coal (New South Wales) Coal 21 projects carbon sequestration technology for coal fired power. Cerro Matoso Colombia Waste heat recovery Use excess heat energy from electric furnaces to preheat combustion air in kilns, reducing fossil fuel usage. Nickel West Australia Steam temperature Review the use of steam across Kwinana to reduce excess (Kwinana) (Western Australia) optimisation energy applied in heating steam to a required temperature. Worsley Australia Improved digestion Reduce the amount of lost condensate from production, resulting Alumina (Western Australia) condensate return in less energy needed at the powerhouse. The powerhouse uses remaining production condensate as recycled water. TEMCO Australia Waste slag recovery Turn a waste slag into a clean saleable slag by recovering the (Tasmania) excess silicomanganese (SiMn) alloy content. Recovering alloy from slag also reduces electricity per tonne of alloy product. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 35 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Performance data – Society Our stakeholders BHP Billiton operations identify their key stakeholders and consider their expectations and concerns for all activities throughout the life cycle of the operations, in accordance with the Community Group Level Document. In addition to our reporting stakeholders, the groups listed below also includes our broader stakeholder groups. Operations specifically consider any minority groups (such as Indigenous groups) and any social and cultural factors that may be critical to stakeholder engagement. Interest Engagement methods Investment community The investment community These analysts are located globally and assess • regular communications to mainstream investment includes mainstream whether BHP Billiton’s performance closely aligns with organisations, SRI analysts and corporate financial analysts, socially shareholder interests, including delivering good financial governance analysts; responsible investment (SRI) returns and demonstrating strong Group performance • analyst briefings on key issues (subject to applicable laws), analysts, who advise existing and governance. Increasingly, non-financial performance including briefings for SRI and mainstream analysts with and potential shareholders is also of interest; elements of this include improved a particular interest in our environmental and social on our performance, and governance mechanisms and non-financial risks and performance, and dialogue on key sustainability issues corporate governance their mitigation. with a range of stakeholders, including the SRI and analysts, who work for mainstream investment community; or advise existing and • printed reports (Annual Report, Sustainability Report); potential shareholders. • participation in external benchmarking initiatives. Shareholders BHP Billiton shareholders The creation of long-term shareholder value through • Annual General Meetings; are a diverse group, with a combination of consistent financial returns and • regular printed and electronic communications; significant representation high-quality governance. They are also interested in • regular meetings with institutional shareholders in Australasia, Europe, South BHP Billiton ensuring that high-quality governance is and investor representatives; Africa and North America. an ongoing process and that our focus is maintained • access to all investment community presentations on continuous improvement and understanding via our website www bhpbilliton com. shareholder concerns. Customers Our customers are generally Typically focused on reliability and supply; product • regular communications with BHP Billiton Marketing; other large organisations. quality, cost and delivery; the full life cycle impacts of • technical support to assist with product use, either our products and the downstream products made using in terms of process efficiency or product handling; BHP Billiton materials; materials and resource efficiency • product information, including material safety and the management of final waste materials. data sheets; • visits to operations; • technology exchanges with operations; • participation in a range of stewardship initiatives, such as the Responsible Jewellery Council and the World Nuclear Association Uranium Stewardship Working Group. Media The media includes A broad range of issues reflecting all • media releases, briefings, presentations and interviews. representatives from print, stakeholder interests. online and broadcast media. Business partners Our business partners Both BHP Billiton and our joint venture partners • via joint venture boards and operating committees; include those organisations are interested in ensuring that suitable governance • printed reports (Annual Report, Sustainability Report); with which we have joint mechanisms are in place. We engage with joint venture • joint venture partner participation in Health, Safety, venture arrangements. partners to ensure financial returns are delivered and Environment and Community (HSEC) audit programs. that risks are sufficiently mitigated. Employees and contractors Our workforce is large and Matters concerning the health and safety of our • regular performance reviews and employee diverse, with employees and employees and colleagues are key areas of focus, perception surveys; contractors located in more as are working conditions and career development • direct communication with employees through immediate than 25 countries. opportunities. For employees and contractors who reside supervisors and management; near our operations, it is common for any prevailing • operation-based newsletters and general communications; local issues, such as employment opportunities, business • BHP Billiton intranet; creation, social infrastructure, schooling and health care, to be shared with local communities. In many remote • asset and operation-based sustainability reports; communities, housing and basic services and amenity • Business Conduct Advisory Service; are key to employee attraction and retention. • participation in HSEC performance improvement initiatives at their own operations. 36 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Interest Engagement methods Local and Indigenous communities Most of our operations are Potential environmental and social impacts associated • community consultation and engagement groups; located in rural and remote with our operations. A focus is to ensure opportunities • participation in BHP Billiton activities; areas. We therefore have a presented by our operations are optimised (for example, • newsletters and targeted communications; broad spectrum of local and maintaining sustainable community development • community perception surveys; Indigenous communities with opportunities after a mine closure). Results from interests and concerns. stakeholder perception surveys, regularly conducted by • support through local foundations (for example, operations, rate local employment and business creation, in Chile, Peru, Colombia and Mozambique); support for social infrastructure and programs, a desire • other operation-specific engagement developed for improved community engagement mechanisms as part of operation community relations plans. and improved environmental performance as local communities’ most important interests and concerns. Industry associations Industry associations A diverse range of issues relating to the sector • BHP Billiton engages with this group through ongoing include commodity-specific or commodity, such as environmental legislation, representation on specific committees and engagement associations, as well safety standards and promotion of leading practice. during specific projects with industry associations, as sector-specific both nationally and internationally, such as the Minerals associations, at national Council of Australia and the International Council on and international levels. Mining and Metals. Suppliers Our suppliers include Supply agreements, payment processes and required • in addition to a review of zero-tolerance requirements businesses local to our supplier standards. across our suppliers, BHP Billiton performs a supplier operations, as well as large segmentation based on HSEC and business conduct international suppliers. We requirements. Based on this segmentation, we define seek to utilise local suppliers, the appropriate engagement throughout the supplier and support these suppliers life cycle. in enhancing community development opportunities. Governments and regulators We engage with governments National, regional or local legislative and regulatory • group representatives attend selected events, such as and regulators at local, policy frameworks for the natural resources sector political party conventions, for the purpose of better regional, national and through the full project life cycle. They are also understanding the implications of public policy international levels. interested in market access, product stewardship, development on business operations; environmental performance, social policy and fiscal • employees may participate in political processes regimes applicable to the resources sector. We respect as individuals, provided it is made clear that in doing the authority of governments and our operations so they are not representing BHP Billiton; are required to work within relevant legislative and • BHP Billiton will express its views to governments on regulatory frameworks at the local, regional, national subjects that affect the Group’s interests and operations. and international levels. This must be done in a manner that adheres to high standards of ethics and complies with the letter and spirit of the law; • we will not make political contributions in cash or in-kind anywhere in the world and will not participate directly in the activities of political parties. Non-government organisations Non-government Ethical, social and environmental performance of • each operation identifies relevant local NGOs and includes organisations (NGOs) with existing operations, proposed operations or closed mechanisms for engagement with them within the asset’s which we typically engage operations. These stakeholders are increasingly community engagement plan; include environmental, interested in non-financial performance, such as • at the corporate level, we regularly engage with relevant social and human rights better governance mechanisms and non-financial national and international organisations. Our Forum organisations at local, national risks and mitigation. on Corporate Responsibility (FCR) includes leaders from and international levels. a number of NGOs, including WWF Australia, Oxfam Australia, Alliance for Responsible Mining (Colombia), International Alert (UK) and Centre for Social Markets (India). The FCR meets twice a year and is chaired by our Chief Executive Officer. Labour unions Labour unions are The types of issues that are raised by unions include • we engage in direct communication with unions represented at many workers’ rights and interests, collective bargaining as required. We respect the right of all employees to of our operations. opportunities, health and safety matters, remuneration, freely choose to join labour unions and we have a mix working hours and roster arrangements. of collective and individual work arrangements at our operations. Prospective employees are made aware of employment arrangements prior to joining the Group. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 37 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Performance data – Society continued Business conduct Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative We have in place mechanisms to address stakeholder grievances Through our membership of the International Council on Mining and concerns. BHP Billiton operations maintain a register of and Metals, BHP Billiton supports the Extractive Industries concerns, complaints and relevant external communications. Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global initiative to improve The confidential Business Conduct Advisory Service provides governance in resource-rich countries through the verification a further means for raising issues such as harassment, conflict and full publication of company payments and government of interest or fraud. Contact details are provided on the website, revenues from oil, gas and mining. www bhpbilliton com. We are committed to supporting and cooperating in the implementation of Country-level EITI Work Plans as our host Business Conduct Advisory countries progress the initiative. In the interim, our payments Service Enquiries by Category to governments are disclosed on a country-by-country basis. Inappropriate Workplace Behaviour 24% Taxes and royalty payments on a country-by-country basis (a) Health and Safety 14% Information Systems 12% Taxes borne Taxes collected Fraud, Theft, Misappropriation 11% by BHP Billiton by BHP Billiton Harassment 11% Country US$ million (b) US$ million (c) Conflict of Interest 7% Business Partners 6% Australia 6,657 642 Other* 5% Community 3% Chile 1,410 40 Equality in Employment 3% Colombia 533 9 Unfair Dismissal 2% Gifts, Meals, Entertainment and Travel 1% Algeria 342 – Environment and Stewardship 1% Brazil 291 <1 South Africa 182 121 * Antitrust, Corruption, Government Relations, Intellectual Property, Personal Information and Privacy, Political Contributions, Public Release Canada 202 20 of Company Information and Property Misuse. US 124 75 Peru 187 – FY2011 FY2010 United Kingdom 89 26 Community Complaints Pakistan 61 <1 Dust 40 36 Switzerland 47 – Noise 51 71 Netherlands 20 23 Odour 22 54 Trinidad & Tobago 33 1 Other 81 71 Other (d) 26 11 (a) The Group claims refunds of transaction taxes (for example GST/VAT Training FY2011 FY2010 and Fuel Tax) paid to suppliers for in-country purchases of goods, services and eligible fuel and also collects GST/VAT in respect of certain sales Anti-corruption Training (1) to customers. These amounts are not included in taxes borne or taxes Employee 2,560 – collected as set out in the table. (b) Taxes borne by BHP Billiton primarily comprise income tax and royalty Human Rights Training related taxes paid, royalties paid in kind, customs and excise tax payments, Employee 8,725 4,515 social taxes paid, payroll taxes paid, payments of Fringe Benefits Tax and production based royalties accrued, which approximate cash payments. Contractor 10,811 4,450 Ancillary payments, such as licences, visas, sales taxes, stamp duty Cross-cultural Training payments and land tax, are included. (c) Taxes collected and paid on behalf our our employees are also measured Assets that conduct cross-cultural training on an equity share basis, but only for those assets that we operate. for employees 32 22 Where the payroll calendar year is different to the Group’s financial year, Security the most recent annual data has been used. (d) The countries that make up the ‘other’ category have not been disclosed Security employees 84 108 as they are not material and not considered among the high-risk countries Security employees trained in Human Rights 61 58 according to the Human Rights Risk Atlas 2011, Business Integrity and Corruption Index. Security contractors 1,671 1,549 Security contractors trained in Human Rights 1,196 1,136 (1) Delivered to employees, including senior management and employees considered to be in higher risk jurisdictions and positions. 38 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Our Sustainability Framework Policy framework The HSEC GLDs also incorporate elements from, or are aligned Our BHP Billiton Charter with, other international policies, standards and management Our Charter is the road map that defines our Company; it practices to which BHP Billiton has committed, such as the describes our purpose, values and how we measure success. principles of the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework The BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct and the UN Global Compact, the United Nations Declaration Our Code of Business Conduct applies to every member of of Human Rights and the Voluntary Principles on Security our workforce and provides a framework for decision-making. and Human Rights. The HSEC GLDs are: It is based on the values contained in Our Charter and highlights • Health, Safety, Environment and Community Reporting that we care as much about how results are obtained as we • Health do about delivering good results. • Environment BHP Billiton policies • Community Our Sustainable Development Policy is one of five BHP Billiton • Fatal Risk Controls policies. The Policy defines our commitments to environmental • Asset Protection and social responsibility. • Aviation BHP Billiton Health, Safety, Environment and Community While many elements of our sustainability framework are Group Level Documents encapsulated in the HSEC GLDs, others are integrated into Our Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) related GLDs that focus on risk, supply and procurement, Group Level Documents (GLD) provide the basis for developing human resources and business ethics. Sustainability has many and applying management systems at all sites operated by touch-points across the Company and we continue to work BHP Billiton. These documents address the material sustainable collaboratively across disciplines to ensure the best outcomes. development risks identified by the Group and highlight four key components of sustainable development: Audit and assurance Our assets are assessed for compliance against the HSEC GLDs • Health – focusing on the elimination of risks through through a systematised audit process. In addition, HSEC audits the control of potential workplace exposures to noise also address HSEC risk management and HSEC data integrity. and substances that could result in long-term harm; • Safety – providing a workplace where people can work Sustainable Development Policy without being injured; In the following sections headed ‘Key Area’, we have highlighted • Environment – delivering efficient resource use, reducing and the relevant statements from our Sustainable Development preventing pollution and enhancing biodiversity protection; Policy and provided a more detailed explanation describing • Community – engaging with those affected by our operations, how we approach each of these aspects. including employees, contractors and communities; and We have also included the major HSEC performance requirements respecting fundamental human rights. from our GLDs. We have only included sustainability elements that are of interest to our stakeholders. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2011 | 39 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Key Area People BHP Billiton is committed to harnessing the unique skills, experience and perspectives that each individual brings, recognising that these differences are important to our success as a company. The safety, health and wellbeing of our employees, contractors and the communities in which we operate is central to the success of our business. The acute and immediate nature of serious accidents makes it easy for us to focus on them; however, the long-term disabilities associated with chronic exposure to health risks are equally serious. We are committed to reducing the potential for these exposures within our workplaces. Significant community-based health risks (for example, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria) also exist in our businesses and we contribute to the ongoing management of these issues. Fitness for work is an important area of employee health. We have developed drug, alcohol and fatigue management programs at our operations to minimise risks associated with these health issues. Sustainable Development Policy Statements Our Approach We encourage a diverse workforce and provide Employment is offered and provided based on merit. All employees and applicants a work environment in which everyone is treated for employment will be treated and evaluated according to their job-related skills, fairly, with respect and can realise their full potential. qualifications, abilities and aptitudes only. Employment decisions based on attributes other than a person’s qualification to perform a job – for example, race, colour, gender, religion, personal associations, national origin, age, disability, political beliefs, HIV status, marital status, pregnancy, sexual orientation or family responsibilities – are prohibited. We recognise, however, that affirmative action may be required to address historical imbalances and past discrimination, through programs such as Indigenous employment and training and black economic empowerment. We do not compromise our safety values, and seek The health and safety of our people are values that will not be compromised. We seek ways to promote and improve the health of our to create a mindset and environment where people believe it is possible to work safely workforce and the community. and without illness – regardless of where they are in the world, what role they undertake or in which business they work. We recognise the importance of our employees being both fit for work and fit for life. We work with the communities in which we operate to support programs focused on significant community health and safety issues that may also impact our workforce and their dependants. Key HSEC Performance Requirements We recognise our material risks, require critical controls to be identified and performance standards for each critical control to be developed. We verify compliance with, and effectiveness of, critical controls. We have explicit performance requirements for activities that historically resulted in the majority of our fatalities and significant incidents. They include vehicles and mobile equipment; explosives and blasting; ground control; hazardous materials; isolation and permit to work; working at heights; and lifting operations. We manage aviation risk using the Flight Safety Foundation Basic Aviation Risk Standard as the minimum requirement for contracted aviation operations. We identify and measure the potential exposures to health hazards of all employees and contractors and establish the risk profile so effective exposure control and medical surveillance programs can be implemented. We implement exposure control programs for existing operations and in new projects to prevent the potential consequences of exposure. We prioritise implementation of controls based on the potential health consequence of exposure and the number of people exposed. The effectiveness of the controls is monitored. We implement fit for work programs that include medical assessments, fatigue management programs to minimise the risks of fatigue-related incidents and injuries, and drug and alcohol programs at sites, as appropriate under local legislation. 40 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Key Area Environment We own and operate a diverse range of businesses in different countries and ecosystems around the world. These businesses, by their nature, have the potential to affect the environment. This can occur in a variety of ways, including: • emissions of gases and particulates, such as carbon dioxide and oxides of sulphur and nitrogen, associated with combustion and smelting processes; methane from exposed coal seams; fluorides from aluminium smelting; and particulates from ore handling; • consumption of water and impacts on water quality associated with mining, refining, smelting and petroleum processes; • impacts associated with land disturbance, land-use changes and habitat removal; • alterations to biodiversity within terrestrial, freshwater and marine environments, either directly or indirectly as a result of our operations; • indirect impacts encompassing any of the above as a result of the products and services we purchase, lease or provide. Sustainable Development Policy Statements Our Approach We enhance biodiversity protection by assessing and Throughout the life cycle of our activities, we assess and manage the potential impacts considering ecological values and land-use aspects we may have on ecosystem services, including biodiversity, water and other land uses. in investment, operational and closure activities. Starting from project inception, we identify, assess and manage the specific risks to ecosystem services, including biodiversity, water and other land uses, including those posed by closure of an operation. We seek to deliver significant and lasting benefits to the environment in regions where BHP Billiton operates globally through preserving land of high conservation value in collaboration with local partners and improving natural resource management. We set and achieve targets that promote Businesses have programs to improve our waste management practices, including efficient use of resources and include reducing waste minimisation, recycling and pollution prevention through proper disposal. and preventing pollution. Such programs are designed with the aim to meet both national and international waste management regulations and maximise the recovery of resources. We continue to identify business risks and opportunities for water access, reuse or recycling, efficient use and responsible wastewater disposal. Key HSEC Performance Requirements We develop management plans addressing impacts, including on biodiversity, water, waste, land and air, for all sites operated by BHP Billiton. These plans include: • a baseline assessment of the environmental values potentially impacted; • an environmental impact assessment; • controls to mitigate environmental impacts; • monitor and review programs to assess the environmental impacts and effectiveness of the controls. Operations with material water risk establish targets and implement projects to reduce water stress in the regions where they operate. We will not mine or explore within the boundaries of World Heritage listed properties and will ensure that activities adjacent to these areas are compatible with the outstanding universal values for which the properties have been listed. We will not mine or explore within the boundaries of International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Protected Areas Categories I–IV, unless an action plan designed to deliver measurable benefits to biodiversity has been developed that is commensurate with the level of biodiversity impacts. We will not proceed with activities where the direct impacts would result in extinction of species listed by the IUCN as being threatened with extinction. We rehabilitate disturbed areas consistent with the pre-disturbance land use or alternative land uses developed in consultation with stakeholders. We implement compensatory actions where residual impacts exceed the acceptable level of impact to biodiversity, land use, watersheds and/or water sources. We will not dispose of tailings or waste rock into a river or marine environment. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 41 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Key Area Environment continued Climate change and energy 1. Clear price signal – ensuring that the carbon price signal The issues associated with climate change continue to be a reaches consumers such that consumption is reduced, challenge for governments, communities and industry around and investment choices made that favour low-carbon the world. Alliances to tackle this challenge will need to cross alternatives (as opposed to not communicating clearly national and cultural boundaries, but the developed world has to consumers that higher costs are required to change a clear leadership responsibility in achieving a global approach. behaviour, thus not optimising the use of market mechanisms to decrease emissions). Scientists tell us the world must aim to stabilise global carbon dioxide concentrations in the range of 450 parts per million 2. Revenue neutral – returning aggregate revenues raised to avoid the most severe impacts. An international climate to individuals and businesses impacted by the carbon price framework must establish binding commitments for all (for example by a cut in taxes and individual lump sum developed and major developing economies if real reductions grants) maximally offsets the impact of increased carbon in emissions are to be achieved. costs (as opposed to carbon as a mechanism to increase total tax take and applying the additional revenue for general Following the United Nations Climate Change Conference in spending and backing ‘winning’ technologies). Cancun in December 2010, it is evident that a global solution to 3. Trade friendly – rebating emissions costs for trade exposed climate change, which includes a carbon price of some form, is products during the transition to a global system prevents some time away. Until then, nations around the world are likely to emissions simply being transplanted to other countries continue to accelerate their domestic emissions reduction efforts where emissions prices are lower (as opposed to penalising and establish low-carbon economies, balancing their needs to trade exposed products with additional costs that make ensure a reliable energy supply and sustain economic growth. them uncompetitive). National and regional policymakers are considering a variety 4. Broad based – covering the broadest possible range of both of legislative and regulatory options to mitigate greenhouse gas carbon emission activities and low-carbon energy options (GHG) emissions. In our view, assessing these options requires in any plan ensures the largest base for emissions reduction an understanding of their likely effectiveness, scale and cost, (as opposed to placing the burden of carbon emissions as well as their implications for economic growth and quality reduction on a subset of emission sources and solutions). of life. Within BHP Billiton, we analyse and compare the various 5. Predictable and gradual – ensuring that future carbon costs policy options by evaluating the degree to which they meet are predictable facilitates investments that reduce emissions; the following defined set of principles: a gradual change in price gives the economy time to adjust (as opposed to volatile costs that create uncertainty and stifle investment). 6. Simple and effective – a combination of a carbon tax, land-use actions and limited trading system (for example for stationary electricity production only) is easy to implement and effective (as opposed to an encompassing trading system, which is theoretically economically efficient, but highly complex and impractical). These principles are intended to minimise overall costs to society of reducing GHG emissions and to allow markets, not regulators, to determine technologies that best meet consumer needs. They recognise that long-term policies must align with differing national priorities and with evolving knowledge if they are to be sustainable. Cost minimisation is important because the scale of the challenge is large. 42 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Carbon Pricing Protocol BHP Billiton maintains an internal mechanism for costing carbon and determining carbon price impacts on greenfield and brownfield developments and on mergers and acquisitions. The Carbon Pricing Protocol includes a range of prices for developed and developing countries based on likely scenarios of government requirements and technology deployment, as well as the associated costs and economic impacts. Our valuations for investment decisions and planning processes include the expected impacts of carbon emissions (both cost and price impacts). The Carbon Pricing Protocol is updated annually to reflect internal and external carbon price modelling and proposed treatment of carbon permits in countries where we operate. Our Commitments Our Approach We will understand the sources, scope and extent We will: of GHG emissions associated with our activities. • continue transparent public reporting of our emissions profile, including our emissions from production activities; • work with experts to improve our understanding of the full life cycle of our products and strategies for effectively reducing GHG emissions from their production and use. We will continually improve energy and greenhouse gas We will: management at our operations. Emissions abatement • share leading practice and innovation in energy and operational efficiency and energy-saving considerations are built into our to deliver savings in emissions and costs; decision-making processes. • continue to pursue external projects and other opportunities that deliver tangible reductions in GHG emissions and generate credits. We will work collaboratively with customers, We will spend US$300 million over the period 2008 to 2012 to: communities and employees to reduce emissions • support industry research, development and demonstration of low emissions and support internal emissions reduction projects. technologies, including collaborative research dedicated to accelerating the commercial uptake of promising technologies; • provide capital funding for internal energy projects with a GHG emissions reduction component that might not otherwise be competitive within our normal capital allocation processes; • support the efforts of our employees and our local communities to reduce their emissions. We will work with governments and other stakeholders We will: on the development of policies that provide the • support policies aimed at accelerating the cost-effective reduction of emissions; necessary incentives and tools for effective, • support measures that follow our defined set of principles for carbon equitable abatement. abatement policies. Key HSEC Performance Requirements We develop and maintain inventories of GHG emissions that include sources of emissions aligned with the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Our operations implement and maintain energy and GHG management plans. These plans include a GHG emissions baseline and identification, evaluation and implementation of energy reduction and GHG reduction projects. Material GHG emitting operations establish targets and implement and maintain projects to reduce GHG based on a greenhouse GHG cost curve. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2011 | 43 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Key Area Society Our long-term success depends on our ability to build relationships and work in a collaborative and transparent way with business partners, governments, non-government organisations and host communities. Wherever we operate, we commit to engaging regularly, openly and honestly with the people interested in and affected by our operations. We recognise that our activities have the potential to impact human rights in many ways, including labour conditions, activities of security forces, scope of local community programs and complicity with regard to the abusive activities of others with whom we interact. We also recognise and respect Indigenous peoples’ culture, heritage and traditional rights and support the identification, recording, management and protection of Indigenous cultural heritage. There are many Indigenous communities around the world that are traditional owners of land impacted by our operations or live nearby. Sustainable Development Policy Statements Our Approach We respect and promote fundamental human rights At BHP Billiton, we support human rights consistent with the articles set out in the within our sphere of influence, respecting the rights United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We commit to respecting the of Indigenous peoples and valuing cultural heritage. rights of employees, contractors and our host communities. We respect the traditional rights of Indigenous peoples and acknowledge their right to maintain their culture, identity, traditions and customs. We encourage cultural sensitivity and recognise, respect and value sites, places, structures and objects that are culturally or traditionally significant. We engage regularly, openly and honestly with We require all our operations to establish platforms for dialogue that take into account our host governments and people affected by cultural requirements and enable us to identify and work with our stakeholders to our operations and take their views and concerns develop strategies to address their concerns and aspirations. We take these views and into account in our decision-making. concerns into account in our decision-making, striving for mutually beneficial outcomes. BHP Billiton maintains a position of impartiality with respect to party politics and does not contribute funds to any political party. We develop partnerships that foster the sustainable We develop robust partnerships that focus on sustainable community development development of our host communities, enhance and empowerment to ensure our presence delivers lasting benefits and contributes economic benefits from our operations and contribute to poverty alleviation. We work with host governments and other organisations to to poverty alleviation. create transparency associated with the broader economic benefits from our operations. Key HSEC Performance Requirements All assets and projects must implement socially inclusive stakeholder engagement management plans, which are designed to ensure regular and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. The plans are based on stakeholder identification and analysis and contain consultation activities that address specific needs of different stakeholders. Progress against the plan is evaluated every three years by completing a community perception survey. The survey includes indicators developed with communities that reflect their concerns. All assets and projects must implement community development management plans which are designed to ensure a contribution is made to the livelihoods of people in host communities and the Group’s licence to operate is enhanced. The plans are informed by social baseline studies, which include health, education and environment quality of life indicators, and a social impact and opportunity assessment. The plans describe priorities, focus areas, decision-making processes and how this information is made publicly available. The effectiveness of the community development management plan is measured every three years by completing a quantitative analysis of changes to quality of life indicators measured in the social baseline study. Due diligence must be undertaken on social or community organisations and all community development projects and donations must comply with the Group’s anti-corruption controls. Community development projects must comply with all requirements specified in the Code of Business Conduct and recognise and, where appropriate, support (but never replace) the role of government. Projects must have documented objectives specifically linked to the achievement of long-term sustainable community development and the improvements in indicators measured in the social baseline study. Commitments made to support community development projects in the community development management plan must be honoured, including instances where BHP Billiton’s business development projects do not proceed. All employees and contractors must have access to the BHP Billiton Matched Giving Program, where their personal volunteering, fundraising and donations to social and environmental organisations can be matched by the Group. New operations or projects must have broad-based community support before proceeding with development. Free prior and informed consent (FPIC) is only required where it is mandated by law. Evidence demonstrating support or opposition to the project must be documented. Human rights risks must be identified through human rights impact assessments (HRIAs), which include an assessment of the articles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the UN Global Compact Principles; and host country legislation governing human rights issues. The HRIAs must be verified through an engagement process with stakeholders, internally reviewed annually and validated by a qualified specialist every three years. Where a material risk is identified by the HRIA, a human rights management plan must be developed and implemented. Employees and contractors are trained to facilitate compliance with BHP Billiton’s human rights commitments (United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, UN Global Compact Principles and International Finance Corporation Performance Standard 5: Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement). Resolution of complaints from, and grievances with, communities is facilitated using complaints and grievance mechanisms commensurate with the country risk rating. As part of this mechanism, all complaints and grievances must be acknowledged, documented and investigated; appropriate remedial actions undertaken where a complaint is legitimate; complainants advised of the remedial action promptly; and outcomes documented. Resettlement programs (voluntary or involuntary) must be consistent with the requirements of the International Finance Corporation Performance Standard 5: Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement. BHP Billiton and public or private security forces providing support to BHP Billiton operations must comply with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. 44 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Key Area Governance For BHP Billiton, sustainable development is about ensuring our business remains viable and contributes lasting benefits to society through the consideration of social, environmental, ethical and economic aspects in all that we do. Working through complex operational issues associated with our operations has highlighted environmental and social performance as a critical success factor for the Company. We are well aware of the costs of getting it wrong; but, more importantly, we recognise the value that can be created by getting it right. Consequently, we adopt a holistic approach to business strategy, seeking to realise value for our stakeholders through a sustainable business philosophy. Line managers have ultimate accountability for ensuring our businesses contribute to sustainable development. This section contains policy statements and performance requirements that apply across the HSEC disciplines. Sustainable Development Policy Statements Our Approach We identify, assess and manage risks to employees, The effective identification, assessment, management and communication of risk contractors, the environment and our host communities. is the basis of our management approach to sustainable development. We aim to manage and control identified risks to a level that is as low as reasonably practicable. Embedding risk management processes into all our critical business systems allows us to adopt a precautionary approach to business management that is based on valid data and sound science. This includes ensuring thorough assessments of the potential impacts of our presence. We uphold ethical business practices and meet or, The Code of Business Conduct defines our basic principles with regard to where less stringent than our standards, exceed business ethics. applicable legal and other requirements. All BHP Billiton employees are accountable for acting in line with our requirements for business conduct. Suppliers, contractors and partners working with or for us are also required to be informed of, and act in accordance with, our requirements. We will comply with applicable laws, regulations and other requirements to which we are committed, wherever we operate. While respecting the laws of host countries, we will assess the adequacy of these laws compared with our standards. Our risk management approach addresses corruption-related risks in making decisions, including hiring and deploying personnel, business planning, investments, new country entry, all interactions with government officials and all activities with business partners. We recognise and actively work to address the risk that corrupt activities may be undertaken by management, employees or third parties, such as suppliers and customers. We regularly review our performance and publicly Setting and achieving targets is an essential step of continual improvement. Focusing report our progress. on the efficient use of resources and preventing and reducing pollution are essential if we are to meet our sustainable development targets. We work with those involved through the life cycles of We will advise on the responsible use of our products and by-products, including our products and by-products to enhance environmental consumption, storage, transport, recycling and disposal. We will work with those and social performance along the supply chain and involved throughout our product life cycles, recognising the shared responsibility promote their responsible use and management. across the value chain. Key HSEC Performance Requirements HSEC management systems must be established for all controlled activities. We will identify, assess and manage HSEC risks associated with suppliers, contractors and partners. A HSEC evaluation of suppliers, contractors and partners must be completed prior to engagement. Systems or processes must be in place to ensure awareness of the potential of corruption and to prevent it occurring. All employment terms and conditions must comply with the Our Charter, the Code of Business Conduct, the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and local employment and privacy legislation. All our operations are required to develop and regularly review life of asset plans, which define the expected outcomes from the asset over its economic life through to and including closure. Risks associated with closure must be evaluated to ensure adequate controls are in place to manage these risks. Financial provisions for closure must be included in the plan. We rank sustainability incidents using a Severity Factor Table and all significant incidents are reported to the Group centre. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 45 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › 46 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Independent assurance report to the Directors and management of BHP Billiton Our conclusions: (a) GHG emissions In our opinion, the BHP Billiton GHG emissions of 41 Mt CO2-e (Scope 1 and 2) for the year ended 30 June 2011 are fairly stated in all material respects in accordance with the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol. (b) Assured Sustainability Parameters Based on the procedures performed, as described below, nothing has come to our attention that would lead us to believe that the Assured Sustainability Parameters, as defined below for the year ended 30 June 2011, have not in all material respects, been prepared and presented in accordance with the relevant elements of the GRI G3 Guidelines and ICMM Sustainable Development Framework. (c) GRI application level Based on the procedures performed, we concur with the assessment made by BHP Billiton that the Sustainability Report is consistent with the GRI G3 application level A+. For the purposes of this letter, ‘BHP Billiton’ is taken to refer to both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc. We have been engaged by the Directors and management of BHP Billiton to provide reasonable assurance in respect of the BHP Billiton GHG emissions of 41 Mt CO2-e (Scope 1 and 2) and limited assurance in respect of the Assured Sustainability Parameters identified below. The BHP Billiton GHG emissions and the Assured Sustainability parameters have been included in the BHP Billiton Annual Sustainability Report for the year ended 30 June 2011 which includes the Sustainability Report, Performance Data, Sustainability Framework and referenced Case Studies (collectively the ‘Sustainability Report’). As described in the Sustainability Report, the BHP Billiton GHG emissions have been prepared in accordance with the World Resources Institute/ World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol (WRI/WBC GHG Protocol) and the Assured Sustainability Parameters have been prepared in accordance with the relevant elements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines and International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework requirements (the ‘Framework’). In addition, we have been engaged to perform a check of BHP Billiton’s GRI application level as disclosed in the Sustainability Report for the year ended 30 June 2011. Management’s and Directors’ responsibility for the Sustainability Report Management of BHP Billiton are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the Framework, the WRI/WBC GHG Protocol, and for determining BHP Billiton’s GRI application level in accordance with the GRI Guidelines. This responsibility includes establishing such internal controls as management determines are necessary to enable the preparation of the Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. The Directors, through the Sustainability Committee of the Board, provide oversight of the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report by management, including oversight of internal control systems relevant to the preparation of the Sustainability Report. The Assured Sustainability Parameters The Assured Sustainability Parameters covered by our limited assurance engagement are: Assured Sustainability Parameters Sustainability Report Page Contractors (Health and Safety) 3 (Requirements for contractors, suppliers and products), 40 Taxes and royalty payments to government 22, 26 (Transparently reporting taxes), 38 Sustainability risk management framework 3, 5, 27, 28, 39, 45 Diversity and Equal Employment Opportunities 9, 10, 11, 32, 40 Fatigue risk profiling and implementation 28, 40 Occupational illness and disease 4, 7, 8, 32 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 4, 12, 13, 33, 43 Water 4, 14, 15, 33 (Water consumption), 41 Product stewardship (uranium) 3, 26 (Product stewardship) Community engagement 2, 18, 19, 20, 36 and 37 (Engagement methods), 44 Management of HSEC risks in projects (Olympic Dam 20 (Developing the Olympic Dam Environmental Impact Statement), expansion project) 41, 44 The Assured Sustainability Parameters also include BHP Billiton’s statement in the Sustainability Report that BHP Billiton’s sustainability reporting has been prepared in accordance with GRI G3 Guidelines and ICMM Sustainable Development Framework requirements. BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 | 47 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Our responsibility – Corporate, Melbourne; Our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance – Worsley, Australia (Aluminium); conclusion on the BHP Billiton GHG emissions of 41 Mt CO2-e – Escondida, Chile (Base Metals); (Scope 1 and 2) and a limited assurance conclusion on the – Mozal, Mozambique (Aluminium); preparation and presentation of the Assured Sustainability – Mt Whaleback, Australia (Iron Ore); Parameters included in the Sustainability Report to the Directors and management. – Metalloys, South Africa (Manganese); – Olympic Dam expansion project, Australia (Uranium); and We conducted our assurance engagements in accordance – Kalgoorlie smelter, Australia (Stainless Steel Materials); with International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews • reading the Assured Sustainability Parameters presented of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000) issued by in the Sustainability Report to determine whether they the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board are in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience and the Sustainable Development Framework: Assurance with, the sustainability performance of BHP Billiton; Procedure issued by ICMM. • reading the remainder of the Sustainability Report to determine whether there are any material misstatements Reasonable assurance over the GHG emissions of fact or material inconsistencies based on our Our reasonable assurance engagement involved obtaining understanding obtained as part of our assurance evidence over the BHP Billiton GHG emissions of 41 Mt CO2-e procedures on the Assured Sustainability Parameters. (Scope 1 and 2), sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the amount disclosed is free from material misstatement A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in whether caused by fraud or error. This included an assessment scope than a reasonable assurance engagement or an audit of the application of the WRI/WBC GHG Protocol and the conducted in accordance with International Standards on reasonableness of significant estimates made by the Directors Auditing and Assurance Engagements, and consequently and management in the determination of the BHP Billiton does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would GHG emissions of 41 Mt CO2-e (Scope 1 and 2) reported. become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit or a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance over the Assured Sustainability Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance or Parameters audit conclusion on the Assured Sustainability Parameters, Our limited assurance engagement on the Assured other than the BHP Billiton GHG emissions of 41Mt CO2-e Sustainability Parameters consisted of making enquiries, (Scope 1 and 2). primarily of persons responsible for the management, monitoring and preparation of the Assured Sustainability This report has been prepared for the Directors and Parameters, and applying analytical and other management of BHP Billiton. We disclaim any assumption evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. of responsibility for any reliance on this report, or the These procedures included: Sustainability Report to which it relates, to any person • interviews with senior management and relevant staff at other than the Directors and management of BHP Billiton, corporate and selected site level concerning sustainability or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. strategy and policies for material issues, and the GRI application level implementation of these across the business; Our responsibility is also to perform a check of the • enquiries of management to gain an understanding of GRI application level disclosed in the Sustainability Report BHP Billiton’s processes for determining material issues for consistency with the GRI application level requirements for BHP Billiton’s key stakeholder groups; of A+. • enquiries of relevant staff at corporate and selected Independence site level responsible for the preparation of the Assured In conducting our engagement, we have complied with the Sustainability Parameters; applicable ethical requirements, including independence • enquiries about the design and implementation of requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional the systems and methods used to collect and process Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards the Assured Sustainability Parameters, including the Board for Accountants and the Australian Accounting aggregation of the reported information; Professional and Ethical Standards Board. • an assessment of the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements set out in the Assured Sustainability Parameters; • comparing the Assured Sustainability Parameters KPMG to relevant underlying sources on a sample basis to determine whether all the relevant information has Melbourne been appropriately included in the Sustainability Report; 6 September 2011 • visits to the following sites which were selected on the basis of a risk analysis including the consideration of both quantitative and qualitative criteria: 48 | BHP BILLITON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous Next › Sustainability Ratings Sustainable Development BHP Billiton Centre 180 Lonsdale Street Melbourne VIC 3000 Telephone 1300 55 47 57 (within Australia) +61 3 9609 3333 (outside Australia) Facsimile +61 3 9609 3015 Email for Sustainability Reporting enquiries: hsec bhpbilliton.com Email for Investor enquiries: investor relations@bhpbilliton.com Website: www bhpbilliton com Go to a section... Contents Search Print Version + – ‹ Previous
