GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 Overview of the report Significance This report contains GS E&C’s efforts and outcomes in all areas of economy, environment, and society. Through communication and materiality tests, GS E&C has drawn nine major issues reflecting the interest of diverse stakeholders and linked them with core values. The reliability of the outcomes of sustainability management was enhanced through third party assurance. Scope and period This report mainly contains major outcomes from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 while containing information for three years on quantitative outcomes to enable the analysis of yearly trends (provided that, for qualitative outcomes judged to be significant, some outcomes before 2010 were also included). The scope of the report includes management activities of 10 buildings GS E&C owns in Korea including the head office and a total of 354 sites but does not include the management activities of affiliated companies and invested companies. GS E&C will expand the scope of report to activities in overseas business places and publish the report every year. Standard of disclosure This report was prepared based on the GRI G3 Guidelines and the details can be found in the GRI Index. 04 CEO Message Sustainability at GS E&C Characteristics of the report 08 About 10 Management philosophy Extensive stakeholder engagement 12 Sustainability management GS E&C defined 10 major stakeholders, communication channels, roles and responsibilities and reflected results drawn from 14 Stakeholder engagement meetings and workshops with internal/external stakeholders, online surveys, and visiting/written interviews to identify what matters to stakeholder. Great Innovation Integration of sustainability management issues and the core values 20 Special Feature. GS E&C’s green business GS E&C has drawn a total of nine major sustainability management issues through materiality tests and disclosed related out22 Issue 1. Response to climate change through green management comes in linkage with three core values (Great Innovation, Great Challenge, and Great Partnership) to emphasize association 26 Issue 2. Efforts to minimize environmental impact between GS E&C’s activities and sustainability management. 34 Issue 3. World’s best construction company through green technology Future-oriented contents Great Challenge GS E&C highlighted future plans for major reporting issues to express its commitment for growth through sustainability man40 Special Feature. GS E&C’s growth through new business agement. and expansion of overseas markets 42 Issue 4. Creation of economic value for sustainable growth 48 Issue 5. Enhancement of corporate value through risk management Application level 50 Issue 6. Customer satisfaction maximization GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 has been compiled to meet all requirement, for A+ level of GRI G3 Guideline Application Level. GRI has confirmed that this report qualifies for A+ level. Great Partnership 54 Special Feature. GS E&C’s corporate culture C C+ B B+ A A+ 56 Issue 7. Shared growth with partners 59 Issue 8. Transparent and warm business culture Report on: Report on all criteria listed for 63 Issue 9. Safe and vibrant workplace OUT 1.1 Level C plus: G3 Profile Same as requirement for PUT 2.1~2.10 1.2 Level B 3.1~3.8, 3.10~3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1~4.4, 4.14~4.15 4.5~4.13, 4.16~4.17 Appendix 70 GS E&C’s sustainability performance Standard Disclosures G3 Management 72 Third party assurance statement on the sustainability report Report Disclosure of Management Report Disclosure of Management Report OUT Approach PUT Not required Externally Approach for each Externally Approach for each Externally 74 Third party assurance statement on the GHG emissions Disclosures Assured Indicator Category Assured Indicator Category Assured 76 Indices (GRI, ISO26000, GMS, UNGC) 85 Reader’s voice Report on each core G3 and Report on a minimum of 20 G3 Performance Report on a minimum of Sector Supplement IndicaPerformance Indicators, at Indicators & 10 Performance Indicators, least one from each of: tor with due regard to the OUT including at least one from Materiality Principle by either: Sector SuppleEconomic, Environment, HuPUT each of: Economic, Social a) reporting on the indicator ment Performance man Rights, Labor, Society, and Environment or b) explaining the reason for Indicators Product Responsibility its omission CEO Message 04 / 05 GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 GS E&C will remain focused on progress as the sustainable leader. Dear readers, In this warm and vibrant spring, the season of hope, it is my great pleasure to introduce our sustainability report to those who have shown interest in GS E&C. I wish all your families and businesses be full of prosperity and hope. As you can see from the recent cases of Toyota’s vehicle recalls and BP’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, we are living in an age where businesses’ social and environmental responsibilities are directly connected to their survival and economic performance. GS E&C has perceived the importance of sustainability management that puts emphasis on balance among social, environmental, and economic activities and has been implementing related activities. Through these activities, GS E&C has been actively communicating with internal/external stakeholders including customers, shareholders, employees, and partner companies. On the social side, GS E&C is implementing diverse activities to broaden communication with stakeholders. GS E&C is making efforts to build win-win cooperation with partner companies and to create optimal corporate culture. Moreover, GS E&C is concentrating its capabilities on the reinforcement of safety management, the very foundation of construction industry. On the environmental side, GS E&C is continuously implementing low-carbon green management, collaborating to the global activities in response to climate change. GS E&C has improved environmental management policies and guidelines. In this regard, we have set greenhouse gas reduction goals and are executing various counter-activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption. On the economic side, GS E&C is concentrating company-wide efforts on the development of the future growth engines. GS E&C has reinforced and is operating company-wide risk management system for both financial and non-financial risks and programs to maximize customer satisfaction. Through these proactive sustainability management activities, GS E&C has received the prize for the Most Trusted Business in Korea for two consecutive years for the first time in the construction industry. In 2010, GS E&C was listed on the internationally recognized Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) World. Now, we have published this sustainability report that compiles various activities of GS E&C and we would like to share it with various internal/external stakeholders. In particular, this report has been prepared focusing on environmental, economic, and social responsibilities in linkage with three set core values of GS E&C – Great Innovation, Great Challenge, and Great Partnership. This report lays out the vision and commitment of the company to internalize sustainability management. GS E&C will remain focused on progress as the sustainable leader that fulfills its social responsibilities and 2011. 4 pursues sustainable growth and development. I hereby sincerely request your great attention. GS E&C Corp. President & CEO Thank you. Myung-Soo Huh Mokpo Bridge A 4.1km-long, 900m-high cable-stayed bridge currently under construction in Mokpo, Jeollanam-do  With green wisdom that connects the humanity and the nature With the best technology that creates the new world As a trusted partner who creates happiness and shares hope Today, GS E&C is creating our beautiful future. 08 About 10 Management philosophy 12 Sustainability management 14 Stakeholder engagement GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 08 / 09 Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership Sustainability at GS E&C About Company overview Business portfolio Affiliated companies Since its establishment in 1969, GS E&C has been continuously growing in a number GS E&C’s six main business areas are plant, housing, civil engineering, architecture, power & environment, and development. Share of business areas including plant, housing, civil engineering, architecture, power & enWe are expanding business areas in line with changes in domestic/overseas management environment. Category Company name ratio (%) vironment, and development. Through continuous investment in human resources and BSM Corp. 100 technology, GS E&C has prepared a foundation to become a global top-tier construction Plant Pursue total service through the expansion of value chain Housing Enhance profitability through brand power and stable Sanglak Food Corp. 97.69 company. GS E&C strives to become the best partner that grows together with its stake• Oil refinery plants bases for receiving orders holders and puts priority on customer value. •P  etrochemical plants • Apartment • Multi-purpose buildings Eunpyeong Saegil Co. 54.40 ezVille 83 Company name GS Engineering & Construction Corp. (GS E&C) Civil Increase domestic/overseas market share Architecture Expand business area from contractor to project developer Xi Service 100 Engineering • Roads, bridges, railroads, ports • Underground space • Business facilities • Education, R&D, and hospital facilities Domestic Date of establishment December 19, 1969 GCS Plus Corp. 100 •T  idal power generation • E  ntertainment, leisure, sports •C  lean room, production facility, logistics GS O&M Corp. 100 Representative Myung-Soo Huh GS Tech 100 Head office GS Yeokjeon Tower, #537, 5-ga, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Power & Expand domestic/overseas businesses Development Diversify domestic/overseas development projects Environment Parnas Hotel Corp. 67.56 • Nuclear power generation, combined cycle power generation • New city development projects Plant, housing, civil engineering, architecture, power & environment, •W  ater treatment, waste-to-energy L arge mixed-use development projects Major businesses • GLS Service 100 development GS Cambodia Development 100 _ Credit rating Korea Ratings AA (as of December 31, 2010) GS Construction 80 Global network Saudi Co., Ltd. GS Cu Chi Development 100 One-Member Ltd. Organizational structure 1 2 19 GS E&C Construction Arabia 98 Chairman GS E&C Construction 3 100 Canada Ltd. 18 CEO 11 20 Overseas GS E&C India Private Ltd. 100 6 7 Chief Global Officer Chief Safety Officer 4 5 10 GS E&C Nanjing 100 (CGO) (CSO) 8 12 13 14 9 GS E&C POLAND SP.ZO.O 100 15 GS GLOBAL BIO Co., Ltd. 100 16 21 Plant Business Housing Business Chief Finance Officer Human Resources Legal and Public GS NHA BE Development (CFO) Department Relations Department 100 Division Division One-Member Ltd. 17 Civil Engineering Architectural Strategy Planning GS Saigon Development 100 Business Division Business Division Department One-Member Ltd. Power & Environment Project Development Finance ※As of December 31, 2010 Business Division Department Department ※Only those affiliated companies in which GS E&C has 50% or higher share ratio are listed Project Monitoring & Technology Division Procurement (CTO) Department 1 United Kingdom 9 Oman 14 Vietnam 18 China GS E&C Corp. London SNDC Laguna Hue – Angsana Hotel Guangzhou G2 Sohar 2 IPP Hanoi – Haiphong Expressway Sector 7 Guangzhou CFC History 2 Russia Barka 3 IPP TBO Highway LG Chem I&E Materials Plant #3 GS E&C Corp. Moscow GS E&C Corp. Oman Xi Riverview Palace N3 Module Expansion Project Establishment & pioneering Development & take-off Structural solidification Global expansion 3 Armenia 10 UAE GS Cu Chi Development One-Member LLC GS NHA BE DEVELOPMENT One-Member LLC GS E&C Nanjing Co., Ltd. GS E&C Corp. Beijing (1969~1994) (1995~2002) (2003~2006) (2007~) Yerevan CCPP Green Diesel GS SAIGON DEVELOPMENT One-Member LLC 4th NGL GS E&C Corp. Hanoi 19 Canada 4 Egypt RRE-2 GS E&C Corp. Hochiminh Black Gold 1969 Lakhee Development Co., Ltd. 1995 Renamed itself to 2003 Announced Vision 2010 2007 Selected by ENR as the top 31st ERC RRE-7 GS E&C Construction Canada Ltd. was established LG Construction 2004 Awarded Grand Prize in the contractor in the world GS E&C Corp. Egypt GS E&C Corp. UAE Dubai 15 Cambodia 1981 Initial public offering 1996 Certified with ISO14001 Construction Sector category at 2009 Grand Prize for Customer GS E&C Corp. UAE Abu Dhabi GS Cambodia Development Co., Ltd. 20 USA 5 Saudi Arabia GS Phnom Penh Development Co., Ltd. GS E&C Corp. Houston 1984 Awarded for overseas con1997 Awarded in 6 categories the Environmental Management Satisfaction Management at Manifa 11 Iran GS E&C Corp. Cambodia struction export worth 10 billion including Best Management at Awards Global Management Awards GS Construction Arabia Co., Ltd. SP 9-10 21 Columbia USD ‘94 Construction Management 2005 Renamed itself to GS E&C 2010 Excellence Prize in the Plant GS Saudi Co., Ltd. GS E&C Corp. Iran 16 Singapore GS E&C Corp. Columbia GS E&C Corp. Al-Khobar Subway Depot C-911 1993 Acquired a certification of the Award held by Korea Managest Achieved 1 Place in Global category at 2010 Overseas GS E&C Corp. Saudi Arabia Riyadh 12 India Subway DTL C-913 ability to construct nuclear ment Association Customer Satisfaction Index Construction Award GS Engineering & Construction India Pvt., Ltd. GS E&C Corp. Singapore power plants from American 1999 Acquired LG Engineering Listed on DJSI World, Asia6 Kuwait GS E&C Corp. India Plalnt Achieved 1st Place in the GS E&C Corp. Kuwait 17 Indonesia Society of Mechanical Engi2001 Awarded Excellence Prize for apartment building category of Pacific, Korea 13 Thailand GS E&C Corp. Jakarta Housing neers (ASME) corporate governance by Korean KS-SQ Recognized as the Most Trusted 7 Barain PTT LNG Civil Engineering BAPCO Wastewater Treatment Facility IRPC Architecture 1994 Certified with ISO9001 Stock Exchange Company for two consecutive GS E&C Corp. Manama HMC PP Power & Environment years GS Engineering & Construction Thai Co., Ltd. Subsidiary 8 Qatar GS E&C Corp. Thailand Branch GS E&C Corp. Qatar GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 10 / 11 Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership Sustainability at GS E&C Management philosophy Corporate ideology Core value GS E&C is making efforts to create values that can be shared among various stakeholdCore values are the basis of corporate philosophy and vision as well as the standard for thoughts and behavior, easily accessed by and ers and to fulfill its social responsibilities. As part of such efforts, GS E&C is carrying out communicated amongst all employees. As internal/external management environment and paradigms change rapidly, GS E&C intends diverse sustainability management practices in the areas of environment, economy, and to unite all the employees by sharing core values. society under its corporate ideology: Dream tomorrow together with customers and create new values of life. Together with To us, customers are like family members. customers We will think and act at the standpoint of customers and always stay close to them. We dream for better tomorrow. Dream for We cultivate work and human potential and make the future brighter and more vigorous tomorrow than today with passion and challenging spirit. We walk ahead of the times. New We actively accommodate demands of this era with open mind and lead developmental changes. We enhance the value of life. Creation of We will create visible/invisible value that makes life more convenient and pleasant so values of life that everybody in the community can enjoy better lives. You and I create the highest I lead changes with open mind We grow up together with the world value with passion Vision GS E&C vision For better tomorrow, GS E&C is “building world values creative passion to become a reliDiversity Believe that diverse ideas are Pioneership Have faith in success and Respect Respect your co-workers and able Best Partner & First Company.” Building world values with creative the foundation for positive change. Create challenge yourself to meet your goals. Emcustomers. Internally, support each other; Vision statement passion to become a reliable a work environment where diverse opinpower employees to have confidence that externally, put yourself in customers’ shoes Best Partner & First Company Creative This refers to our passion to create something from nothing based on a sense of passion challenge, entrepreneurship, professionalism, and a pioneering spirit. ions can be presented and encourage the they can achieve their goals no matter how and make decisions that prioritize their employees to be open even for different difficult the goals are. needs. Objective Global Top Tier Contractor Building This refers to our direction and will, as a global company, to unceasingly pioneer new ideas. world values values for the better world and human life. Core Great Great Great Initiative Take the initiative when apCooperation Work together with stakevalue Innovation Challenge Partnership Creativity Break away from the existing proaching your work. Treat your work as if holders and co-workers to achieve a comThis refers to our integrity and reliability to contribute to mankind and society, by giving Reliable an impression to the customers, a sense of accomplishment to the employees, and the framework and approach change from difyou are the only one in charge of the given mon goal. Strive it through sincere coopbest shareholder value to the investors. ferent perspectives. Believe that opportunitask and ensure that each employee can eration with internal/external stakeholders We will become the Best Partner that grows together with employees, customers, Best Partner & ties for new business can be created only be entrusted with appropriate degree of and pursue active and continuous comshareholders, partner companies, and the society and the First Company that provides First Company optimal value. when the employee can freely express authority to have a sense of responsibility. munication through diverse channels. their unique and original ideas. Management principle Excellence Continuously strive to produce Win-win Make a company that practices Change React to the management enthe best results. Growth of employees ethical management together with society The 2011 management principle After carrying out its 2010 management principle as “value growth based on core strength vironment proactively and lead change. It means growth of the company; provide and grows together with its employees. enhancement,” GS E&C established its 2011 management principle as “balance beis more important than anything else for conditions where individuals’ competency Implement shared growth strategies from a Balance between growth tween growth and value management.” and value management all the employees to proactively respond can be maximized by delegating work eflong-term perspective, reflecting demands To put this principle into action, GS E&C will actively carry out four core tasks: reinforceto changes in management environment fectively. Through this, each employee can from diverse stakeholders with balance. ment of business competitiveness, advanced safety management, development of new and use flexible strategies by applying new develop expertise to become the best in business, and enhancement of core strengths. Reinforcetechnologies or methods to their experhis/her area and continuously contribute to Advanced ment of DevelopEnhancebusiness safety ment of new ment of core tise. the performance of the entire team. managecompetitivebusiness strengths ment ness GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 12 / 13 Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership Sustainability at GS E&C Sustainability management Sustainability management GS E&C’s level of sustainability management Objective Survey on internal awareness GS E&C intends to become a global top-tier business by continuously internalizing susFor a business to achieve its sustainability objective, all employees should be fully aware of sustainability issues and participate in related tainability management. activities with one accord. To examine the current state of internal awareness of sustainability management, GS E&C conducted a survey In 2010, GS E&C organized the Sustainability Management Taskforce involving many on the entire employees. departments so as to designate different areas of activities and to establish the strategy Survey on GS E&C’s employees’ awareness of sustainability management for company-wide sustainability management. Subjects Total of 5,167 employees of GS E&C (2,195 people responded) Period 2010. 12. 13 ~ 2010. 12. 17 What do you think is the current level of the sustainability Do you think that sustainability management is important Please check all items that were the most important when Strategy management of GS E&C? for GS E&C’s continuous growth and development? you judged the level of GS E&C’s sustainablity manageTaking sustainability management as a growth engine, GS E&C established strategy linked ment. 2.9 Unit : % 3.3 0.2 Unit : % Unit : % with its core values (Great Innovation for environment, Great Challenge for economy, and 1.4 11.9 8.2 55.1 54.2 Great Partnership for society). GS E&C is carrying out tasks based on strategic direction of establishing low-carbon 52.5 32.3 Higher than 14.6 green management system, developing new business based on core strengths, and average among Closely related expanding stakeholder communication. We will continuously educate our employees to domestic businesses increase their awareness. 86.7 73.7 13.9 51.5 73.7 1 2 3 4 1. Low among domestic 1.4 % 2. Lower than average 11.9 % 1. Not very important 0.2 % 2. May have some effects 3.3 % 1. The vision of sustainability management, the targeted 55.1 % Sustainability management strategy businesses among domestic but not big level and management systems to achieve the level 3. Higher than average 51.5 % businesses 3. Moderately important 8.2 % 4. A little important 73.7 % 2. GS E&C’s staff’s will about and perception of sustain54.2 % among domestic busi4. High among domes32.3 % 5. Closely related 14.6 % able management nesses tic businesses 3. The vision of sustainability management, the targeted 52.5 % 5. The level of global 2.9 % Strive for growth through sustainable value creation with stakeholders leaders level and management systems to achieve the level 4. Management of external stakeholder issues 13.9 % External assessment Listed on DJSI World Selected as the Most Trusted Business Received the Grand Prize at the 2010 DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes) is for two consecutive years Management Awards on the Principle of Environment Economy Society one of the most globally recognized sustainThe Most Trusted Business is awarded by Consumer Interests First Strategic direction ability indices that comprehensively evaluates the Korea CEO Association, whose judges The Management Awards on the Principle of Establish low-carbon green management system Develop new business based on core strengths Expand communication with stakeholders companies’ economic, environmental, and include figures in academia, finance industry, Consumer Interests First is awarded to busiReinforce the social performance. GS E&C became the and media. The prize recognizes businesses nesses that have demonstrated excellent exAdvance Innovate Lay out Establish Detailed environmental capability to Respond to Reinforce risk business Develop new foundation for advanced Reinforce safety member of DJSI World, Asia-Pacific, and Kothat have contributed to economic developamples of consumer-oriented management. strategies carry out green climate change management business management management competitiveness shared growth corporate culture rea in 2010. ment and is highly trusted and loved by conGS E&C was recognized for its social contribusiness sumers. GS E&C was awarded as the Most bution customized for the one-on-one sister• Improve • Outgreen exist• Establish • Set up an • Enhance the • Systematize • Reinforce • Commit to • Analyze Trusted Business for two consecutive years hood relationships and received the Grand environmental ing projects greenhouse organization capacity to the developsustainability business workplace management • Advance into gas inventory to manage implement ment of management ethics and take safety risks in for the first time in the construction industry, Prize in the Socially Responsible Management policies and company-wide projects prospective guidelines for actions against advance and guidelines new green • Set greenrisks businesses partner comviolation manage the as a result of its efforts for shared growth with category. business house gas • Secure core • Improve enviemissions • Manage major technologies • Expand overpanies • Develop strarisks partner companies. • Expand green Action ronmental data technology R&D reduction goal strategies to seas projects • Manage overtegic programs • Manage workplans management and pursue rerespond to seas partner for contributing place safety system lated activities risks companies to society data • Analyze the • Expand the scenario to work smart respond to program climate change Core values Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 14 / 15 Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership Sustainability at GS E&C Stakeholder engagement Definition of stakeholders Dialogue with stakeholders For sustainability management, steady and systematic communication with stakeholders is necessary; first, each stakeholder should To set the direction of its sustainability management, GS E&C gathered diverse opinions be defined. GS E&C identified ten groups of stakeholders, identified influences exerted by stakeholders and GS E&C on each other, and expectations through dialogue with stakeholders and analyzed the degrees of imporand summarized the mutual relationships with five keywords as follows: transparency, communication, partnership, accountability, and tance and influence. engagement. TransInternal discussion organized by the Sustainability Management Taskforce parency To publish the Sustainability Report 2010, the Taskforce held an internal discussion with Internal discussion Media representatives from various teams and departments, through which diverse opinions and tors expectations of the employees were shared. ves s & in r lde ho Major opinion Reported section are News, newspaper, Sh IR road show, general advertisement, Cu meetings of shareholders, st Internal consensus on sustainability management is insufficient and should be press release o Sustainability at GS E&C IR website, m improved through education. financial statements etc er Performance management through sustainability strategy and key performance GS E&C website, Sustainability at GS E&C Communiindicators (KPIs) is necessary. Xi promotion center, Provide capital Support external cation Recognizing the importance of stakeholder dialogue, ongoing and diverse comre g model house, Sustainability at GS E&C e ne Divide profits communication portal for developers munication channels should be developed. rat Website, Disclose ion Response to climate change and new business opportunity should follow green volunteer activity, information i Date December 9, 2010 dem Great Innovation A ca Futu promotions Future customers Increase technology R&D. Place GS Yeokjeon Tower Provide jobs sales The dissemination of sustainability management should be supported by the guideSubject 13 representatives of the departments related to ociation/ Provide Great Partnership sustainability management products line for partner companies. a/ass Engage& services Association Horizontal communication and mutual concensus between the management and Trust and activities, Great Partnership ment present opinions various the employees should be reinforced. Community institutions Contribution conferences & meeting, Share seminars civil complaint to society knowledge Interview with external stakeholders website, and technology volunteer activity Stabilize Cooperation GS E&C held interview with ten major stakeholders. Their opinions have been reflected business Societ environment in this report. y Pay taxes and observe Free competition Construction regulations Mutual development association Major opinion Reported section Create activity, values Provide conferences Information should be fully disclosed while maintaining the readability. Sustainability at GS E&C Participate in Compensate & resources & seminars Pe government ers Measures to utilize the Report for the employees must be drawn. Sustainability at GS E&C foster experts Win-win in the industry committee activities, management Eco-friendly image should be established through the acquisition of green certifipolicy development Great Innovation cation and active public relations. Partner companies’ Enhance corporate value through continuous development of future business ov e Intranet, portals, GS Partner website, Great Challenge G rn opportunities. m e-newsletter, CEO Forum, SUBCON Board en Partnert Labor-management Council, Increase investment in R&D associated with low-carbon green growth and s ship Great Challenge workshops nie overseas projects. pa com Reinforce competitiveness through technologies customized to each client’s tn er Great Challenge Par needs. Employ Accountaees Stakeholders’ roles Provide prompt and kind responses to customer complaints. Great Challenge bility GS E&C’s responsibilities Continue shared growth activities unique to GS E&C. Great Partnership Communication channels Gain trust through transparent responses to accidents and disputes. Great Partnership Category Definition Participants Shareholders & investors They trust GS E&C’s corporate value and provide economic capital so that larger added values can be created. 1 2 3 4 5 Customers They trust and purchase GS E&C’s products and services, providing GS E&C the opportunity to create a better future. 6 7 8 9 10 Partner companies They grow together with GS E&C by providing resources and other means of assistance necessary for business operation. Customers Media Employees They are the most valuable human resources that turn ideas into action and constitute the corporation. 1 Tae-Sung Jang, KHNP 7 Gook-Sang Hwang, Society GS E&C shares values with the society and the society provides the business environment and resources for smooth operation. 2 Oh-Soo Ahn, KHNP Money Today 3 Byung-Bok Hwang, KRNA Media They inform the public about GS E&C’s business activities and support communication with stakeholders. 4 Young-Ae Cho, XiEL (Xi houseShareholders & investors Academia/association/ By establishing cooperative relationships with those who have diverse knowledge and experiences within the industry, GS E&C tries to wives advisory committee) 8 Dae-Woong Lim, Eco-Frontier institution enhance its competitiveness. (CDP Technical Advisor) Academia/association/ Peers They inspire GS E&C to accelerate based on fair competition. institution Society 5 Jae-Gyoon Choi, Construction Government GS E&C fulfills its obligation as a taxpayer and the government supports stable and smooth business activities. 9 Jong-Oh Lee, Kosif (NPO) Association of Korea Future generation They are potential customers, employees, and other forms of stakeholders to be closely associated with GS E&C in the future. 6 Goo-Sun Jeong, KBCSD Partner companies 10 Dong-Hack Yook, SPACEMAX GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 16 / 17 Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership Sustainability at GS E&C Stakeholder engagement Materiality test Results Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which provides global guidelines for sustainability reports, Through the materiality test, nine key issues were drawn and GS E&C classified the issues according to its core values of Great Innovarecommends to disclose information that stakeholders consider material within sustaintion, Great Challenge, and Great Partnership. Other opinions and issues, which can be identified as material in the future, were also ability reports and suggests the materiality test as an evaluation method. comprehensively addressed. Based on dialogue with internal/external stakeholders, GS E&C conducted materiality test to identify key issues and included related data and information in this report. 1 Response to climate change through green management Process 3 2 Effort to minimize environmental impact Overview of the materiality test Step 1. Develop the indicators 3 World’s best construction company through Based on the 79 GRI performance indicators, 27 materiality test indicators were green technology Subjects 4 Creation of economic value for sustainable selected and reconstructed to be appropriate for GS E&C’s context and easily 1 Internal employees: 2,195 2 growth understood by stakeholder. 4 External stakeholders: 36 5 Enhancement of corporate value through Step 2. Conduct a survey risk management Period 2010. 12. 13 ~ 2010. 12. 17 A survey was conducted on internal/external stakeholders for the materiality test 6 Customer satisfaction maximization and the respondents were asked to give scores to each indicator on a 5-point Method 7 Shared growth with partners scale. 7 IT survey system, e-mail, and visiting High 9 6 8 8 Transparent and warm business culture Step 3. Analyze of the results 9 Safe and vibrant workplace Results of evaluation by external stakeholders Utilization plan Results of the questionnaires for internal/external stakeholders were compared Issues identified as highly material are reflected 5 and reviewed to draw 12 indicators considered to be most important. Important in the Report Step 4. Select key issues to be reported The 12 indicators selected were re-grouped as 9 key issues. Step 5. Vote for Special Feature items Representatives from departments across the organization in charge of sustainability management voted for items to be emphasized in the Special Feature. Less Important Important STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 Low Develop the Conduct Analyze Select key issues Vote for Special to be reported Feature items Low Results of evaluation by internal stakeholders High indicators the survey the results • Develop indicators • Internal: Intranet • Analyze the results of • Reconstruct material • Vote for Special Feature based on GRI indicators • External: E-mail or visiting the questionnaire for indicators items and key issues (manboth internal/externalSelect key issues to be • Subject: Sustainability No. Key issues Contents agement strategy and stakeholder reported management reprepress release, etc.) Hold a materiality test sentatives from various Response to climate change through Climate change risks and opportunities, green management, energy savings (energy solution business, WBCSD EEB Manifesto), workshop departments 1 green management greenhouse gas emissions reduction (GHG inventory), etc. • Subject: Sustainability Management Taskforce Green information management system, green procurement, on-site environmental impact minimizing activities, efforts to minimize 2 Efforts to minimize environmental impact environmental accidents and disputes, material flow, etc. World’s best construction company Green technology development, green concrete, water resource development, desalination plant, 3 Zero House, Green Building 3 through green technology Certification, etc. Creation of economic value for Governance, shareholder rights, innovation management, knowledge management, creativity management (GS Research Institute and Materiality test workshop 4 sustainable growth GS Research Institute of Construction & Economy), TPMS, direct/indirect economic effects, etc. Enhancement of corporate value through GS E&C held a workshop to share and analyze the results of the ma5 risk management Risk Management Team, risk management objective, risk mitigation measures, cash flow management, Manager Certification, etc. teriality test and select key issues to be reported. At this workshop, the Customer value management activities, customers complaint management, VOC (voice of customer) receipt, cultural programs for Taskforce discussed GS E&C’s activities and performance related to the 6 Customer satisfaction maximization customers, customer satisfaction performance, etc. key issues to be reported and linked individual issues with the three major Shared Growth Committee, 3 guidelines for shared growth, quarterly evaluation of partner companies, financial support, education & traincore values of GS E&C. The attendees also reviewed internal/external 7 Shared growth with partners ing and enhanced communication, technological support, Green Management Dissemination Project for Partner Companies, etc. stakeholders’ opinions drawn from the interviews and discussed ways of Ethical management organization, Ethical Management Guidebook, violation of business ethics and disciplinary actions, social improvement. 8 Transparent and warm business culture contribution programs, etc. SEQ Operation Committee, Safety Innovation School, data of workplace accidents, employee evaluation and compensation system, 9 Safe and vibrant workplace labor union and Labor-management Council, employee satisfaction, etc. ※The issues are not listed in order of importance but in accordance with the table of contents. GS E&C  sees farther away. With an active and creative green management strategy Understanding the climate change, the environment, and people We are working towards a sustainable, green growth. Dreaming of green world and spreading green wisdom, GS E&C is creating green future. Direction Through active and creative changes, GS E&C is responding to environmental issues including climate change. By establishing low-carbon green management system and expanding green projects, GS E&C is planning to achieve sustainable development based on green growth. 2010 Achievement GS E&C set green management strategy, established implementation system, and prepared green infrastructure such as GHG inventory, green information management system (called Green Solution), and green procurement system. In addition, GS E&C is actively developing green projects such as renewable energy (e.g. wind and tidal power), low-carbon traffic network, water reuse and desalination plants, waste-to-energy, nuclear power, smart grid, energy solutions, and Green Smart buildings. As for green technology, GS E&C is establishing a technology roadmap with a view of becoming a world-class business. Plan & Outlook Under the green management system that has been already established, GS E&C plans to proactively pursue activities for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption, minimizing environmental impact, and disseminating green management practices to partner companies. GS E&C will continuously expand green projects so as to foster them into main businesses in the future. 20 Special Feature. GS E&C’s green business 22 Issue 1. Response to climate change through green management SolBeam at Seogyo Xi Gallery 26 Issue 2. Efforts to minimize environmental impact An outside environmnetal structure that produces electricity using solar panels to 34 Issue 3. World’s best construction company through green technology operate the clock and turn lights at night and reuses rainwater to water the plants Special Feature 20 / 21 GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 GS E&C’s green business Low-carbon traffic network Smart grid Green Smart Xi Youngjongdo Magnetic Levitation Smart grid is a next-generation electric power network developed by graftGreen Smart Xi is an energy-saving housing model applied with green home Train project ing information technology (IT) onto the existing power network. It enables components and differentiated smart technologies researched by GS E&C. power suppliers and consumers to exchange information real-time, in order We are accelerating the development of core technologies so that Green to optimize energy efficiency. GS E&C participated in the Jeju Smart Grid Smart Xi can ultimately progress into the form of 3 Zero House and settle Test-bed and applied renewable energy technologies such as cooling & as the best residential space where not only energy but also harmful subheating system using seawater, photovoltaic, wind power, and fuel cells, as stances and noise are radically eliminated. well as the smart electric home appliances onto 21 pension buildings, a lecGreen Smart Xi prevents wasted energy by applying high efficiency materiture hall, and a central management building. GS E&C is also managing the als, produces energy in-house through photovoltaic, geothermal heat, and GS E&C is carrying out a number of railway projMicro Grid Place project in which it applied an energy management system wind power, and optimizes residents’ energy consumption through Xi-EMS ects such as rapid transit railway, subway, and light (EnMS) that can comprehensively manage electric power and heat for 23 (Xi Energy Management System) applied with smart grid. rail transit to contribute to green growth through the buildings. In addition, in order to verify micro grid technology at the building establishment of low carbon traffic networks. GS level, GS E&C established a demonstration facility applied with BIPV, wind Passive system E&C received the Yeongjongdo Magnetic Levitation power, geothermal heat, and fuel cells at the residential hall of GS TechnolMinimize energy losses through Train Pilot Project in 2010 and is also carrying out a windows and outer walls Components subway project in Singapore. ogy Institute. of green Active system home Green Maximize energy generation through CBM (coal bed methane) renewable energy Youngheung Wind Farm CBM is methane gas in coal beds, a clean source Eco-friendly technology of energy with higher efficiency and smaller amount Comfortable residential environment of Renewable energy Water risks and opportunities are emerging as isof greenhouse gas emissions than coal. With inlow noise and pollution level Differentiated sues of water shortage and disrupted hydrocycle crease of oil price and the development of capturtechnology As issues of fossil fuel depletion and climate change Smart technology Smart from urbanization become imminent. In order to ing, concentrating, and purifying technologies, it is have come forth along with rising energy demand, Maximize convenience in living mitigate water risks, GS E&C has installed a grayexpected that CBM market will be expanded in the through effective green IT management system GS E&C has been promoting commercialization of water recycling system to the head office building; future. GS E&C is making efforts to secure techrenewable energy sources such as tidal, wind, and GS E&C has constructed Osan Sewage Treatment nologies for all processes ranging from design and solar power generation that can effectively reduce Plant. Furthermore, through the development of construction to operation through the CBM pilot dependence on fossil fuels. desalination technology, GS E&C is reaching out to project, jointly with Korea Gas Corporation. GS E&C has successfully completed the first stage the water market in the Middle East. of the Youngheung Wind Farm project, part of the Nuclear power generation Green Smart Xi Promotion Center Applying Green Smart Xi in real life – Cheongna Xi National Strategic Technology Development Agenda (managed by Korea South-East Power Co.), Waste-to-energy GS E&C opened the Green Smart Xi Promotion Center at Xi GS E&C Cheongna Xi adopts geothermal system that retains New Uljin Nuclear Power and secured technological strengths for offshore Plants No. 1 & 2 Gallery in Seogyo-dong in October 2009, which demonstrates temperature at 15℃ year-round into the central heating, reDaegu MBT/RDF project wind power generation through joint research with all the Green Smart technologies in four spaces named Green sulting in both greenhouse gas reduction and utilities cost Ramboll Co. (Denmark), SINTEF Co. (Norway), and Smart Gallery, Green Smart Garden, Green Smart Home, and savings. In addition, solar-powered Media Pagora (an enterNGI Co. (Norway). In addition, GS E&C is preparGreen Smart GS E&C. Visitors can experience diverse new tainment zone) and solar-powered streetlights are installed in ing for the Incheon Bay Tidal Power Plant project, energy saving technologies of GS E&C here. the central square for the residents to experience renewable the largest scale (132 million kW) of its kind in the The center is open to general public from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. every day except energy technologies in everyday lives. world, to produce unlimited, clean marine energy for official holidays. To make a reservation, please visit www.xi.co.kr/greensmart. using the ebb and flow of the tide, while considering social acceptability and environmental risks. As nuclear power plant construction plans are anGreen Smart Garden Green Smart Home Solar-powered Media Pagora Human energy play rides nounced one after another in response to the rising Water reuse and desalination energy demand and climate change regulations, GS E&C is participating in waste-to-energy projthere is an ongoing race between nations to preocects. It has applied its automatic waste collecting cupy overseas nuclear power plant market. system, developed in-house, to the Yeongjong Sky GS E&C is currently constructing New Wolsung City project and has also advanced into the field Plants No. 1 & 2 and New Uljin Plants No. 1 & 2 and of MBT/RDF (mechanical biological treatment with is planning to become an EPC contractor at the refuse derived fuel), being selected as a preferenglobal top-tier level by expanding business areas tial candidate of negotiation for Daegu SOC (social and enhancing its business model. Osan Sewage Treatment Plant overhead capital) project. GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 22 / 23 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Challenge Great Partnership Great Innovation ISSUE Response to climate change through 01 green management Climate change risks and opportunities Efforts to reduce energy consumption As climate change has become a global issue, it is greatly affecting the sustainability of countries, societies, and businesses. Since GS E&C is aggregating energy consumption data every year and is carrying out a camlarge amount of greenhouse gases are emitted in the processes of construction, use, and demolition, the construction industry is one paign that promotes energy saving activitie such as installing motion sensor lights and of industries most closely linked to climate change. This means that the construction industry should make great efforts to respond to turning off lights. climate change. GS E&C is aware of risks and opportunities of climate change and is enhancing energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and implementing renewable energy projects. Energy consumption level GS E&C is summing up energy consumption level of the 10 buildings it owns, including Risks Opportunities the head office building, and all domestic construction sites. The entire energy consumpRegulatory risk As “Low Carbon, Green Growth” came into effect as a Regulatory opportunity After the announcement of the introduction tion of GS E&C in 2010 was 2,684 TJ and the energy consumption by sales was 0.48 new national development paradigm in 2008, the introduction of carbon of the RPS (Renewable Portfolio Standard) in 2012, GS E&C has been TJ/billion KRW, showing a slight upward trend compared to the previous year. This is the tax and the emissions trading scheme has been actively reviewed in order securing opportunities to grow through the establishment of renewable to achieve greenhouse gas emission goals. As a result, it is expected energy-based infrastructure including those for tidal and wind power. Furresult of both an increase in civil engineering sites and ongoing implementation of reducthat costs to comply regulations in relation to climate change will be inthermore, as regulations over building energy efficiency have been reintion campaigns. creased. forced, GS E&C can enhance competitiveness through energy efficiency In preparation for carbon tax and the emission trading scheme, GS E&C is planning to Physical risk Since GS E&C is a global business with operations in varitechnologies. systematically manage energy consumption through EnMS. ous countries around the world, problems may occur in some regions due Physical opportunity Due to the extreme weather conditions and water to extreme weather events or rising sea levels. In this regard, measures to shortage resulting from climate change and aging social infrastructures, respond to various physical risks should be prepared. opportunities to increase infrastructure market shares are expected. How much energy is GS E&C consuming? Other risks As the perception of overall society has been changing due Other opportunities GS E&C is planning to secure core technologies in • Equal to the electricity consumption of approximately 85,000 households in one year, assuming that to climate change, consumers’ demands in relation to environmental the areas of green traffic networks and carbon capture and storage (CCS) each household consumes 280 kWh per month. buildings are increasing. If consumers’ demands are not satisfied, it will and link them with future businesses. adversely affect the reputation of the company and its brand images. • Equal to the amount of fuel required for 1,020,000 round-trips between Seoul and Busan by car, assuming the car’s gas mileage of 11km/ℓ. ※ Reference: Energy Savings Manual for Low Carbon, Green Growth (KEMCO, 2008) Green management system Site energy use ratio by business Strategy Organization Energy consumption Unit: TJ, TJ/billion KRW Consumption by energy use Unit: TJ division Unit: % GS E&C has set a green management goal of reducing greenhouse gas emission At GS E&C, green management is carried under the control of Strategy Planning Office building Architecture Housing Civil Engineering Fuel for construction machinery Electricty Fuel for vehicle Architecture Housing Civil Engineering by 30% compared to BAU (business as usual) by 2020 and has established a Department directly managed by the CEO. Programs and initiatives are overseen Plant Power & Environmentt By sales Fuel for heating Power & Enviroment Plant green management system to achieve the goal. By implementing green manageby the Safety/Environment/Quality Group as the main axis, with the assistance of 0.48 0.48 ment along the three major strategic directions of reinforcing carbon management the General Affairs Team, the Project Monitoring & Procurement Department, the 5 system, spreading awareness throughout the whole company and partner comTechnology Division, and individual business divisions. 0.44 160.71 2,663 2,684 8 panies, and implementing of GHG and energy reduction projects, GS E&C seeks 190.60 112.55 135.19 to strengthen the basis to become a top-tier business that proactively responds 2,254 85.68 125.03 80.06 to climate change through low carbon buildings. 82.56 17 CEO 832.09 1,416.67 1,430.43 561.21 2,684 TJ 2,387 TJ First-class business that places environment Monitor trend Strategy Planning 60 Department and humans first; a top-tier construction of policies and 738.37 231.49 Vision business that responds to climate change GS Research Institute of regulations 518.56 1,849.80 10 • Whole company coordination Construction & Economy 409.72 proactively through low-carbon buildings • Manage the implementation of green projects 197.41 188.88 323.21 318.16 297.00 ECO Global Top Tier 2008 2009 2010 Strategic Technology General Affairs Project MonitorBusiness objectives Reduce GHG emission by 30% by 2020 SEQ ing & Procure(compared to BAU) Division Team ment Dept. divisions ※ Office building energy use is excluded • Development • Establish and • Establish green • Establish green • Establish and Building energy management system Spread the awareness Implement projects to of and support implement infrastructure procurement implement Strategic Reinforce GHG for greenhouse plans to reduce system plans to direction management system internally and to partner reduce GHG emission gas/energy greenhouse • Establish green reduce GS E&C is working on the introduction of building energy management system (hereinafcompanies and energy consumption consumption/ gas/energy management • Disseminate greenhouse water consumption/ system Green gases/energy ter BEMS) that optimizes energy use through consumption trend analysis and control. In Reinforce activities Establish life cycle consumption/ water Operate GHG management consumption/ to reduce GHG Green campaign assessment (LCA) waste reduction consumption/ inventory system water general, BEMS is expected to reduce energy consumption by approximately 10% annuemissions Operate green to partner systems technologies wastes in GS consumption/ E&C’s office information companies wastes at ally and, in addition, results in other effects such as equipment maintenance cost savings • Develop new buildings management construction Strategic Organize dedicated Green education of Develop GHG green projects system sites and equipment lifetime extension. organizations and reduction projects and tasks train experts the whole company related technologies • Establish and manage goals • Develop and GS E&C is planning to draw improvement measures for enhancing energy performance implement to reduce green projects through energy diagnoses of the head office building and apply building modifications & Support partner Capacity to diagnose greenhouse Efficiently operate GHG inventory companies for GHG greenhouse gas gas/energy consumption/ repairs and BEMS in order to reinforce its technical capability for energy diagnosis and emission reduction and energy wastes management. GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 24 / 25 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Challenge Great Partnership Great Innovation ISSUE Response to climate change through 01 green management Energy solution business Greenhouse gas emissions level Energy solution business strategy Since the government decided to increase the 2011 investment funding in energy serGS E&C’s greenhouse gas emissions in 2010 was 237,535 tCO2-e while GHG emissions vice companies (hereinafter ESCO) and implement the GHG Target Management, it has by sales was 42.58 tCO2-e/billion KRW. Methods used to calculate energy Strategy Major tasks been expected that opportunities for ESCO business will increase. GS E&C established GS E&C is planning to adopt EnMS (Energy Management System) and expand compaconsumption and greenhouse gas Enter into ES market Participate in projects emissions led by the goverment a foundation to carry out ESCO business in 2010 by acquiring the ESCO license, joining ny-wide greenhouse gas reduction campaigns in order to further raise the employees’ Participate in industrial the ESCO Association, reinforcing its expertise, and setting strategies to enter the market awareness of climate change. In addition, greenhouse gas emission is being reduced 1. Energy consumption park/plant project Fossil fuels for room heating equipment such as through in-depth analysis of public and private sectors. not only at the head office but also at construction sites through the installation of power boilers (diesel, lamp oil, city gas and LNG, etc.), fuImprove project Advance core technosaving devices, replacement of lamps with halogen lamps in winter season, and use of els for vehicles (gasoline, diesel, etc.), and electricity execution capabilities logical strengths were summed up based on the energy used by GS Energy Efficiency in Building Manifesto high energy efficiency equipment. E&C. Fuels for construction equipment (diesel, etc.) Gain project experience were calculated using the construction equipment The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (hereinafter WBCSD) is prooperation time specified in TPMS (data inputted from Unit: tCO2-e, Expand the business Create energy brand moting Energy Efficiency in Building (hereinafter EEB) Modelling Program in order to reGHG emissions level tCO2-e/billion KRW Emission ratios by division Unit: % sites) and included the usage of partner companies, using fuel efficiency data for construction equipment duce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2050. It is an Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 By sales Construction Housing Civil Engineering under the Standard of Construction Estimated. ※ ES: Energy Service Power & Enviroment Plant integrated forecasting program intended to reduce building energy consumption, in which 42.55 42.58 2. Greenhouse gas emissions international organizations such as UNEP and IEA and many global businesses are par39.21 5 Greenhouse gas emissions of fixed and mobile ticipating. The WBCSD is promoting the Manifesto in order to encourage businesses’ 237,535 9 combustion sources were calculated by applying 237,291 the low-heating values under Clause 1 of Article 5 voluntary participation. of the Framework Act on Energy. Greenhouse gas EEB Manifesto GS E&C signed on the EEB Manifesto and declared the implementation of five EEB action 201,634 emission coefficients by energy source were calcu18 plans for the first time among construction companies in Korea. GS E&C plans to reduce 103,404 125,623 145,945 200,091 lated by applying the emission coefficients under the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) energy consumption level by referring to the action plans in the future. tCO2-e 2006 Guideline. 56 78,473 90,804 73,094 12 Streetlight timer 5 EEB Manifesto action plans 19,757 20,864 18,496  o create a baseline of the company’s commercial buildings and set time-based energy and/or CO2 T reduction targets in line with transformative change 2008 2009 2010  o publish a company policy for minimum energy performance levels in the company’s commercial T ※Scope 1: direct emissions, Scope 2: indirect emissions, ※Office building emission is excluded buildings Scope 3: other indirect emissions  o define and carry out the company’s audit program and implementation strategy to meet energy T targets for its commercial buildings Greenhouse gas emissions reduction plan  o publish annually buildings’ energy use, CO2 emissions and progress against reduction targets, in T Individual business divisions will establish plans to reduce greenhouse gas emission in Namgang Dam Upstream Sewer site the companies’ respective CSR or other report areas ranging from design and construction to operation. Some of the measures currently Bicycle riding at sites  o further promote building energy efficiency among suppliers, employees, and other stakeholders T under review are streetlight timer, power source breaker, high efficiency equipment, no through advocacy, marketing activity, R&D, education and training unloaded vehicle operation at sites, LED lightings, and utilization of bicycles. At the head office, GHG emissions reduction activities such as maintaining appropriate indoor temperatures, encouraging the use of stairways, prohibiting the use of disposable cups, and GHG inventory section screen of the green Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions turning the power of office equipment off when leaving work are being carried out. information management system Establishment of greenhouse gas inventory Daesan NCC-II site In 2010, GS E&C established a GHG inventory in order to quantitatively assess compaCompany-wide greenhouse gas reduction campaign ny-wide greenhouse gas emission level and prepare control measures to reduce emissions. GS E&C has been practicing office light management since 2007. This system allows employees to have office lights turned on only during working hours. If anybody has to work In order to consistently identify the sources of emission and calculate & control emissions, overtime, this system requires him/her to enter the code of the light to be turned on and the GS E&C established and distributed the Guideline for Greenhouse Gas Calculation and number of hours for use into the system. Control and designated a Climate Change Response Manager at the head office. In addition, GS E&C is encouraging its entire employee to practice efforts to save energy and The calculated greenhouse gas inventory data (i.e. current level, forecasts, etc.) is shown reduce greenhouse gas emissions on an ongoing basis such as the use of public transportaon the system screen with various statistical graphs. tion and carpool. GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 26 / 27 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Challenge Great Partnership Great Innovation ISSUE Efforts to minimize environmental 02 impact GS E&C collected environmental data for 10 buildings it owns in Korea and 354 domestic sites operated during 2008~2010. GS E&C will continue to monitor environmental data through the green information management system (Green Solution) established in 2010. In addition, GS E&C established an automatic environmental management cost collection system to collect and manage costs spent for on-site environmental protection activities in linkage with the TPMS (refer to p. 29, 46) site detail and electric slip system. Input Output Resource consumption Greenhouse gas emissions Unit: tCO2-e Category Unit 2008 2009 2010 Green construction process Category 2008 2009 2010 Ready-mixed Scope 1 19,756.97 20,863.72 18,496.09 ㎥ 3,603,743 3,248,417 2,236,448 concrete Procurement Construction Cement ton 338,087 327,029 183,778 Scope 2 78,473.12 90,804.23 73,093.63 Green procurement Apply methods that will minimize Aggregate ㎥ 848,619 814,948 1,012,474 environmental impacts Scope 3 103,403.72 125,622.65 145,945.24 GS Partner Asphalt Control scattering dust, noise, and vibration Total 201,633.81 237,290.60 237,534.96 concrete ton 761,717 4,156,482 1,959,813 Quarterly evaluation of partner companies (environment, safety, quality, etc.) Protect the biodiversity ※Scope 1: direct emissions, Scope 2: indirect emissions, Sand ㎥ 554,916 236,859 1,517,745 Scope 3: other indirect emissions Prevent civil complaints and disputes Reinforcing bar ton 546,923 460,914 395,044 Waste generation Unit: ton Gypsum board ㎡ 5,425,316 6,591,191 3,324,068 Use Category 2008 2009 2010 Green building maintenance Recycled aggregate consumption Unit: ㎥ R&D and design Waste concrete 332,440 256,560 89,825 Energy savings Waste asphalt Category 2008 2009 2010 Enhance energy and resource efficiency concrete 62,211 34,203 13,742 Recycled Construction waste aggregate 27,834 23,388 60,371 Improve indoor air quality soil and stones 112,465 84,796 4,900 Apply green construction technology Mixed construction 79,781 107,847 46,554 Energy use Unit: TJ wastes Waste synthetic Category resins 10,709 4,854 3,959 2008 2009 2010 23.26 21.24 25.49 Waste wood 19,353 7,341 4,400 LNG Dismantling & demolishing Propane 47.95 75.64 21.78 Construction sludge 411 1,157 230 Appropriate handling of construction Kerosene 65.53 65.50 58.61 wastes and asbestos Total 617,371 496,758 163,610 Diesel 1,479.43 1,766.14 1,977.27 Recycling Other discharge Gasoline 35.21 37.64 39.39 Electricity 602.32 696.98 561.21 Category Unit 2010 Other 0.52 Asbestos ton 200.8 Environmental management Wastewater ㎥ 753,380 Total 2,253.70 2,663.14 2,684.27 Green procurement Unit: 100 million KRW R&D investment Unit: 100 million KRW expenses Unit: Million KRW Waste disposal Soil pollution prevention Water use Unit: ㎥ Air pollution prevention Noise/vibration reduction Environmental disputes Wastewater treatment Other (education, labor, etc) and accidents Unit: Case, KRW Category 2008 2009 2010 881.05 734.2 8,400 Category 2008 2009 2010 Water supply 663,030 545,764 590,157 690.9 948 (piped) 735.57 660.6 366 Number of environmental 11 10 7 Groundwater 425,404 384,744 293,073 99 disputes* 567.97 1,091 Number of River water 440,200 456,579 140,339 82 4,865 environmental 12 24 10 4,556 accident** Total 1,528,634 1,387,087 1,023,569 830 Grievance 254 2,212 mediation cost 21 11.3 15 64 Manpower Unit: Man-day 5,814 1,349 346 * Dispute: Number of cases of environmental dispute mediation and 23 environmental civil complaint handling 36 1,057 Category 2008 2009 2010 ** Accident: Administrative dispositions and exposure to the press, etc. 2,023 34 On-site 1,193 manpower 11,465,231 11,308,461 10,505,275 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 ※Green procurement: Expenses on materials that acquired green certification GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 28 / 29 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Challenge Great Partnership Great Innovation ISSUE Efforts to minimize environmental 02 impact Environmental management system TPMS environmental management system Strategy Environmental inspection Vision for environmental management GS E&C set its environmental vision to “secure environmental systems at the global topIn order to minimize environmental impact of construction, GS E&C divides environmental Results of environmental inspection Unit: Case Secure environmental tier level” and reestablished midto long-term environmental management strategies. activities that must be managed at individual stages ranging from pre-construction to Periodic and guiding (new/during work) Special/joint system at the global top-tier level completion by type of work and time. The results of environmental inspection and reOrganization sponse are shared online in real-time. 837 58 Company-wide Risk Advanced Globalizaiton Environmental inspection process management system The Quality & Environment Team has oversight of company-wide environmental policies and practices; the Research Institute and Housing Research Team are developing enEstablish inspection Site inspection & 446 Division Follow up of results vironmental technologies and applying them onto business divisions; the Human Restandard evaluation 58 285 Policy/ sources Development Team, Domestic & Overseas Subcontract Planning Team, SEQ Proposal Sharing and teamwork course of 24 action Team, QAHSE Team, and Procurement Team each support works such as environmental education, support for partner companies, site environmental management and green 779 388 261 Quality & Inspection Guide Monitoring PATROL ImproveProactive Provide material purchases. Environment Team ment/ad2008 2009 2010 justment criteria Responsive Self-Control On-site ※The number of inspections decreased as a result of integrating support From 2005, GS E&C has designated assistant managers at all sites as Environment Environmental information system and inspection procedures for work efficiency Managers (mandatory concurrent position of assistant manager) to be comprehensively To support site environmental management work, GS E&C is operating an environmental Check/ Support/ control foster responsible for on-site environmental inspection and responses. Through this system, information system consisting of environmental information by type of work, a KM (knowlProvision screen of environment information by type of work site workers have been enabled to implement divided environment works and thus the edge management) environmental work manual, and a site environmental work guide. In tasks could be autonomously managed. In 2011, activities intended to activate the R&R particular, the system containing environmental information by type of work provides core (roles & responsibilities) of the works of site staffs responsible for environments will be information (in one page) closely related to site activities such as procedures, standards, implemented. cases, checklists, and education customized to each site. Its excellence was recognized 2011 environmental staffs’ work R&R plan and GS E&C received the Grand Prize at the 2006 Construction Environment Best Case Environmental management implementing organization and major work 1. Activate the application of R&R on site Competition from the Ministry of Environment. Improve perception and management capability Environment Team Research Institute of the site workers (remote education) Green information management system (Green Solution) • Operate environmental management system and manage environmental risks • Research on eco-friendly construction Complement details of inspection standards according to the division’s characteristics • Check and support education on environment and develop environmental guidelines and work • Support environmental technology GS E&C has developed a green information management system and is utilizing it for manuals collecting and analyzing performance data necessary for external information disclosure, ※ Environmental information and the inspection checklist related to the site work procedures are demonstrated in a pop-up screen 2. Improve environmental management Housing Research Team Power & Environment Business Plant/Housing/Civil Engineering/ greenhouse gas emissions calculation, and company-wide green management KPI manDivision Architecture Business Division capabilities of suppliers agement. Establish environment task R&R for suppliers • Research on indoor air quality • Implement environmental projects • Apply eco-friendly methods/equipment/ Main screen of Green Solution • Develop eco-friendly • Environmental planning/construction designs Initiate environmental task delegation policy construction materials, etc. of environments and site environment • On-site environmental management, Conceptual diagram of the green information management system jointly between GS E&C and its suppliers management checking and support Site data (TPMS) Head office data (TPMS) 3. Carry out continuous monitoring and Other departments improvement activities • Oil, refrigerants, electric power, etc. Greenhouse gas inventory • Human Resources Development Team: Environmental education for employees Check for the status of R&R implementation (Greenhouse gas emissions, • Domestic & Overseas Subcontract Planning Team: Evaluation and support of partner companies Construction materials • Green management activities energy consumption, etc.) during the site inspection of the Head SEQ Team • Procurement Team: Procurement of green materials Conduct regualr monitoring and spread best cases Green procurement Switching to video conferencing system to reduce GHG emissions from transport Finance & TPMS accounOil/refrigerant ting Link Green GS E&C is operating a regional environmental committee to information management share environmental information and thereby conduct environGreen procureWaste system Electric power ment system … ments risk management and establish a cooperative system. system In 2010, it has switched the face-to-face meeting to video conferencing so as to eliminate unnecessary transportation Equipment/support and save fuel. GHG emissions reduced from video conferGreen performance management • Oil, refrigerants, electric power, etc. encing system is being managed by the green information Waste generated (Environmental protection activities, • Energy consumption development of green technology, etc.) management system. GHG emissions reduction as a result in • 2010 is 2.58 tCO2-e, which is equivalent to the reduction level Video conference • Data from the building owned • (2010. 12. 08) achieved from planting 700 pine trees. by GS E&C GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 30 / 31 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Challenge Great Partnership Great Innovation ISSUE Efforts to minimize environmental 02 impact Green procurement Eco-friendly construction practices Industry-wide Voluntary Agreement for Green In order to contribute to the government’s polRecords of green procurement GS E&C shares the Environmental Management Guidebook through Intranet to utilize it as Water use Unit: ㎥ Procurement by certification Unit: 100 million KRW icy to disseminate green products, GS E&C a reference for preventing and inspecting pollution around sites. To minimize environmental Water supply (piped) Groundwater River water Eco-label Energy Efficiency Rating 1~2 signed on the Industry-wide Voluntary AgreeEnergy Saving Mark Highly energy-efficient equipment & materials impacts on the surrounding areas and the local residents, GS E&C is making efforts such ment for Green Procurement in 2010 and HB Mark as saving resources, controlling environmental contaminants, and protecting biodiversity. 1,528,634 881.05 1,387,087 established a green procurement guideline in order to commit to the agreement. In addi735.57 Water use 440,200 GS E&C uses water to operate sprinklers to reduce seattering dust generated at work sites. 456,579 tion, GS E&C is closely monitoring the records 337.57 1,023,569 155.14 567.97 of green procurement through computerized 67.43 88.88 The total amount of water used in 2010 was 1,023,569㎥, a decrease of approximately 425,404 140,339 68.58 20.32 4.67 26% compared to the previous year, as a result of various activities to improve water ef384,744 90.19 293,073 system. 9.04 GS E&C will support partner companies’ esficiency. Although some sites are using water supplied from local water basins, it was as228.91 244.44 sessed that there was no significant effect. 663,030 196.26 tablishment of green procurement systems 545,764 590,157 Industry-wide Voluntary Agreement for Green and continuously pursue programs such as 263.77 225.79 183.60 Water quality management Procurement ceremony fostering of green material producers to ex2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 In order to minimize damage to environment by the wastewater and effluents generated pand green procurement practices across during construction, GS E&C has prepared a water quality management guideline and ※The amount of water supply used was converted based on the ※ A decline in housing sites, where most of the “green products” average utility cost in Incheon (a region where the largest numthe industry. are used, led to a decrease in green procurement expenses requires site environmental managers to follow it. Standard procedures and manuals are ber of sites are located). Environmental management education also distributed to overseas sites to monitor water quality standards by country and manage water quality data. GS E&C composed environment education programs by position and job group; in 2010, Ratio of water used by source in 2010 Unit: % Furthermore, GS E&C is planning to consider water risk and opportunity factors as part of 5,125 site workers and subcontractors (cumulative) as well as 660 head office employees the site environmental management. Water supply (piped) Groundwater River water (cumulative) completed the programs. Environmental education program Measures to recycle groundwater and rainwater utilizing run-off settling tanks 14 Environment education Subject Time Content In order to reduce water use and wastewacompleted in 2010 Unit: People (cumulative) Share environmental trends and guidelines and draw ter discharge, GS E&C collects the ground Garden Run-off settling tanks Site environmental manager Once a year (February) water and rainwater generated during work Pond directions to improve Manager Associate Subcontractor Washer to settling tanks to remove suspended matNewly appointed site manager When appointed Share key environmental management points 1,023,569㎥ Sprinkler ter and reuse the water for environmental All employee (First School) Cyber SEQ basic education Site key environmental work education facilities on sites. Compared to the existing 1,226 Our company’s environmental policy and environmethod of simply discharge groundwater 28 58 (21%) New/experienced employee When employed mental management basic education and rainwater to sewer pipes, this method Collector well not only is more efficient but also reduces 2,601 Environmental management cost and waste related Management group Twice a year cost. When this method was applied onto (45%) practical work education Main collector well the Chulsan Jugong reconstruction site, 5,785 Public affairs group Twice a year Government relations and site environmental work education around 50 million KRW of water utilities expeople Share environmental issues and education to pense was saved. Chulsan Jugong reconstruction site Head office environmental staff Twice a year cultivate experts in environment Groundwater and rainwater recycling Site worker When new sites are opened Site worker and supplier worker education process 1,958 (34%) Reused Environmental management certification Groundwater Groundwater Flows into runfor on-site occurs during runs into the off settling tanks environmental Since acquiring ISO14001 certification in 1996, GS construction collector well facilities E&C has been systematically reducing environmental Construction Environment Best Case impact and managing operations through a companyCompetition wide environmental manual. Air quality improvement External environment activities ISO14001 certification examination in 2010 To prevent air pollutants such as scattering dust from occurring at sites during construction, GS E&C is actively securing leadership in the area of GS E&C installs dustproof nets/covers and operates sprinklers and sprinkler trucks while construction industry’s environmental management. GS E&C is a member of the Construcarranging vacuum cleaning cars and road cleaning workers in roads through which many tion Association of Korea and the Construction Environment Association and participates in construction vehicles come into and go out to control soil and sand from being discharged the Regulation Rationalization Subcommittee of the Ministry of Environment. In addition, GS to the outside. Furthermore, to suppress air pollution in advance, exhaust gas-reducing E&C supports the Green Management Dissemination Project for Partner Companies and devices are installed on diesel vehicles at sites and this will be continuously expanded. suggests opinions on government policies. GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 32 / 33 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Challenge Great Partnership Great Innovation ISSUE Efforts to minimize environmental 02 impact Waste management Waste generation Unit: ton Asbestos abatement As reconstruction, redevelopment, and remodeling projects continue, construction waste Category 2008 2009 2010 Asbestos had been used frequently as construction materials for non-flammability, insulating properties, durability, and electric insulating properties; but due to its risk of triggering fatal disgeneration have rapidly increased to account for 51.2% of the entire wastes generated Waste concrete 332,440 256,560 89,825 eases such as lung cancer, malignant mesothelioma, and asbestosis pulmonum, the manufacin Korea (based on 2009 data). Waste asphalt concrete 62,211 34,203 13,742 turing and use of materials containing asbestos are currently prohibited in Korea. GS E&C has distributed a waste management guideline to all sites and is operating an Construction waste soil and stones 112,465 84,796 4,900 To protect workers and residents living in the vicinity when dismantling asbestos structures, GS in-house construction waste management handling system linked with the government’s Mixed construction wastes 79,781 107,847 46,554 E&C has developed the “Asbestos Abatement Manual” in compliance with the Industrial Safety waste handling system (called Olbaro) on real-time. Waste synthetic resins 10,709 4,854 3,959 and Health Act of Korea and EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) standards of the United In addition, through the expansion of separate ordering of construction wastes in civil Waste wood 19,353 7,341 4,400 States to appropriately remove asbestos. Furthermore, GS E&C has composed an asbestos engineering sites, a decrease in housing redevelopment/reconstruction sites, and the Construction sludge 411 1,157 230 abatement data room in TPMS to share information on asbestos dismantling facilities and worker Asbestos abatement work Asbestos Abatement Manual increased use of recycled aggregate, GS E&C reduced the waste generation by 65% in Total 617,371 496,758 163,610 protection equipment. 2010 compared to the previous year. Reycled aggregate consumption Unit: ㎥ Furthermore, GS E&C is maintaining waste recycling ratio of at least 90% through waste The Prize of the Minister of Environment for Building Asbestos Control Category 2008 2009 2010 reducing and separating activities at sites. In 2010, GS E&C participated in Voluntary Agreement for Building Asbestos Control managed by the Recycled aggregate used 27,834 23,388 60,371 Ministry of Environment and participated by 10 major construction companies in Korea. GS E&C has made efforts in training asbestos control supervisors, analyzing the present state of building asbestos Killing two birds with one stone – “zero waste and CO2” concrete curing method disposal, and developing asbestos control systems in order to faithfully perform the agreement. As a result, GS E&C was recognized of its excellence in environmental management and was selected as 1. Haul 2. Installation 3. Electricity connection The brown coal heaters and hot-air blowers generally used during winter works at sites not only make big temperature differences and a Business Excellence in Asbestos Control in 2010 to win the Prize of the Minister of the Ministry of are carbon intensive but also emit large amounts of toxic gases and Environment. wastes. In this respect, GS E&C has developed a winter concrete curing method that uses incandescent lamps (halogen lamps) instead of brown coal so that noise, toxic gases or wastes are not Haul lamps using gunny sack Install using wires and loops Connect to the electricity using and T/C waterproof jack generated and the lamps can be reused in other sites. Furthermore, Protection of biodiversity workplace accidents that might occur and the risk of fire at work site To minimize the effects of the execution of projects on surroundcould be removed altogether. ing ecosystems, GS E&C is monitoring the present state of eco6. Repair 5. Dismantling 4. Lighting GS E&C applied for a patent for this method jointly with Alto in June systems in relevant regions throughout the life cycle of construc2009 and this curing method is being applied onto many other sites including housing sites and civil engineering sites. GS E&C applied tion projects. this method to Ilsan Xi site to achieve an outcome of reducing CO2 Since there are diverse animals and plants including natural emission by 94.7% compared to brown coal heaters and making natural monuments such as otters, mandarin ducks, and gosRemove foreign materials Cure and dismantle Install distribution board and turn on the light zero waste generation. hawks, which inhabit at the swamp and waterside eosysterms aroud Zone 6 of Kum River Restoration project, special efforts are Protection boundary fence needed to protect them. In this respect, GS E&C is appropriately Soil pollution prevention forming hiding places and laying places such as piles of stones and natural caves in the work On-site environmental protection activity To prevent soil pollution in advance that may occur due to damage of oil pipelines or leaksection and when any habitat of animals or plants to be conserved is found, GS E&C determines ages from oil storage facilities that may occur during bed excavation and digging works, it as an environment conservation area and installs sign boards and protecting/warning fences to prohibit damage as well as educating workers in the relevant site on the importance of the GS E&C is strictly manitoring facilities and treating any polluted soil generated during works conservation of ecosystems. Environmental accidents* by type with the support of Technology Division. (2008 ~ 2010) Unit: % Based on these experiences in soil pollution treatment, GS E&C has been participating in Waste Noise/vibration Air Water quality Other the project to clear environmental pollution in the returned US army base from 2008. GS Effort to minimize environmental accidents and disputes Soil pollution analysis Removal of polluted soil Most environmental accidents occur in sites are disputes due to noise and poor facility manE&C is planning planning for city redevelopment project through linking soil remediation 5 agement. To mitigate this, GS E&C developed the Environmental Dispute Forecasting Program projects. 23 in 2005 for the first time among domestic construction companies and has been applying the 10 Noise & vibration minimization program to sites where noise damage is expected. This program forecasts the level To minimize the effects of noise and vibration that unavoidably occur during construction, of noise by engineering methods, finds 46 GS E&C installs soundproof walls before commencing works and makes it mandatory to cases causes in advance, and calculates the exmeasure, record, and control noise level at relevant sites. Furthermore, GS E&C prohibits pected costs needed to support the settle27 the use of equipments that generate noise during works on weekends and at night and ment of the dispute within a short time. when works with loud noises such as blasts, concrete placing, crushing, drilling or break35 Environmental Dispute Forecasting Program ing are implemented, mobile soundproof walls/covers are installed to prevent noise in adOn-site noise level measuring board Air soundproof wall vance. * Accident: Administrative disposition and exposure to the press, etc. GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 34 / 35 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Challenge Great Partnership Great Innovation ISSUE World’s best construction company 03 through green technology Green technology development Sustainable water resource development To advance towards a sustainable society, GS E&C is concentrating its energy on develWater markets throughout the world are expanding as water shortage intensifies due Daegu Sewage Sludge Treatment oping and commercializing core technologies. to global warming, increasing population, industrialization, and aging infrastructure. To Facility minimize risks related with water that is also called “blue gold” due to its scarcity and link Category Product name Overview Outcome in 2010 related opportunities with commercialization plans, GS E&C is implementing the development of technologies for water reuse systems, seawater desalination, and integrated · Passive house verification Eco-friendly residence model that minimizes energy, noise, and · Designed combining renewable energy sources water management service. 3 Zero House air pollution · New IAQ sensor environment technology/green technology certification Water reuse system GS E&C’s water reuse system is composed of advanced wastewater treatment, sewage reuse, · Designed with an optimal combination of heat source A business model combining cutting-edge technologies such facilities and renewable energy and sludge-to-resources. This system has a benefit of recycling water with high efficiency at GS (Green Smart) 20% lower production costs compared to existing methods. In addition, the sludge treatment The Daegu Sewage Sludge Facility beas green building that can lead future construction markets, · Green building commercialization models have been Building ing constructed by GS E&C from 2007 intelligent building and specialized designs developed and integrated solutions have been made with the recycled resource is possible. is equipped with both sludge drying and into packages Since GS Lyso sludge reduction technology – an advanced sewage treatment technology to solidification facilities as the only case in · A pilot seawater desalination plant was installed and reduce sewage sludge using microorganisms that secret the enzyme Lysozyme (GS Lyso strain) Korea and can treat 300 tons of sludge Seawater desalination The construction model of seawater desalination plant with large operated – is applied to the Songdo Public Sewage Treatment Facility that is under construction now, it is per day, the largest capacity in the world. plant capacity and low energy · Three international joint studies were conducted expected that a sludge solidification efficiency of 30% and a sludge solubilization ratio of 70% will Unlike existing sewage sludge that has Green been disposed into the ocean or buried, MBR (membrane bio-reactor) and water reuse technologies · GS-MBR and GS-Water Reuse Pilot be achieved. In addition, it is expected that high-treated water quality will be achieved and a cost the sludge that has been dried up to the technology Water reuse system were made into brands and zero discharge systems were · Technology to convert sludge into resources was saving of around one billion KRW will be possible compared to competing technologies; thus, state where its moisture content is 45% developed developed this technology will contribute to the expansion of the project as a specialized technology item. can be reutilized as cover materials in A business model to implement all processes ranging from · Automatic waste collection systems were developed hygienic landfills. The Daegu Sewage Waste-to-energy waste collection to final disposal in optimized methods and turn · Optimum MBT/RDF design programs were developed Conceptual diagram of the water reuse system Sludge Treatment Facility will be comwastes into resources · GS Brand incineration system development pleted in 2012. Next generation intelligent electric power networks that grafts Sludge Sludge recycle Methane, hydrogen, phosphorus · Participated in the Jeju Smart Grid Test-bed Sewage/ system information technology (IT) on existing electric power networks wastewater Smart grid · Carried out K-MEG (Korea Micro Energy Grid), a national Advanced Factory, farm, so that power suppliers and consumers can bi-directionally water treatment policy project home, etc. communicate in real time to optimize energy efficiency system Treated Wastewater Water Technology to make those construction materials (e.g. cement) reuse system water Green materials that emit the largest amount of greenhouse gases in the · Green concrete was proven in field application construction industry into green materials Seawater desalination plants Green concrete GS E&C’s seawater desalination plants are aimed at developing high efficiency, low energy technologies and securing the technical capability to plan, design, and operate large capacity By the nature of the construction industry, most of greenhouse gas emission occurs during construction material production. Production of cement that becomes the priplants. mary material of concrete is a highly carbon-intensive process to the extent that this process accounts for around 7% of the entire greenhouse gas emissions in the world. GS E&C has developed a green concrete that reduced the use of cement by utilizing specified byproducts and secured necessary strength and quality together through In 2010, through seawater desalination pilot plant research, GS E&C developed core techestablishing Pre Mix facilities. nologies for low energy desalination and applied for 6 patents. GS E&C established a research The green concrete developed in 2010 uses around 20% of cement compared to existing concrete to reduce GHG emission by 34% and reduce materials costs by 5%. institute in KAUST in Saudi Arabia and began joint research. In addition, GS E&C conducted a feasibility study for Long An Province in Vietnam to develop projects and establish capabilities Results of site applicability assessment for optimum designs while securing an opportunity to receive order for a public desalination Expenses on GHG emissions plant for the first time in our company. In 2011, GS E&C is planning to develop next generation Max. temperature ready-mixed concrete reduction desalination processes. 85℃ 30% 100% 5% 100% 34% 95% Desalination system 65℃ 66% Intake/Outfall Pre-treatment SWRO/BWRO General Green General Green General Green P9 project site Green concrete casting Consumer Distribution Post-treatment GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 36 / 37 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Challenge Great Partnership Great Innovation ISSUE World’s best construction company 03 through green technology Green buildings Green building certification 3 Zero House GS E&C applies diverse green technologies to construct green buildings and these efforts LEED Core & Shell Silver Going further from the development of energy-saving housing in the past, GS E&C is deare proved by many green building certifications. Based on buildings completed by 2010, International Finance Centre Seoul veloping 3 Zero House, an eco-friendly residence model that reduces energy consumpGS E&C acquired preliminary or main certifications for a total of 21 buildings and in 2011, tion, noise, and indoor air pollution. GS E&C’s 3 Zero House is a prospective housing GS E&C will acquire green building certifications for at least 6 apartments in Korea (under model where Energy Zero, Air Pollution Zero and Noise Zero can be realized. construction or to be sold). Furthermore, GS E&C will acquire LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), which is a US green building certification for IFC Seoul and Songdo Xi Harbor View. Conceptual diagram of 3 Zero House Category Building name Type of certification Date of certification • Energy saving model for entire apartment Passive solution complexes including individual units and LIG Insurance Daegu Office Building Certification 2010. 02 community centers Energy Zero Active solution Gyeongbang K-Project Certification 2009. 09 • 100% of energy demand is procured inhouse through energy savings and proSacheon City Hall Certification 2007. 07 Energy supply/control duction Seoul Central Post Office Certification 2007. 06 • Detect traces of individual contaminants The City Seven Certification 2006. 05 Chemical pollution control such as chemical gases, viruses, fungi and LIG Insurance Gangnam Office Building Certification 2006. 03 fine dust, etc. Air Pollution Zero Biological pollution control Aegyeong Gateway Plaza Certification 2004. 09 • Install intelligent air cleaning system to Office building Green materials implement clean environment: indoor conNC Soft Pangyo R&D Center Pre-certification 2010. 06 IFCS is a building to be certified for the centration not higher than 10 ppb Seoul International Finance Center Pre-certification 2010. 05 LEED C&S Silver grade where energy In-house experiments Gyoha Complex Community Center A1 Pre-certification 2009. 12 efficiency has been maximized and enviIndoor noise control • Maximally block the transmission of unpleasant noises such as external noises National Ecology Center Pre-certification 2009. 11 ronmental impacts have been minimized Noise Zero Soundscape and other units’ noises: by +1.5dB comby introducing cogeneration systems, pared to competitors GS Square Anyang Store Pre-certification 2009. 09 ice thermal storage, gray water/rainwater Active noise control • Introduce soundscape designs into comLIG Insurance Sacheon Training Institute Pre-certification 2008. 12 treatment systems, and solar heat hot plexes to provide sound environments Ferrum Tower Pre-certification 2008. 04 water supply systems. unique to our company’s apartments Muk-dong Xi Certification 2010. 12 Isu Xi Certification 2010. 12 Exterior insulation Radiant cooling/ Poil Xi Certification 2009. 11 heating floor system Energy Zero Apartment Yoido Xi Certification 2008. 03 LEED NC Certified In 2010, GS E&C analyzed the energy saving-effect and economic efficiency of a passive solubuilding Guro Xi Certification 2007. 03 Songdo Xi Harbor View tion (saves energy without any external power source) and drew the optimum combination of 2010. 02 Gwanggyo Jayeon & Xi Pre-certification technological elements by energy reduction stage. Based on the results of in-house experiCheongdam Xi Pre-certification 2008. 09 ments, GS E&C harvested an outcome of reducing building energy loads by 50% with a building skin design applied with passive technological elements such as highly airtight windows and Waste-to-energy vacuum insulation materials and the verified technology to reduce room cooling/heating energy Wastes that have been generated at home and industrial sites can become good resources Vacuum glazed glass BIPV pent roof by 50% has been applied to our company’s housing project energy saving model which will if they are utilized well. GS E&C has established a business model to treat wastes and make be commercialized soon. GS E&C also established an energy zero apartment concept plan to them into resources by using optimized methods in all processes ranging from collection be implemented through the introduction of an active solution (improves energy efficiency by Polymer to final disposal and is making efforts to develop technologies to provide total solutions for Only particular substances react to the utilizing external power sources) and is reviewing the effect of it when it is applied to renewable imprinted polymers waste to energy. ▶Detect pollutants energy and possib of combinations. GS E&C has applied an automatic collection technology to the Yeongjong Sky City in InAir Pollution Zero cheon in 2010 and designed MBT/RDF technology to the Daegu green energy SOC busiIn order to actively respond to consumers’ requirements for the formation of clean indoor air ness. environments, GS E&C has developed an indoor air quality sensor at the world highest level. Songdo Xi Harbor View is a building to be Concept of waste-to-energy technology certified for the LEED NC Certified grade Thickness of the Molecular strucThis sensor is applied with molecular imprinted polymers (MIP) that react to only the molecular ture of pollutants Automatic waste where energy efficiency was enhanced by surface (~100㎚) structures of certain materials and thus it can detect traces of chemical pollutants such as formClean burning introducing water cooling air conditioners collecting technology Conceptual diagram of MIP aldehyde and toluene in indoor in real-time. Automatically transport and Maximize the efficiency of and securing air-tightness performance GS E&C will additionally develop smart air cleaning system combining home network and air collect wastes through collecting resources and for building shells and unit households. In ducts buried underground utilization while minimizing cleaning devices as well as cutting-edge sensors dedicated to clean rooms. contaminant emission addition, greenhouse gas emissions are Product reduced by using solar heat. Noise Zero composition MBT/RDF Future technology GS E&C has developed drywalls with grade 1 (64dB) sound insulation between units to make residential environment liberated from noise and produced Xi apartment logo sounds and inforCollect organic resources Gasification, carbonization, through pre-treatments etc. mation sounds to provide unique soundscape. such as screening and Noise-masking of the Noise-masking of the classification to reduce entrance/exit area promenade loads on final disposition GS E&C thinks  higher up. To stabilize the foundation and to create higher value, We enhance core capabilities and plan for new growth. Not being afraid of challenge, we want to let the joy of great leap known. Planning and acting responsibly, GS E&C is moving towards the center of the world. Direction GS E&C is planning to create highest economic value with a challenging spirit and a sense of responsibility. GS E&C is planning to enhance its core capabilities, comprehensively control risks, and continuously grow by fostering new businesses and expanding global business. 2010 Achievement GS E&C has achieved the best financial performance including order backlogs amounting 14.1 trillion KRW, sales amounting 7.9 trillion KRW, and operating profits amounting 520 billion KRW. Not settling on these records, GS E&C established new business to prepare for the future and developed new projects. Global business has also been continuously expanding to the extent that overseas projects account for around 50% of the total amount of order backlogs. In particular, GS E&C has established an integrated risk management system in order to prevent various risks in advance. Plan & Outlook GS E&C is planning to become the Global Top Tier through balanced development of core capabilities and growth with the risk management and new business that have already been established. 40 Special Feature. GS E&C’s growth through new business and expansion of overseas markets 42 Issue 4. Creation of economic value for sustainable growth Oman Sohar Aromatics Plant 48 Issue 5. Enhancement of corporate value through risk management Plant facilities that can produce 1 million tons of BTW per year, located in Sohar, Oman 50 Issue 6. Customer satisfaction maximization Special Feature 40 / 41 GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 GS E&C’s growth through new business and Contract signing ceremony of UAE Ruwais Green Diesel project expansion of overseas markets Development of new business for future growth Expansion of overseas markets GS E&C is focusing on new businesses to secure leadership and Since it is expected that the Overseas order backlogs in 2010 prepare a basis for sustainable growth, while keeping pace with construction business recovand goals for 2011 Unit: 100 million KRW the changing environment of the construction industry. ery will continue along with the Civil Engineering Plant overcoming of the global ecoPower & Environment Architecture New business nomic crisis, economic prog88,412 ress of the emerging markets, 3,908 and increasing demand for the 16,404 63,872 Establish systems to impleReinforce the capacity to Reinforce linkage between infrastructure development from 514 ment new growth projects create projects technology and projects developing countries, the ex11,312 Clients who have seen the successful implementation of the UAE environmental impact from oil sand development, we are putting • Enhance the ability to • Diversify business models • Reinforce the ability to pansion of overseas market is 59,100 implement new growth Public/private sector cooperaimplement new growth 49,180 Green Diesel project came to recognize the competitiveness of utmost efforts to develop eco-friendly and highly efficient producprojects tion, plan proposal/joint investprojects through the essentially required for growth. ment projects, etc. development of green GS E&C and this turned out to be an opportunity for GS E&C to tion technologies. Concretize roadmap to impleIn 2010, GS E&C received large 2,866 9,000 ment new growth projects • Reinforce global financing technology receive additional large orders in the region. Consequently, GS Establish project division capacity Enhance the productivity overseas project orders such 2010 Outcome 2011 Goal centered on implementaEnlarge financing areas and • E&C received new orders amounting around 4.5 billion USD durEstablishment of a research institute at KAUST in Saudi Arabia for tion systems (restructure the diversify financing sources of projects being impleas Canadian Oil Sand, Austraorganization) mented ing the year 2009, which amounts to almost half of the total orders advancing into overseas freshwater market Operate a Company-wide Reduce costs by securing lian fertilizer production facility construction project, and Barka 3 organization to deliberate new technology (10 billion USD) received by all of Korean construction companies growth projects & Sohar 2 in Oman, all of which is worth approximately 6.4 trillion GS E&C established a research institute for seawater desalination in Abu Dhabi. • Reinforce new project KRW. together with KAUST (King Abdula Scientific Technology Univerorganizations • Newly establish organizaIn 2011, GS E&C is planning to raise the proportion of new oversity) in Saudi Arabia in 2010. Also referred to as the “MIT of the tion dedicated to investseas projects to at least 50% of sales while reinforcing competiCanadian Oil Sand project Middle East,” KAUST has partnerships with prestigious universiment and M&A tiveness in the existing markets and espanding global network. By receiving the oil refinery plant ties around the world and global businesses; GS E&C is the first construction order in Black Gold, Korean company to form an industry-academic partnership with Diversification of business portfolio Alberta, worth approximately 350 the University. UAE Ruwais Industrial Complex Green Diesel project billion KRW in 2010, GS E&C beThe joint research is aimed to utilize seawater as an alternative GS E&C is strengthening resources and capabilities in 23 projects UAE Ruwais Industrial Complex Green Diesel project is a plant came the first Korean construcsource of freshwater, which is an emerging business area. When in five main areas – Green Smart Living, Clean Environment, Comconstruction project received in 2007 from Takreer, a subsidiary tion company to advance into the research on desalination system with low energy requirement plex Development, Smart Infrastructure, and Green Energy – of company of Abu Dabi National Oil Company (ADNOC). The diesel Canadian oil sand (sand or sandand high rate of return is completed, it is expected that 25% of dewhich the market is expected to expand. produced in this plant is an eco-friendly type with a sulfur content stone containing crude bitumen; salination plant construction costs and 20% of maintenance costs of less than 10ppm; it is considered a resource with high futurewill be saved. it can be refined into various oil Clean growth potential, particularly in response to climate change. The Middle East region accounts for approximately 50% of the Contract signing ceremony of products). This project enabled Environment Canadian Oil Sand oil refinery world’s desalination market. Through this industry-academic partGreen Smart GS E&C to further diversify its Energy production plant construction Living UAE Ruwais Green Diesel project nership, GS E&C has established a network to prepare a foundafrom wastes, plant business portfolio. Green smart building, water reuse, etc. tion for advancement into seawater desalination business. energy solution, etc. As the oil sand proves to be profitable as a result of rise in international oil price and a decline in oil production cost from technological development, its prospect such non-conventional is GS E&C’s Complex increasingly emphasized. In particular, Canadian oil sands have new Development great market potential, considering its geographic proximity to the projects Composite complex United States, world’s second largest consumer of oil; in this reGreen Energy operation projects, etc. gard, the project is expected to serve a great role for sustainable Wind power, gasification, growth of GS E&C in the future. nuclear power, Smart etc. However, there are environmental concerns associated with oil Infrasrtucture sands such as greenhouse gas emissions and large water use, Deep underground road traffic networks, all of which are part of the current crude oil production process. ports, etc. Research institute at KAUST These are issues that GS E&C must address. In order to minimize GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 42 / 43 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Partnership Great Challenge ISSUE Creation of economic value for 04 sustainable growth Sustainable governance Roles and activities of the Board Corporate governance grade GS E&C’s Board of Directors makes key business decisions in all areas – economic, The Board has an oversight of major investment decisions, management plan, key financial information, and the executive appointment environmental, and social – of the company. GS E&C intends to reinforce managerial right. Seven regular board meetings are held every year and special board meetings are summoned when key issues arise. In 2010, a 2008 2009 2010 transparency and accountability so as to gain trust from diverse stakeholders. As a result total of 11 board meetings were held to examine 18 subject matters and the average rate of attendance of external directors was 87%. Very good Very good Good of its effort to maintain transparent governance, GS E&C is receiving better evaluation than most Korean construction companies from the Korea Corporate Governance SerKey resolutions in 2010 vice (KCGS) every year. Outside director Date Resolution attendance rate (%) 2010. 02. 04 Approval of the 41st period financial statements and business report 60 Board composition Calling of the 41st period annual meeting of shareholders and approval of the agenda GS E&C’s Board of Directors consists of four executive and five outside directors, com2010. 02. 18 80 2009 internal accounting management system operating state assessment report plying with the internal policy that the number of external directors should account for 2010. 03. 09 Revision of some items in the agenda for the 41st annual meeting of shareholders 60 more than half of the total number of directors, and is chaired by the Chairman of GS E&C in order to assume corporate accountability. Approval of selected members of committees in the board Approval of determination and execution of compensations for directors 2010. 03. 19 100 GS E&C Board members Approval of revisions in executive officer management regulations Approval of the limit of daily transactions with the largest shareholder for the year 2010 Approval of revisions in Audit Committee operation regulations 2010. 05. 13 Approval of revisions in External Director Candidate Recommendation Committee operation regulations 100 2010 1st quarter management record report Approval of Egypt ERC Project related manufacturing financing borrowing limit 2010. 06. 28 60 Approval of executive officer management Approval of revisions in executive officer employee management regulations 2010. 07. 22 100 2010 1st half management record report 2010. 09. 28 Approval of UAE oil pipeline construction project agreement execution 100 2010 3 quarter management record report rd 2010. 11. 05 100 PTT LNG construction work state report 1. Chang-Soo Huh 2. Myung-Soo Huh 3. Sang-Ryong Woo 4. Hwi-Sung Lee 2010. 11. 15 Approval of urea fertilizer factory construction in Australia agreement execution 100 Chairman of the Board Presently President & CEO of Presently President & CGO of Presently Senior Executive Presently Chairman of GS E&C GS E&C GS E&C Vice President of GS E&C COO of GS E&C Head of Plant Business DiviPresently Head of Domestic Approval of 2011 large scale internal transaction limit of affiliated companies Presently Chairman of GS Holdings CFO of GS E&C sion Business Division Approval of 2011 company bond issue plan Chairman of LS Cable (former Senior Vice President of LG Senior Executive Vice PresiPresently CSO of GS E&C 2010. 12. 07 100 LG Cable) Electronics dent of GS Caltex Head of Civil Engineering BusiApproval of executive officer management ness Division Approval of a change in compensation for the representative director 5. Chung-Man Kim 6. Duk-Hoon Lee 7. Chong-Kun Pyun 8. Kyung-Suh Park 9. Seong-Woo Moon Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Presently Full-time Counselor Presently In-house Advisor of Presently Professor of Myongji Presently Professor of Korea Presently Attorney at Law Firm of LS Industrial System Professional Law Firm Youngjin University University Barun Shareholder rights Vice Chairman of LS Industrial President of the Woori Bank Chairman of Korean Society of Vice Chairman of Korean Korea’s 51st Deputy Attorney System Member of Monetary Policy Civil Engineering Finance Association General Reflecting the Capital Market and Construction Industry Act and the public disclosure Shareholder composition Unit: % CEO of LS Industrial System Committee regulation of the Korea Stock Exchange, GS E&C respects shareholder rights to be accuForeign investors Huh Family Organizational structure of subcommittees Committees under the Board rately and promptly informed of key management issues through various communication Domestic institutions and individual investors Treasury stock under the Board channels such as business reports (annual, semi-annual, and quarterly), general meetAudit Committee 2.98 ings of shareholders, and IR website. Board of Directors To ensure accounting and business transparency and independence, GS E&C is operat21.07 In compliance with the Commercial Act and the articles of incorporation of GS E&C, even ing an Audit Committee consisting of three outside directors. The Committee has the right those with minority equity can, if they have 0.5% or more shares, make resolution at gento request business information that they deem necessary and to examine the company’s eral meetings and exercise other rights such as requesting for accounting book reading, Audit Committee External Director Candidate Recommendation Committee work and financial data at any given time. calling of special shareholder meetings, and dismissal of directors. 51 45.47 External Director Candidate Recommendation Committee million shares Members of Members of the the External GS E&C’s External Director Candidate Recommendation Committee serves the role of Category Category Director Candidate Shareholder composition Audit Committee Recommendation recommending appropriate candidates to the general meeting of shareholders when new 30.48 Committee outside directors are appointed. Only those with expertise and acquired level of experiAs of December 2010, GS E&C’s major shareholders include foreign investors who have Inside Chang-Soo Huh Chung-Man Kim director 45.47% of share, followed by Huh Family, domestic institutions and individual investors, Outside director Duk-Hoon Lee Outside ence are provided candidacy and those who have any special stake in GS E&C are Kyung-Suh Park director Chong-Kun Pyun excluded. and treasury stocks, each having 30.48%, 21.07%, and 2.98% of share, respectively. GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 44 / 45 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Partnership Great Challenge ISSUE Creation of economic value for 04 sustainable growth Enhancement of internal capabilities Creativity management Economic research Innovation management Technology R&D In order to respond to rapidly changing management environment Management innovation process Management innovation refers to activities aimed at solving priority issues mainly occurred and identify business opportunities, GS E&C has established and With the Technology Division (which includes the Research Instiin construction sites, and the results are applied to other projects. is operating the Economic Institute in 2008 for the first time among Action tute), GS E&C is accumulating differentiated technological comThrough management innovation activities, GS E&C has been able to solve problems Korean construction companies. • Theme-selecting meeting petitiveness. As a result of continuously expanding R&D invest• Select themes by site or team from each project that occur during projects and to secure core capabilities for both individuals and the ment, GS E&C carried out 78 researches in 2010 and applied division GS E&C’s think tank Select • Organize development teams organization. 38 technologies onto 168 sites, achieving the commercialization – Research Institute of Construction & Economy themes Key point As a result of pursuing cost innovation as the key management innovation task in 2010, outcome of approximately 7.6 billion KRW. The Institute aims to become a knowledge and information think tank • Align with project divisions’ strategies • Solve problems in sites/teams GS E&C was able to reduce cost ratio in various projects. of the construction industry. It reports on the trends related to macro• Organize the optimal development teams Midto long-term strategy economy and various policies, provides key market information, holds Direction of 2010 management innovation task construction economy forums, carries out research related to companySecure World Class technology products in advance wide strategies and pending issues of business divisions, and supports Direction of activities Goal Advancement into Design new growth business and reinforce GS E&C’s global growth while contributing to the development of the Action new projects through engineering capabilities construction industry in general. Task to innovate costs technology • Grasp the present level SIGMA level Benchmarking Improve profitability; reinforce Cost innovation activities Respond by commercializing new technologies into Vision competitiveness in receiving orders green growth projects Grasp • Grasp problems in the present period Think tank of a global top the Prepare logic trees Process mapping Vision present Process mapping Reinforce the technical Secure and reinforce technologies to save costs construction business Goal: Save input costs by project state competitiveness of existing Key point Activity: Conduct cost-saving activities projects Reinforce support for technology, safety, and order • Site activity participation data throughout the project backlogs Concentrate on Government/ • Secure reliability Construction public • Draw major factors cost innovation activities Mid-term cost innovation activities industry institutions Organizational structure Goal: Reduce the whole company’s cost rates · Lead the development · Knowledge/informa· Establish external basActivitiy: Establish structural methods to CTO of the construction companies and the tion tank for the construction industry es for global growth and the advancement Action Draw innovation tasks for all innovate on costs, verify outcomes Mission advancement of the · Development of susof the construction • Set up hypothesis sectors of the project division from tasks drawn institutionalize construction industry tainable future growth industry • Collect data the outcomes and apply them to engines Research · Support for manage• Test the hypothesis projects Cause Institute ment innovation Use statistical tools Use statistical S/W analysis Architectural Environment & Research Key point Civil Technology Technology Energy Technology Planning Knowledge management Research Support for Centered on Global • Check with facts Networking direction global growth business mindset • Identify root causes In order to enhance the strategic linkKnowledge management Civil Structure Team Architecture Structural Team Environmental Technology Team Urban & Building Science Technology Planning Team age between experience accumulatResearch Team Knowledge Geotechnical Architecture & Energy Technical Safety Research area ed through field activities and current Engineering Team Urban Planning Technology Team Infrastructure Team management activities Team Research Team Action work and to manage information that SOC Planning & Core research tasks Industry forums Develop • Develop/select improvement plans Environmental & and im• Action (pilot) plan can be used real-time at sites, GS Design Team Energy Research Achieve Vision 2015 through the implePeriodically hold construction economy mentation of core research tasks related forums with project divisions to discuss plement Team improve• Establish action systems E&C is carrying out knowledge manwith whole company management pending issues in project divisions and • Apply to sites • Find and solve bottlenecks Core Knowledge Quick-win Lessons strategies and pending issues in project share information ment Key point agement (KM) activities. KM activiPackage Tasks Learned Innovative divisions and draw optimal solutions for plans Construction Establish measures to link the direction (pilot) • Evaluate action plans • Motivate action teams ties are largely categorized into Core Research Team leaping to become Top Tier Contractor of corporate strategy with each business • Share experience of successful plans divisions’ strategies Knowledge Package, Quick-win Tasks, and Lessons Learned. Source of GS E&C’s core technologies The Core Knowledge Package integrates experiences and knowledge gained from both Research Institute within and outside of the company; it is systematically organized and shared through Support for Action company-wide Intranet so as to improve the degree of utilization. GS E&C is continuously Equipped with the latest research global growth • Standardize improvement plans facilities and global-level talents, Follow • Share and propagate improvement plans maintaining and managing the Core Knowledge Package to advance them into valuable up the Research Institute consists of Key point organizational asset. Urban & Building Science Research • Link with knowledge management Quick-win Tasks refer to simple yet highly practical tasks, which can be easily applied at Team, Infrastructure Research Team, Trend report Market forecasts Environmental & Energy Research Analyze issues/trends related to econProvide management information necessites; GS E&C is mainly collecting smaller pieces of current work-oriented information. omy and industry policies and present sary for advancement into markets and Team, and Innovative Construction Lessons Learned is an organized, user-oriented form of various experiences and knowResearch Team. implications and directions to respond decision making through the analysis of global construction market trends and Analyze trends related to new markets how accumulated through the implementation of diverse projects. By sharing the details Through innovative R&D, it leads domestic construction technologies and new projects such as the green forecasts and emerging markets into and provides core technologies to individual business divisions. In parwhich our company will advance of failure and success cases, GS E&C is minimizing costs that may occur in the process construction and draw implications ticular, in order to secure capabilities for prospective businesses, it has of trial and error and is optimizing productivity. selected and is concentrating on World Class technologies. GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 46 / 47 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Partnership Great Challenge ISSUE Creation of economic value for 04 sustainable growth TPMS (Total Project Management System) Creation of economic values TPMS is a site-oriented system where the concepts of task-unit process management In order to grow as a sustainable business even in rapidly changing global economy and uncertain construction business market condiand on-time resource inputs are applied to the existing PMS (Project Management Systions, GS E&C is concentrating its efforts on securing financial stability. tem), which comprehensively manages processes and profits & losses, in all business GS E&C received large overseas orders including the Australian Collie Urea project, the UAE Gas Pipeline project, and the Oman Power areas of GS E&C. Plant to achieve the total backlogs of 14.1 trillion KRW and sales of 7.9 trillion KRW. Through the TPMS, information necessary for work such as manpower, material, technolIn particular, the orders of the Power and Environment business was greatly increased, which reflect GS E&C’s strong will for new, green ogy, and knowledge can be tracked in real-time and shared with partner companies. As a projects. result, project transparency and the trust with external stakeholders are enhanced. Summary of balance sheet Unit: Billion KRW Summary of income statement Unit: Billion KRW TPMS framework Item 2008 2009 2010 Item 2008 2009 2010 Register workers Input of Enter equipment Cash and bank deposit 781 1,445 1,377 Sales 6,866 7,377 7,893 Information linkworkers details Equipment Workers Accounts receivable 2,242 2,429 2,963 Cost of sales 5,953 6,422 6,882 SEQ/TIMS... age 4,471 5,465 6,262 913 955 1,011 State of skill Equipment Current assets Gross profit management start/stop Inventories 457 429 290 Selling and administrative 435 387 490 expenses Investment assets 1,385 1,254 893 Operating profit 478 568 521 Tangible assets 1,412 1,422 1,449 Prepare master Prepare master Prepare activities Establish task plans Task record Progress rate/ Non-operating revenues 1,200 557 494 Non-current assets 3,254 3,052 2,786 process tables process tables in detail (setting/schedule) management completed parts Interest revenue 60 72 50 Total assets 8,182 8,946 9,338 Non-operating expenses 1,129 617 489 Accounts payable 1,483 1,366 1,595 Interest expense 30 57 60 Short-term debt 260 200 494 Material Request for Shipment Pre-tax profit 549 508 525 consumption plan delivery Advances from customers 1,084 1,929 1,708 Corporate tax 167 125 118 Materials Current portion of long-term 150 161 Tag Receipt debt Net income 382 383 407 Request/check Barcode recognized Best case of TPMS: GS-BAS Supplier Current liabilities 3,789 4,194 4,588 (GS Bar-bending Automation System) Corporate bonds 500 610 299 Long-term debt 12 12 12 Daily work management Non-current liabilities 1,358 1,453 1,165 Daily work management and check-up are main roles of TPMS. All information necessary Total liabilities 5,147 5,647 5,752 for projects such as manpower, materials, technology, and knowledge are linked to daily works for efficient management. Equity 255 255 255 Total shareholders’ equity 3,035 3,299 3,586 Material management GS-BAS bar code Efficient material management is a key component for successful project implementation. In order to remove fiddle factors that may occur during procurement, GS E&C has estabEconomic value distribution GS-BAS is an exemplary material procurement system that utilizes TPMS to lished procurement management system for each of the major materials. GS E&C is strives to contribute to the increase of stakeholders’ benefits by distributing economic value to diverse stakeholders including calculate the volume of processed reThrough the TPMS, GS E&C is identifying materials necessary for the given day’s work at shareholders, employees, society, partner companies, and the government. inforcing bars required for construction sites and controlling the inflow and the outflow of materials based on the bar code input and to send orders to reinforcing barprocessing facilities. After the processsystems. Direct and indirect economic effects Unit: Billion KRW ing is complete, bar code containing information on task areas, sub-materials, Manpower management Shareholders Employees Partner companies Category 2010 and shapes get attached to the reinforcAt some sites, RFID (radio-frequency identification) technology is applied to the TPMS to Dividends Salaries+benefits Green procurement+ Shareholders Dividends 49.48 ing bars, which are then delivered on support program expenses identify the manpower involved and to eliminate safety risk factors at construction sites in Salaries 432.24 the requested date. Upon warehousing, the person in charge identifies bar code advance. Furthermore, the TPMS is linked with mobile devices for productivity manage49.5 billion KRW 477.2 billion KRW 78.4 billion KRW Employees Other employee benefits 44.96 with a PDA phone containing a bar code ment and work distribution. Society Government Future generation Green procurement 56.80 reader so that the received reinforcing bars can be automatically registered at Cooperation management Partner companies Support program 21.56 Social contribution Corporate tax Environmental management expenses sites. Introduction of GS-BAS remarkThe TPMS makes information sharing and communication more convenient and provides expenses Society Social contribution 9.40 ably reduced surplus and shortened the term of works through on-time delivery of information useful for the development of websites customized to users, thereby forming 9.4 billion KRW 117.9 billion KRW 4.9 billion KRW Government Corporate tax 117.93 materials. cohesion and trust among diverse stakeholders related to the project, such as customEnvironmental manFuture generation 4.87 ers, partner companies, and site supervisors. agement expenses GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 48 / 49 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Partnership Great Challenge ISSUE Enhancement of corporate value 05 through risk management Risk management Cash flow-oriented management Various risks such as global economic crisis, resource depletion, exchange rate fluctuation, climate change, and water shortage are rapidly Recently, there is a trend in the construction industry to switch from being a simple conchanging management environment while affecting the sustainability of businesses. Recognizing the importance of risk management, GS E&C tractor to a project developer, which involves large sum of prior investment. In particular, is operating advanced risk management system and a company-wide organization. the necessity of liquidity management is rising due to the global economic crisis in 2008. In this respect, GS E&C introduced liquidity as an additional performance indicator and Regular and proactive management RM implementation system established a cash flow system in order support this. Operation of RM (Risk Management) Team Through this system, GS E&C is preventing liquidity risks and is able to rationally distribute CEO The integrated RM Team has oversight of usable cash assets. company-wide risks and closely monitors poFeedback Periodic/regular reporting Cash flow estimating process tential risk factors. GS E&C has established an Share the results Share management early warning system and is sharing individual of meetings state/issues Division Person in charge Major work RM Steering Committee Establish meaDraw measures to risk factors across the company through close sures to respond RM related important decision respond Estimate and enter all cash amounts reverted to individual communication between business divisions Company-wide making Business Staffs in charge of projects Present RM orientation division Estimate cash flows and managing departments. Review impacts Monitoring at all times by project projects in individual Cash in estimates: Progress payments received, housing payments divisions received Raise issues Raise issues/improve/ Cash out estimates: Materials costs, labor costs, outsourcing costs, RM Subcommittee Establishment of risk management objective Feedback support Feedback other expenses • Discuss issues by area Share the present state of issues • Form RM Subcommittee GS E&C has developed risk management indi• Decision making in major and risk points by area/discuss groups Responsible staffs in mancountermeasures Estimate/enter only management expenses out of the cash cators to be managed by each of the division related areas • Develop/share/jointly solve Estimate cash flows aging departments (Planmanaged by the managing departments • Share related matters issues by area by departent ning/Human Resources/ heads. In addition, GS E&C ensure that its cor• Risk management impleGeneral Affairs Teams) (Expenses reverted to sites are to be estimated at the sites.) RM Team menting body porate culture sticks to the basics and princiWhole company, entire sectors • Improve existing risk manples so that all the employees are empowered RM managing departments agement processes Estimate cash flows Responsible staffs in Aggregate cash flows in projects belonging to business Support RM state monitoring by division planning teams of indias risk managers. vidual business divisions divisions and managing departments Strategic utilization of risk management GS E&C has established risk mitigation measures to each of the financial and non-financial risks that affect business; through scenario Estimate cash flows Planning & Analysis Aggregate cash flows estimated for the whole company and company-wide Team those for individual project divisions management of key risk factors, GS E&C is enhancing the degree of strategic utilization of risk management. ※ Cash flow records are collected for each project through the system and the project manager Key risks Risk factors Risk mitigation measures identifies the details through the system · Global business fluctuations · Forecast demand based on changes in international economy; secure price competitiveness through cost innovation Market risk · Price competition · Continuously monitor changes in customer needs; pursue differentiated customer satisfaction activities Product risk · Product quality deterioration · Changes in customers’ expectations · Ensure product quality through periodic inspection · Frequently check PR and marketing strategies; reinforce communication with customers Manager Certification In order to ensure accounting transparency, GS E&C introduced the Manager Certification Main screen of the Manager Certification system Technological risk · Advent of new technologies · Identify technological trends; participate in government projects; in-house/joint technology research system, where the executive management takes full legal responsibility for the credibility · Carbon regulation · Establish GHG inventory and GHG emissions reduction goals; external certification and information disclosure of externally disclosed corporate information. Through this system, GS E&C is increasing Regulatory risk · Local laws and regulations · Utilize legal consultants when carrying out projects the accuracy of public disclosure and monitoring legal and regulatory compliances. · Price increase of raw materials · Continuously monitor price of raw materials and hold periodic procurement strategy meetings Resource risk · Water shortage · Undergo pre-assessment of environmental impact and identify water sources in advance Manager Certification system · Work accident · Provide safety education, work injuries control through strict safety management Operational risk · Conflicts with the union · Establish win-win business culture and transparent business management The manager’s act to certify taking legal responsibility that financial information provided to the outside is reliSummary · Practice contribution to society and conduct environmental management; secure green technologies; establish prompt able information that has been prepared accurately through proper work procedures · Conflict with communities Community risk reporting system to relieve conflicts · Aging population · Develop technologies or projects in response to aging population; advance into overseas markets · Observe regulations on pollutant emissions at work sites; pursue company-wide environmental risk prevention activities; • Prevent fabrications of or errors in financial information through the · Environmental pollution Secure the accuracy of Environmental risk appoint R&R to on-site environmental managers operation of manager certification systems · Climate changes announced data · Establish GHG inventory; carry out GHG/energy reduction activities; develop green technologies • Secure the reliability of data to be externally announced · Project profitability/stability · Operate a project feasibility review committee using checklists • Accumulate objective data regarding legal responsibilities Project risk Prove the performance of · Accidents, claim, defects · Reinforce safety management, quality management, process management, project organization management functions Purpose • Report quarterly results of certification to the Audit Committee legal obligations • Announce the results of internal control by external auditors · Monitor domestic/international interest rates and financial market · Stability of fund operation · Establish and manage daily/monthly cash operation plans; establish and operate contingent liability guidelines; manage Liquidity/ Monitor management • Monitor improving activities in order to efficiently achieve the purpose of · Situations of contingent liabilities daily/monthly contingent liability states exchange risk efficiency and the management · Losses from exchange rate fluctuation · Get insured for USD/KRW exchange rate fluctuation; reflect reserve funds to respond to risks arising from changes in observance of regulations • Monitor where internal/external regulations are observed exchange rates of different currencies (EUR, YEN) GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 50 / 51 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Partnership Great Challenge ISSUE 06 Customer satisfaction maximization Increasing user benefits and cultural programs for customers GS E&C provides a number of customer-oriented services and differentiated programs that accommodate diverse customers’ wants and needs. Enhance customer satisfaction Customer value management Keeping with the management philosophy to “think and act at the standpoint of custom• Make ers and be always close to customers,” GS E&C has selected and is implementing the customer complaint receiving channels simple and efficient three major customer value management activities: customer complaint management, Customer complaint • Implement customer-oriented complaint increasing user benefits, and cultural programs for customers. handling policies management • Establish and manage policies for consumer safety and health Listening to customers’ voice GS E&C is operating the company-wide VOC (voice of customer) system and the resiXi Resident Service dents’ complaint handling system, both of which are communication channels for cus• Increase user • Xian Lounge benefits • Xian Manager tomers. The VOC system is organized to receive diverse customers’ opinions including complaints and feedback and to promptly deliver them to corresponding departments • Gaga Xi magazine for handling. Cultural • Xi Gallery: Cultural sessions, cultural Complaints received through the housing customer complaint handling system are to be programs for exhibitions, etc. customers • Xi Event: Cultural classes, family handled immediately in principle; however, depending on the degree of materiality, they events, etc. are submitted to the CRM Committee and handled based on their grades. Company-wide VOC system Number of VOC receipts by year Unit: Case Receipt process Handling process 1 2 3 4 612 5 6 7 8 Website Sent to the Received by the VOC system department in charge manage1. Xi Resident Service accepts the ment evalu2. Xian Lounge 3. Xian Manager 4. Xi Plus One Service complaint Xi residents’ complaints are received realPhone ation team The existing A/S center has been upgraded Xian Managers checks quality and considWe provide added service for Xi residents 528 Decision-making time and handled under the principle of “visto the Xian Lounge, which now serves as a ers Xi residents’ convenience on the movesuch as house cleaning, kitchen equipment iting in ten minutes, handling in one hour.” luxurious resting space for residents to conin day. They continue to provide assistance sharpening, and the landscape architecture Mail veniently visit and consult. and become the contact points for relieving maintenance, thereby increasing the level of Designate appropriate any inconvenience that the residents may customer satisfaction and pride. department Answer and handle experience. E-mail 2009 2010 5. Gaga Xi magazine 6. Cultural class 7. Xi Gallery 8. Xian Center Residents’ complaint handling system Contents of Gaga Xi include global cultural We encourage Xi residents’ cultural and It is both a luxurious cultural space where a (Community center for the residents) trends and news collected through channels entertainment activities by providing cultural number of cultural classes are held and a We operate an indoor driving range, fitness such as resident-engaging columns and a Xi classes such as yoga, beads art, and “Open communication channel for Xi residents. center, cafeteria, sauna, and library to enReceipt process Handling process correspondent system. Gaga Xi is distributKitchen” (cooking class) as well as “Xi Spehance residents’ convenience and satisfaced to residents, contractors, and association cial Lecture” involving an expert in particular tion. GS E&C Received by the members on a quarterly basis. area. website department in charge ※Automatic distribution by Xi website system Determine the Survey result of customer satisfaction Cooking class for housewarming party at Ilsan Xi Handle immediately level (CRM Committee) As a result of GS E&C’s diverse activities on customer satisfaction, GS E&C prepared a cooking class for housewarming party residents during Complaint Distribute to ※CRM Committee: CS Planning, its signature apartment brand “Xi” was ranked the number one in the month of November 2010. For the event, we invited celebrity chefs as system for appropriate Housing CM, Housing Planning, instructors to add quality and residents department Marketing the Global Customer Satisfaction Index (GCSI) surveys conducted fun. Moreover, each resident by the Japan Management Association for six consecutive years was allowed to bring a friend B-level A-level from 2005 to 2010. to the event. Best of all, caterPresent to ing service for housewarming Phone Self-handling CRM ※Maual parties was provided for four distribution Result of customer satisfaction Unit: Point households by draw, receiving ※Conditions for presenting to CRM Mail (How the level is determined) enthusiastic responses from A-level Brand name 2008 2009 2010 Requires strategic approach at the company level Complete the participants. Continuous and collective complaint Requires expertise Xi 70.41 (1st Place) 71.68 (1st Place) 71.40 (1st Place) B-level Simple to be handled by the department itself GS Yeokjeon Tower Child Care An in-house child care that opend in December 2010 GS E&C  makes a warmer approach. Through sincere communication and collaboration, We become “one” with stakeholders and employees. We think as “one” and strive towards the same goal. Approaching closer and spreading happiness to far places, GS E&C grows with the world. Direction GS E&C intends to gain stakeholders’ trust and achieve shared growth with stakeholders through mutual respect, communication, and win-win cooperation. 2010 Achievement GS E&C has re-established its core values – Great Innovation, Great Challenge, and Great Partnership – and is continuously carrying out corporate culture innovation activities. GS E&C has introduced the Shared Growth Committee, set social contribution strategies, published the Ethical Management Guidebook, and ethical management ethics education to all employees. In addition, GS E&C is reinforcing safety management and workplace safety education. Plan & Outlook GS E&C will expand communication with stakeholders based on trust and collect their opinions with respect to become a business that fulfills its social responsibility. 54 Special Feature. GS E&C’s corporate culture 56 Issue 7. Shared growth with partners 59 Issue 8. Transparent and warm business culture 63 Issue 9. Safe and vibrant workplace Special Feature 54 / 55 GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 GS E&C’s corporate culture Corporate culture innovation them to move in one direction under the shared belief. In order to Great workplace – Work Smart GS E&C recognizes that cultural process composed of core valrealize the vision of becoming a global top-tier contractor, GS E&C GS E&C aims to create an environment where the employees enUsing Words of Respect and Consideration campaign ues, practice, and behavior based on trust between employees is re-established its core values. joy fulfilling work and thereby maintain a balance between work In order to change the passive and strict just as important as strategic processes for sustainable growth; and life. The Work Smart program emphasizes working efficiently Declaration ceremony of core values and G-Spirit workshop corporate culture into one that is flexible thus, GS E&C has set corporate culture innovation as the main while taking enough rest when needed. and creative where employees respect task in 2010 and carried out related activities. GS E&C announced its commitment to implement the re-estabeach other and encourage two-way comlished core values through the declaration ceremony held in May. Meeting 3 ONEs munication, GS E&C is promoting the UsKick-off ceremony During the months of June and July, a total of 30 G-Spirit workTo create efficient work environment and improve productivity ing Words of Respect and Consideration shops took place for one night two days, for the entire employees Commencing its commitment to innovate the uniform, top-down through the innovation of meeting and reporting cultures, GS E&C campaign and the greeting unique to GS to share the core values. culture unique to the construction industry into a creative, horizonhas adopted the Meeting 3 ONEs, a company-wide meeting opE&C, “Be the best!” The G-Spirit workshop broke away from the existing lecture-type tal culture, GS E&C held a kick-off ceremony for the formation of eration policy. In addition, a sandglass is placed in each meeting “Be the best!” signifies GS E&C’s comeducation; it combined theoretical education, outdoor activities, the Corporate Culture Innovation Organization in January 2010. room so that meeting time can be shortened and meetings can be mitment to achieve its vision of becoming and quiz games so that the employees could have better underAt the ceremony, CEO and the top executives, division heads, finished within defined time. the best. standing on the core values through teamwork. team leaders, and Change Agents (a group that serves as the focal point of horizontal/vertical communication across GS E&C Vacation for work & life balance by propagating the strategic direction and tasks related to the GS E&C is improving its vacation policy company-wide corporate culture innovation and establishing the Member (Only relevant attendees) to enhance the quality of life of its emstrategies of individual divisions and departments) participated to Essential (Only required meetings) ployees. Following the CEO’s statement, share the implementation plan and announce a pledge for corpoEtiquette (Mutual respect) “Construction business requires creativrate culture innovation. Time (Be on time) Information (Share the subject matter ity. Since resting and playing can also be before/after the meeting) one’s competitiveness, senior executives No Meeting (Meeting free day) should take the lead by going on a two-week vacation first so that Goal (Goal-oriented) employees can go along without feeling constraint,” GS E&C has 3 ONEs (Observe 1-1-1) • Distribute the materials at least 1 day in advance introduced the long-term summer vacation program for the first • Do not hold a meeting for over 1 hour time among Korean construction companies. • Share the minutes within 1 day In addition, GS E&C has introduced a customized vacation program such as sabbatical and winter vacation, reflecting individuals’ MEETING 3 ONEs principles work style. Great Innovation! Great Challenge! Great Partnership! I attended the G-spirit workshop in June. GS Yeokjeon Tower Child Care Although the subject seemed a bit stiff Dissemination of core values at first, the program was not at all borIn order to create a workplace that encourages female employment, GS E&C opened an in-house child care in December 2010 for the first time Core values gives an identity to the business and its employees ing, with fresh materials of the Change among Korean construction companies. The child care in GS Yeokjeon Tower operates during working hours of the company. Its program is even in rapidly changing management environment and unites Agents and inspiring words. While I parstructured to optimize children’s inquisitiveness and is customized to their age and individual characteristics. Core values ticipated in the Golden Bell Challenge, Name & definition Sub Keyword team spirit greatly enhanced. I also had Our mindset Our action Our goal a great time and shared diverse opinions about the core values with team Attitude of Suk-Jin Lee responding to Great Innovation Diversity Creativity Change members during the team mission at the environAssistant Manager, ment Anseong Playground and witnessed firstCivil Planning Team hand that everyone was trying to move Mindset of in in a positive direction. Although it is difficult to expect rapid changes achieving Great Challenge Pioneership Initiative Excellence at the beginning stage, I am excited to see the employees’ enthusiasm goals about the changing organization and I expect more to come in future. Everyone at GS E&C! Let’s innovate ourselves first, become the best, Way of Cooperaand be trusted by stakeholders. communicating Great Partnership Respect Win-win with others tion GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 56 / 57 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership ISSUE 07 Shared growth with partners Shared growth Shared growth programs Education & training and enhanced communication Some of the programs that GS E&C is operating include education Shared growth Considering the nature of the construction industry that is highly dependent on partner Through systematic shared growth programs in four areas of finanfor partner companies’ next CEOs, the Xi CEO Forum, mentorship, companies, it is essential to strategically foster the capability of the partner companies. cial support, education & training and enhanced communication, • Partner company management and the SUBCON Board. The SUBCON Board is an official gathering guidelines GS E&C has established transparent and win-win cooperation throughout selection, bidtechnological support, and management support, GS E&C is as• Partner company selection of partner companies where they can discuss project difficulties and Evaluation process ding, and process control. For global expansion accompanying partner companies and sisting partner companies to secure competitiveness. and other opinions and receive feedback. The resolutions are thoroughly management • Electronic bidding and contract capability development, GS E&C is planning to serve as a mentor to partner companies’ system Financial support reviewed and reflected on the future policy improvement and the results • Quarterly evaluation of partner advancement into overseas markets. Through financial support including management grants and the Winof the SUBCON Board are shared with partner companies and GS companies GS E&C has organized the Shared Growth Committee in line with the GS Group-level E&C employees. Through such programs and smooth communication, win Cooperation Deposit, GS E&C is supporting partner companies shared growth policy and is planning to expand related activities. GS E&C and partner companies are achieving common goals. • Financial support to be equipped with a more stable financial environment and feel less Support • Education & training and The three guidelines for shared growth Shared Growth Committee economic burden so that they can concentrate on developing comXi CEO Forum and enhanced communication development • Technological support GS E&C has established guidelines on sepetitiveness. Chairman of the committee • Management support lection & operation, contract agreement, and Agreement for GS E&C’s financial support for CEO installation & operation of the Subcontract Secretary partner companies Deliberation Committee to provide equal opIn charge of public affairs portunities to partner companies. In addition, through the observance of the Monopoly Head of Plant Business Division Head of Architecture Business Head of Power & Environment Head of Project Monitoring & Regulation and Fair Trade Act and the exHead of Housing Business Head of Strategic Planning Quarterly evaluation: Head of Civil Engineering Environmental indicators ecution of Agreement for Win-win Cooperation between Large Corporations and SMEs CGO CSO CFO CTO Environmental management organization Division Division Business Division Procurement Department Business Division Department and Fair Trade, GS E&C is preventing risks Appropriate operation of environmental facilities arising from fraud transactions, establishing Since 2005, GS E&C has been holding the Xi CEO Forum, which involves GS Environmental management plan execution for each tasks fair trade practices, and forming a basis for E&C’s executives and approximately 150 CEOs of major partner companies, shared growth. on a semi-annual basis. At the Forum, sessions led by distinguished speakISO14001 certification In 2010, GS E&C made a financial support agreement with Shinhan Bank ers and mentoring activities between the participants are held to inspire the and Hana Bank to create loans of up to 40 billion KRW and preferential interEmergency action plans against environmental Selection process est rate for construction SMEs. GS E&C is to deposit money in the Win-win CEOs and to strengthen relationship. accidents for each tasks In order to select companies most suitable for projects, GS E&C has established an objective Cooperation Deposit (fixed) and the banks are to provide funding (from the Violation of environment laws and regulations and quantitative selection system so that partner companies can fairly participate in bidding. Deposit) to GS E&C’s partner companies that are experiencing temporary In-house environment education and inspection difficulties from insufficient liquidity. Management support Evaluation items for selection Noise reduction efforts In order to support partner companies’ management, GS E&C is operItem Purpose Separate waste collection Technological support ating Shared Growth Committee and participating in the Management To provide equal opportunities to registered companies and secure opportunities for Frequency of selection new companies to participate In order to encourage partner companies to invest in technological R&D Doctor and the Green Management Dissemination Project for Partner Fulfillment of environmental indications and orders and support them to secure technological competitiveness, GS E&C Companies. Maintaining clean, organized sites General evaluation To benefit companies with excellent quality, safety, and financial capabilities has programs such as project incentive system, patent application supSite evaluation To provide opportunities by evaluating construction sites in the relevant quarter Green Management Dissemination Project for port, the Technology Contest, and seminars in place. Partner Companies To give preference to locally based partner companies in order to increase indirect Same region economic effects in the region Technology Contest Management and evaluation GS Partner In order to improve partner companies’ ability to pursue sustainability management, GS E&C is operating a quarterly evaluation system to examine their project management skill and quality, environmental, and safety standards by site on a quarterly basis. Unlike other companies’ evaluation process carried out in private, the results of GS E&C’s evaluation are transparently disclosed to partner companies and shared company-wide so as to secure fairness in its management procedure. In addition, general evaluation is conducted once a year based on the results of the quarterly evaluation, the results of which are utilized as basic data for re-registration, GS E&C is operating the GS Partner selection, and development of partner companies in the future. GS E&C is participating in the Green Management Dissemination Project for website (www.gspartner.co.kr) to share Partner Companies with 10 partner companies. Through this 3-year project, GS information with partner companies and Quarterly supplier evaluation items Since 2008, GS E&C has been holding the annual Technology Contest, E&C plans to support them establish green management strategies and sysmake their work more convenient. Partwhich provides monetary prize and project incentives (i.e. in bidding process) tems, improve resource and energy efficiency, reduce environmental pollution, ner companies use the GS Partner for TPMS (20) Site evaluation (80) to partner companies. Occasionally, GS E&C conducts joint research on the fulfill their social and ethical responsibilities, be designated as green businesses, bidding, contracting, various information Project winning technology with partner companies and applies the patented and/or receive Green Building Certification, publish environmental reports, and foster Monthly Observance rate of Environchecks, and issuance of certificates. progress rate (10) work instruction (10) + Safety (30) ment (10) Quality (15) managecertified technologies onto the actual construction sites. experts in green management. ment (25) GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 58 / 59 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership ISSUE ISSUE 07 Shared growth with partners 08 Transparent and warm business culture Shared growth programs in 2010 Direction of ethical management Ethical management (EM) regards not only the performance of businesses’ economic Ethical management vision Category Program Contents Achievements and legal responsibilities but also the observance of business ethics generally expected · Provide an advance upon request Global Top-Tier Company Management grants · Scale of up to 15 billion KRW per year · 10.38 billion KRW was provided by the society. It is an essential part of sustainability management. To completely settle ethical management within the organization, GS E&C has set four Growth Customer · Created the Win-win Cooperation Deposit amounting 40 billion KRW to support Win-win Cooperation Deposit · 10.44 billion KRW was supported Profit Shareholders loans (loan interest reduction by 1%) directions to implement ethical management and is expanding its scope to include partStability Employees · Recommend partner companies to financial institutions to provide preferential Network Loan loan examination ner companies Financial · Loan limit: 1/6 of the record of transactions with GS E&C in the previous year support · Improve cash payment ratio · Improvement rate: 6% ▶ 48% Improvement of ① Being aware of unethical deeds and establishing strong countermeasures Plant Housing Civil EngiArchi· Maintain cash equivalent payment ratio at 100% · Number of days shortened: 15 days ▶ neering tecture payment conditions · Shorten the payment card transaction period 10 days ② Setting a system to eradicate corruption and reforming institutions · Reduced 580 million KRW in relation to bid ③ Reforming consciousness of employees and business partners and promoting public Power & · Exempt excellent/meritorious partner companies from bid/warranty bond to DevelopTechnolExemption of bid bond bond and 1.58 billion KRW in relation to Environment ogy reduce their cost burden relations and education ment warranty bond Education for partner companies’ · Provide opportunities to foster the next CEOs’ management capabilities · Completed by 30 people ④ Strengthening auditing & monitoring activities and building a corporate culture of high next CEOs liability Management support Project support Education for partner companies’ Healthy and productive grounds by EM · Improve site supervisors’ work competency · Completed by 90 people site supervisors Education & training Safety Innovation School · Experiential learning of workplace safety · Completed by 385 people Code of Ethics and enhanced Since its inception in 1994, the Code of Ethics has been the standard of all employees’ communication Cyber education · On-line education on the subject of construction safety · Completed by 120 people actions and decisions. GS E&C is practicing business ethics based on the Code to beCode of Ethics Xi CEO Forum · Invite distinguished speakers and recognize excellent/meritorious partner · Held twice (approximately 150 companies come a company that customers can trust. companies were represented each time) Responsibilities for SUBCON Board · Gatherings to collect partner companies’ opinions · Held three times Ethical management implementing organization customers Joint development of · Undertake joint development of the new technology selected from the public GS E&C is making efforts to find fast and reasonable countermeasures to pending ethical Responsi· Provided 690 million KRW to 12 companies Fair new technology subscription conflicts through the operation of the Ethics Committee. The Committee is composed of competition bilities for employees Technological Workshop/seminar · Organize workshops/seminars to raise technological competitiveness · Held 24 times (two times each for 12 tasks) 13 members from different departments and serves the role of assisting the top mansupport · 1 Grand Prize, 3 Excellence Prizes and 5 agement’s ethical decision making and checking company-wide ethical management · Award partner companies with excellent technologies and adopt those onto the Technology Contest construction sites Encouraging Prizes were awarded (worth a activities. total of 50 million KRW) In principle, the Ethics Committee is held on a quarterly basis; however, it holds additional Responsibili· A Group-level council for pursuing shared growth Fair trade GS Group Shared Growth Council · Held once (2010. 10. 29) ties to country · Members include CEOs meetings when urgent matters arise. and society GS E&C Shared Growth · Review the existing shared growth programs and discuss about additional · Held once (2010. 10. 25) Management Committee programs Employees’ CEO basic support · Support the Management Doctor operated by the Federation of the Korean Management Doctor Industries · Supported 3 companies ethics Ethics Committee · Support partner companies’ participation in the employment fair managed by Employment fair · Supported 11 companies the Federation of the Korean Industries Auditing & Monitoring Director Introduction and expansion plans for shared growth programs in 2011 • Inspecting organization Auditing & Monitoring Main • Analyzing job process • Monitoring unethical deeds Ethical Management Guidebook Team tasks Category Program Contents Plans • Operating and developing EM program Safety Innovation School · To increase the number of participants in the education on safety awareness · To be completed by 2,100 people Ethical Management Guidebook Education & training Education for partner companies’ · Provide education for the next site supervisors and enhanced the site supervisors In 2010, GS E&C published the Ethical Management Guidebook and distributed it to all communication Great Partnership Shared Growth · Establish a council of major partner companies’ CEOs in order to reinforce the employees, in order to allow them to check their own actions, establish the stanCouncil communication dard of decision making, and internalize the consciousness for ethical management. The Management Green Management Dissemination Guidebook covers case studies of ethical disputes with diverse stakeholders including · A green management dissemination support project is being implemented · Support 10 companies support Project for Partner Companies customers, shareholders, employees, and partner companies. The cases, introduced by Areum, the character representing GS E&C’s core values, are presented in a way that the employees can easily relate to and thus find better solutions. GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 60 / 61 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership ISSUE 08 Transparent and warm business culture Numbers of participants who completed ethical management education (off-line) Unit: People Ethical management programs Social contribution Grand Prize at the 2010 Forbes Social Contribution Award 685 Based on the belief that it should fulfill its social roles and responsibilities as a corporate 617 citizen, GS E&C realize common values through the expansion of social investment and 01. Website participations in public policies. As part of the efforts to participate in EM activities with the customers, GS E&C has been operating the EM website introducing EM activities and getting reports of any violations to the 332 Code of Ethics by employees. Strategy Through the social contribution strategy established in 2010, GS E&C selected core so02. Education cial contribution programs with strategic implications, such as constructing study rooms In 2010, GS E&C received the Grand Prize at GS E&C has provided education for all employees on how to implement EM by explaining the 1st Forbes Social Contribution Award, jointly actual examples and related theories. in houses of children in low income class and installing safe playgrounds at welfare fa2008 2009 2010 established by Forbes Korea and the Chamber ※ Introductory course and job education for new/experienced employcilities, while improving operational system to increase employees’ participation to make of Commerce of Korea. ees were carried out 03. Ethics pledge social contribution programs more practical. EM education (on-line) in 2010 Unit: People, % GS E&C has employees take a written oath in which they express their commitment to impleGS E&C plans to carry out social contribution programs in three core areas of social Percentage of ment EM and to create ethical corporate culture. In this way, they can voluntarily participate welfare, environment & safety, and education & culture in partnership with NGOs and Social contribution expense Unit: % Category Attended Completed completion in EM. NPOs. Gallery events/operation Sports grants Volunteer activities Outcome 5,226 5,139 98.3 Donations ※Condition for the completion: Test after 100% progress 04. Campaign ※If on-line education is not accessible due to the problems in Internet connection (overseas), the education may be replaced by watching GS E&C has been campaigning not to take or give any gifts to establish the mind of clean Organization videos corporate culture since 2003, strictly prohibiting employees from taking gifts or money from 34 Since establishing the Xi Love Sharing (a group of volunteers) in February 2006, GS E&C 36 Composition of the on-line education anyone involved in their job. has been carrying out approximately 400 cases of volunteer activities per year, executed Module 1 05. Report and reward by 120 sub-groups in the head office and construction sites. 9.4 billion KRW Understanding of GS E&C has been implementing a system for employees, business partners, and even the In 2010, GS E&C set up an organization dedicated to social contribution under the Corethical management public to earn reward by reporting any corruption such as committing bribery or embezzlement porate Culture Team, established related strategies, and developed core programs in of the corporate funds. order to reinforce the expertise in social contribution programs and actively pursue cor3 porate social responsibilities. 27 Module 2 06. Joint liability GS E&C has been running a joint liability system in which not just the one who violated ethical GS E&C’s ethical Social contribution strategy management terms but also his supervisors and related team are assumed joint liabilities by reducing their performance related bonus. Return customers’ trust 07. Management of partner companies involved in corruption Module 3 GS E&C disqualifies business partners when they offer money or equivalent gifts to employRealize common values through social integration Case study ees. On the other hand, GS E&C offers favors and awards to them reporting any request of money or gifts by its employees. Corporate Culture Team, Xi Love Sharing 08. Prohibiting possession of partner companies’ shares Module 4 GS E&C prohibits all employees from acquiring any of listed or unlisted shares of business Roles and pledge partners. Social welfare Environment & safety Education & culture • GS Green Sharing • Support talented students with scholarships • Community volunteer activities around sites Support treatment of children in low income class with • Supported the orphans with educational expenses Violation of in EM in 2010 Unit: Case Violation of ethical management and disciplinary actions • Visit the elderly in needs and make cash and in-kind donation environmental disease and promote the prevention of • Year-end event inviting children from low income classes Programs • House Repair of Hope project such disease Category Total number False charge Fact GS E&C is receiving reports on cases of violation of ethical management through diverse • Provide kimchi and heating fuel to low income class families • Send PCs to East Timor reported • Support the living of the disabled people channels including the ethical management website, hotline, e-mail, and mails. The reNo. of cases 16 12 4 sults of investigations are notified to the reporters through hotline or e-mail and the report• Supported 120 elders in needs • Donated 100 million KRW, the sales revenue of Sharing • Supported 12 students in low income classes Disciplinary actions taken ers’ identification is protected with strict confidentiality. Depending on the seriousness of • Supported 460 elders for the feast on the Elderly’s Day Items • Supported 8 orphans with educational expenses against violation in 2010 Unit: Case, % unethical behaviors, the violators are strictly disciplined in accordance with the company Perfor• Supported 24 low income class households with house repairs • Invited 50 children from low income class families and matched them one on one with employees for cultural Category Disciplinary SuspenWage RepriWarning Total regulation. mance • Provided kimchi to 1,004 households activities sion cut mand • Supported 300 multicultural families with heating fuel dismissal No. of Through these internal/external reports and periodic diagnosis, five disciplinary actions • Provided service for 200 disabled people with bath and cleaning • Supported schools and major government offices in East Timor with 300 computers 4 1 5 cases were carried out in 2010, a far lower figure than the 25 cases in 2009. GS E&C will conRatio 80 20 100 tinue to carry out activities to eradicate unethical behaviors. GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 62 / 63 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership ISSUE ISSUE 08 Clean and warm business culture Safe and vibrant workplace 09 Social contribution programs Safety management Continuous GS E&C has been carrying out a variety of social contribution programs in the areas of social welfare, environment & safety, and educaSafety & health management system improvetion & culture. In 2010, a total of 1,457 employees participated in the programs for a total of 6,135 hours. ment GS E&C ensures that safety & health management activities are improved through P-D-C-A ManageSafety & cycle. We establish action plans (Plan), execute & operate the plans (Do), monitor & take corment health review policy rective actions (Check), and review & provide feedback on the results (Action). As a result of these company-wide efforts to enhance the level of safety & health, GS E&C Safety & health acquired safety & health management certifications KOSHA18001 and OHSAS18001 in 2005 management and 2009, respectively. system Strategy Monitoring & corrective Plan Under the cardinal rules, “observance of the basics and principles of safety management,” GS actions E&C will continue to concentrate on advanced safety management and site-oriented safety Installation management to ultimately achieve “zero serious accident.” and operation Organization Experiential learning of sites for children House Repair of Hope project GS E&C is operating the SEQ (safety, environment, and quality) Operation Committee in order This program takes children on a field study of conThis program incorporates GS E&C’s construction to raise safety-related consciousness and enhance safety management activities. The SEQ Organizational structure of the SEQ Operation struction site and provide them opportunities to gain technology into social contribution; the employees Operation Committee operates at a company-wide scale, headed by the Chief Safety Officer Committee understanding of regional economic activities. provide house repair services for those in need. (hereinafter CSO) and attended by the heads of all business divisions. The Committee shares CEO the company’s major safety issues and report the results of discussion to the Management Committee to prepare response measures. In addition, GS E&C encourages the expansion of accident prevention activities, raises awareCSO ness between company-wide safety organizations through Technology Safety Committee, and Food delivery to the elderly in needs continuously prepares and manages mitigation measures on potential risks factors at construcSince the introduction of this program in 2006, GS E&C SEQ Operation Committee tion sites. is supporting the food deliveries to the elderly on every • Head of Human Resources Department, SEQ Wednesdays. Group, Civil Technology Group, Procurement Group, Human Resources Management Group, Human Resources Development Group, Civil Engineering Group, Finance 사업 Group, Head of Safety Team, Head of Safety 경쟁력Auditing 강화 & Monitoring Group, Head of Quality & Environment Team, Head of Safety management strategy system Equipment Management Team, Head of RM Team • Division heads, Construction Group, Head of SEQ Making kimchi Team Policy Observance of GS E&C’s employees make kimchi firsthand and deliver basics and principles • On-site executives participate through video conferencing it to those in need, including the elderly in needs, child headed families, and the disabled people. Goal Zero serious accident Tasks Advanced safety management Site-oriented safety management Major Improve equipment Reinforce Reinforce safety Reinforce the ability to Reestablish safety Reinforce site Reinforce the capability contents safety management management of diagnosis functions implement standards support work of safety managers partner companies KOSHA18001 • Reestablish equip• Reinforce safety • Site safety diagno• Education of • Integration and • Operate a • Reinforce educament manuals linkage related to sis and monitoring employees and revisions of safety company-wide tion to foster safety • Equipment partner companies partner companies documents SEQ Operation managers support • Head office safety Committee • Increase the ratio and education/ • Enhance the diagnosis and • Establish cardinal evaluation effectiveness of monitoring rules • Technology Safety of full-time workers • Contract Safety Innovation Committee manage• Follow-up of safety Xi Design Fiesta Caring for the elderly in needs Annual event for children of low income class Details ment and union School educational management in• Support construcmanagement courses novation strategic tion risk prevention This annual event, held since 2007, aims to encourGS E&C’s employees visit the houses of elders livThis program was founded in 2008 jointly with Namchon • Systematize task follow up • Reinforce foreign age design activities of students in construction and ing alone to take care of them. This program has Foundation. Children of low income class families are ineducation of partner • Compose accident worker safety designrelated universities and graduate schools. been established in partnership with Jung-gu Disvited and spend fun time with GS E&C employees. companies investigation management trict Office. committees GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 64 / 65 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership ISSUE 09 Safe and vibrant workplace Safety management activities Safety education By nature of the industry, most construction site workers frequently and irregularly move to different work sites and Near miss discovery Safety management guidelines thus have relatively insufficient awareness of safety. In order to fundamentally prevent accidents that may occur at Construction work involves transporting and loading heavy materials, operating large conconstruction sites, GS E&C is implementing site safety education on all workers and staffs in construction sites. struction equipments, and driving vehicles. GS E&C has established explicit safety manIn addition, GS E&C is providing diverse methods of education such as experiential learning of accident cases, agement guidelines and is applying them to actual construction sites, in order to be aware practice training by work type, and audiovisual materials. of potential safety issues in advance to prevent accidents from occurring. Drop experience Safety Innovation School Accident prevention activities In March 2006, GS E&C opened the Safety Innovation School for the first time among Korean construction companies. The Safety Innovation School consists Pre-construction meeting (PCM) of one residence, two lecture halls, and six training facilities and provides courses to not only GS E&C employees but also partner companies, domestic/foreign GS E&C is identifying risk factors in advance to prevent accidents through pre-construcclients, and university students. Through the Safety Innovation School, GS E&C is operating programs such as construction safety practice & experience, construction safety accident experition meetings between construction site staffs, the head office, and technology experts Checking the gondola for installing outside structure ence, virtual safety experience, emergency action training, and night teamwork-reinforcing training. A total of 5,367 employees and partner companies’ workers before commencing construction work. have completed these courses. The survey on the level of satisfaction with the education resulted in 4.6 points on a 5.0-point scale, demonstrating the quality Female safety patrol staff of the courses. Near miss discovery In order to raise safety consciousness and create work environment in which the workers Curriculum look out for each other, GS E&C is operating a near miss discovery system. Through near Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Module 4 miss discovery activities such as new worker management, designation of “safe area” Safety & innovation New beginning Practice safety culture Reinforce executive ability that individuals take charge of, examination of alcohol level, and the use of automatic mindset Cultivate the senses of Acquire safety culture through Achieve goals through teamsafety belts, GS E&C is preventing potential risk factors such as unsafe behaviors and changes and innovation experiences work Reinforce belief Practical works by role Actual safety management work Reinforce leadership conditions from developing into serious accidents. Encourage participation Establish action plans Happy 365 campaign There is a female safety patrol staff at GS GS E&C is carrying out the Happy 365 campaign, which promotes that “safety and zero Courses by position Period Course description E&C’s Gwonseon the 1st and 3rd reconstrucdisaster will make you, your family, and the company happy throughout 365 days of the Executive safety innovation 1 night 2 days Instill the executives to re-examine their role of leading the company-wide safety management practices tion sites in Suwon. The female safety patrol staff provides strict site safety management year.” Leader safety innovation 2 nights 3 days Enhance on-site managers’ leadership capability to settle safety culture with their unique delicacy and meticulousConstruction worker safety innovation 3 nights 4 days Establish safety management R&R and reinforce the ability to identify safety risks ness. As such, GS E&C is providing equal Hearty Safety Management “Emotional safety management” based on family love work opportunities while enhancing safety Management staff safety innovation 2 nights 3 days Enhance practical work capability for safety management as manager management at the same time. “Autonomic safety management” participated by site staffs and Autonomic Safety Management Partner company safety innovation 1 night 2 days Enhance practical work capability for safety management as partner company worker partner companies Equipment operator safety innovation 1 day Enhance practical work capability for safety management as equipment operator Planned Safety Management “Planned safety management” to manage risks in advance New/experienced employee safety innovation 2 nights 3 days Enhance practical work capability for safety management as GS E&C employee Overseas site safety management Professional Safety Management “Professional safety management” to carryout risk-free works Industrial accident Yes 365 Safety Management 365 days “happy safety management” through positive thinking From 2008 to 2010, there were 25 cases of serious accidents and 28 workers died due to those accidents. As for the cause of accidents, machinery showed the highest frequency at 15 casualties, followed by building materials, construction materials, opening, and hazardous substance. Due to these accidents, there were two cases of violation of the Industrial Safety & Health Act in 2010. GS E&C recognized the seriousness of Accident prevention case accidents due to machinery and thus established the Equipment Management Team. GS E&C will put utmost efforts to reduce the occurrence of At around 2:00 p.m. on October 29, 2010, an exdisasters through intensive management. cessive displacement occurred during steel supGS E&C’s safety management is also applied port material installing work at the zone 917 of the Accident rate Unit: % Causes of accidents Unit: % Number of casualty Unit: People to overseas sites. For instance, at the LNG 2nd stage of Seoul Subway line 9. Emergency recovery was taken and measures were established GS E&C Sector average Domestic average Machinery Building material Construction material plant site in Thailand, safety consciousness is Opening Hazardous substance Other through close cooperation between the head office shared through measures such as work per10 16 mission system, work safety analysis, Cold and the operation to completely recover the site. 0.71 Eye Review, and a safety resolution bulletin Potential accident was prevented through continu0.70 0.70 6.7 board and all safety education materials are ous management and cooperation. If a large collapse occurred in the tunnel, the sur0.69 distributed in English. In particular, GS E&C 0.64 0.65 6.7 8 held the Safety Prayer Ceremony, accomface of the entrance road of Jamsil Baseball Stadium, which was a major facility during the G20 25 50 modating the local culture of Thailand, where 0.19 cases Buddhism is a national religion, to draw active (November 11th and 12th, 2010), might have 10 4 participations and attention of workers. sunken and buried. 0.13 0.12 2008 2009 2010 16.6 2008 2009 2010 ※Data source of construction industry and domestic average: http://www.kosha.or.kr/board ※GS E&C’s data is converted accident rate ※2010 data of GS E&C accident rate is an estimate (official data to be released in June 2011) GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 66 / 67 Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Great Challenge Great Partnership ISSUE 09 Safe and vibrant workplace Employee education performance Employee satisfaction HR development programs Unit: People (cumulative), hour, 100 million KRW GS E&C is making efforts to create a great workplace based on a human resources Under the belief that individuals’ growth directly leads to the company’s growth, GS E&C is proHours of education Number of employees 59,613 GS E&C’s ideal employee Education expenses development system and a fair performance evaluation system. Furthermore, GS E&C is viding a diverse range of education programs consisting of management, practical work, global, enhancing employees’ satisfaction based on internal guidelines on protection of human IT, and others so that all employees can grow to become global talents. 38,402 34,285 53 rights and equal opportunities. In 2010, we spent a total of 5.3 billion KRW to support employee education and education hours 59 per person was 124 hours, an increase of 16 hours compared to the previous year. 20 779,599 Human resources (HR) development 679,111 591,829 GS E&C’s ideal employee “leads the change, pursues the best, and is recognized through Repository of global talent development – Namchon Leadership Center Live and work by core values communication and shared growth.” GS E&C has established a human resources development Namchon Leadership Center was founded under the will of system and is fostering employees who could lead GS E&C with creative entrepreneurship. the late Joon-Koo Huh, the Honorary Chairman, to return business profits to society by investing 50 billion KRW for contri2008 2009 2010 bution to the community and fostering of GS E&C’s global Foster businessmen who will lead GS E&C talents. GS E&C’s is utilizing Namchon Leadership Center in a number Education programs Ideal Executive education system of ways, one of which is to provide intensive foreign language Category Content employee Best School G-School First School training for 10 weeks to employees. During this period, employees can concentrate on foreign language education only. · Executive education (top manager course, etc.) Education to enhance Next-generation · Core talent course (preliminary/next generaProspective manager G-School technical power G manager tion manager courses, etc.) Bring up experts L · Various foreign language education Be recognized FM education by division O Techno MBA Lead Strive to through B Basic courses for Evaluation and compensation · PM/CM fostering course · FM courses by division communication Specialized job education A common jobs Best the change be the best · Construction work capability enhancing and shared by division L J-Champion To provide fair compensation for individuals’ capabilities and performance, GS E&C is impleSchool growth course menting a multi-dimensional evaluation process following three basic directions: performance· Specialized job education by division New/experienced employee education oriented evaluation, reinforcement of employee communication, and devising measures to fos· Basic course for construction sales Education system Education management system ter talents. · Work management education · Basic course for accounting and tax Employees are compensated based on the performance evaluation and the executives receive First · Job decision making education School · Negotiation skill education comprehensive compensations combining basic annual salaries and bonuses linked with manProtection of human rights · Business presentation, writing, strategy & agement performance. The level of salary for new employees (fresh out of university) is around planning courses, etc. GS E&C supports the Labor Standard Act, the International Labor Organization (ILO) stan370% of legal minimum wage and there is no discrimination by gender. dards, and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles. We strictly prohibit forced · Management policy practice course General · Sexual harassment prevention session & compulsory labor and child labor. We respect individuals’ personality, prohibit discrimination · Ethical management, etc. Performance management system in education opportunity, placement, and dismissal, and provide equal opportunities based on · LEED AP acquisition support education Other individuals’ abilities. Performance · Safety innovation course, etc. To prevent discrimination and human rights violations, GS E&C is providing 1-hour sexual hamanagement rassment prevention session once a year and the 20-hour cross-cultural management course. Employee benefits Evaluate performance/ Composition of employees (as of December 2010) Performance evaluation (KPI) competency at different times Competency evaluation (Competency) Category Content All employees take general health examinations Employees with disability Unit: % Goal setting Competency (value, role) Self development plan Employee composition Unit: People once a year; 40-year-old or older employees Health and their spouses take comprehensive health Category 2008 2009 2010 examination examinations once a year; 35-year-old or older Full-time Part-time Male Female Ratio of employees with disability employees and their spouses take comprehen0.52 0.62 0.69 Performance management Monitoring / coaching Individual tasks sive health examinations once every two years (knowledge & skill) Female managers Unit: % Reference book Medical exSupport medical expenses for treatment 5,483 (Self/peer) evaluation (Self/peer) evaluation Yearly education plan pense support Category 2008 2009 2010 Financial support for employees to buy or 934 4,549 Ratio of female managers 1.12 1.26 1.90 Mortgage fund lease a house Feedback Feedback ※Female manager: Class 2 manager or higher Selective Support cultural activities, personal developwelfare ment, and hobbies Voluntary retirement Unit: People, % Performance evaluation grade (S~D) Competency evalnation grade (S~D) School Support with registration fees and tuition fees of 4,354 expenses employees’ children Category 2008 2009 2010 4,549 Full-time workers 146 91 132 Utilize in promotion, salary raise, compensation, and individual talent fostering Club activity Support in-house club activities Number of Part-time workers 99 110 69 Provide membership discounts at Hanhwa, retirees 195 Total 245 201 201 Employee benefits Recreational facilities Daemyeong, Keumho, and Elysian Condo (resorts) ※Part-time employees: Temporary site workers, PJT, part-time employees Voluntary retirement rate 4.63 4.06 3.60 GS E&C operates diverse welfare programs to support employees’ health, leisure life, and When events for congratulations or condolences ※Only full-time employees are categorized by gender Congratula※The present state of retirement refers to natural retirements and reasons for retirements include job transfer and personal reaevents for congratulations or condolences to form a vibrant workplace where employees can tions & condooccur, provide monetary support, wreaths, condolence flowers, lead cars, and condolence sons and thus the retirement rate includes the turnover rate lences pursue balance between work and life. articles GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 68 / 69 ISSUE 09 Safe and vibrant workplace APPENDIX Employee communication Internal communication channels GS E&C is creating communal labor-management relations that contributes to the society’s overall development, based on the expansion of communication channels and VOE bulletin board Make suggestions mutual trust. Online community Share employees’ news Site management and Internal communication channels external activities GS E&C operates diverse in-house communication channels and is expanding real-time CEO Daily New Year’s address/ morning assembly address dialogue between employees using Intranet. Press release, etc. Labor-management relations Share news on GS E&C and GS E&C Webzine employees GS E&C recognizes that the relationship between the company and the employees must be based on mutual respect at equal standpoints. GS E&C is making cooperative and productive labor-management relations keeping with the principle. Productive laborProductive • Lead positive corporate culture management relations labor-management • Serve the role of monitors to prevent corruption that help company relations management Cooperative laborCooperative • Macroscopic/integrated wage negotiation management relations labor-management • Give opportunities in drawing systems at the macroscopic relations • Lead in-house campaigns dimension • Communication between the labor and the management Mutually respecting • Promise for principles and trust Labor-management labor-management • Conduct activities to enhance the status of the union relations under trust relations • Prepare measure to make the union’s finance independent based on principles • Active participations in company service activities and give roles Labor union Union membership Unit: People, % GS E&C’s labor union comprises of 871 full-time workers (36.9% of the subjects of joining) and Assistant excludes management positions. GS E&C has made a collective agreement with the union to Position Manager Staff manager respect employees’ right of collective bargaining and notifies important changes in business Members 360 204 307 immediately. At GS E&C, the two groups participates in joint programs such as blood donation, Rate based volunteer activities, education programs, and site visiting meetings and frequently communicate on the with each other. subjects of 33 30 52 joining Labor-management Council ※ As of December 2010 Based on mutual respect, faith, and sincerity, the Labor-management Council discusses issues of common interest such as labor conditions, wage agreements, and healthy and safe of workplace and comes up with resolutions for employees’ predicament. By hearing difficulties felt by employees such as employment security, wages, education, positioning, retirement & dismissal, and maternity leaves, the Council is creating a work environment that allows employees to concentrate on their job, thereby increasing employees’ satisfaction. Employee satisfaction Employee satisfaction level Unit: % GS E&C surveys employee satisfaction every year, the questionnaire of which consists of 9 categories including work process, compensation & recognition, and values & culture. The positive Category 2008 2009 2010 response rate was 60% in 2010, which was the same as that of the previous year. GS E&C will 70 GS E&C’s sustainability performance 72 Third party assurance statement on the sustainability report Positive keep making efforts to enhance employee satisfaction by sharing core values, improving orgaresponse 61 61 60 74 Third party assurance statement on the GHG emissions 76 Indices (GRI, ISO26000, GMS, UNGC) nizational structure, and expanding communication. 85 Reader’s voice Appendix 70 / 71 Sustainability Reprot 2010 GS E&C’s sustainability performance Economic performance Environmental performance Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Sales Billion KRW 6,866 7,377 7,893 Resource consumption Plant Billion KRW 652 833 1,074 Ready-mixed concrete ㎥ 3,603,743 3,248,417 2,236,448 Housing Billion KRW 2,082 2,341 2,567 Cement ton 338,087 327,029 183,778 Civil Engineering Billion KRW 391 495 546 Aggregate ㎥ 848,619 814,948 1,012,474 Architecture Billion KRW 1,265 1,180 1,438 Asphalt concrete ton 761,717 4,156,482 1,959,813 Power & Environment Billion KRW 2,423 2,528 2,268 Sand ㎥ 554,916 236,859 1,517,745 Order backlogs Billion KRW 12,231 12,862 14,105 Reinforcing bar ton 546,923 460,914 395,044 Gypsum board ㎡ 5,425,316 6,591,191 3,324,068 Plant Billion KRW 1,130 2,547 1,107 Recycled aggregate consumption ㎥ 27,834 23,388 60,371 Housing Billion KRW 5,330 6,087 5,789 Water use ㎥ 1,528,634 1,387,087 1,023,569 Civil Engineering Billion KRW 403 531 2,008 Water supply (piped) ㎥ 663,030 545,764 590,157 Architecture Billion KRW 1,071 1,284 2,198 Groundwater ㎥ 425,404 384,744 293,073 Power & Environment Billion KRW 4,297 2,413 3,003 River water ㎥ 440,200 456,579 140,339 Net income Billion KRW 382 383 407 Energy use TJ 2,253.70 2,663.14 2,684.27 Total assets Billion KRW 8,182 8,946 9,338 LNG TJ 23.26 21.24 25.49 Dividends Billion KRW 24.74 49.48 49.48 Propane TJ 47.95 75.64 21.78 Corporate tax Billion KRW 167 125 118 Kerosene TJ 65.53 65.50 58.61 Diesel TJ 1,479.43 1,766.14 1,977.27 Gasoline TJ 35.21 37.64 39.39 Social performance Electricity TJ 602.32 696.98 561.21 Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Other TJ 0.52 Number of employees Number of people 6,435 5,803 5,483 Waste generated ton 617,371 496,758 163,610 Full-time Number of people 4,351 4,248 4,549 Waste concrete ton 332,440 256,560 89,825 2,084 1,555 934 Waste asphalt concrete ton 62,211 34,203 13,742 Part-time Number of people Construction waste soil and stones ton 112,465 84,796 4,900 Voluntary retirement rate % 4.63 4.06 3.60 Mixed construction waste ton 79,781 107,847 46,554 Employment rate of people with disability % 0.52 0.62 0.69 Waste synthetic resin ton 10,709 4,854 3,959 Percentage of female managers % 1.12 1.26 1.90 Waste wood ton 19,353 7,341 4,400 Accident rate % 0.13 0.19 0.12 Construction sludge ton 411 1,157 230 Time spent on education and training for employees Hours 779,599 591,829 679,111 Asbestos emission ton 200.8 Amount of education and training expense 0.1 billion KRW 59 20 53 Wastewater discharged ㎥ 753,380 Employee benefits 0.1 billion KRW 395.09 437.74 449.61 Greenhouse gas emission tCO2-e 201,633.81 237,290.60 237,534.96 Members of labor union Number of people 750 762 871 Scope 1 tCO2-e 19,756.97 20,863.72 18,496.09 Employee satisfaction level Points (out of 100) 61 61 60 Scope 2 tCO2-e 78,473.12 90,804.23 73,093.63 Customer satisfaction level Points (out of 100) 70.41 71.68 71.41 Scope 3 tCO2-e 103,403.72 125,622.65 145,945.24 Disciplinary actions against violation of business ethics Number of cases 10 25 5 Environmental control cost Million KRW 8,400 4,556 4,865 Social contribution expense 0.1 billion KRW 75.61 94.03 Green procurement cost 0.1 billion KRW 735.57 881.05 567.97 R&D investment 0.1 billion KRW 660.6 734.2 690.9 Environmental dispute Number of cases 11 10 7 Number of valid patents 101 124 146 Environmental accident Number of cases 12 24 10 Number of researches carried out 51 66 78 Grievance mediation cost 0.1 billion KRW 21 11.3 15 Number of new technologies 6 9 8 Environmental education completed Number of people 5,785 Appendix 72 / 73 Sustainability Reprot 2010 Third party assurance statement on the sustainability report Introduction Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “DNV’) has been commissioned by the management of GS Conclusions Completeness Good. The reporting scope and boundary defined by GS E&C generally covers the relevant issues including Engineering and Construction Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “GS E&C”) to carry out an assurance engagement on GS material information that would influence stakeholders’ decisions. E&C’s Sustainability Report 2010 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Report’) and its contents against the Global Reporting Initiative Neutrality Good. We consider the Report to be generally neutral and balanced. (GRI) 2006 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3). GS E&C is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of information within the Report. Our responReliability Acceptable. We conclude that the data and information presented in the report are generally reliable. Data control sibility in performing this work is in accordance with terms of reference agreed. The assurance engagement is based on the processes have been adequately demonstrated to DNV. Internal regular evaluation should be improved to ensure assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete and true. improved reliability. Responsiveness Acceptable. GS E&C responds to stakeholders’ expectations on managing sustainability risks through Scope of The scope of work agreed upon includes the following: implementing certified management systems in support of the core business strategy. Assurance • Report coverage Social, environmental and economic indicators for Year 2010 as included in the printed Report. VerificaStakeholder Inclusiveness Acceptable. GS E&C engages with major stakeholders to identify their expectations. However, tion of baseline data was not included in the scope. more systematic approaches should be taken to select stakeholders and to document and • Report period January to December 2010. • Reporting boundaries include the head-office in Seoul, Korea and project sites in Korea operated by 5 business divisions* manage the concerns they raise in an effective way. in 2010. We also confirm that the Report meets the content requirements of the GRI Application Level “A+”. • Confirmation of adherence to the requirements for GRI Application Level “A+”; • The verification was conducted by DNV during January March 2011. Opportunities The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported back to GS E&C’s management. Howfor ever, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report, and they are indeed generally consistent with the manageVerification Our verification approach and performance follows the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. ment objectives already in place. Methodology (http://www.dnv.com/services/assessment/corporate_responsibility/services_solutions/sustainabilityreporting/order/) Improvement • To manage systematically key process for producing the sustainability Report, from data gathering, analysis anIn that respect, the Report has been evaluated against the following criteria: dreporting (for example documented procedures). • Adherence to the principles of Materiality, Completeness, Neutrality, Reliability, Responsiveness and StakeholderInclusive• To establish a formal mechanism for evaluating issues to ensure that the sustainability report addresses those ness as set out in the DNV Protocol and identified as material and specify related targets. • GRI G3 indicators and Application Levels. • To conduct, in line with existing management systems, internal audit on all data and information to be disclosed to ensure its accuracy and reliability. As part of the verification DNV has challenged that sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report • To establish a formal process to integrate the deployment of responses to stakeholders’ concerns with corporate and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls. For exstrategy and objectives. ample, we have: • To expand the sustainability strategy to overseas operation. • Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available to DNV by GS E&C; • To report sustainability performance of the whole sites including overseas project site. • Visited the head-office and 6 project sites located in Korea; • To engage the international stakeholders as the overseas business grows. • Conducted interviews with representatives (including data owners and decision-makers from different divisions and functions) of GS E&C; • Performed sample-based audits of the processes and mechanisms for implementing GS E&C’s own sustainability-related DNV’s DNV did not provide any services to GS E&C during 2010~2011 that conflict with the independence of our work. DNV was Independence not involved in the preparation of any information in the Report. policies, as described in the Report, and for determining material issues to be included in the Report; • Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative data and qualiDNV expressly disclaim any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. tative information included in the Report; • Reviewed the process of acquiring information and economic data from the 2010 certified financial statements. Antonio Astone Conclusions Based on the assurance engagement performed, we believe that the Sustainability Report 2010 is a fair representation of GS Global Service Responsible, E&C’s sustainability strategy, management systems and performance in 2010. CR Report Verification DNV Business Assurance AS We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs. Materiality Acceptable. The Report presents fairly the activities and performances with regard to material issues Seung Hyun Kwak derived from stakeholder engagement. However, it is recommended that a formalised process for deterCR Lead Verifier mining material issues with a wide range of internal and external inputs should be established and used Seoul, Korea DNV Certification Ltd. to decide on reporting topics and their relative priority. March 2011 In Kyoon Ahn Country Manager DNV Certification Ltd. * Plant Business Division, Housing Business Division, Civil Business Division, Architectural Business Division, Power & Environment Business Division Appendix 74 / 75 Sustainability Reprot 2010 Third party assurance statement on the GHG emissions Introduction DNV Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “DNV”) was commissioned by GS E&C Corporation (hereinafter Conclusions Based on the works described above, nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the referred to as “GS E&C”) to verify GS E&C’s greenhouse gas emissions during 2007~2010, based on a limited level GHG emissions asserted by GS E&C as below are not fairly stated. of assurance. GS E&C is responsible for the preparation of the GHG inventory report (hereinafter referred to as “the Report”) in accordance with the principles set out in ISO14064-1: 2006 and the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol: 2004. Unit: tCO2-e Our responsibility in conducting the work is to the management of GS E&C only. DNV expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions taken by other parties on the basis of this assurance statement. Operational boundary Yr. 2007 Yr. 2008 Yr. 2009 Yr. 2010 Direct emission (scope 1) 19,660 19,757 20,864 18,496 Scope of The emissions data covered by our examination are calculated with the activity data gathered on ‘Green Information Energy indirect emission Assurance Management System1’ of GS E&C. GHG emissions comprise direct emissions (scope 1 emissions), energy indirect (scope 2) 61,051 78,473 90,804 73,094 emissions (scope 2) and other indirect emissions2 (scope 3) at the following scope as provided in the Report: Other indirect emission (scope 3) 222,734 103,404 125,623 145,945 • Reporting period: Calendar year 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 • Reporting scope: Emissions total 303,445 201,634 237,291 237,535 Emissions from GS E&C head office building and 9 buildings owned or leased Emissions from project activities in Korea during 2007~2010. (As for joint venture, the projects led by GS E&C were only considered.) Verification The verification carried out by DNV from January through March 2011 and conducted in accordance with the veriMethodology fication principles and tasks outlined in ISO14064-3: 2006. DNV planned and performed the verification work to obtain all the information deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence so that verification opinion can be concluded regarding the completeness of the GHG inventory and the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. The followings were reviewed as part of the verification; Seung Hyun Kwak • GS E&C’s ‘Green Information System’ CR Lead Verifier • GHG Inventory Report dated on 10th March 2011 DNV Certification Ltd. • Process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data The verification team carried out the desk review on the report as well as the relevant evidences and conducted In Kyoon Ahn the site visits on 3 buildings3 including head office and 6 project sites4 which were randomly sampled as part of the Country Manager verification activities. DNV Certification Ltd. Seoul, Korea March 2011 1. IT system developed by GS E&C 2. The quantification methodology for emissions from construction equipments operated by subcontractors is developed by GS E&C, based on ‘2010 Standard estimation of manpower and material for unit construction work’ 3. Buildings visited: GS Yeokjeon Tower, Namchon Leadership Center, Elysian Gangchon Resort 4. Project sites visited: Seoul District Family Court Building project, Songdo Municipal Wastewater Treatment Facility Expansion project, Yeongjong Haneul City #3 project, Daesan LPG Terminal project, Seogyo Xi project, Taebaek line Jecheon-Ssangyong #1 Railway project Appendix 76 / 77 Sustainability Reprot 2010 Indices Level of GRI indicator Description Reference Page disclosure Economic Disclosure on Management Approach 39 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic value creation (direct and indirect) ● 47 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EC2 Climate change risks and opportunities; exact financial implication is not available at the moment ◐ 22 GRI Index ● fully reported, ◐ partially reported, ○ not reported EC3 organization's activities due to climate change Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations Employee benefits package, except for retirement plan ○ 67 Level of EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Zero ● GRI indicator Description Page disclosure Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local Strategy and Analysis EC5 370% ● 67 minimum wage at significant locations of operation 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization ● 4-5 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based EC6 Provide higher points to local suppliers ◐ 56 suppliers at significant locations of operation 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ◐ 4-5, 12 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior manageEC7 ment hired from the local community at significant locations We commonly hire local workers ◐ Organizational Profile of operation 2.1 Name of the organization ● 8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and serEC8 vices provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, SOC businesses and social contribution activities ◐ 20, 35, 37, 61-62 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 9 in-kind, or pro bono engagement 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures ● 8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic EC9 Economic value distribution (direct and indirect) ◐ 47 impacts, including the extent of impacts 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters ● 8 Environmental Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered 2.5 ● 9 19 in the report Disclosure on Management Approach 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 8, 43 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Resource consumption ● 26 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) ◐ 9 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Recycled resource consumption; data not in percentage ○ 27, 32 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ◐ 8, 47, 70 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Direct energy use ● 23, 26 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Indirect energy use ● 23, 26 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● Back cover EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Process innovation, energy savings campaign, etc. ○ 23, 25, 32 Report Parameters Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements Renewable energy projects such as wind, solar, etc. ◐ 20-21, 36-37 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided ● 2 as a result of these initiatives 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions ● EN7 Fuel savings from transitioning to video conferencing system ◐ 28 achieved 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● 2 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water use; we are enhancing analysis on each source ◐ 26, 31 3.4 Contact point for questions ● Back cover EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water No significantly affected water source ○ 31 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 16-17 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Groundwater and rainwater reuse at sites ○ 31 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance ● 2 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or Biodiversity protection at Geumgang site; we are planning to provide more data (i.e. size, etc.) in the EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value ◐ 33 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see Completeness Principle for explanation of scope) ◐ 2 future outside protected areas Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and 3.8 ● 2 EN12 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Various environmental impact from construction ● 33 and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and biodiversity value outside protected areas 3.9 ◐ 2 other information in the report EN13 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity protection at Geumgang site ◐ 33 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base 3.10 ● Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) EN14 Provide passages and shelter to the habitat; provide biodiversity education session to employees, etc. ◐ 30, 33 impacts on biodiversity 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report ● Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● 76-78 EN15 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level A number of protected habitats live in the area ● 33 of extinction risk 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ◐ 72-75 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Direct and indirect GHG emission ● 25, 27 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Other relevant GHG emission ● 25, 27 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational 4.1 ● 42-43 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions oversight EN18 Renewable energy projects such as wind, solar, etc. ◐ 20-21, 36-37 achieved 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 42 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Planning to monitor quantitative data in the future ○ 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members ● 42 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and EN20 Efforts to reduce fugitive dust ● 31 weight 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body ◐ 43 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Water quality management; all wastewater is discharged directly to sewage system ◐ 27, 31 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives ● 67 Amount of wastewater discharged is being monitored; we are planning to disclose disposal method in EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ◐ 27, 32 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided ● 42 the future Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills No spill occurred ● 27, 32-33 4.7 ● 42 and social topics Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention 4.8 ◐ 12, 22, 56, 59, 61 EN24 No hazardous waste exported; asbestos abatement ● 33 implementation Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including shipped internationally 4.9 ◐ 48 relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance ● 43 EN25 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reportNo significant affect on water bodies or habitats ○ 31, 33 ing organization's discharges of water and runoff 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 48-49 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and EN26 3 Zero House, green concrete, etc. ● 34, 36 services, and extent of impact mitigation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses ◐ 24, 30, 66, 84 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that EN27 Considered 100% due to the industry characteristics (buildings are “reused” for a long period of time) ● are reclaimed by category 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations ● Back cover Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 15 EN28 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Efforts to minimize environmental dispute ● 27, 33 laws and regulations 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ◐ 14 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and EN29 other goods and materials used for the organization's operaEfforts to reduce noise and vibration ◐ 32 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ◐ 15 tions, and transporting members of the workforce Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including Total environmental protection expenditures and investments 4.17 ● 15 EN30 Environmental protection expense, green procurement expense, etc. ● 26-27, 30 through its reporting by type Appendix 78 / 79 Sustainability Reprot 2010 Level of GRI indicator Description Reference Page disclosure Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach 53 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Status of employment ◐ 66 Voluntary retirement rate is provided only by the form of contract at LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ◐ 66 the moment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by LA3 Provide a number of benefits to all full-time employees ● 67 major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Labor union membership status ● 68 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in Written document states to notify “as soon as possible” but we will LA5 ◐ 68 collective agreements disclose the exact period in the future Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety comThe matter is discussed through Labor-management Council that LA6 ● 68 mittees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs represents 100% of the employees Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related Injury rate in 2010 is estimated to be 0.12%; other data are not calcuLA7 ◐ 65 fatalities by region lated at the moment Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce 33 LA8 Provides safety education and training session, medical insurance, etc. ● members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases 64-65, 67 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Represented by Labor-management Council ◐ 68 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 124 hours in 2010 ● 67 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Provide a number of programs (all benefits are for full-time employees LA11 ● 67 employees and assist them in managing career endings only) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 100% of the employees go through performance evaluation ● 67 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, Status of employment and BoD composition by gender; we will LA13 ◐ 42, 66 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity disclose other indicators of diversity in the future LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Strictly prohibits any form of gender discrimination ● 66 Social: Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach 53 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses HR1 Planning to implement it in the future ● or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights HR2 Planning to implement it in the future ● and actions taken Hold sexual harassment prevention session (1-2 hours per year) Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that HR3 and cross-cultural management session (20 hours per year) for all ● 66 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained employees HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken No such incidents occurred ● 66 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Domestic operations ● 68 may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to HR6 No operations identified as having significant risk of child labor ◐ 66, 84 contribute to the elimination of child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and meaNo operations identified as having significant risk of forced or HR7 ◐ 66, 84 sures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor compulsory labor Percentage of security employee trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning HR8 Planning to implement it in the future ● aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Zero incidents ● Social: Society Disclosure on Management Approach 53 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts SO1 Risk management and the environmental dispute forecasting program ◐ 33, 48 of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 100% of units carry out EM programs ● 59-60 Number of employees who completed on-/off-line ethics education SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures ◐ 60 sessions SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 5 cases of actions taken in 2010 ● 60 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Participate in the development of environmental regulations ◐ 30 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions SO6 Not applicable ● by country Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and SO7 No such incidents ● their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance SO8 2 cases of violation of workplace safety regulations ● 65 with laws and regulations Social: Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach 39 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such Asbestos abatement and 3 Zero House ◐ 33, 36 procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health PR2 No such incident ● and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant prodPR3 Green building certification ◐ 37 ucts and services subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product PR4 No such incident ● and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction programs and survey ◐ 50-51 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communicaCode of Conduct states that “We only tell truth to our customers and PR6 ◐ 59 tions, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship we keep promises made with them” Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketPR7 No such incident ● ing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of PR8 No such complaint ● customer data Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the proviPR9 No such incident ● sion and use of products and services Appendix 80 / 81 Sustainability Reprot 2010 Indices ISO26000 Core subject Issue Related activities Page As sustainable development arises as a result of industrialization, globalization, and economic development and leading global corporaGreenhouse gas inventory; carry out greenhouse gas reduction activities; activate video con21-25, Climate change mitigation and tions cause numerous scandals in the early 21st century, the concept of corporate social responsibility became an important factor of ferencing system; develop energy management system (EnMS); develop smart grid adaptation 28, 36 technology; construct renewable energy infrastructure corporate valuation and investment decisions. Along with this movement, ISO (International Organization for Standardization) developed Environment Protection of the environment, ISO26000, a guidance for corporations seeking to implement socially responsible practices. biodiversity and restoration of Carry out biodiversity protection activities around construction sites 33 natural habitats ISO26000 comprises of 7 core subjects of organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. ISO26000 is not a management system standard and it is not Anti-corruption Establish ethics management system; implement a number of anti-corruption activities such as 59-60 taking joint liability for unethical behavior intended or appropriate for certification purposes or regulatory or contractual use; nonetheless, GS E&C seeks to treat it as a guidance for strengthening the company’s sustainability management. Responsible political involvement Participate in development of public environmental policies; support a number of industry30 based initiatives Core subject Issue Related activities Page Fair Take an oath to engage in fair competition (as part of Code of Ethics); comply with the Fair competition 56, 59 operating Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act Organipractices Governance structure centered on the Board of Directors; operation of Audit Committee and Outside Comply with Agreement for Win-win Cooperation between Large Corporations and SMEs and zational 42 Promoting social responsibility in Fair Trade and implement shared growth activities in 4 areas of financial support, Director Candidate Recommendation Committee 56-58 governance the value chain education & training and enhanced communication, technological support, and management support Establish human rights due diligence structure through operation of Audit Committee and risk Due diligence 42, 48 management Respect for property rights Not applicable Human rights risk situations Not applicable Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair Not applicable Avoidance of complicity GS E&C does not support any organization that violates human rights contractual practices Resolving grievances Operate company-wide communication channels, labor union, and Labor-management Council 68 Protecting consumers' health and Develop an indoor air quality sensor that detects chemical pollutants harmful to human body; 36, 51 safety provide cleaning service to housing customers Discrimination and vulnerProvide equal opportunities in compensation, education and training, placement, and layout, regard66 Human able groups less of gender and whether he/she has disability Sustainable consumption Develop a number of Green Smart technologies that saves consumers’ energy and water use 21 rights Provide great workplace (‘using words of respect and consideration’ campaign, two-week vacation Consumer Consumer service, support, and Make customer complaint-receiving channels simple and efficient; implement customer-orientCivil and political rights policy, etc.); freedom to exchange information and ideas through company-wide communication 55, 68 50-51 issues complaint and dispute resolution ed complaint handling policies; operate CRM Committee channels such as on-line community Against reckless extraction of resources (e.g. water); operate of an in-house child care; offer employee Consumer data protection and Economic, social and 31, 51, Comply with laws and regulations related to consumer protection training and education programs; hold Xi Gallery culture classes; support company-wide club activities privacy cultural rights 55, 67 for employees Access to essential services Not applicable Comply with International Labor Organization standards; respect freedom of association through Fundamental principles and operation of Labor union and Labor-management Council; prohibit child and forced labor; prohibit all 66, 68 rights at work forms of discrimination Education and awareness Active exchange of information through Gaga Xi, Xi Gallery, etc. 51 Employment and employRespect for employees; comply with the ILO 66, 68 ment relationships Community involvement Carry out a number of social contribution activities to realize joint value as a corporate citizen 61-62 Conditions of work and Operate a number of employee benefit programs that respect work-life balance as well as an in-house Support the talented with scholarship; support orphans with educational expenses; hold 55, 67 social protection child care Education and culture year-end event that invite children from low-income class; send PCs to East Timor; operate Xi 51, 61-62 Gallery culture classes Labor Continuous dialogue through various employee communication channels, operation of labor union and Social dialogue 68 practices the Labor-management Council, and joint volunteer activities between labor and the management Employment creation and skills Provide indirect job opportunities in the local community by giving more weights to the local 56 development suppliers Pursue a number of safety management activities under the safety management guideline and the Community Health and safety at work 63-65 involvement goal of “zero serious accidents” Technology development and Skill development classes specifically for the locals are not available and develaccess Human development and Operate education and training program fitted with talent development system; provide foreign opment 66-67 training in the workplace language courses through Namchon Leadership Center Wealth and income creation Provide more weights to the local suppliers when choosing a supplier 56 Prevent water pollution by utilizing water quality management guidelines; activities to prevent scattering Prevention of pollution dust and soil erosion; install air pollution-reduction devices on construction equipments; appropriate 31-32 Operate employee benefit programs related to health, such as health examination and support Health 67 treatment of waste by type following waste management guidelines with medical expenses Environment Efficient use of resources and reuse technologies; carry out energy savings campaign; develop and Social contribution activities such as House Repair of Hope project; construct social infrastruc20, 35, Sustainable resource use 23, 31-32, 35 Social investment apply building energy management system (BEMS); recycle water resources tures such as railway and water treatment facilitie 61-62 Appendix 82 / 83 Sustainability Reprot 2010 Indices Green Management System As laws and regulations aimed at improving corporations’ management of environmental impact and sustainability and economic deClause Performance indicators Related activities Page velopment policies that consider environmental protection are being introduced across the globe, Korean government is preparing to General mandatory management performance indicators (MPI) announce Green Management System Certification Scheme (hereinafter GMS) in accordance with the Framework Act on Low Carbon, Establishment of green Green Growth. M1-1-1 Reduce 30% of GHG emission by 2030 and establish global top-tier environmental management system 22, 28 objective The GMS has a number of objectives such as saving costs and improving efficiency for green growth, establishing an effective and Achievement of green efficient system for green management, encouraging employees to better understand and participate, managing key performance inM1-1-2 objective Difficult to measure number of achievements as quantitative performance indicators are being set dicators, and realistically achieving green management performance as a result. It is categorized into Requirements and Performance Green procurement of MRO Indicators. M1-2-1 products Expense on green procurement in 2010 is 56.8 billion KRW; planning to increase the expenditure 26, 30 GS E&C was selected to participate in the pilot certification and is currently carrying out the green management system construction and Green procurement of raw going through the certification process by the second-half of 2011. GS E&C aims to become the leader in green management through M1-3-1 materials Expense on green procurement in 2010 is 56.8 billion KRW; planning to increase the expenditure 26, 30 continuous improvement. M1-4-1 Investment in green products Continue to invest in R&D of green construction and materials 34, 36 Clause Requirements Related activities Page M1-5-1 Number of green products Difficult to define green product due to the industry characteristics Establish green management/environmental management systems and corresponding vision, objective, and 4.1 General requirement 22, 28 strategy M1-6-1 Sales of green products Data not available as it is difficult to define green product due to the industry characteristics 4.2 Green management policy Commit to continuous improvement through CEO Message and Disclosure on Management Approach 4-5, 19 Hours spent on education and M1-7-1 Provide environmental education sessions 30 training 4.3 Planning Conduct environmental impact assessment before construction begins, run the environmental dispute foreM1-8-1 Opinions and complaints Data not available 4.3.1 Green management aspect 29, 31, 33, 48 casting program as to respond to environmental requirements in advance M1-9-1 Legal compliance Number of environmental disputes and accidents in 2010 is 17 cases; the figure is on a downward trend 27, 33 Regulation and other Distribute the environmental management guidebook to all sites and lay out environmental regulations and 4.3.2 29, 31 requirements standards related to each construction process Compliance with laws related M1-10-1 Data is included in the total number of environmental disputes and accidents 27, 33 Objective, detailed objectives Establish green management/environmental management systems and corresponding objective, detailed to products 4.3.3 22, 28 and action plan objectives and action plans; Documentation through environmental report and sustainability report Publication cycle of green M1-11-1 Yearly publication 2 4.4 Implementation management report Resource, role, responsibility, Report the performance by green management/environmental management organizations to the top execuSector-specific mandatory management performance indicators (MPI) 4.4.1 22 authority tives Scale of investment on green Conformity, education and M2-1-1 Continue to expand investment in R&D of green construction and process 34, 36 4.4.2 Conduct environmental education sessions for employees and subcontractors at both headquarter and sites 30 process training, perception Communicate with stakeholders through environmental report, project site website, information session for General mandatory operation performance indicators (OPI) 4.4.3 Communication 33 local residents, etc. O1-1-1 Energy use 2,684.27 TJ 23, 26 4.4.4 Documentation Document environmental data and information through TPMS 29 4.4.5 Document management Manage documents such as environmental guidelines for each process through TPMS 29 O1-1-2 Energy use by sales 0.48 TJ/billion KRW 23 4.4.6 Operational management Indicate operational standards within the green management/environmental management procedures 29, 31 O1-2-1 Direct GHG emission 18,496.09 tCO2 25, 27 Planning and developmental 4.4.6.1 Consider and apply environmental performance improvement factors during planning and development 29, 34 O1-2-2 Direct GHG emission by sales 3.32 tCO2/billion KRW activities 4.4.6.2 Procurement activities Plan to expand green procurement; consider environmental aspect when evaluating suppliers 26, 30, 56 O1-3-1 Indirect GHG emission 219,038.87 tCO2 25, 27 Preparation for and response Conduct environmental impact assessment and run the environmental dispute forecasting program; prepare 4.4.7 29, 31, 33, 48 Indirect GHG emission by to emergency situations for and respond to emergency situations by distributing case-based guidebook O1-3-2 39.26 tCO2/billion KRW sales 4.5 Inspection O1-4-1 Water use 1,023,568.80 ㎥ 26, 31 4.5.1 Monitoring and evaluation Monitor and evaluate environmental impact through the environmental checking system by process and period 29 Evaluate the degree of compliance with environmental regulations and other requirements through the environO1-4-2 Water use by sales 183.47 ㎥/billion KRW 4.5.2 Evaluation of compliance 29, 33 mental checking system Sector-specific mandatory operation performance indicators (OPI) Non-conformity, corrective Correct any potential non-conformity and conduct preventive measures by running the Environmental Dispute 4.5.3 33 action, preventive measure Forecasting System and through regular communication Resource consumption Unable to determine the improvement rate as the standard of data collection has changed in 2010 and thus O2-1-1 26 improvement rate by sales comparability is low 4.5.4 Record management Manage records on green management/environmental management performances by utilizing TPMS 29 4.5.5 Internal examination Regularly examine whether it is complying with environmental management certification such as ISO140001 30 O2-3-1 Recycling rate 90% on average 32 Review the achievement status of green management/environmental management organizations’ performance Hazardous chemical sub4.6 Management review 28 O2-6-1 Asbestos abatement 33 indicators stance use by sales Appendix 84 / 85 GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 Reader’s voice Indices We would love to hear your thoughts and expectations about GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 in order to create a more meaningful report in the future. Please provide your much valued opinion. Joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Participation and compliance with the Principles 1. Which stakeholder group do you belong to? On August 4, 2010, GS E&C joined UNGC, a voluntary corporate initiative that promotes and encourages corporate social responsibility. Shareholders/investors Financial institutions Xi residents Project developers (clients) By supporting the 10 Principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, GS E&C is taking its part in the global standard on Partner companies Employees Local communities NGO/NPO corporate social responsibility and is reassuring its will to pursue sustainability management both nationally and internationally. Academia Government Media Competitors GS E&C will continue to support and comply with the 10 Principles in order to respect the basic human and labor rights and respond to Students Others the global environmental crisis, by focusing on developing green technologies and products as well as on managing and monitoring of corruption-prone activities. Please find our activities and policies related to the Principles in the table and the corresponding pages below. 2. For what purpose do you use this report? (e.g. investment information, corporate evaluation, job search, academic research, etc.) The 10 Principles of UNGC and GS E&C’s Activities Area Principle Related Activities GRI Page HR1 HR2 HR3 3. Which part of the report were you most interest in? (multiple answers are allowed) 1. Businesses should support and respect the protec· Comply with UNGC and ILO HR4 HR5 HR6 tion of internationally proclaimed human rights; and · Hold sexual harassment prevention session (1-2 hours per year) HR7 HR8 HR9 CEO Message Sustainability at GS E&C Great Innovation Human Rights 66 and cross-cultural management session (20 hours per year) for 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights all employees Great Challenge Great Partnership HR1 HR2 HR8 abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association · Operate the labor union HR5 4. Please rate each of the following areas of GS E&C’s sustainability management. and the effective recognition of the right to collective 68 · Operate the Labor-management Council LA4 LA5 bargaining; Response to climate change 1 2 3 4 5 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory HR7 66 Minimization of environmental impact 1 2 3 4 5 labour; Labor · Comply with UNGC and ILO Green technology development 1 2 3 4 5 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and HR6 66 Creation of economic value 1 2 3 4 5 HR4 Risk management 1 2 3 4 5 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employ· Set internal policy against any form of discrimination LA2 LA10 66 ment and occupation. LA13 LA14 Customer satisfaction maximization 1 2 3 4 5 · Comply with the regulation regarding emissions on site · Conduct company-wide environmental risk mitigation activities Shared growth 1 2 3 4 5 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach and carry out on-site environmental task R&R 23-25, 4.11 to environmental challenges; · Systemize greenhouse gas inventory 28, 31, 34, 48 Ethical management and social contribution 1 2 3 4 5 · Save energy and reduce GHG emissions · Develop eco-friendly technologies Safety management and great workplace 1 2 3 4 5 · Set an objective to reduce 30% GHG emissions by 2010 · Sign the EEB Manifesto EN5 EN6 EN7 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental · Sign the Industry-wide Voluntary Agreement for Green ProcureEN10 EN14 EN18 22, 24, 26, 5. Please rate GS E&C Sustainability Report 2010 regarding following criteria. responsibility; and ment and construct a guideline on green procurement 28-35 EN26 EN27 · Build and operate environmental monitoring system · Eco-friendly construction The report is well designed and easy to read (Readability) 1 2 3 4 5 Environment The data provided can be trusted (Trustworthiness) 1 2 3 4 5 · Expand renewable energy business such as wind and tidal power There is enough disclosure on material issues (Materiality) 1 2 3 4 5 · Pursue the introduction of building energy management system (BEMS) Sentence structure is appropriate and easy to understand (Clarity) 1 2 3 4 5 20-21, · Systemize the greenhouse gas inventory EN2 EN5 EN6 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environ23-24, · R&D of the 10 World Class technologies EN7 EN10 EN18 mentally friendly technologies. 34-37, · Develop 3 Zero House, an eco-friendly housing model EN26 EN27 · Develop green concrete, an eco-friendly construction material 57 6. Please feel free to comment on areas of improvement regarding this report and/or make suggestions on · Participate in the Green Management Dissemination Project for GS E&C’s sustainability management in general. Partner Companies · Operate the Ethics Committee · Publish the Ethical Management Guidebook 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its · Promote employees’ ethics-centered mindset through Anti-corruption SO2 SO3 SO4 59-60 forms, including extortion and bribery. education and training on business ethics · Establish and implement ethics management policy · Run whistle-blowing program to eliminate anti-corruption Please send to | GS E&C New Business Team GS Yeokjeon Tower, #537, 5-ga, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul | Tel : + 82 (0) 2-728-3451 | Fax : + 82 (0) 2-728-2139 | E-mail : gsenc_sr@gsconst.co.kr Membership Awards 2010 Description Category Association Hangang Bamseom Xi receives Excellence Prize at the 6th Korea Civil Engineering & Construction Technology Award Construction Industry Institute, Korea Plant Industries Association, Korea-Qatar Friendship Association, The Korea International Trade Grand Prize in the Plant category at 2010 Asia Construction Award 2010 Association, International Contractors Association of Korea, Korea-Egypt Economic Cooperation Committee, Korea-Oman Friendship Grand Prize at Money Today 2010 Korea Apartment Brand Award Plant Economic Association, Korea Price Data System, AACE International, The Gasification Technologies Council, International Register of Certified AudiXi receives Grand Prize in the High-class Apartment category at 2010 Korea Prestigious Brand Award tors, Korea Gas Union Excellence Prize in the Plant category at 2010 Overseas Construction Award Xi receives Grand Prize for five consecutive years at 2010 First Brand Award Korea Housing Association, The Korea Home Network Industry Association, Korea Ubiquitous Association, American Society of LandIlsan Xi receives Excellence Prize at the 1st Green Space Award Housing scape Architects, Korea Remodeling Association, Korea Marketing Association, Korean Society of Consumer Studies, The Organization Minister of Land, Transport and Maritime Award at 2010 Green Housing Award of Consumer Affairs Professionals in Business Ilsan Xi receives Minister of Knowledge Economy Award (Grand Prize) in the Outside Color Design at 2010 Korea Color Award EnvironKorean Society of Transportation, Korean Society of Civil Engineers, Korean Society for Rock Mechanics, Korean Geotechnical Society, Ilsan Xi wins the Joint Housing category at the 2nd Asia Today Green Construction Award mental Korean Railway Construction Engineering Association, The Korean Society for Railway, The Korea Railway Association, Korea Port & Ilsan Xi receives Grand Prize at 2010 Green Construction Industry Award Harbour Association, Korean Society of Coastal and Ocean Engineers, Korean Society of Hazard Mitigation, Korean Tunneling and UnHangang Bamseom Xi wins the Environmental Friendliness category at 2010 (second-half) Housing Culture derground Space Association, Intelligent Transport Society of Korea, Korean National Committee on Large Dams, Korea Water Resources Award Civil Engineering Association, Korean National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage, Chuncheon Global Water Forum, The Korean Society of Agricultural Awarded IF, Red dot, and IDEA (the three most prestigious design awards in the world) Engineers, Korea Road & Transportation Association, Korean Society of Road Engineers, Korea Disaster Prevention Association, Korean Grand Prize in the Socially Responsible Management category at 2010 Management Awards of the Principle of Consumer Interests First Society for Advanced Composite Structures, Korean Wetlands Society, Computational Structural Engineering Institute of Korea, Korea Ilsan Xi receives Grand Prize in the Customer Satisfaction category at 2010 (second-half) Hankyung HousNew Transit Association, Korean Society of Steel Construction ing Culture Award Social Grand Prize in the Social Contribution category at 2010 Forbes Social Contribution Award The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, Architectural Institute of Korea, The Korean Institute of Electrical and Electronic Material En“Most Trusted Company” designation at 2010 Korea’s Most Admired Businesspeople & Most Respected gineers, Korea Information and Communications Society, The Korean Institute of Illuminating and Electrical Installation Engineers, Korea Companies for two consecutive years Railway Electrification Technical Association, Association of Korea Railway Signal Engineering, Korea Institute of Construction Engineering Xi receives Minister of Land, Transport and Maritime Award at 2010 Korea Housing Service Award and Management, The Korea Institute of Building Construction, K-Housing Association, The Society of Air-Conditioning and Refrigerating 2009 Description Engineers of Korea, Korea Green Building Council, Korean Association of Air Conditioning Refrigerating and Sanitary Engineers, Korea Times Square General Contractor Prize at 5th Korea Civil Engineering & Architectural Awards Architecture Society of Geothermal Energy Engineers, Korea Solar Energy Society, Korea Council of Tall Building and Urban Habitat, Korea Air CleanGrand Prize in the Brand category at 2009 Well-being Apartment Award ing Association, Korea Institute of Architectural Sustainable Environment and Building Systems, Korean Association for Energy Service Boutique Monaco receives Grand Prize in the Private Sector category at 2009 Korea Construction Economic Companies (ESCOs), Korea Construction Value Engineering Research Institute, Korea Association for Eco-environmental Greenspace on Culture Award Artificial Ground, Korea Institute of Rural Architecture, The Society of Living Environment System, Korea, The Korean Society of Disaster President’s Prize for Banpo Xi at 13th Excellent Apartment Awards Information, Korea Institute for Structural Maintenance Inspection Gold Prize in the Technological Innovation category at the 4th Construction Company Creativity & Innovation Best Case Competition Poil Xi receives Grand Prize in the Beautiful Scenery Category at 2009 Green Housing Award Korean Society of Water and Wastewater, Korean Society of Environmental Engineers, The Membrane Society of Korea, Korean Society Grand Prize in the Environmentally Friendly Plant category at 2009 Korea Environmental Friendliness on Water Quality, Korean Society of Water Science and Technology, The Korean Society of Combustion, Korean Society of Thermal EnEnvironAward mental vironmental Engineers, Korean Organic Resource Recycling Association, Korean Society of Waste Management, Korean Fluid Machinery Excellence & Good Prize at the 5th Construction Environmental Management Best Case Competition Association, Society of Odor Research and Engineering, Korea Associate Council of Incineration Technology, The Korean Institute of Awarded IF and Red dot (two of the three most prestigious design awards in the world) Power & Electrical and Electronic Material Engineers, Korea Association of Waste to Energy Technology, Korea Water and Wastewater Works AsEnvironment Grand Prize in the Overseas Construction category at 2009 Hankyung Housing Culture Award sociation, Korean Institute of Chemical Engineers, Korean Society of Atmospheric Environment, Korean Society of Soil and Groundwater Social Grand Prize for Customer Satisfaction Management at Global Management Awards Environment, YU Environmental Research Institute, Automated Waste Collection Technology Association, The Korean Institute of Power Grand Prize in CSR category at 1st Asia Today Green Construction Awards Electronics, Korea Electric Association, Korea Institute of Project Management Technology, Korea and Energy Industry Association, Korea Atomic Industrial Forum, Korean Nuclear Society, Korea Institute of Nuclear Safety 2008 Description Grand Prize in the Overseas Construction category at Korea’s Signature Apartment Award Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development, Korea Federation of Construction Contractors, The Korea Employers Federation, The Korea IR Award is received at the 8th Annual IR Conference & orea IR Awards Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, The Federation of Korean Industries, Korea IR Service, American Bar Association, Fair ComEgypt LAB Project site receives Grand Prize at 2008 Asia Construction Overall Award petition Federation, KOSHA 18001 Society, Construction Safety Manager Committee, Construction Safety Manager Association, Korea Economic Grand Prize in the Construction & Plant category at the 1st Korea Construction Quality Management Society for Construction Quality, Korea Construction Quality Association, The Society for Environmental Construction, Construction AsAward Management sociation of Korea, Korea Construction Engineers Association, Korea Specialty Contractors Association, Korea New & Renewable Energy The 100 billion KRW Taxpayers’ Tower is received on the 42nd Annual Taxpayers’ Day Association, Korea Fire Construction Association, Korea Facilities Maintenance Association, Korea Mechanical Construction Contractors “Xi” wins 2008 First Brand Award for three consecutive years Association, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, Korea Information Communication Contractors Association, Korea Organization Banpo Xi receives Excellence Award in the Well-managed Construction Site category at the City of Seoul Management Development Association Construction Award Grand Prize is received in the Green Management category at the 2008 Global Green Management EnvironAwards Korea Engineering & Consulting Association, Korea Industrial Technology Association, The Korea Construction New-Technology Associamental Grand Prize in the Design category at the 10th Hankyung Marketing Award tion, buildingSMART Korea, Korea Green Business Association, Korean Geo-environmental Society, Korean Society of Hazard Mitigation, Technology Awarded IF, Red dot, and IDEA (the three most prestigious design awards in the world) Architectural Institute of Korea, The Korean Society for Noise and Vibration Engineering, Korea Concrete Institute, Korean Society of Road Engineers, Earthquake Engineering Society of Korea, DEMS Xi receives Grand Prize in the Living Prestigious Apartment category at 2008 World’s Most Prestigious Social Brand Selected by Consumers Award We create green world with smart technologies. This report is about the nine key sustainability issues of GS E&C. We align them with the three core values of Great Innovation, an attitude that we respond to the environment; Great Challenge, a mindset that we have to achieve our goals; and Great Partnership, the way we communicate with others. We aim to completely internalize sustainability management by integrating the core values, which are foundations of any organization’s strategy, and sustainability management practices. Contact Us GS E&C New Business Team GS Yeokjeon Tower, #537, 5-ga, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Tel : + 82 (0) 2-728-3451 / Fax : + 82 (0) 2-728-2139 E-mail : gsenc_sr@gsconst.co.kr
