Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal Annual Report Male and female workers at workday end. Province of San Jose, Costa Rica. Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal has its headquarters in Costa Rica, Province of San José, Central Canton, Catedral District, 2nd and 4th Avenues, 1st Street, P.O. Box 10190-1000. Currently, it operates just within Costa Rica. Contacts for inquiries and comments: Marisol Delgado Rojas mdelgado@bp.fi.cr Alonso Jiménez Zúñiga Aljimenez@bp.fi.cr Credits: Editorial Council: Gerardo Porras Sanabria, Corporate General Manager Maurilio Aguilar Rojas, Corporate Management Director Cynthia Vargas Cerdas, Head of Corporate Communication Celso Porras Fallas, Head of Strategic Marketing Fabián Chaves Mora, Head of Strategic Management Maritza Fuentes Salas, Director a.i., Human Development Specialized assistants: Juan Carlos Li Guzmán Sergio Calderón Rivas Geovanny Méndez Carmona Armando Rojas Chinchilla Alonso Jiménez Zúñiga Mileny Santillán Núñez Giovanny Jiménez Solís Marjorie Alvarado Arancibia Luis Diego Zamora Castro Álvaro González Ramírez Fabio Umaña Rojas Priscilla Ramírez Mora Silvia Flores Montiel Journalist, editor and philologist: Marisol Delgado Rojas Design: Luis Diego D’Ambrosio Fonseca Agencia McCann Erickson Centroamericana (Costa Rica) S.A. Table of Contents Submission Our First Sustainability Annual Report 3 Chapter I Company profile The bank for working people 7 Chapter II Healthy finance Our financial value generated and distributed 22 Chapter III Clients The trust of our customers is vital 26 Chapter IV Sustainability at Banco Popular We create sustainability and social equity 32 Chapter V Male and female cooperators Our talent 35 Chapter VI Environment Environmental commitment 40 Chapter VII Awards and honors 2010 Milestones 45 Consolidated financial statements and Auditors’ Opinion December 31st, 2010 50 Index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 58 Submission Our first Sustainability Annual Report Young people in front of Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal. World Environmental Day, June 5th, 2010. Banco Popular’s internal social organizations participated in this march as part of their support to the environmental conservation. 3 Contributing to sustainability Participation features this report In order to reaffirm the commitment to impel the social and Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal formed a economic development Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal multidisciplinary team that lead the process based on keeps with the population, we decided to publish our first the principles of materiality, stakeholders’ participation, Sustainability Annual Report, which discloses our achievements sustainability and comprehensiveness. and commitments during 2010 within the framework of good social, environmental and economic practices for real This effort is intended to be accountable for the economic, social contribution to the sustainability of Costa Rica. and environmental management, as deserved by the people of different regions who prefer us. We follow the parameters of the Scope of this Annual Report “Guide for the preparation of sustainability reports”, 2006, version of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) We submit the results achieved between January 1st and (www.globalreporting.org), as well as the principles of the United December 31st, 2010 in the country, focusing on the Institution as Nations Global Agreement. a suitable and agile solution for the population, with a major effort of attention to vulnerable populations1. In our first Annual Report, we will report Bank indicators, excluding Corporations that together with the Bank constitute the Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal Conglomerate2. We expect to include them in coming years. Winners of the design of autonomous robots contest for teenagers, supported by Banco Popular. This group got the second place in its category in the Latin American Robotics Competition (LARC) an international contest held in Chile. 1 Vulnerable populations: groups of people who, by their characteristics of educational disadvantage, origin, physical, sexual or civil conditions have difficult access to traditional banking services. 2 Conglomerate: constituted by a financial intermediary of public right, with domicile in Costa Rica, or by an audited entity created by a special law and its companies coming from the accounting consolidation of the financial statements of all subsidiaries of such entity supervised by the Superintendence. Conglomerado Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal is constituted by the Bank, Popular Pensiones, Popular Valores, Popular Fondos de Inversión and Popular Seguros. 4 Message from the President of National Board of Directors We act under the premise that everyone deserves special treatment, a differentiated service and a customized product. This has enabled us to A social vision that comes true everyday contribute to the creation of more companies, especially, socially relevant, because of their moderate or small size, to increase As a key element of a responsible management, it is essential to employment and solve specific problems such as housing. Within this disclose the real situation of the Bank and its achievements. The framework, we have been supporting Costa Rican economy and imperative action of accountability in our case, acquires particular quality of life for large sectors of the society, which has gained relevance because every male and female Costa Rican worker owns particular relevance in the global financial crisis that just begins to the bank. Therefore, we submit to the public interested, particularly cease. those who integrate the labor force of the country, our first Sustainability Annual Report, developed under the methodology of Four aspects of the orientation of the Bank deserve to be highlighted: the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) with the goal of including the our social policies, as mentioned before; our vocation to educate population in our most significant progress and achievements. This population in the correct direction of each customer’s finance; our methodology has been created precisely as a guarantee of efficiency, commitment to the environment and the great progress achieved in accuracy and clarity in the presentation of the results. our goal is to be carbon neutral in the short term; and our policy of gender equality that has earned us public recognition. Whoever analyzes balance sheets of the Banco Popular, will find indisputable strengths. Sustained growth of the loan portfolio, We must not conclude this message without referring to the excellent indicators of profitability and the most solid capital coordinated mission Banco Popular is called to comply within the social sufficiency constitute indisputable reasons for satisfaction. Risk ratings financial sector. The numerous cooperatives, solidarity associations received from the Sociedad Calificadora de Riesgo Centroamericana and others, which mission is alike to ours, should strengthen relations (Central American Risk Rating Company) and the FITCH Costa Rica, with our Bank, in an effort to magnify the country, not just constitute merits of great relevance in banking. However, our financial economically, but in terms of general welfare. The divergent interests successes make sense only as part of our social goals. of different groups must be respected, but there are many points of convergence that require us to rethink our relationships and enrich Banco Popular was created to meet the needs of the population to them even more, as a way to increase the value of our national life. capitalize their savings and strengthen their personal and family growth. Fundamentally, this is a bank made of people, although no We are pleased with our accomplishments, but we will like to increase exclusively. Now, with 100 branches and many services and products, them every day. This is essential in our duties on behalf of Costa it has position itself as the work Bank, precisely because of the Ricans, especially of those who exalt our country with their work. continuity, throughout its 41 years, towards the purpose of its Readers can confirm this by analyzing this Annual Report that we now founders. The mission gotten from them has required adjustments to bring up for the country´s consideration, and which constitutes a new new realities, changes in mindset and changes occurred along almost starting point in our march forward. half of a century. Fortunately, these changes have been successful. Recent policies approved by the Assembly of Male and Female Workers reinforce this vision embodied in the guidelines issued by each Directing Department of the Entity. Banco Popular has worked to be modern. That is why it has focused on regional development and innovation without neglecting human and social purpose. Francisco Antonio Pacheco, Dr. President of the National Board of Directors 5 network of companies and organizations in the region having Message from the General Manager signed the United Nations World Agreement which promotes the respect for Human Rights, the Environment, Labor Standards as well as the Anti-Corruption principles. Another achievement was signed the Environmental Declaration with the goal of Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal has contributed to a achieving carbon neutrality in institutional operations. In more inclusive and caring society since its foundation in 1969, addition, we were the only Bank invited to represent the country when it became the only bank owned by Costa Rican working in the Climate Change Summit (Copenhagen). population, who did not have such an entity to capitalize on their savings and to request loans to allow them full development Also, since 2008 our institution has made efforts to implement according to their needs. For this reason, we embraced the latest the Sistema de Gestión de Equidad e Igualdad de Género motto: work unites us, which redeems our deep historical roots (SIGEG) [Gender Equity and Equality Management System] highlighting a shared sentiment among those who visualize it as aiming to achieve certification in this matter which turned out a solidary Bank and of great strength. into recognition by the Instituto Nacional de la Mujer (INAMU) [Women National Institute] for the achievements earned in the Financial results attest our management. We closed 2010 with field. ¢25.781 million profit, which meant 50.91% growth over previous year´s profits. We owe these achievements to the trust of our Also, aware of the relevance of technology and constant customers, the mystique of our male and female cooperating innovation on a sustainable basis, we encourage the initiative of people and to the administrative cost containment. Also, there young talent. That is why we sponsor the Ad Astra Rocket was wisdom to acquire IBP Pension Operator (the largest private project, a subsidiary of the company led by the Costa Rican Operator owned by two Financial Groups), and to buy the loan astronaut Franklin Chang Díaz which combines efforts to portfolio of the Cooperative COOPEMEX, increasing by 15.86% empower aerospace capabilities development in Costa Rica. our portfolio (9.5% in real terms), controlling and reducing payment dilatoriness. By 2010, our Bank covers 13.43% of Due to the importance of counting with a technology platform national bank credit. suited to the needs of the environment, the institution gives continuity to the efforts for implementing a new Solución We are the third largest Bank in assets, with an amount Integrada Bancaria (Banking Integrated Solution) that will representing $ USD 2.000 million, and the second in equity by generate banking products and services at lower cost, $USD 570 millions. The profit over such equity was 9.64% and we customer-oriented, according to the best market practices and achieved a level of capital adequacy of 20.5%, which allows facilitating decision-making. adequate risk coverage. Our dedication is revealed in the fact that, in relative numbers, we were the Bank that increased the We invite our readers to get involved with our institution, most in profits, obtaining the first place regarding growth in learning about our products and services offerings in a way that 2010. could become participants of the efforts made by the Conglomerado Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal and We are proud that we increased our coverage significantly, responding to its ideal of creation. because in three years we went from having 85 to 100 business centers, and our customers represent a quarter of economically active population. The Bank recognizes that only solidarity builds the foundation for coordinated efforts. That is why it was the first to integrate the Gerardo Porras S. Corporate General Manager 6 Chapter I Company profile The Bank for working people Cabécar Tayní community benefited with housing bonus managed by the Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal. 7 At Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal, we promote population access to financial products and services, through specific policies and ethical values. The reason of being of our institution is serving the working population. We have assumed this objective with responsibility in our 41 years of existence, identifying ourselves with each population served. Mission: We are a Financial Conglomerate which aim is the social welfare of the country’s inhabitants. Vision: Being the number one conglomerate in supporting the economic and social development of country’s inhabitants. 8 Our nature The orientation of our Assembly: Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal was created through Act #4351 in 1969 during the administration of former President Norm I José Joaquín Trejos Fernández who envisioned the need of a Promotion of Social Economy different bank. The project was approved in the Congress in Norm II 1969 addressed to people and their organizations, under the Quality in our offer priority to give general population economic protection and welfare by promoting savings and assuring satisfaction of their Norm III credit needs. Competitive Management We have legal representation and own equity, always in Norm IV adherence to Public Right which makes us unique and owners of National and local development a great sense of responsibility upon our management. Norm V The role of the Banco Popular as an entity for development Population is represented In 1986, the Asamblea Nacional de Trabajadores y Trabajadoras (Male and Female Workers National Assembly) started. It is the most democratic organization of the Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal, and the instance in which social sectors of the country coincide. The ten social sectors represented are as follows: craftsmen, community, traditional cooperative, self-managed cooperative, independent, educational, professional, confederated labor union, non-confederated labor union and solidary associations. The Assembly is chaired by the Directorio Nacional (National Board) in which the Norms and General Guidelines are analyzed, discussed and approved3. Aviation technicians, Province of Alajuela, Costa Rica. Cooperative Ruth Araya, Arte Camijó, craftswoman whose work is financed facilities of COPESA. The cooperative sector and its associative by Banco Popular. aims are promoted by the Banco Popular. 9 3Norm: General guideline issued by the Asamblea de Trabajadores y Trabajadoras (Male and Female Workers Assembly), which is the framework of action to guide the management of the Conglomerado Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal, thus meeting the objectives and social nature initiatives of the institution. Our Values • Leadership Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal embraces • Excellence these values, brought deep inside everyone and • Customer Service addressed towards their customers. They gathered • Integrity the highest aspirations of our conduct as a bank. • Innovation Banco Popular’s employee, Alicia Sancho, serving a customer A couple from the indigenous community Cabécar Tayní benefited at the Main Office. with a housing bonus managed by the Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal. 10 Dimensions of our business Conglomerate PENSIONES Our Institution is made up of the Bank, as a A LW AY S R E L I A B L E financial entity, and its four Corporations, owned It has extensive experience in the administration of pension by it and supervised by the respective governing plans and it is authorized and supervised by the Retirement boards. Pension Superintendence. We are the Pension Operator with the largest number of affiliates to the Régimen Obligatorio de Pensiones Complementarias (Supplementary Pensions Obligatory Regime) with a total of 1.096.082 people. This represents 57% of total market, according to data published by SUPEN (Superintendencia de Pensiones – Retirement Pension Superintendence) as of December 2010. Other advantages: • Leader in equity with ¢13.374 million as of December 2010. • We report the highest net profit of the market with an amount of ¢1.187 million, according to data published by the SUPEN as of December 2010. • We are the Operator with the largest distribution of profits, having shared an accumulated amount over ¢2.048 million among our affiliates to the Régimen Obligatorio de Pensiones Number of male and female employees Complementarias (Supplementary Obligatory Pension Regime). This is the only Operator that has distributed profits for six in the country: 2990 consecutive years. • During 2010, Popular Pensiones charged a commission on Net profit: ¢25.855 million contributions of 25 per cent lower than the one set by regulation. • We are the Pension Operator with greater number of Total branches: 100 customers who moved a sum of 137.871 funds to its favor according to the option users have to choose the Pension Operator to manage their money in the Régimen Obligatorio de Pensiones Complementarias (Supplementary Obligatory Pension Regime) and the Fondo de Capitalización Laboral (Labor Capitalization Fund). These data were released by the SUPEN for the period from January to December 2010. 11 FONDOS DE INVERSIÓN VALORES SIMPLE INVESTMENTS FOR A COMPLEX WORLD It is a company of Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal. It was founded based on the Ley Reguladora del Mercado In 2010, it managed to position itself as the number one de Valores (Stock Market Regulating Law) to manage Investment Funds registered at the Registro Nacional de brokerage firm in trading volume, with a level of Valores e Intermediarios Financieros (National Registry of ¢11.145.884 billion. It also remained in the first place of Stock and Financial Intermediaries). Equity with ¢14.400 million. Its total revenues reached ¢10.722 million to position itself in a second place in the sector of brokerage firms and achieve a net cumulative profit of ¢1.407 million, achieving the third place position within the group in this entry. It is a trader accredited by the Instituto Nacional de Seguros (INS) (National Insurance Institute) and it is dully authorized for selling all types of insurance provided by the Institute. Male and female employees of Banco Popular One strategic Policy of the Bank is ongoing training. 12 Branches throughout the country Our channels to serve different people consider location and convenience. We can quantify a major national coverage and evolution. 21 8 7 14 5 12 33 Number of financial centers per province 13 Personal credits In the last three years, we grew from 85 to 100 business Our personal credits are mainly of two natures, personal trust centers. For 2010, we have 661 Automatic Teller Machine and mortgage, in both, Banco Popular seeks most possible (ATM). We grew by 46% on users of web banking compared accessibility with easy ways to meet the requirements, extensive to 2007. payment terms and market interest rates. We offer a variety of credits with no guarantors, which is significant to cover different needs for different working sectors of the country. Alliances that enhance our coverage Apart from our 100 branches, we facilitate procedures for processes at convenience depending on location through partnerships with renowned companies. 1GESSA Group made of Super Compro, Jumbo and Perimercados. It has more than 400 cashiers for payment or cash advances through credit cards of Banco Popular. 2Fischel Drugstores, Catedral and Farmatica. There are more than 400 cashiers for payment or cash advances from credit cards of Banco Popular. 3Installation of a Service Stand in Coopebanpo (Cooperative of Banco Popular) to manage the sale, placement and execution of procedures for products and services. Our products and services Fair of handicapped artisans organized by Banco Popular y de Desarrollo We are leaders in providing personal credit with Comunal Headquarters in San Jose, Second Avenue. more than 300.000 active operations and annual growth that exceeded 25%. Our main advantage Savings in your Bank is the response time to thousands of hardworking Our products for savings collection have the advantage that the people who trusts us. Our market covers people, interests generated are exempted from income tax by law. Besides, interests rates are attractive and competitive5. We offer companies and vulnerable populations. This makes savings at sight, term, for Christmas, multi-savings, for private us different due our level of coverage and access. schools and with the distinct advantage that we do not ask for an initial deposit to open it. 14 5Certificates of deposits in dollars are not exempted from this tax. We provide financial solutions to boys and girls We gathered almost 600.000 customers between Popular Kids Card is a debit card aimed to people under 12 years people and companies. In consultation with old. It requires opening an account of voluntary savings at sight in colones and to be issued at his/her name. stakeholders, our clients highlighted the efficiency and speed of procedures which does not require too much paperwork. An expected young product The Juvenile O2 Card targets young people between 12 to 20 Popular Credit and Debit Cards years old. In order to get it, voluntary savings account is required at sight, in colones and to be issued at his/her name. It has a Our Credit Cards are classified as national and international, juvenile radio program and a magazine exclusively for young Gold, Platinum and Virtual Card for inline shopping. They have people. Also, they take part in draws, promotions, concerts and the following benefits: preferential interest rates, financing term tournaments. It also has a Virtual Mall exclusive for youngsters. of 60 months, accumulation of points which can be redeemed in three different options: virtual Mall, vacation packages and More than 6.500 youngsters enjoy this product. airline tickets. They are accepted in more than 70.000 shops and can be used inside and outside the country. Card website: www.tarjetao2.com Popular Debit Card allows you to manage your funds deposited in one or more savings accounts and is associated to a voluntary savings account, at sight, in colones. It allows you to use your money when shopping at authorized points of sale or to make cash withdrawals from Automatic Teller Machine (ATM). Also, with the VISA Electrón Debit Cards, you can make purchases or withdraw money from ATM’s around the world. It is accepted in more than 25 million selling points. Today more than 35.500 boys and girls begin to be responsible for a better future. They have access to telephone banking and the Bank website to check balances and to make transfers. Our cards. 15 Development Banking We finance vulnerable sectors 6 Banco Popular, COOPECIVEL and the Municipalidad de San Our Development Banking came out from the need to serve José created an alliance to provide kiosks tailored to the needs entrepreneurs without access to traditional banking, micro, small of visually impaired people who sell lottery. The alliance brought and medium enterprises. That is why it finances projects that better working conditions and accessibility to the beneficiaries support accessibility, entrepreneurs, microfinance, the MSMEs that now work in safer conditions, have shelters to sell lottery and (micro, small and medium enterprises) and chains. It is in this way potential product diversification. how big dreams of people are built and formalization of their economies is carried out. “The difference is substantial, before I used to get wet by rain; I was exposed to assaults by showing money and had nowhere to protect the lottery when I needed to make other activities. Now I close my stand with no worry when I need to do it. The design of the kiosk is attractive and I can provide a better service to my customers with better security”. (Rolando Salazar, kiosk owner) Opening of the first kiosk adapted for lottery retailers with visual impairment. From left to right: Mayor of San José, Johnny Araya; President of Coopecivel, Ricardo Murillo; and Development Aidy Sotomayor. Her company: Herencias de Antaño (Former Banking Director, Fernando Rojas. Location: Across Correos de Heritage) was financed by Banco Popular. Costa Rica. 6 Development Banking: refers to all the activities undertaken by the institution to address financial and non-financial products and services for development segments, following appropriate risk criteria, with broad coverage and deeply seeking to generate employment and increase 16 productivity to improve people´s quality of life. We bring in companies from accessibility to “The Banco Popular financed the Asociación La Flor de Boruca7 competitiveness and helped with a computer center in 2010. The Association gathers mostly women who make Boruca masks with balsa wood We finance the following sectors: dairy, oil palm, pineapple, painted with extracts from leaves, roots and mollusks. These art poultry, sugarcane, organic coffee, rural water supply, micro, works attract many tourists who take each mask as cherished small and medium enterprises. We solve financial needs of many memory of the indigenous community, thus improving the people and provide business development services through quality of life of the Association’s affiliates and their families university students who perform their community work as well as considering that they have plans to expand their business from specific talks. Dominical Beach to Monteverde.” “I started 10 years ago making wooden horses but I did not have the funding … until I found Banco Popular, which lent me the seed money, for which I will never finish to say thank you. Now I export Jugueticos (little toys) Melba to Central America and I was invited to export to Mexico and to the United States. My business is going great and the staff who helped me at the Bank advised me wonderfully.” (Melba Arce González, owner of Jugueticos Melba in San Ramón, export product.) Traditional Toy Factory Melba, financed by the Banco Popular. Location: Artisan woman from Asociación La Flor de Boruca financed by the San Ramón canton in the province of Alajuela. Banco Popular Location: Indian Reserve at La Flor de Boruca. 7 La Flor de Boruca: Brunca Indian Reserve, established in 1956 in the province of Puntarenas, southeast part of Costa Rica. 17 “The credit I received was fast and timely, it served to improve We provide credit on jewelry the conditions of my estate, such as soils, roads and pasture for a Promptly and without guarantors, we provide this loan to meet better livestock performance and better milk production. It not immediate needs, with various forms of payment. This makes the only brought benefits to me, but due to this, I increased the product affordable and competitive. salaries of my four employees as well as my family´s welfare.” (Rodolfo Coto Pacheco, Cascajal de Coronado). The credit of Jewelry was born with the creation of the Monte Nacional de Piedad, founded in1901, which was a pawnbroker position and whose mission was to help the most needed people with credits through pledges. In 1966, a congress bill was published to make it a labor bank for savings and capitalization. This led to the Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal three years later. We manage credit for social housing with care We administer the Fondo Especial de Vivienda FEVI (Special Housing Fund), with a percentage of the profits of Banco Popular, and handle the Bono Familiar de Vivienda (Family Housing Bonus) with nation resources through the Banco Nacional Hipotecario de la Vivienda – BANHVI (Housing Mortgage National Bank). Both are addressed to meet housing needs for vulnerable sectors. Mr. Rodolfo Coto was financed by the Banco Popular. Here, he is in his Marriage benefited with a housing bonus managed by Banco Popular farm which he visits everyday, Coronado canton, Province of San José. y de Desarrollo Comunal. El Encanto Project, Pococí canton, Province of Limón. 18 Corporate Government8 (National Board of Directors), while the Male and Female Workers Assembly appoints four people from the social sectors We assume the importance of a governance system to to be represented. manage the structure of a Bank that provides economic welfare to interest groups throughout the country, so that Male and Female Workers Assembly they can observe transparent performance and allocation of resources. This is guided by the right financial The Assembly is the highest organizational entity of Banco administration, adequate risk management, and compliance Popular, which represents male and female workers of the with legal and contractual obligations. Therefore, we have a country through the ten social sectors that form it. Código de Gobierno Corporativo (Code of Corporate Governance) and an Informe Anual de Gestión de National Board of Directors Gobernabilidad (Annual Report of Governance The appointments made are ratified by the Executive Power of Management). the Republic of Costa Rica and published in La Gazette Official The management and administration of the Bank are regulated Journal. The instance is integrated with the criterion of parity of by its Ley Orgánica (Organizational Law). The Executive Power gender, at least fifty per cent (50%) of women meeting the appoints three members to the Junta Directiva Nacional respective institutional policy. Male and Female Worker Organizational Structure National Assembly Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal National Board Of Directors Internal Audit National Board of Directors Secretary Corporate General Management Organizational and Human Information Development Technology Management Management Direction Corporate Management Business General Deputy Operation Management Deputy Management Incorporated Companies Development, Administration Social and Central North Dirección South Atlantic Administrative Financial Individual for Product Región Banking Entrepreneurial Regional Regional Regional Supporting Supporting Banking and Services Atlántico Sur Management Management Management Management Management Management Management Management 8Corporate Government: It comes from the set of relationships between company management, its council, its shareholders and third parties interested. It provides the structure through which the objectives are set forth, as well as the monitoring of performance and compliance. 19 National Board of Directors 9 Luis Enrique Garita Bonilla, Director María Lidya Sánchez Valverde, Vice-President Marvin Arias Aguilar, Director Francisco Antonio Pacheco Fernández, President José Eduardo Alvarado Campos, Director Silvia Gabriela Morales Jiménez, Director Victoria Hernández Mora, Director Regulations and Powers The National Board of Directors sets Bank policies according to sets out the requirements to make such instance; the law and its regulations, approves rules and annual budget, incompatibilities due to possible interest conflicts are ruled by makes up commissions, rates and grants credits to individuals or the Code of Corporate Governance. legal entities determined by law, accepts court/judicial or extrajudicial settlements, sets standards to the Local Boards of Credit, and appoints Corporate General Management and Assistant Management. For a better task, it gets supported on commissions which analyze the projects and the transformation of the institution in better details. The Bank’s Organizational Law 20 9Integration of the National Board of Directors up to December 31st, 2010. Management Team and Internal Audit Geovanni Garro Mora, General Business Manager Gerardo Porras Sanabria, Corporate General Manager Manuel González Cabezas, General Auditor Magdalena Rojas Figueredo, General Operation Deputy Manager Behavior based on ethics Based on the Organizational Law, we issued a set of guidelines to assistance administration, auditors, members of supporting be followed by our Boards of Directors, prosecutors, attorneys, committees, officers, male and female workers, as well as the legal consultants and temporary or permanent staff. These are policies that rule the relationship with customers, suppliers, rules to prevent the misuse of financial operations and they must shareholders; the access and disclosure of information; rotation be complied. The Code of Corporate Governance sets forth and monitoring of corporate governance. policies applicable to management positions, administration, Up to December 2010, there were no fines or penalties (monetary and non-monetary) for breaching of laws, or regulations, related to environment, Bank´s performance, supply or use of products and services that may be significant in relation to the assets and to the financial situation of the institution. 21 Chapter II Healthy Finance Our financial value generated and distributed Aqua Healthy Company, financed by Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal. 22 The participation of the financial system in the Despite the economy contraction experienced during 2010 we country's economy is highly important since it demonstrated income levels sustainability with an adequate cost directs resources of money savers to those who control which resulted in profitability according to the forecast. require them, either through business investment Thus, the net income grew by 20.25% for the accumulated period projects, of consumption, housing and financial between December 2009 and December 2010. services that together generate profits. That is why we seek a balance between economic profitability The sustained growth of the accumulated productive and social benefit. assets of ¢ 17.084 million as of December 2009 to ¢25.781 million for the same month of 2010 generated a higher net income by 50.91% for December 2010, Our Bank achieved a sustainable growth in the loan allowing to allocate resources for the institution’s portfolio which allowed an increase of 15.52% and a growth. positive result on the main management indicators. An optimal risk management Our sustainable growth In order to develop our intermediation activities, we use human operational and financial resources to properly assume risks. That is why we practice an integral management to identify, Figures in millions colones measure and to design control strategies as well as risk 140.000 evaluation in order to guard customers and the Bank. 120.000 Through the years, we have optimized results, lining up the 100.000 objectives and with an appropriate balance between generated profitability and the risks assumed In fact, we obtained a normal 80.000 risk rating complying with the norms of Financial Entities General Superintendence (Superintendencia General de 60.000 Entidades Financieras – SUGEF). 40.000 Risk management is carried out through the so-called Risk 20.000 Management Section that facilitates the use of methodologies, models and technological systems to manage natural threats of 0 Year 2009 2010 banking business, such as credit, market, liquidity and operational aspects with the purpose of applying the best Net Income 113.374 136.337 international practice standards issued by BASILEA I Standards in 1988 and its Agreement’s amendment from 1996 (Market Risk), as well as BASILEA II in 2004, and further 2010’s revisions. 23 Timely identification, measurement and risk control has enabled us to consolidate our position as one of the largest Central American banks, presently holding an AA (cri), according to Fitch Costa Rica which indicates very low noncompliance risk expectancy compared to other issuers or obligations in Costa Rica. Customer Service Counter at Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal Headquarters, Second Avenue, San Jose Province. Risk rating, in local and foreign currency granted by FITCH Costa Rica Calificadora de Riesgo S.A. up to October, 2010. For issues of Currency Qualifier Short term local F1(cri)+ Short term Foreign F1(cri)+ Rating scale It indicates the soundest capacity of timely payments on financial obligations in relation to other issuers or obligations in Costa Rica according to the rating scale of the national agency. Such rating is assigned to the issuer or obligation with the lower non compliance probability with respect to others in Costa Rica. It adds a + sign to the rating to denote the relative status within a rating category. For issues of Currency Qualifier Long term local AA(cri) Long term Foreign AA(cri) Rating scales It indicates the lowest risk expectation of very low non-fulfillment regarding other issuers or obligations in Costa Rica. The inherent breaching risk differs only slightly from the one presented by the issuers or obligations of the country with the highest rating. The perspective indicates the direction in which the rating moves for a horizon of one to two years. 24 Credit Rating Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal performs public offer of short and long term values since 2007 in Costa Rican market. This is done, so much in national currency as in foreign currency. Such issuances have gotten the best risk rating granted by the Sociedad Calificadora de Riesgos Centroamericana S. A. and FITCH Costa Rica Calificadora de Riesgo S. A. These ratings include solvency and payment capacity of Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal as issuing bank, its economic and financial performance, policies as corporate government, risk management, as well as aspects related to the behavior of the industry and economic context. Cooperators of Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal receive a lecture: Benjamín García, Randall Hernández and Lenín Díaz. It is important to have the staff informed and trained for the adequate risk management. Relevant Data Balance and Results (million colones) 2010 2009 Total Asset 1.419.365 1.287.900 Credit to Clients (net) 1.032.251 893.543 Equity 286.760 245.466 Profit – Financial Intermediation 122.509 101.506 Main Management Indicators Equity Sufficiency 20.50% 19.37% Yield on equity 9.64% 7.43% Dilatoriness longer than 90 days 2.39% 2.72% Administrative expenses on gross operational profit 55.17% 65.77% Other Data Quantity of employees 2.992 3.072 Quantity of offices 100 101 25 Chapter III Clients The trust of our customers is vital They painted their house and their neighborhoods’ that were built through the use of the bonus Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal and they were paid for their service. 26 At the Banco Popular we commit ourselves to the Resource percentage distribution Risk Capital Risk (FOCARI) per attention segment economical and social development of the country Up to December 31st, 2010 inhabitants, offering financial solutions to Costa Rican population, achieving leadership in personal Women 20.61% Young people 30.99% banking, product and services addressed to segments of people with no access to traditional banking. Local economy organizations Intermediary 0.41% Organizations and of We watch for financial inclusion Social Economy 4.13% Incorporated companies 11.42% The Bank is the only entity in the national financial system that is entitled to transfer funds from its profits to care for vulnerable Men population without access to traditional banking. These funds Handicapped 0.10% Elderlies 27.54% come from Fondos de Capital de Riesgo – FOCARI (Risk Capital Indigenous people 0.90% 3.90% Funds) and Fondos Especiales de Vivienda – FEVI (Housing Special Funds). With Our Risk Capital Fund (FOCARI) multiple segments got benefits Risk Capital Fund has an accumulated placement amount of ¢5.201 million up to December 31st. We have given benefits to those companies that mostly are part of the informal sector and have been successful in addressing market demands and the recent financial crisis. Housing Special Fund Placement Up to December 31st, 2010 Women 39.03% Men 60.97% Housing Special Funds (FEVI): a need solved Up to December 31st, this fund showed an accumulative total placement balance of ¢4.153 million. An elderly is being attended by our cooperator, Alexander Ruiz, at Banco It is important to mention that the main objective of this fund is Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal’s headquarters in San Jose Province providing houses to those people who cannot afford 20% Second Avenue. Elderly population is one of the most vulnerable sectors appraisal cost not included in the tradition housing credit. that Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal strongly supports. 27 Financial Education lecture provided by Banco Popular to clients and journalists from different media Personal Banking Manager, Victor Rodríguez conducts the lecture. Exclusive credit on jewelry conditioning individual possibilities of each person. This brings joy to thousands of people who put their savings in our hands for We are the only financial institution that offers this type of credit managing their future. which is fast and easy and of immediate approval to support urgent needs. It does not require a guarantor. Up to December We support population to face crisis 31st, we provided 10.229 credit solutions with an average of ¢358 thousand each. Year 2010 financial crisis represented a major challenge. People became more cautious at the time of investing or assuming big We open saving accounts without initial deposit responsibilities. Therefore, we made some decisions in order to give them confidence back and overcome difficult situations. In Since 2009, we eliminated the initial deposit requirement in this regard, the Bank made multiple payment arrangements. order to provide better access to our saving products. In fact, we also offer a wide range of ways to save money without Another important action was offering amnesty to debtors with delayed loan payments. We achieved a promotion of healthy finances for our clients, contributing with families suffering from Up to December 31st, we generated 14,920 payment the crisis effects who had failed to meet their obligations and arrangements for the amount of over ¢ 7,000 million. 1,837 informing the public on the importance of keeping a clean credit credit operations have been refinanced for a total amount record. We designed a plan that included talks to our clients of ¢10,000 million. Such actions show our high management nationwide and to micro-entrepreneurs as well as activities for capacity and expertise in high volume of portfolios. young people and children. 28 Outstanding Integrated Safety Coordinate with governing bodies Every banking institution has the obligation to protect its Permanently we exchange information with the Organismo de customer information and money, as well as respond to their Investigación Judicial O.I.J. (Judicial Investigation confidence with transparency and safety. Banco Popular is not Department), the Ministerio de Seguridad Pública – M.S.P. the exception. It works to protect clients’ assets of those who are (Ministry of Public Security) M.S.P. and recently with the our reason of being. In technology, we implemented the best Municipality of San Jose. The Bank has permanent presence in practices of the industry and have one of the most powerful and the Comisión Bancaria de Seguridad (Security Bank safe technological platforms of the national banking system. Commission) which resulted in a successful management of Since October 2007, we laid a fence that has not been violated criminal activities. by the cyber pirates so far 10. Digital signature card: modern and safe Our daily operation at all levels makes us managing 219 private security positions and 34 with our own staff, also numerous fire This card is a technological tool that ensures integrity of digital devices, electronic and mechanical locks, access controls, documents, making them to have features that so far were just cameras and alarms. paper documents. Up to the present, we have delivered 3,802 of these cards. Our customers can use the card to make transactions on other institutions’ websites using the necessary technological infrastructure and upon obtaining permission from the Ministry of Science and Technology (MICIT – acronym in Spanish). Banco Popular was the first to offer digital signature. Labor Vice-Minister, Álvaro González is taken a picture to get his digital card. Cooperator Tatiana Roda sets the frame of the camera. 10 Use of the e-token. (Source: La Nación newspaper, 9/2/2010). 29 Our clients’ smile The Program Smile was born in 2007 through the Banco Popular Popular y Desarrollo Comunal on the relevance of good service Corporate General Management’s initiative to create a customer in order to reproduce this good culture. In March 2010, a service culture where each internal and external customer leaves re-launching of the program was made in order to continue the place with a smile on the face. We create a sense of motivating our staff. awareness on each male and female cooperator of the Banco Acknowledgement to an outstanding cooperator of the Smile Program member, Dora Loría from the Cooperativa del Banco Popular, hands the award to the employee María Arias. 30 Customer Service Assessed For this reason, we have coordinated in order to label and post the different Bank branches, respecting and understanding the As a way for service control, we carried out an Assessment of the importance of the Law on Equal Opportunities for Persons with Internal Custumer Service and Attention in 61 Administrate Disabilities (Law 7600). Currently, we offer 90 branches suitably Supporting branches determining recommendations and adapted for these needs. In fact, we have developed a weaknesses. However, every branch obtained scores above 90. management and monitoring chart to verify that the 94 buildings comply with such Law. We offer 125 cubicles for accessible Automatic Teller Machines (ATM) and 34 with national audio systems, allowing visually disable people to access the services. We are committed to equality of opportunities Our elevators also have a voice system and Braille buttons that alert the customer when they reach the required floor. Customers with disabilities require the services of our institution. Due to their physical, mental or sensorial conditions, they have We modified procedures for credit and collection applied in the particular needs of access to surroundings, to the contracts, promissory notes or other documents, including the documentation and communication. We take in mind this clause indicated by the Bank Legal Counsel, through which two special condition to offer equity in the treatment and equality of original documents must be signed so much in Braille writing as opportunities in the services. in ordinary Spanish writing as long as the disabled person so consents. Location of our Automatic Teller Machines (ATM) equipped for disabled people Cash Machines Financial Services Centers: Branches Peripheral: Headquarters San Ramón Desamparados East (San Pedro de Montes de Oca) Cartago Mall Liberia Pavas Guápiles Quepos Heredia Limón Joissar Alajuela Cañas San Francisco de Dos Ríos Of the Valley (Pérez Zeledón) Turrialba Tres Ríos Of the South (Ciudad Neily) Grecia Coronado Santa Cruz Puriscal Tilarán Nicoya El Roble San Carlos Cariari Puntarenas Palmar Norte Santa Rosa de Pocosol Plaza González Víquez Depósito Libre [Duty Free] Golfito 31 Chapter IV Sustainability at Banco Popular We create sustainability and social equity The handcraft sector is one of those represented in the Banco Popular’s Male and Female Worker Assembly. 32 We are very clear on our responsibility with our country. That is why we merged the management for the creation of sustainable economic value, the good environmental performance and the positive impact in the community where we are present. Also, we work in order to develop enduring relationships with our groups of interest. We subscribed the United Nations Agreement In 2010, we turned into the first Bank in the country and Central America that joined the corporation and organization network which signed the Worldwide Agreement promoted by the United Nations for the promotion of respect to Human Rights, environment, labor standards, and work against corruption. Such Agreement serves as the framework of action to support the development of strategies and actions according to such principles. ‘Banking’ Population We provided access to financial services and solutions for Handcraft Fair of disabled people organized by Banco Popular. We population excluded by the conventional banking. Thus, we are concerned for bringing banking to the diverse populations and addressed 20% of our annual profits to special funds11 every year occupations. San Pedro branch San José to offer them financial solutions. These resources are for finance of productive entrepreneurial projects, purchase of family housing without enough resources to contribute with the first payment and grant guaranties or sureties to micro, small and medium business that may have enough requirements to access loans. We are also part of the Asociación Internacional de Inversores de la Economía Social (International Association of Social Economy Investors) which goal is financing social and environmental projects. United for the environment We joined the Latin American Association of Financial Institutions for Development (ALIDE – acronym in Spanish) which function is to contribute to the economic and social development in the region. In November this year, development banks joined efforts to promote financing committed with the environment, since various reports indicated that the region International Climate Change Forum, organized by Banco Popular y needs to strengthen financial sector participation to restrain the de Desarrollo Comunal commitment to environment allows us effects of the climate change effects and promote environmental enjoying our resources and maximizing sustainable strategies. sustainability. 33 11 Special funds: created by National Board of Directors of Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal for specific funding purposes financed with Bank profits, as per the article 40 of the Organizational Law No. 4351. The Bank and its focus groups Human talent We work to make the difference in the way baking is made gaining Participants recognized the importance of including equal confidence of our interest groups. We added their criteria getting gender opportunities in topics of gender and disabled people in closer to clients, staff, suppliers, social sector and government to Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal’s payroll. listen to their interests, set out commitments and to render accounts of our management. Besides, they took for granted that the Banco Popular complies with present labor regulation and law in this regard. Your opinion strengthen us They considered of great importance the existence of brigades We identify our interest groups in order to built long lasting to protect the premises, and also believed that the Bank cares relations. Thus, in preparing our first Annual Report of for its human resources offering them labor stability. sustainability, we get close to the public using different consultation strategies through image studies, surveys, meetings Timely solutions and focal groups. Opinions are a very valuable input to evaluate our products and services according to the needs and They considered that the Bank lends money to clients when characteristics of customers. The public expressed itself in experiencing major financial difficulties and enhanced the good diverse areas such as: service and adequate solutions to requirements through telephone calls. Healthy finance Environmental commitment They said they felt confident and secure with the Institution emphasizing the Bank soundness. They also pointed out deep Our clients would like to know more about actions taken by the knowledge of our products such as term deposits, housing loans, Bank in regards to environment. cash salary advance, also they recognized a strong attention from the Bank to vulnerable sectors. Housing delivery through housing bonus program managed by the Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal, in Pococí community, Limón Province. 34 Chapter V Male and female cooperators Our Talent Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal male and female staff From left to right: Gerson Villalobos, Giniva Barquero and Floribeth López. 35 For Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal Average age and seniority service per gender challenge begins at home. Our staff/human 50.0% 40.32% resource enjoys safety, stability, recognition to 40.0% 35.75% 38.12% individual performance and expertise. We offer 30.0% 20.0% safe and organized working conditions which 10.11% 12.50% 11.35% 10.0% promote staff participation and freedom to 0.0% suggest improvements and submit inquiring. Women Men Average Age Seniority Respect for legislation, for our staff Collective Labor Agreement and for human rights of our staff are the stones for daily Pay roll composition per gender management of talent. Our Talent Staff Management Policy and educational background takes in mind the promotion for development of people and 1000 organizations forging a culture addressed to management 875 845 accountability and spirit of service with people satisfied for the 800 job done and committed to the Conglomerate’s value, as well as 600 473 a leadership addressed to people and results. 400 427 233 Staff profile 200 138 0 University degree Currently getting Technical and others Up to December 2010, the Bank has 2.991 male and female a university degree employees with high percentage of professionals (57, 51%), is by Women Men average 38 years old and 11 years of service and almost equal distribution between male and female because the institution does not have salary difference regarding gender or position. Talent Management Recruitment and staff selection is based on valuation of technical criteria that excludes discriminatory practices of any kind. In fact, our staff promotion is a priority and the Bank promotes internal contests to apply for a position under equal opportunities. Payroll distribution per occupational level and gender Level Women Men Total Chief 79 171 250 Professional 307 379 686 Technician 747 703 1450 Cooperators of Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal. Operative Staff 307 298 605 Cooperator Viviana Calvo and cooperator Kennett Jiménez, both Total 1440 1551 2991 enjoy the same equal treatment with no gender difference. 36 Another of our business pillars is applying different tools to We believe that improving performance increases strengthen and monitor the high quality performance culture motivation addressed to the quality customer service that promotes creativity and innovation, as well as the interest to contribute Annually we invested more than de ¢500 million in training plans with initiatives of change in the processes and continuous follow tending to strengthen the behavior and knowledge of our staff up of performance by the improvement crews. not only contributing to their performance but also to their development. Therefore, we deal with basic management issues, such as normative, customer service, ethics, gender, among The following programs outstand: others, using virtual and presence learning methodologies. The • Improvement Team Institutional Program (Equipos de Mejora training program is organized by thematic topics, paying special Institucional EMI) recognizes individual and group efforts for attention to transversal axels of organizational culture and the continuous improvement materializing public recognition of management that we impel, i.e., equity, gender equality, the staff involved in the program. environmental management, Law 8204 and its revisions related • The Management Evaluation System (Balanced Scorecard) for to money laundry and ethics. directing positions, Balance and Personal Development for the staff that does not perform leading positions, aligns institutional, group and individual objectives in order to recognize achievements through a system of financial compensation. The assessment is applied every year to 100% percent of the staff and is quarterly monitored. Total payroll by type of contract. 17% 83% Group of cooperators winning of an Institutional Improvement Prize From left to right: Randall Serrrano, Geovanny Vargas and José Fixed Temporary Rivera. 37 Average number of hours by occupational level On the other hand, the Bank has always been concerned to maintain a competitive salary structure that allows capturing and retaining talent. Level Hours In this sense, the Bank manages a salary scale above the Chief 15.89 minimum salary established by law and percentile 50 of the market is kept as reference of salary allowance market as a Professional 17.18 competitive strategy; all the above with no discrimination of gender, age, race, or other. Technician 29.19 It is a fact, that salaries are defined taking into account the Operative Staff 15.40 position’s responsibility as well as the requested profile, not the individual. Total 19.41 Our programs Main Benefits As a complement to the talent management that favors people staff and the fulfillment of institutional objectives, the Bank Nuevo Amanecer (New Dawn) Program, for staff members close to promotes programs that bring benefits to its staff and it has retirement signed a collective labor agreement that includes benefits and Breast feeding time more than the one legally established the scope for the entire population regardless their employment Annual Health Fairs contract. Our solidarity and sense of our principle of common Additional vacation period longer than those set by law wellbeing extend to promote voluntary actions by our personnel Company Physician for community help; for example, campaigns to address natural Salary full payment during illness leaving periods disaster emergencies, cooperation to vulnerable groups and Uniforms for the customer service staff partnerships to protect the environment. Marriage License Paternity leave Also, we care about maintaining a healthy and safe working Leave in case of a family member death environment by monitoring working conditions, and promoting Sick leave in case of a family member activities that are part of the Labor Life Quality Program on Cash machine protection fund issues such as: office infrastructure, labor equipment and tools, Differentiated baking products and services prevention plans, emergency attention and vaccination Labor cessation guarantee campaigns, among others. Freedom of association (to cooperatives, solidarity associations and labor unions) Life insurance 38 We cover health and safety issues through formal agreements with labor unions The safety of the staff in performing its tasks in a continuous activity which objective is watching for the infrastructure maintenance and having the necessary tools to perform the work in adequate conditions. To this purpose, the organization has impelled and keeps active commissions of health and occupational safety throughout all branches of the bank which have the responsibility of early detection of risky conditions and their adequate attention, accident prevention, emergency and disasters response, among others. They are continuously trained and updated by the Labor Life Quality Area. We train our staff on important topics for a better management • Core System (technological platform) • Ethics • Customer Service • Environment • Social Economy • Gender 12 • Internal and external norms • Law 8204 “Feliz de Ser Mujer” (“Happy of Being a Woman”) Award granted to staff on the International Women Day Laura Castro has worked for 16 years for Banco Popular. We define policies and adjust processes in terms of Gender Equity and Equality between men and women Cooperators of the Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal. using inclusive and including language to prevent Continuous training is a cornerstone of our management. negligent isolation of individuals or groups. Grettel Alpízar and Ana Henry are trained in technology systems for service integration. 12 Law on narcotic drugs, psychoactive substances, unauthorized drugs, related activities, money laundering and terrorist financing. 39 Chapter VI Environment Environmental commitment Children activity for reflection Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal’s Environmental Statement. “Have you thought what type of future are you going to inherit?” 40 “Your children, on what type of world are they going to live?” “Can you be part of the solution?” At the Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal the emissions are from public transportation and 49% from own environment commitment is priority and we are vehicles. aware that we can contribute to a sustainable Based upon these results, we organized a staff workshop to world, struggling to improve our environmental identify actions addressed to reduce green house effect gas performance. emissions of the Bank. New habits We do measure our water consumption For the period comprised between January and December 2010, Through our Environment Management Policy, we promoted the we diminished the units of paper items by 16.4% (paper blocks, installation of water saving mechanisms starting with the tax declaration forms, paper rolls, and napkins, among others). progressive substitution of floor sinks’ water taps which first We changed the hands’ drying paper rolls to one with better phase corresponded to the Headquarters. Automatic lock water absorption and economy; besides, office paper acquired is ISO taps with time closing and capacity for adjustable flow were 14001 compliant which guarantees the non use of virgin forests; acquired. the paper used is made from sugar cane’s pulp wasting material. We arranged “green” contracts Towards this goal, we set forth guidelines in recent contracts to follow schemes of “green” procurement practices, committing ourselves to include ideas in future negotiations to use nonenvironment impact products. Energy saving and substantial improvement One of our most important tools is the energy saving policy. For this, we adjusted thermostats of all air conditioning equipment. Besides, we used technologies with sensors of presence for control of lighting system. Indeed, we diminished 47% in warehouse assets which represents savings of 5.493 MJ (1 525.83 KWh) per month. Total emissions and initiatives to reduce them In order to determine “carbon footprint” in all offices, we hired a company which used the international recognized methodology known to measure carbon (GHG Protocol) and identified direct emissions coming from the Bank and from the staff in service, electric plants and indirect emissions such as power Cooperators Marcial Láscarez and Silvia Escalante are recycling consumption, airplane flights and individual home as well as paper and paperboard. We make efforts to create sensitive workplace commuting. awareness on commitment to responsible environmental management. It is important to point it out that the greatest CO2 emission source comes from workers while commuting home, 51% of 41 We make efforts for recycling As part of the Recycling Project started in two buildings in 2010, approximately 18.000 kilograms of paper and 1.326 kilograms of paperboard were collected for recycling. This project has been successful for a decade of existence. We believe on environment commitment supporting entrepreneurial development It is necessary to support national corporations for them to develop their projects in line with environmental sustainability. It Banco Popular was one of the first banks in supporting young people working in is important to consider that Costa Rica has a “neutral carbon” the Ad Astra Rocket laboratory located in Guanacaste to develop the plasma motor goal for 2021 and it shall be attainable as long as it becomes an by the Costa Rican astronaut Franklin Chang Díaz. objective shared by all people and organizations. This is the reason why the Environment Management Program is part of Agreement for Life of the International Union for Banco Popular’s strategy configured as a transversal practice in Conservation of Nature – IUCN all its areas. This is an agreement signed in the second semester of 2010, among Banco Popular, the Ministry of Environment, Energy and Adherence to protocols Telecommunications, The Ministry of Housing and Human On December 2nd, 2010, the National Network for Global Settlement and the International Union for Conservation of Agreement was formed in Costa Rica. We are one of the Nature which goal is to join efforts to propose actions to make founders of it in a work together with the United Nations neutral carbon true for Costa Rica. It proposes to coordinate Development Program (UNDP) and other national companies “green” financial product development in four areas: sustainable housing, clean energy, technology investment for cleaner that have signed such initiative. production and water management. Neutral carbon agreement signature, Minister of Environment and Energy, Teófilo de la Torre; Housing Minister, Irene Campos; and Gerardo Porras, General Manager of Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal. 42 Environment Management Model MMUNICAT CO IO Our environmental commitment is made up of five ideas which N start from environmental education for a sustainable future; out of there “green” financial products come out, then EEN” FINANC eco-efficiency, environment risk control and communication. O-EFFICIENCY R In 2010, we trained workers on becoming sensitive and for the construction of such a system. Besides, we certified 25 internal “G PRODUCTS IAL EC ENVIRONMENTAL environment auditors, and for March 2010, we organized together with the UICN, the Forum: “Climate Change: Impacts EDUCATION and Challenges of Financial and Productive Sectors” with participation of experts from Europe, North America and Canada with an audience of 300 people. Another of the relevant actions was to make a workshop on the NMENTA concern about Climate Changes and its Effects specially VIRO L EN RISK addressed to national journalists in order to increase education on this topic. Team of auditors of environmental management from Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal. 43 RESOURCE REDUCTION GOAL IN COMPARISON TO 2010 Electrical power 5% measured as Kilowatt percentage by worker Water 10% of average cubic meters by worker Paper 10% of average kilograms used by worker Environment, holding hands with innovation In regards to environment, climate change is the greatest In addition, Banco Popular launched a “Green Savings Account” challenge we currently face. To fight against it, the Banco in US dollars and colones this year which interest rate is at Popular has developed “Green Financial Products”, financing intervals according to its balance. This account has the projects committed to the responsible usage of natural particularity that the Bank has the commitment to assign a resources which contribute to improve people quality of life and similar amount to the saved balance for each customer which will respect to the environment. We offer credit lines designed for be addressed to finance projects that are friendly to the individuals and corporations with lower interest rates than those environment. This will allow customers, at no charge, contribute traditional credits with very competitive terms. to the planet sustainability and offer a better quality life to future generations. Banco Popular assigns 100% of resources coming from green savings accounts to projects friendly to the environment. 44 Chapter VII Awards and Honors 2010 MILESTONES Recognition granted to the Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal by the Instituto Nacional de las Mujeres – INAMU (National Women Institute) From right to left: Francisco Antonio Pacheco, President of National Board of Directors; Maureen Clarke, INAMU’s Executive President and Gerardo Porras, Corporate General Manager of Banco Popular. 45 We purchased Coopemex assets and liabilities purchased, through “fusion by merging” mechanisms, the biggest private sector retirement pension operator. Popular Pensiones grew Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal motivated a big portion of from 51% to 57% in quantity of enrolled participants of the Coopemex customers to keep their savings with us. Up to August Mandatory Pension Regime and when from 26,5% to 38% in total 22nd, approximately 75% of resources credited as Term Certificates managed portfolio, strengthening leadership in pension industry. of Deposit (TCD) and savings at sight, stayed in this institution. We increased Bank portfolio by the amount of ¢49.000 million We have an environmental management system welcoming 14.000 new customers. The Bank, once again, solved the In July, the Bank publicly stated the Environmental Management situation that affected an important group of male and female System towards the goal of reaching carbon neutral in its workers in his goal to watch over social wellness. operations. As of that time, the institution offered a wide range of “green” financial products which contribute to preserve We received recognition for our genre equal environment financing sustainable projects sponsored by public institutions, social organizations, private corporations, small, treatment model medium companies business, as well as by individuals. The entity Last December, the National Women Institute (INAMU) offers terms up to 180 months and interest rates as of 14%, acknowledged Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal for its according to the project. progress towards genre equal treatment model. Such award was granted before obtaining the Certificate of the System for We joined the governmental neutral carbon initiative Management of Equally and Equity of Gender [Sistema de Gestión We subscribed an agreement to reach neutral carbon certificate for de Igualdad y Equidad de Género [SIGEG]. This is a volunteer the country promoting sustainable housing, clean energy, program to which private companies or public entities may have investment in technology for cleaner production, and water access and wish progressively to remove gaps between male and management. The organizations who signed it were the Ministry of female genres. The commitment acquired has been reflected in Housing and Human Settlements, Ministry of Environment, Energy genre proportion in our labor positions. and Telecommunications and International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). We acquired IBP Pension Operator Our Pension Operator finished the most relevant transaction in retirement pension industry in Costa Rica, last November, when Press conference by Banco Popular when announcing IBP Pension absorption. 46 We actively support innovation and employment: We provided housing for native families Ad Astra Rocket Company sponsorship More than 900 families of the Cabécar Tayní Native People In his research and development of plasma propelling VASIMIR Reserve of Valle de la Estrella got benefits with bonuses motor for space displacement, we have supported the visionary managed by Banco Popular as part of an initiative which shall idea of Dr. Franklin Chang Díaz. That is why we sponsored this provide housing for 300 families every year through the Family initiative with the goal of supporting space technology as well as Bonus offered by Banco Hipotecario de la Vivienda BANHVI. the entrepreneurial young people from Guanacaste who are Although many factors restricted this goal such as bad weather, developing the project. The money will be used to maintain the difficult access, transit through mountain's rivers and respective equipment. remoteness, it was possible to make the project true. Houses were built with local wood respecting indigenous designs for cultural with the goal of strengthen local people cultural identity. Many families got benefits especially local women that were paid for house painting. Visit organized by Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal for the scientific high school to Ad Astra Rock Company facilities. Astronaut Franklin Chang Díaz answers students’ questions. We provide thousands of debtors’ payment remissions During November, Banco Popular offered remission to debtors whose loan installment payments were due, postponed transferring to judicial collection of the obligations and generated payment settlements to honor their debts. The plan Native house with construction managed by Banco Popular y de included chats with customers throughout the country, lectures Desarrollo Comunal in Cabécar Tayní Community One of the to micro entrepreneurs, activities with young people and children beneficiary families looks at their new house. The design was with the goal of boosting up to date accounts and avoiding adapted respecting the culture of this population. people to be affected on their credit background. In 2010, there were 11.665 total remission agreements. 47 We sponsor a fighting woman: We executed an agreement to promote daycare Hanna Gabriels network We turned into sponsors of a boxing champion, Hanna Gabriels, We advised our teachers, psychologists and cooks so they can since she is a role model for female development at all levels. start the businesses that will be in charge of managing those Hanna represents autonomy, sense of struggling and national daycare centers. We signed an agreement with Instituto Mixto de pride. This made us choosing her to give her the required Ayuda Social IMAS (Mixed Institute for Social Assistant) at the financial sponsorship for her to continue achieving great Presidential House with the purpose of getting mutual victories. It is a symbolic proof that we believe in women and we cooperation. In order to do this, micro business people shall be are convinced that it is possible to improve people quality of life offered a management model that will grant essential tools for and society in general through sports. accounting controls so they may keep service quality sets forth by the program. Also, in case of need, the Bank shall provide credit for the arrangement of the physical structure and equipment procurement. Sample of shared responsibility, both parents share their children Press conference explaining the support to boxer Hanna Gabriels care on the parade organized by occasion of the Male and Female for being a model to be emulated for her consistent struggle turned Worker Day on May 1st, 2010, on Second Avenue, Province of San up into sport excellence. José, Costa Rica. 48 Community served by Banco Popular y de Desarrollo Comunal. We placed 100% of the portion assigned by the Development Banking System (Law 8634) During 2008, we were credited by the Development Banking the Institution requested to extend these resources for an System, Law 8634 as a Financial Operator. The Funds to which amount of ¢1.800 million to continue transferring them to the Banco Popular accessed came from the Fund of Credit and from beneficiaries. At the closing of July 2010, we placed 100% of the the Fund of Collaterals and Guaranties of National Trusteeships resources for credit finance. In regards to FINADE’s Fund of for Development (Fondo Nacional para el Desarrollo – FINADE). Collaterals and Guaranties, also 100% of the resources assigned For closing on May 2010, the amount placed with resources of were managed to be placed for the fourth quarter of 2010. FINADE’s Credit Fund reached over ¢3.180 millions. Due to this, 49 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDITORS’ OPINION December 31st, 2010 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 Index for correspondence to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Description Chapter Page Index 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement of the main responsible of sustainability for the organization Presentation 5 and its strategy. 2 Profile of the Organization 2.1 Name of the organization Presentation 1 2.2 Main brands, products and services I 11-18 11-12, 2.3 Operational structure of the organization I 19-21 2.4 Localization of the main organization office Back cover 1 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates Presentation 4 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form I 9 2.7 Markets served I 4,13 2.8 Dimensions of the reporting organization I 11 2.9 Significant changes during the period covered by Annual Report on the size, I, Milestones 14, 46 structure and ownership of the organization. 2.10 Awards and acknowledgements during the information period Milestones 45-49 3 Parameters of Annual Report Profile of the Report 3.1 Period covered by the information contained in the Annual Report Presentation 4 3.2 Date of most recent previous Annual Report (if any) Presentation 4 58 GRI Description Chapter Page Index 3.3 Cycle of presentation of the Annual Report (annual, biennial, etc.) Presentation 4 3.4 Point of contact for issues regarding the Annual Report or its contents Back cover 1 Scope and coverage of the Annual Report 3.5 Process of definition for the Annual Report’s content Presentation 4 3.6 Coverage of the Annual Report Presentation 4 3.7 State any limitations on the scope or coverage of the Annual Report 4 3.8 The basis to include the information in the case of joint ventures, subsidiaries, 4 leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect the comparability between periods and/or organizations. 3.10 Description of the effect that may have the re-statement of the information (re-expression of the information) belonged to previous Annual Reports that 4 have motivated such expression. Index of GRI’s content 3.12 Chart that indicates the location of basic contents on the Annual Report. Index 58 Verification Government, compromise and participation of stakeholders 4.1 The governing structure of the organization, including committees under the I high governing entity responsible for the tasks, such as setting strategy or the 19-21 organizational supervision. 4.2 It has to be Indicates whether the president of the high governing entity also I holds an executive position (if so, his role within the leadership of the 20 organization and the reasons justifying it) 59 GRI Description Chapter Page Index 4.3 For organizations that have unitary directing structure, the number of members I 19 of the high governing body that are independent or non-executive, has to be indicated. 4.4 Mechanisms of shareholders and employees to communicate 19 recommendations or suggestions to high governing body. Stakeholders’ participation 4.14 Relation of stakeholders the organization had included. IV 34 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom the IV 34 organization is committed to. EC Indicators for financial performance EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, II exploitation costs, employees’ compensation, donations and other community 23, 25 investments, not distributed benefits and payments to suppliers of capital and governments. EC 5 Rank of relations between initial standard salary and local minimum salary in V places where significant operations are developed. 38 EN Environmental performance indicators Materials EN 1 Materials used by weight and volume VI 41-44 EN 2 Percentages of materials used which are appraised materials. VI 41-44 60 GRI Description Chapter Page Index EN 4 Breakdown of energy indirect consumption made by primary sources. VI 41, 44 Energy EN 5 Energy savings due to preservation and improvement in efficiency. VI 41, 44 Water Emissions, poured water and wastes EN 22 Total weight of waste generated by type and treatment method. VI 42 LA Indicators of social performance Work practices and ethics at work Employment LA 1 Workers’ collective breakdown by type of employment, by contract and by V 36-37 region LA 3 Social benefits for employees with full-time shift that are not offered to V 38 temporary or half time employees. Relations employer – employee LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by a collective labor union agreement V 38 Health and labor safety LA 8 Educational programs, training, counseling, prevention and risks control that V . apply to workers, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases 38-39 LA 9 Matters of health and safety covered in formal agreements with trade unions V 38-39 61 GRI Description Chapter Page Index Training and evaluation LA 10 Average training hours at year per employee breakdown by category of V employee. 38 LA 11 Management programs of skills and continuous learning that strengthens V workers’ employment and provision of support for the ending of their 39 professional careers LA 12 Percentage of employees receiving regular evaluations on performance and V professional development 37 Diversity and equal opportunities LA 13 Composition of corporate governance bodies and payroll by sex, age, minority I,V belonging and other indicators of diversity 19,36 LA 14 Relation between men salary base in relation to that of women by professional V category 38 Indicators for human rights performance No discrimination HR 4 Total number of incidents for discrimination and actions taken V 36 SO Society Corruption SO 3 Percentage of employees trained in the anti-corruption policies and procedures V at the organization. 39 Public Policy SO 5 Position in public policies and participation in the development of them. Milestones 46-49 Lobbying activities. 62 GRI Description Chapter Page Index Fulfillment of norms SO 8 Monetary value of significant fines and penalties and total number of I non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 21 PR Responsibility on product PR 6 Programs for law observance or adherence to standards and voluntary codes V mentioned in marketing communications, including advertising, other 39 promotion activities and sponsorship. 63
