United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress Period Report: 2009 to 2010 Continuing Commitment Since its initial commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’), Lincoln Crowne & Company™ (‘LCC™’) has continued to advocate the importance of the UNGC’s Ten Principles. In particular, the corporate social responsibility aspects of our philosophy and business model continue to focus on the rights of children in under developed countries, and finding ways in which youth can be supported and nurtured. We have found that the reference to the UNGC in the education of staff, conduct of client engagements and philanthropic initiatives has added a depth to the level of commitment we as a company maintain as intuitively important to the way we conduct business. Given the success of the adoption of the UNGC into our everyday work, it gives me great pleasure in making a statement of continued support for the Ten Principles of the UNGC as a cornerstone in which LCC conducts its work both in Australia, and across the Asian region.  Nicholas Assef Executive Chairman About Lincoln Crowne & Companytm LCC is an independent securities dealer which specializes in the delivery of Mergers & Acquisitions advice, and strategic financial advice. LCC’s point of differentiation is based on a highly creative approach to the task of Mergers & Acquisitions. 2 Ongoing Relevance Ongoing Promotion LCC’s business model continues to develop on a LCC has continued to advocate awareness of cross border basis, although post-Global Financial the UNGC and its Ten Principles by the ongoing Crisis the bias of focus had reverted to Australia. reference to our firm’s involvement via promotion of the UNGC logo. Our Firm is coming into continual contact with organizations that are based in emerging Asian We have found that the positioning of this logo nations (large and small), and as such, the has produced many inquiries as to the purpose importance of all Ten of the core UNGC principles and relevance of the UNGC, thereby enabling the is of the utmost importance to bear in mind as we profile of the UNGC to be raised. interact with such organizations. We have also learned that in the ‘transparency of As emerging nations develop, a key concern support’ there is significant acknowledgement we have, is the advancement of both basic from stakeholders, staff and clients to the human rights and corruption in such economies. commitment of LCC to the fundamental principles Corruption is so often driven by the desire of a new of the UNGC. The conviction of driving these middle class to access even more wealth. principles into our culture also ensures that staff think critically about social issues in a way which Principle 10 of the UNGC provides an excellent they might otherwise not have. external point of reference and reinforcement for the unacceptability of such practices – in any form. From a ‘measure the success’ perspective, observations of positive staff behaviour are In relation to human rights, LCC is careful to only both pleasing and rewarding. With the hopeful engage with companies that have clear positive continued growth of LCC, such indoctrination of engagement on such principles. In the resources principles into existing staff will hopefully result in industry in particular, we have observed instances those principles being ‘peer to peer’ learned as our where unacceptable wages and work conditions team expands. have combined to, in our opinion, amount to an effective abuse of basic human rights, in addition to flirting with unacceptable Labour Conditions. We have been careful to ‘politely decline’ involvement with any such organization. From an internal perspective, such instances allow LCC to provide its staff with real time examples of unacceptable corporate behaviour. In relation to matters of the environment, LCC seeks to minimize its footprint on Mother Nature. We elect to recycle all items responsibly, including difficult items such as old computer hardware. 3 Philanthropy Internal Relevance The UNGC’s principles are upheld by LCC in LCC has continued to build its professional team our ongoing work with children’s charities in steadily, despite the effects of the Global Financial developing nations. Through this ongoing Crisis. charitable work we continue to learn of A core part of the learning path of staff is to have unacceptable circumstances where children appreciation for larger societal issues, many of are forced into labour. We became aware that which are addressed within the Ten Principles of one charity we support struggled with the the UNGC. interpretation of a situation as ‘labour’ or ‘slavery’. LCC’s leadership team emphasizes the importance We continue to advocate at every opportunity the of the UNGC for the development of a sustainable unacceptability of a child’s tender youth being business model, drawing in particular upon exploited in the workplace. Of the Ten Principles specific components of the Ten Principles where this is a standout in our Firm’s cultural and business direct relevance takes place in either case studies philosophy. or live client engagements. One principle of clear ongoing relevance is corruption which in many developing nations in which LCC works, continues to be a significant issue. Corruption can take many forms – from a seemingly innocent but repeated request for ‘gifts’ (which we have seen in an NGO) through to more brash requests for ‘commissions’. A part of the education of staff is the myriad of social impact issues that can arise from corruption – which in many ways can be more important than the simple illegality of such practices. 4 Australian Chapter Future Activities In addition to the above, during the year, Nicholas As a small operation LCC’s objective is to ensure Assef served as a Steering Committee Member in that the Ten Principles are interwoven into our the shaping of the Australian chapter of the UNGC. operations as our business footprint continues to grow. During the 2010 / 2011 period LCC will In particular Nicholas led thinking in relation to be conducting a series of strategic reviews of its specific membership benefits that signatories operations, and a part of that review process will would gain from by joining the Australian Chapter be to undertake a ‘check and balance’ process of the UNGC. It was a privilege to see that much to ensure that future growth is founded on of the creative thinking was adopted into the final exceptional governance standards – which in turn membership programme for Australia. are strongly influenced by the UNGC. LCC will also continue to explore opportunities to advocate the principles of the UNGC, including highlighting our Firm’s commitment in various external productions, speeches and research papers that are produced. Finally, LCC is investigating additional Networks and Organization which are complimentary to both the UNGC and the social responsibility path which LCC wishes to develop its business model. 5 Contact Information AUSTRALIAN OFFICE SINGAPORE OFFICE CONTACTS Level 18, Aurora Place 80 Raffles Place Nicholas Assef 88 Phillip Street UOB Plaza 1 naa@lcc.asia Sydney NSW 2000 #36-01, Singapore M: +61 424 222 444 Australia 048624 T: +612 8088 1239 Correspondence Correspondence David Collins GPO Box 4154 80 Raffles Place dfc@lcc.asia Sydney NSW 2001 UOB Plaza 1 M: +61 405 771 665 T: +612 9262 2121 #36-01, Singapore 048624 T: +612 8288 8612 F: +612 8088 1239 T: +65 6248 4586 F: +65 6248 4531 Joanne Chua 娄⛢穔 AFSL 278054 jmc@lcc.asia ACN 105 807 645 M⇜⦉৫䐇: +61 405 958 376 T ߖ؉ᚊ৫䐇 : +612 8288 8611
