United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 The United Nations Global Compact The Global Compact is a purely (UNGC) was launched in 2000 to voluntary initiative with two objectives: harness the power of collective 1 To mainstream the ten principles action in the promotion of responsible in business activities around the corporate citizenship. The Compact world; is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations 2 To catalyse action in support of and strategies with the ten universally broader UN objectives, such as the accepted principles in the areas of Millennium Development Goals. human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. This is the Company’s second Communication on Progress (COP) As the world’s largest global and outlines how Marshalls is aligned corporate citizenship initiative, the with the ten principles and how, Global Compact is concerned with throughout 2011, the plc intends to demonstrating and building the social develop its activities in support of the legitimacy of business and markets. framework laid out by the UNGC. Marshalls plc became a signatory of the UNGC in January 2009 and a member of the UK Network later the same year. UNGC Ten Principles Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Principle 7: Businesses should support and Businesses should support a respect the protection of internationally precautionary approach to environmental proclaimed human rights; challenges; Principle 2: Principle 8: Make sure that they are not complicit in Undertake initiatives to promote greater human rights abuses. environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and Labour diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Anti-Corruption bargaining; Principle 10: Principle 4: Businesses should work against all forms The elimination of all forms of forced and of corruption, including extortion and compulsory labour; bribery. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Contents Statement of Support for the UNGC by 2 Graham Holden, Marshalls Chief Executive Officer Foreword and Focus for 2011 by Chris Harrop, 3 Marshalls Group Marketing Director Achievement Indicators 8 Third Party Assurances 10 Marshalls: Brand Manifesto 12 Marshalls The Superbrand 14 Leadership Blueprint 16 Human Rights 26 Labour 32 Environment 38 Anti-Corruption 44 Third Party Recognition & Awards 46 Graham Holden Chairman of The Yorkshire Chris Harrop Member of the UNGC UK and Humber Regional Advisory Board of Network Advisory Committee and non Business in the Community. executive Director of the Ethical Trading Initiative Statement of Support for the UNGC Foreword and Future Focus Graham Holden, Chief Executive Officer Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director The UNGC is the key driver of corporate Since our participation in early 2009 Welcome to all readers of Marshalls’ second The Leaders Summit was both provocative responsibility and sustainability and is fast Marshalls has tangibly experienced the Communication on Progress (COP) detailing and invaluable in terms of the evident becoming the international standard. With positive impact of UNGC engagement. the advances that we have made during thought leadership. The subsequent sharing the UNGC’s mandate to increase signatories The introduction of the ‘differentiation 2010. Marshalls was delighted to receive and processing of this experience has from the current 8000 to 20,000 by 2020 programme’ and the launch of The Blueprint a ‘notable’ status for its first COP in 2009 inspired a strategic shift in thinking for our I’m delighted that its positive influence is set for Corporate Sustainability Leadership has and has been further inspired by the UNGC business away from a position of simply to increase exponentially in the months and further inspired our organisation and a key framework and the Blueprint for Corporate minimising harm to one of actively engaging years ahead. commitment for 2011 will be embedding the Sustainability Leadership, launched at the and maximising benefit, both in terms of UNGC principles deep within the fabric of our Leaders Summit in New York in June 2010. business performance and upholding the business at both a strategic and operational ten principles. I hope that what this means level. I look forward with enthusiasm to I was extremely honoured and proud to be in practice will become evident as you reporting on Marshalls success in our 2011 asked to attend this Leaders Summit on read this COP in particular the pioneering Communication on Progress. behalf of Marshalls in the capacity of a UK research, development and launch of two Network Champion. I had the opportunity new products which directly address the to communicate the valuable work that pressing issues of climate change specifically our organisation is undertaking as well as in relation to minimising and eradicating CO2 our ongoing efforts in upholding the UNGC emissions and dealing with the increasing principles. You can view this by going to problem of rainfall, drainage and flooding in http://www.un.org/webcast/globalcompact/ urban areas across the globe. leaderssummit2010/index.asp?mediaID=ls and clicking on my name. 2 3 Foreword and Future Focus Foreword and Future Focus Foreword and Future Focus Foreword and Future Focus In the UNGC Marshalls has found its Marshalls’ Sustainability Model incorporates An increasing number of employees throughout the business have become involved natural home, a forging framework, our commitment to the UNGC membership during 2010; Andy Ackroyd (Commercial Controller), Richard Capper (Energy Management Engineer), thought leadership and the active support of FTSE4GOOD and our continued Neil Davidson (Group Corporate Social Responsibility Manager), Graham Holden (Chief Executive), Kevin Hull (Human Resources Director), Jon Isherwood (Group Procurement Director), Ian Manley (Group Environmental that we need as we drive forward with commitment to Integrated Management Conservation Adviser), David Morrell (Group Head of Sustainability), Christine Morris (Environmental Manager), our sustainable business strategy. We Systems. It also reflects our intention to David Sarti (Chief Operating Officer), Pete Stevens (Group Carbon & Energy Manager). also appreciate and relish the challenges actively engage in and respond to the The increasing involvement of key individuals is fundamental to Marshalls engagement presented by the UNGC in encouraging Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability in the Blueprint process. businesses to build upon the progress which Leadership has been made in the last decade since TAINABLE SUS ILABLE SPECIFICBUSIN In alphabetical order: the foundation of the UNGC, and through S LL LIC AVA BS EN ISO 14001 ATION 9 ESS the Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability HA PUB ATIONS GLOBAL C 9 Leadership. MA ITED N OM RATE SUSTAINA PACT EL OD UN CORPO RS T FO R BILI TY LE BL PRIN AD SH IP M Environmental The leadership, education and facilitation UE ER Water use CO2 and CO2e offered by the UNGC UK Network has been Biodiversity Waste to most welcomed by us in particular during Legal landfill Andy Ackroyd Richard Capper Neil Davidson Graham Holden Kevin Hull Jon Isherwood Commercial Controller Energy Management Group Corporate Chief Executive Human Resources Group Procurement 2010 as we begun a four year programme Social Ethical sourcing Safety Economic Total shareholder Engineer Social Responsibility Director Director Manager of assessing our human rights impacts return 01 Community BS E 180 responsibility Customer N service index S ISO throughout our global operations and OH SA 90 01 developing and embedding our human rights FTS E4G O O D M E M BER S HI P policies throughout the business. We were also delighted to see the beginning of a UK regional outreach series of events which is to be continued into 2011. Ian Manley David Morrell Christine Morris David Sarti Pete Stevens Sustainability for Marshalls is based on Group Environmental Group Head of Environmental Chief Operating Officer Group Carbon & Conservation Adviser Sustainability Manager Energy Manager Marshalls’ sustainability model is three elements economic, environmental fundamental to the way in which the and social. This means that we aim to These employees work alongside those with I’m delighted to report that during 2010 we Company operates and this approach be a successful and profitable business special responsibilities, including Group Head achieved Super Brand status for the second drives actions throughout the business. whilst minimising our impact on the of Sustainability David Morrell and Group year running, a feat which we are particularly Throughout 2011 the model will be environment and looking after the people Corporate Social Responsibility Manager Neil proud of given the challenging economic further developed in order to reflect the and communities we work with both in the Davidson. climate. organisation’s own learning journey. UK and overseas. Our progress is monitored thoroughly and on Throughout this, our second Communication The vast majority of Marshalls’ employees The sustainability model is widely embraced an ongoing basis against internal measures. on Progress, we want to share with you are aware of our involvement in the throughout the organisation and is As a matter of course Marshalls seeks the strides that we have made to uphold UNGC and the business’s commitment to championed by Chief Executive Officer verification from third party organisations the UNGC principles during 2010 and our sustainable business practice. Most of them Graham Holden and Chief Operating Officer which include non-governmental enthusiasm and appetite in seeking to make have participated in a range of initiatives and David Sarti and is driven by myself, Group organisations and independent auditors. further progress in the face of the challenges activities during 2010 aimed at achieving our Marketing Director Chris Harrop. These include The Carbon Trust, BSI and and opportunites that lie ahead in 2011. collective goals and commitments. Business in the Community and the Wildlife Trusts. We work particularly closely with Vicky Chan of IHLO and Sterling Smith of Just Solutions Ltd. 4 5 Foreword and Future Focus Foreword and Future Focus Focus for 2011 We are committed to build on the successes that we have achieved during 2010, guided As you read through this report you will see that we have set targets for each area of Embedding Human Rights Maximising Benefit New by our approach to sustainable business activity. I wanted to draw your attention Through UK Operations Product Roll-Out which incorporates the principles of the here to five exciting programme areas for UNGC. development during 2011. Having produced a Human Rights Guidance New product development is fundamental to Document during 2010, empowered various demonstrating our strategic shift in thinking away working parties to look at issues such as from simply minimising harm to actively engaging bullying and intimidation and developed a Group in important global issues and maximising Human Rights Policy, Marshalls is now focused benefits. The roll-out of two new products is of upon embedding its approach to human rights key importance. These products maximise benefit throughout its business in the UK including its by directly addressing issues of climate change Human Rights Impact employees, shareholders, suppliers, partners specifically in relation to eradicating CO2 emissions Assessments (HRIA) and agencies. A series of targets have been set for 2011. and dealing with the increasing problem of rainfall and drainage in urban areas across the globe. These products are The Bioverse System and Building upon the research that Marshalls The focus for 2011 will be the manufacturing Priora Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems. You undertook in 2008/09, with an academic process in China. Marshalls will build upon Leadership Blueprint can read more about these pioneering products institution partner based in Wales involving a the lessons learnt during 2010 in undertaking later in this report. systematic review, ecology report and livelihood the HRIA in India and implementing the seven Marshalls has research in the quarrying region of Kota, India, step assessment process set out in the Guide demonstrated that we begun a new four year programme in January 2010 focusing upon the human rights impacts to Human Rights Impact Assessment and Management developed by the International Blue rint it is a leader in its Marshalls Charitable Trust field and recognises for Better Landscapes For Corporate Sustainability Leadership of our operations. 2010 focused upon India, Business Leaders Forum, UNGC and the IFC. that the Blueprint China will be centre stage in 2011 followed by We will seek to build upon, and use where for Corporate other regions across the globe where Marshalls is applicable, the experience that we have gained Sustainability During 2011 Marshalls has committed to founding involved to a lesser extent, and finally the UK. working with suppliers, communities and unions Leadership offers a and developing a charitable trust committed in India. model for achieving to ‘creating better landscapes’. The charity even higher levels will work to promote the emergence of a green Disappointingly, Marshalls continues to be a lone of performance economy where environmental and conservation India 66% voice in the arena of human rights within the and generating considerations are valued equally alongside China 31% stone sector despite the increase in members enhanced value economic development where human rights are Rest of World 3% of the Ethical Trading Initiative’s Stone Group. through the UNGC. guaranteed, basic needs are satisfied and there We have sought, to no avail, to collaborate is maximum possible equality of opportunity and with others in the sector. As a consequence at Engaging fully in this process will allow us to social justice for all. present this still remains a pipe dream. Perhaps effectively assess progress with respect to 2011 will see the sector opening up to the our commitment, strategy, implementation You will see that we have our work for 2011 cut possibility of collaboration and progress. The and communications as we ascend the out. We approach the task with enthusiasm and appointment of Marshall’s Head of Sustainability, learning performance curve. During 2011 we heart. I look forward to updating you on our David Morrell, as ETI Chair of the Stone Group for are committed to embracing the Leadership progress at the end of 2011. 2011 may help in this respect. Blueprint and to showing progress. Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director, Marshalls plc 6 7 Achievement Indicators Achievement Indicators Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 79% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice Achievement Indicators • Collaborating & Sharing Best Practice Throughout this and all other Marshalls’ Marshalls has developed its own indicators Marshalls constantly monitors best practice • Delivering Best Practice Communications on Progress you will find a for this report rather than use an existing in its sector, as well as in the field of self assessment indicator which represents one, such as the Ethos Indicators and Global corporate responsibility and sustainability • Achieving Good Results what Marshalls believes it is achieving in Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology. Each reporting. Any informative developments • Reviewing Feedback & Developing relation to each of the principles. Marshalls indicator is broken down in percentage and advancements in this area will be Our Approach will strive to improve its achievements yearterms, which allows any progress made to introduced into subsequent COP reports. on-year. be identified by all readers of this report with • Piloting New Initiatives ease. It is also intended to make any yearDuring 2011 Marshalls will consider how it • Legal Compliance on-year comparisons clear, uncomplicated can embrace the GRI methodology as the and informative. indicator favoured by the UNGC. 8 9 Third Party Assurances Third Party Assurances Once this report is submitted to the UNGC Marshalls is grateful for the comments from and published online, it will be volunteered all of its stakeholders all of whom are listed at for peer-review by a randomly selected group the end of this report. of corporate members and observers of the UK Network of the UNGC. Any suggested It is Marshalls’ intention to expand this changes will be made and the report will process further for the 2011 COP by inviting be re-submitted, if required, to the UNCG other relevant stakeholders to assess the following the peer review process. Company’s progress. As indicated in the 2009 COP Marshalls has sought to extend stakeholder engagement in the 2010 COP process by inviting feedback of its COP from employees, customers, suppliers, partners, NGOs, third parties and peers to assess the Company’s progress. 10 11 Marshalls Brand Manifesto Marshalls Brand Manifesto The Marshalls Brand Manifesto. We are all influenced by our environments and the better our environment, the better we can be. Marshalls believes that we all need places that make us feel safer, happier and more sociable. Places to be ourselves, where we can live, play, create and grow. That belief drives us to be the best we can be. To design and produce new products which are better than anything else available. To make them from the best materials we can source and to care about the impact that our company and its products have on our society. Above all, our belief fuels the passion on which Marshalls is built. To architects, town planners, civil engineers, builders’ merchants, paving installers and home owners, we pledge a passion to bring to life all that you can imagine. A passion that will enable you to breathe new life into those corners of the landscape where potential lies unfulfilled and unchallenged. Marshalls Brand Manifesto Our passion pervades everything we do. We use our expertise to create integrated landscapes which promote wellbeing to the benefit of everyone. So, whether it’s through Fair Trade Stone, During 2010 Marshalls underwent a process providing products which alleviate flood risks, enabling our business of brand development and evolution. A key partners to share in our success or creating innovative street furniture element of this involved the emergence of a that protects us from attack, we proudly strive to make our world a brand manifesto which reflects our strategy better place. of maximising benefits and clearly states to all of the organisation’s stakeholders the One stone, patio, pavement, town square or car park at a time. collective missions, beliefs and drivers. The 2010 brand evolution firmly captures . Imagine Better the organisation’s desire to engage in creating and sustaining better landscapes by engaging in creative and innovative solutions to some of society’s most pressing issues. 12 13 Marshalls Brand Manifesto international Transforming Landscapes Since 1895 Marshalls the Super Brand Marshalls is proud to have retained its The 2010 Superbrand book provides insights Superbrand status during 2010. Published into Marshalls’ branding strategy and annually since 1995 the Superbrands business success. Further information can Annual documents some of the strongest be found at www.superbrand.uk.com consumer and business-to-business brands in Britain today. The book establishes how Superbrands manage to achieve outstanding success. For clarity it is worth stating that brands can not apply or pay to be considered for Superbrand status. Only following a rigorous and independent selection process is the accolade awarded on an annual basis. 14 15 Understanding the Blueprint Leadership Blueprint Leadership Blueprint Key Dimensions and Components of Leadership The Blueprint offers UN Global Compact The Blueprint encompasses three Implementing the Taking Action participants a model for achieving higher levels distinct but overlapping and synergistic Ten Principles into in Support of Broader of performance and generating enhanced value dimensions. They are: through the UN Global Compact. It allows Strategies and Operations UN Goals and Issues* Piloting New Achieving companies Good and their stakeholder to assess Collaborating 1. Implementing & into the Ten Principles Initiatives progress Resultswith respect to their commitment, StrategiesSharing and Operations Best 1. Full Coverage and 1. Core Business Contributions strategy and implementation and to communiIntegration Across Principles to UN Goals and Issues Practice cate effectively as they ascend the learning 2. Taking Action in Support of Broader and performance curve. UN Goals and Issues 2. Robust Management 2. Strategic Social Investments 25% Policies and Procedures and Philanthropy In the context of the Blueprint, corporate sus3. Engaging with the UN Global Compact 3. Mainstreaming into CEO Commitment tainability is defined as a company’s delivery of 3. Advocacy and Public long-term value in financial, social, environmenEach dimension contains a number of key Corporate Functions and and Leadership Policy Engagement Reviewing Feedback tal and ethical terms. It thus covers all princiComponents. In addition, several cross-cutting Business Units Board Adoption and & Developing Our ples and issue areas of the UN Global Compact.Best Delivering Components of leadership were identified as 4. Partnerships and Oversight a crucial overlay to the three dimensions. 4. Value Chain Collective Action Legal Compliance Approach Practice The Blueprint is grounded in the two core Implementation Stakeholder Engagement commitments made by participating companies. The opposite page contains the visual represenIt includes aspects of leadership that are tation of the Blueprint, encompassing the three Transparency considered key to maximizing results with key dimensions as well as, at the centre, the and Disclosure respect to these commitments, including active cross-cutting Components. Each of the Compoengagement with the UN Global Compact nents within the Blueprint contain associated locally and globally. Action Items. These are fully detailed in the Engaging with Corporate Action Plan on pages 10 and 11. the UN Global Compact 1. Local Networks and Subsidiary Engagement “Broader UN Goals and Issues” refers to an array of global issues – based on the most acute 2. Global and Local Working Groups or chronic global challenges – including Peace & Security; the Millennium Development Goals; Human Rights; Children’s Rights; Gender Equality; Health; Education; Humanitarian Assis3. Issue-Based and Sector Initiatives tance; Migration; Food Security; Sustainable Ecosystems and Biodiversity; Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation; Water Security and Sanitation; Employment and Decent Working 4. Promotion and Support of Conditions; and Anti-Corruption. the UN Global Compact This is an illustrative list of issues covered “Broader UN Goals and Issues”, and there are obviously considerable overlaps between individual elements. The order of this list does not indicate any prioritization of issues. For a list of further Global Issues that are relevant to the work of the UN as well as business, please refer to http://business.un.org/en/browse/global_issues. The Blueprint consists of three distinct but Marshalls believes that the Blueprint will Leadership Blueprint overlapping and synergistic dimensions: allow the organisation to incorporate current 1 Implementing the ten principles in to and emerging leadership practices, address strategies and operations. important performance gaps, build new 2 Taking action in support of broader opportunities related to the UNGC principles Marshalls continues to demonstrate that it is and leverage to the fullest extend to value of UN goals and issues*. a leader in its field and recognises that the engagement with the UNGC. Ultimately the 3 Engaging into the UN Global Compact. Blue rint Leadership Blueprint offers a framework for achieving even higher levels of performance *The ‘broader UN global issues’ referred to in this context Blueprint can help Marshalls to realise the full potential of its business in society. For Corporate Sustainability Leadership and generating enhanced value through refer to an array of issues based on the most acute and chronic global challenges including; Peace & Security; The engagement with the UNGC. Millennium Development Goals, Human Rights; Children’s Throughout 2010 Marshalls has already been Rights; Gender Equality; Health; Education; Humanitarian achieving some of the desired element within The Blueprint frmework will allow us to better Assistance; Migration’ Food Security; Sustainable Ecosystems and Biodiversity; Climate Change; Water Security and the Blueprint. These are documented at the assess our progress with respect to our Sanitation; Employment and Decent Working Conditions; and end of this section within the targets set and commitment, strategy, implementation and Anti-Corruption. achievements made. communications as we seek to ascend the As you will see from the diagram above learning performance curve. In term of Taking Action in Support of each dimension contains a number of key elements and several cross-cutting Broader UN Goals and Issues, specifically The Blueprint has been developed: Water Security & Sanitation, in relation • To challenge and inspire companies to components of leadership identified as a crucial overlay. These components are: CEO to Core Business Contributions to UN achieve higher levels of sustainability Goals and Issues, Marshalls has engaged performance within the UNGC; and commitment and leadership, board adoption and oversight, stakeholder engagement, in a lengthy process of research and • To evolve the UNGC and its engagement development resulting in two outstanding opportunities to deliver more value to transparency and disclosure. products which contribute to the pressing The UNGC Blueprint for Corporate leading participants. Sustainability Leadership document can be issues resulting from climate change. found at http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ docs/news_events/8.1/Blueprint.pdf 16 17 Leadership Blueprint Leadership Blueprint Marshalls Bioverse® Priora System Marshalls Bioverse® is the world’s first carbon neutral paving Priora has a specific design methodology and sub-base specification. Priora Machine Lay system. Special Marshalls grass seed mix sequesters additional CO2 allows surface water to be controlled at source. Water can be drained directly into the ground, over normal grasses equal to the carbon footprint of the paving. recharging the ground water whilst also controlling the surface water runoff at source. How does it work? The Priora System Carbon stored vegetation The Bioverse system consists of reduced-carbon concrete Carbon released into Priora: Permeable Paving Permeable joint filled with modules, specially formulated Bioverse Grass Seed and a atmosphere Priora: Sub base 6mm clean crushed stone carefully designed sub base. The elements of the system together create a hardstanding area which is not only • Manages rain water run-off on hardstanding attractive and hardwearing, but is also a Biosphere which areas without adding to local drainage problems or gaining planning permission Priora concrete takes carbon from the atmosphere. block paving The Bioverse Paving System becomes carbon neutral over • Can help recharge the water table by Carbon Stored in the life of the driveway, providing the grass is maintained. Bioverse System rehydrating the ground in areas which are Laying course 50mm depth prone to droughts of 6mm clean crushed stone 25mm Bedding/ Soil filled pockets • No need for linear drainage, tanking Regulating Layer systems or membranes 150mm Sub base Carbon stored in Bioverse grass (Compacted quarry waste or similar fossil fuels Sub base 200mm depth of 20mm clean unwashed material of 75mm down size crushed stone with well defined edges Bioverse modules containing fine soil or loam) Priora Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems Marshalls Priora permeable paving solutions How does Transpiration The Bioverse System allow infiltration of rainfall into the sub soil where it can drain harmlessly away it work? Rain Featuring a patented nib design, Priora allows surface water to pass between blocks Marshalls Priora allows Bioverse: Bioverse: Optimised Bioverse Seed mixtures are; into a specially calculated sub base without rainfall to travel between Interlocking Modules Grass Seed • Environmentally responsible, with high CO2 lock up compromising the structural performance of the driveway the blocks, through the sub base and into the Priora Bioverse seed mixtures are watercourse in a slow and Water Table • Interlocking Bioverse modules allow water to travel between the designedPaving Bioverse to create a dense, System, Beechwood attractive appearance and are • Are low growing, reducing surface wear and making them Marshalls Priora is available in a wide variety measured way, as close as possible to the natural blocks whilst ensuring structural of finishes and colours Recharge individually matched to different ideal for Bioverse driveways process of rain falling on stability • Each pack contains two different growing conditions throughout the UK. All mixtures have the • Have a slow growth pattern so that the grass requires less cutting undisturbed ground. pebble designs, allowing a wide ability to absorb CO2 helping variety of laying possibilities you create a landscape which becomes carbon neutral over the • Have a high plant density, to restrict invasion of weeds and As an urban drainage solution the product benefits include; • The modules can be used for a life of your driveway. alien grasses • High load bearing capacity due to the unique • Reduction of surface water runoff by as much as wide variety of applications from driveways and additional car parking interlocking characteristics. The system can withstand 100% for infiltration sites areas to pathways and soak away the dynamic stresses offered by vehicular trafficking • Increased recharge of groundwater areas and point loads Area of UK Seed type • Allowing new developments in areas restricted by • Large drainage openings allowing the efficient current surface water drainage constraints North Bioverse GN infiltration of surface water runoff • Reduced overall project development costs owing to South Bioverse GS • Lasting surface water infiltration capacity due to the a reduction in storm sewers and drainage accessories unique layout of the interlocking spacer profiles Bioverse Bioverse East Bioverse GE • The filtering and removal of metals and suspended Module 1, Module 2, • Conservation of space on the site, allowing the needs solids in any surface water Beechwood Beechwood West Bioverse GW and requirements of both PPG3 and PPG25 to be • The development of naturally occurring achieved bacteriological breakdown 18 19 Leadership Blueprint Value Chain Implementation Advocacy and Public Policy • Analyze each segment of the value chain Engagement carefully, both upstream and downstream, • Publicly advocate the importance of action when mapping risks, opportunities and in relation to one or more UN goals / issues. Moving forward Marshalls will work towards In order that readers have a full impacts. • Commit company leaders to participate realising other elements within the Blueprint understanding of this commitment we have • Communicate policies and expectations in key summits, conferences, and other as identified in the targets for 2011. The reproduced here the Corporate Action Plan to suppliers and other relevant business important public policy interactions in relation organisation is realistic in that this will mean a from within the UNGC Blueprint for Corporate partners. to one or more UN goals / issues. long term commitment for the business. Sustainability Leadership. • Implement monitoring and assurance mechanisms within the company’s sphere of Partnerships and Collective Action influence. • Develop and implement partnership • Undertake awareness-raising, training projects with public or private organizations and other types of capability building with (UN entities, government, NGOs, or other suppliers and other business partners. groups) on core business, social investments and/or advocacy. Taking Action in Support • Join industry peers, UN entities and/ Realising the Blueprint: Corporate Action Plan of Broader UN Goals and Issues or other stakeholders in initiatives that contribute to solving common challenges Core Business Contributions to UN Goals and dilemmas at the global and/or local and Issues levels with an emphasis on initiatives that Implementing the Ten Principles measurable short, medium, and long term • Align core business strategy with one or extend the company’s positive impact on its into Strategies and Operations goals. more relevant UN goals / issues*. value chain. • Engage and educate employees through • Develop relevant products and services or Full Coverage and Integration Across training activities, the development and design business models that contribute to Engaging with the UN Global Compact Principles adjustment of business processes, and UN goals / issues. • Implement all the ten UN Global Compact sound incentive schemes. • Adopt and modify operating procedures to Local Networks and Subsidiary principles into strategies and operations. • Implement a system to track and measure maximize contribution to UN goals / issues. Engagement • Design corporate sustainability strategy performance based on standardized • Contribute to the building and operating performance metrics. Strategic Social Investments and of at least one UN Global Compact Local to leverage synergies between and among Philanthropy Network and help elevate performance of issue areas and to deal adequately with Mainstreaming into Corporate Functions trade-offs. and Business Units • Pursue social investments and other companies through training, mentoring, philanthropic contributions that tie in with COP peer review, etc. • Ensure that different corporate functions • Place responsibility for execution of the core competences or operating context • Encourage subsidiaries to engage with coordinate closely to maximize performance sustainability strategy in relevant corporate of the company as an integrated part of its UN Global Compact Local Networks and to and avoid unintended negative impacts. functions (procurement, government affairs, sustainability strategy. participate actively in events and activities. human resources, legal, etc.) and ensure that no function is operating in conflict with • Coordinate efforts with other organizations • Publish sustainability information related Robust Management Policies and and initiatives to amplify – and not negate or sustainability commitments and objectives of to each individual subsidiary separately or Procedures unnecessarily duplicate – the efforts of other the company. reference it explicitly in the Communication • Assess risks and opportunities on an contributors. on Progress of Corporate Headquarters. ongoing basis at both enterprise and • Align strategies, goals and incentive structures of all business units and • Take responsibility for the intentional and product level and undertake due diligence unintentional effects of funding and have due to ensure that the company identifies any subsidiaries with corporate sustainability Global and Local Working Groups strategy. regard for local customs, traditions, religions, negative impacts caused by its operations • Participate in relevant global or local and priorities of pertinent individuals and and activities. • Assign responsibility for corporate working groups and share experiences, groups. • Develop strategies and policies specific to sustainability implementation to an individual networks, tools and good practices with the company’s operating context – as well or group within each business unit and other UN Global Compact participants. as scenarios for the future and establish subsidiary. • Take active part in defining scope and objectives of new working groups when relevant. 20 21 Issue-Based and Sector Initiatives • Board establishes, where permissible, a • Join and help advance one or more committee or assigns an individual Board existing UN Global Compact initiatives, e.g. member with responsibility for corporate Caring for Climate, CEO Water Mandate, sustainability. Women’s Empowerment Principles, and • Board (or committee), where permissible, Global Business Initiative on Human Rights. approves formal reporting on corporate • Spearhead need-driven development of sustainability (Communication on Progress). new issue-based or sector initiatives within the UN Global Compact and the wider Stakeholder Engagement United Nations. • Publicly recognize responsibility for the company’s impacts on internal and external Promotion and Support of the UN Global stakeholders. Compact • Define sustainability strategies, goals • Advocate the UN Global Compact to and policies in consultation with key business partners, peers and the general stakeholders. public. • Consult stakeholders in dealing with • Encourage suppliers and other business implementation dilemmas and challenges partners to join the UN Global Compact, and and invite them to take active part in take on mentoring role on issues related to reviewing performance. the initiative. • Establish channels to engage with • Participate in activities to further develop employees and other stakeholders to hear and strengthen the UN Global Compact. their ideas and address their concerns, and protect ‘whistle-blowers’. The Cross-Cutting Components Transparency and Disclosure CEO Commitment and Leadership • Share sustainability information with • CEO publicly delivers explicit statements all interested parties and respond to and demonstrates personal leadership on stakeholder inquiries and concerns. sustainability and commitment to the UN • Ensure that Communication on Progress Global Compact. covers all aspects of the Leadership • CEO promotes initiatives to enhance Blueprint and utilize, where appropriate, the sustainability of the company’s sector and Global Reporting Initiative framework. leads development of industry standards. • Integrate Communication on Progress • CEO leads executive management team into annual financial report or publish them in development of corporate sustainability together. strategy, defining goals and overseeing • Secure external verification of implementation. Communication on Progress or seek other • Make sustainability criteria and UN Global methods for legitimization by external Compact principles part of goals and stakeholders. incentive schemes for CEO and executive management team. ** For companies without a formal Board, other governance or ownership body Board Adoption and Oversight assumes these responsibilities • Board of Directors (or equivalent**) assumes responsibility and oversight for long NOTE: Reproduced from the UNGC Blueprint term corporate sustainability strategy and document http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ performance. docs/news_events/8.1/Blueprint.pdf 22 23 Leadership Blueprint Leadership Blueprint 2011 Leadership Blueprint Targets Achievements 2010 Targets 2011 Achievements 2010 Targets 2011 Core Business Contribution to UN Goals and Core Business Contribution to UN Goals and Local Networks & Subsidiary Engagement: Local Networks & Subsidiary Engagement: issues: issues: Active participation in events and activities. ✔ Active participation in events and activities. Developing relevant products and Aligning core business strategy with one or more Publish sustainability information and reference Encourage subsidiary to engage with Un Global services that contribute to UN goals/issues. ✔ relevant UN goals/issues. it explicitly in the COP. ✔ Compact Local Networks and to participate Developing relevant products and services that actively in events and initiatives. contribute to UN goals/issues. Actively participate in events and activities Strategic Social Investments & Philanthropy: Strategic Social Investments & Philanthropy: Promotion and Support of the UNGC; Global & Local Working Groups; Taking responsibility for the intentional and Pursuing social investments and philanthropic Advocate the UNGC to business partners, peers Participate in relevant global or local working unintentional effects of funding and having due contributions that tie in with the core and the general public. groups and share experiences, networks, tools regard for local customs, traditions, religions, and competencies or operating context of the and good practice with other UNGC participants. priorities of pertinent individuals and groups. ✔ company as an integrated part of its sustainability strategy. ✔ Take active part in defining scope and objectives of new working groups when relevant. Taking responsibility for the intentional and unintentional effects of funding and having due Issues-Based and Sector Initiatives; regard for local customs, traditions, religions, and priorities of pertinent individuals and groups. Join and help advance one or more existing UNGC initiative; e.g. Caring for Climate, CEO Water Mandate, Women’s Empowerment Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement; Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement; Principles, and Global Business Initiatives on Publically advocating the importance of action in Publically advocating the importance of action in Human Rights. relation to one or more UN goals/issues. ✔ relation to one or more UN goals/issues. Committing company leaders to partiticipate in Committing company leaders to partiticipate in Promotion and Support of the UNGC; key summits, conferences, and other important key summits, conferences, and other important Advocate the UNGC to business partners, peers public policy interactions in relation to one or public policy interactions in relation to one or and the general public. more UN goal/issue. ✔ more UN goal/issue. Encourage suppliers and other business partners to join the UNGC, and take on mentoring role on Partnerships and Collective Action; Partnerships and Collective Action; issues related to the initiative. Developing and implementation partnership Developing and implementation partnership projects with public or private sector projects with public or private sector Stakeholder Engagement; organisations on core business, social organisations on core business, social Establish channels to engage with employees investments and/or advocacy. ✔ investments and/or advocacy. and other stakeholders to hear their ideas and Joining industry peers, UN entities and/or other Joining industry peers, UN entities and/or other address their concerns, and protect whistle stakeholders in initiatives that contribute to stakeholders in initiatives that contribute to blowing. solving common challenges and dilemmas at solving common challenges and dilemmas at the global and/or local levels with emphasis on the global and/or local levels with emphasis on Transparency and Disclosure; initiatives that extend the company’s initiatives that extend the company’s positive Integrate the COP within the financial reporting or positive impact on its value chain. ✔ impact on its value chain. publish then together. 24 25 Human Rights Human Rights Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 68% Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Marshalls’ first HRIA in India has expanded around Kota. These reports can be viewed Legal Compliance Approach Practice upon research which was completed in 2009 at www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability in the in conjunction with an academic institution publication section. from Wales. This detailed research included: a systematic review of literature regarding the The HRIA process was undertaken in line ecological restoration of sandstone quarry with The Guide to Human Rights Impact sites; livelihood research and report on the Assessment and Management, jointly impacts of quarrying and the restoration of developed by the International Business quarry sites in the Kota & Bhundi districts of Leaders Forum, The UNGC and the Rajasthan; and a review of the opportunities International Finance Corporation. for ecological restoration of quarry sites The seven stages of this process: Human Rights Preparation: Mitigation: • Determine the company’s human rights • Develop the appropriate mitigation due diligence approach. action plans. • Scope the company’s human rights • Present the mitigation action plans and Marshalls made a commitment at the as many questions as answers and has end of 2009 to undertake a four year highlighted the need for the organisation’s impact assessment. recommendations to management. programme of Human Rights Impact ongoing commitment to undertake Assessment. Efforts during 2010 have been assessment of the risks in relation to human Identification: Management: focused upon undertaking a Human Rights rights. Impact Assessment in Kota in the state of • Identify the key human rights risks and • Implement the mitigation action plans Rajasthan, India. impacts. and recommendations. The Secretary General’s Special Representative, Professor John Ruggie, is • Set the baseline. • Integrate human rights within the In 2011, Marshalls will focus upon the preparing to present his recommendations management system. manufacturing process in China. In year for the implementation of the Respect, three the focus will be other countries from Engagement: Protect and Remedy Framework to the which Marshalls sources to a less extent. • Engage with stakeholders to verify the Evaluation: UN in April 2011. This process will further The final year will see a HRIA in the UK. The human rights risks and impacts. • Monitor, evaluate and report on the assist in Marshall’s own development of order of these impact assessments has been company’s capacity to address human the organisations approach to human • Develop a grievance mechanism that influenced by the percentage of product rights. rights. Marshalls recognises that along considers human rights issues. imported by Marshalls. In addition ongoing with globalisation and instantaneous • Review the evaluation and make monitoring in relation to existing HIRA’s will take place. communications via the internet, appropriate adjustments if necessary. Assessment: opportunities come hand-in-hand with increased levels of threat and the potential • Assess the human rights risks and The process has been a challenging one and marks the beginning of a journey for for companies to find themselves caught impacts. Marshalls, building upon our social and up in situations of conflict and human rights • Analyse the assessment findings. environmental impact assessment process. violations. In many ways the process has inspired 26 27 Human Rights Human Rights The Challenges Encountered: Human Rights Guidance Document The process has proved challenging and has presented many During this year Marshalls has developed a opportunities for Marshalls to engage with its stakeholders moving Human Rights Guidance Document for all of forwards in order to building upon its first HRIA. its stakeholders. This has been published on the Company’s sustainability website. • Lack of authoritative information available • Issue of transparency; should the process Marshalls plc to assist with the process. be entirely transparent or should the This document clearly communicates why • Difficulty in articulating the process business have the opportunity to internalise Marshalls has produced such a document, Human Rights to those involved or touched by the the process and recommendations. the UNGC principles, why guidance is Guidance assessment – lack of common language • Lack of HRIA’s in the public domain to act necessary, the areas of influence for the around the subject of HRIA. as a guide and barometer. Company, how human rights principles are • Negative connotations as HRIA previously • Conflicting information regarding the HRIA embedded within the business and also associated with human rights abuses rather process. the organisation’s human rights policy and than assessment. other related policies. It also sets out a • Too much academic information and little number of goals for 2011 regarding further • Lack of maturity around the subject matter. practical information. embedding human rights principles within • Resistance from stakeholders in general • Lack of maturity in the field with no quality the organisation. This will both internal and external. agencies with an understanding of the be a key area of work sector to be able to undertake a meaningful extending throughout • Educational aspect; to differentiate CSR and HRIA, why HRIA are important and will assessment. 2011. Why guidance In October 2009 at a stakeholder consultation regarding human rights and Marshalls acknowledges its legal and corporate responsibilities regarding human rights Marshalls is committed to, and well placed, to embrace the is necessary business, the FIDH welcomed human rights and Protect, Respect and Remedy increasingly be so. the acknowledgement recognises that a truly framework for the benefit by Professor Ruggie that global economy, combined of all stakeholders and the corporations do indeed with the high speed long term sustainability of its have a responsibility to mass communication business. respect all human rights opportunities delivered at all times. The FIDH also by the world-wide-web, Marshalls is already advocated the need to increases scrutiny of recognised as doing embed due diligence into corporate operations. outstanding work in field In June 2008, after three years of extensive research national legislations stating Imperatives from of human rights and group marketing director, and consultations with business, governments and civil that; ‘while companies government and demands already willing to apply from consumer for increased Chris Harrop, was asked to society on five continents, the United Nations Secretary attend the 10th Anniversary General’s Special Representative (SGSR) on Business due diligence within their corporate transparency and operations are in need of accountability drives the UNGC Leaders Summit and Human Rights, John Ruggie, proposed a policy in New York (June 2010) Guidance, they remain need for all of Marshalls Marshalls Human Rights Policy framework for managing business and human rights currently disadvantaged stakeholders to be educated as a UNGC UK Network challenges. It is based on three pillars: the states duty on the market; whereas regarding human rights champion. At this event, to protect against human rights abuses by third parties, companies not acting with and the Company’s policies, and within the UK Network including business; the corporate responsibility to due diligence continue procedures and stance in Millennium Development respect human rights; and greater access by victims to to act with impunity this area. Goal Report, Marshalls work in India; regarding worker effective remedy, judicial and non-judicial. without facing any legal or economic sanctions. With its strong brand rights, health and safety, The inclusion into national heritage and values – community consultation trust, honesty & integrity and provision of education As a consequence of the HRIA process, Marshalls has developed a legislations of due diligence processes as a legal Marshalls has aligned for the children of migrant obligation could be inspired its organizational values, workers, was highlighted as by what is already being sustainable business an example of best practice. policy regarding its approach to human rights; done in other spheres of law, model and ethical trade Marshalls is looking to such as anticorruption laws.’ code of conduct so that expand this work further all are congruent. With and to implement similar the certainty of increased grass roots projects in other legislation, and its countries from which it implementation, regarding sources product. 10 11 Marshalls supports human rights, consistent Where human rights are under threat with the Universal Declaration of human rights. Marshalls works to uphold local laws, promote In conducting its business activities across the international standards and strives to have globe, Marshalls respects these rights and seeks international standards upheld by the appropriate Dignity at Marshalls’ to uphold, preserve and promote them. governments, institutions and agencies. Work Human Rights Policy Marshalls works to ensure that its presence Marshalls embraces opportunities to promote a cultivates fair and sustainable relationships. broader understanding of human rights values Marshalls is engaged in a joint initiative with recognised trade unions Unite and the GMB to Human Resources Director and the Employee Relations Manager. This initiative brings Marshalls supports human rights consistent with the Universal Where human rights are under threat Marshalls works to uphold working within its sphere of influence. address issues of dignity in the workplace. A together the Company’s desire to address Declaration of Human Rights. In local laws, promote international working party has been assembled consisting issues such as victimisation and harassment conducting its business activities standards and strives to have of three elected trade union representatives through education and raising awareness, across the globe Marshalls international standards upheld Marshalls respects and values the dignity, from across Marshalls’ sites, including the with the trade union’s agenda which focuses respects these rights and seeks by the appropriate governments, senior co-ordinator from the Unite trade union, on the potential damage caused by bullying to uphold, preserve and promote institutions and agencies. a full time regional officer for Unite, the Group and harassment in the workplace. them. wellbeing and rights of employees, their families Marshalls actively seeks to collaborate with Marshalls works to ensure that its presence cultivates fair and Marshalls embraces opportunities to promote a broader understanding of human rights and the wider community. The Company appropriate organisations to promote respect for The focus for the working party is: Developing appropriate policy and guidance The initiative is being supported by a programme of sustainable relationships. Marshalls respects and values the values working within its sphere of influence. actively works and collaborates with employees, human rights in a manner which is consistent with documentation to support the awareness-raising initiatives dignity, well being and rights of Marshalls actively seeks to Raising awareness among announcement made early in across Marshalls’ principal employees regarding employees, their families and the collaborate with appropriate 2010 under Marshalls’ serious sites throughout 2011 wider community. The Company organisations to promote respect behaviour which is communities, non-governmental and other the role of business. unwelcome and potentially damaging; concerns policy; Creating an appropriate supported by ACAS. actively works and collaborates with employees, communities, non-governmental and other for human rights in a manner which is consistent with the role of business. appropriate stakeholders to uphold and promote training and development Understanding the various mechanism to enable greater appropriate stakeholders to forms including the less awareness and appreciation uphold and promote these rights. overt and more subtle, such these rights. of such issues. as exclusion and ridiculing in which harassment and victimisation can arise; 16 17 17 28 29 Human Rights Human Rights Indian Law Regarding Employment, Human 2011 Targets – Human Rights Rights and Environmental Rights Due to the complexities of India law, This process provided additional particularly in relation to employment intelligence and has allowed Marshalls and the variations between districts, to clearly communicate its stance of key Marshalls commissioned Sterling Smith issues, particularly where these differ of Just Solutions Ltd to undertake a from the approach taken by national and report on employment, human rights and regional government bodies in India. environmental rights. For example during 2010 Marshalls has issued the statement below regarding child labour laws in India: Targets 2010 Targets 2011 Statement Regarding Child Labour Laws in India Ensure adherence to ETI Base Code and Continue to ensure that ETI base work actively to ensure that no child is code is adhered to and that no child is Work in the quarrying and manufacturing of Indian countries, including the UK, abide by the definition employed in the supply chain. ✔ employed in the supply chain. sandstone involves heavy stone and the operation in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of machinery, Marshalls believes it is not safe or of the Child which defines a child under 18 years Weekly reports from the social auditor Continue to gather weekly reports from acceptable for children under the age of 18 to of age ( HYPERLINK “http://www.unicef.org/crc/” in India. ✔ the social auditor in India. undertake this kind of work. http://www.unicef.org/crc/). India did become a Develop, together with Chinese signatory of the UN Convention on the Rights of partners, a suitable reporting process Marshalls actively works to ensure that no children the Child almost a decade ago but as yet has not which seeks to uphold human rights in are employed in the production of its Indian applied this to its own child labour and employment the manufacturing context. sandstone products. Employment checks are laws in relation to those under the age of 18. carried out on all workers, living wages are paid Monthly reporting from NGO in Kota, Continue to receive monthly reports and free education is provided for the children In Indian law the 1986 Act has a list of operations of quarry workers and the wider community. In which children under 14 are prohibited from Hadoti. ✔ from NGO in Kota. addition Marshalls employs a social auditor in India undertaking. These include processes involving who undertakes regular checks in quarries where exposure to free silica such as that encountered Undertake a HRIA in the quarrying Ongoing monitoring and evaluation of Marshalls sources products. The social auditor in the slate, pencil, stone grinding, slate stone region of Kota. ✔ HR in India. works to build capacity and to address any issues mining, stone quarries, aggregate industries, and Undertake HRIA in China in relation to with quarry owners. Weekly reports are sent to also includes stone breaking and crushing. ILO the manufacturing process. Marshalls head office in the UK. Convention 182 states that a child under the age of 18 can work, but not in hazardous industries. Develop a Human Rights Guidance Process of embedding human rights Marshalls is aware of child labour law in India and understands that the India Government has not As a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Document ✔ within the organisation; achieving the ratified either of the two core International Labour Marshalls commits to its Base Code which states goals set out within the HRGD. Organisation (ILO) conventions concerning child that interpretation of the child labour clause of labour, namely Convention 138 on the Minimum the Code needs to be done bearing in mind the Undertake a report which clarifies Indian Undertake a report which clarifies Age of Entry into Employment and Convention 182 ILO conventions. In addition, the ETI Base Code laws regarding employment, human Chinese laws regarding employment, on the Worse Forms of Child Labour. states that where national law and the code differ, the correct procedure is to adhere to the standard rights and environmental rights. ✔ human rights and environmental rights. Marshalls is also aware that Indian law (the that offers workers the highest level of protection. Embed HR principles with employees. Prohibition & Regulation of Child Labour Act 1986, Marshalls therefore follows the ETI Base Code, and see HYPERLINK “http://indiacode.nic.in/fullact1. ILO standard, and will not permit children under 18 Embed HR principles with suppliers, asp?tfnm=198661” http://indiacode.nic.in/fullact1. to work in its supply chain. contractors and other business asp?tfnm=198661) currently defines a child as partners. being under 14 years of age. However other Communicate its HR stance to the wider community. 30 31 Human Rights Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 68% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice Labour Marshalls’ approach to labour rights is driven During 2010 Marshalls’ team has spent a primarily by the Ethical Trading Initiative base great deal of time on the ground in Kota code, the UNGC Labour principles and the working with its sole supplier Stone Shippers organisations commitment to sustainable to continue its work in relation to labour business. rights. The work around Indian labour laws and their implementation has been In 2007 the organisation was the first embedded within the organisation and with member of the ETI from the stone sector. its supplier, funding has been maintained for Marshalls engagement with the ETI was the provision of education for the children instrumental in the formation of the Stone of quarry workers in the Kota region – with Group – a group of companies from the a total of six schools now being fully funded sector which assembled in order to take by Marshalls, workers rights education also collective action regarding issues regarding continue to be held as do the much needed labour rights in the quarrying regions of health camps where medical services and Rajasthan. medicines are provided free of charge to anyone who attends the clinic and is in need. Marshalls focus regarding labour issues have, to-date, primarily been aimed at India, from where Marshalls sources the largest percentage of its overseas product. 32 33 Human Rights The ETI Base Code states that: 1. Employment is freely chosen 5.2 All workers shall be provided with written and Labour 1.1 There is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour. understandable information about their employment conditions in respect to wages before they enter employment and about 1.2 Workers are not required to lodge “deposits” or their the particulars of their wages for the pay period concerned each identity papers with their employer and are free to leave their time that they are paid. employer after reasonable notice. 5.3 Deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure shall not be permitted nor shall any deductions from wages not 2. Freedom of association and the right to collective provided for by national law be permitted without the expressed In addition Marshalls has been the catalyst Monthly reports are also received from the bargaining are respected. permission of the worker concerned. All disciplinary measures should be recorded. for a meeting which is planned in early 2011 NGO delivering services on the ground in the 2.1 Workers, without distinction, have the right to join or form with other quarry owners in the region to quarrying region. These reports document trade unions of their own choosing and to bargain collectively. 6. Working hours are not excessive discuss the benefits to upholding the ETI all aspects of activity including: 2.2 The employer adopts an open attitude towards the activities of trade 6.1 Working hours comply with national laws and benchmark base code and the practical steps that can unions and their organisational activities. industry standards, whichever affords greater protection. be taken to improve workers rights and • The number of people attending the health clinics. 2.3 Workers representatives are not discriminated against and 6.2 In any event, workers shall not on a regular basis be conditions. • The number of people requiring treatment. have access to carry out their representative functions in the required to work in excess of 48 hours per week and shall be workplace. provided with at least one day off for every 7 day period on • The nature of the treatment. 2.4 Where the right to freedom of association and collective average. Overtime shall be voluntary, shall not exceed 12 hours This meeting is a big step forward in opening bargaining is restricted under law, the employer facilitates, per week, shall not be demanded on a regular basis and shall • Any diseases treated and medication issued. up communications with a stakeholder group and does not hinder, the development of parallel means for always be compensated at a premium rate. • Any injuries as a result of work treated. independent and free association and bargaining. which has been highly resistant to changes • Home visits required/made. 7. No discrimination is practiced. in respect to labour rights. Marshalls is well 3. Working conditions are safe and hygienic. placed to facilitate positive change in this • Whether attendees are male for female and 7.1 There is no discrimination in hiring, compensation, access respect and to share its own experiences their age and occupation. 3.1 A safe and hygienic working environment shall be provided, to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on • The number of children attending school. bearing in mind the prevailing knowledge of the industry and of race, caste, national origin, religion, age, disability, gender, in the interest of progress and improved any specific hazards. Adequate steps shall be taken to prevent marital status, sexual orientation, union membership or political conditions for those working in and around • Number of boys and girls attending and their age. accidents and injury to health arising out of, associated with, affiliation. the quarrying region of Kota. • The activities undertaken. or occurring in the course of work, by minimising, so far as is reasonably practicable, the causes of hazards inherent in the 8. Regular employment is provided. • Numbers attending workers rights camps. working environment. The appointment of a social auditor has • Number taking up insurance. 3.2 Workers shall receive regular and recorded health and 8.1 To every extent possible work performed must be on the meant that Marshalls receives weekly reports • Numbers claiming insurance. safety training, and such training shall be repeated for new or basis of recognised employment relationship established through which document whether the ETI base code reassigned workers. national law and practice. • Number and nature of grievance calls made 3.3 Access to clean toilet facilities and to potable water, and, if 8.2 Obligations to employees under labour or social security is being observed; for example the amount to NGO. appropriate, sanitary facilities for food storage shall be provided. laws and regulations arising from the regular employment workers are paid, the hours that they work, • Follow up on any grievances reported. 3.4 Accommodation, where provided, shall be clean, safe, and relationship shall not be avoided through the use of labour-only the conditions they work in, health and safety meet the basic needs of the workers. contracting, subcontracting, or home-working arrangements, or 3.5 The company observing the code shall assign responsibility through apprenticeship schemes where there is no real intent to measures, that no child labour is used and for health and safety to a senior management representative. impart skills or provide regular employment, nor shall any such that there is no harsh or inhumane treatment Marshalls remains highly committed to this obligations be avoided through the excessive use of fixed-term of workers. important area of activity and continued 4. Child labour shall not be used. contracts of employment. funding for this throughout 2011 was 4.1 There shall be no new recruitment of child labour. 9. No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed announced at the end of 2010 when Chief 4.2 Companies shall develop or participate in and contribute to Executive Officer Graham Holden and Group policies and programmes which provide for the transition of any 9.1 Physical abuse or discipline, the threat of physical abuse, Marketing Director Chris Harrop visited Kota child found to be performing child labour to enable her or him sexual or other harassment and verbal abuse or other forms of to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child; intimidation shall be prohibited. during December 2010. “child” and “child labour” being defined in the appendices. 4.3 Children and young persons under 18 shall not be The provisions of this code constitute minimum and not In conjunction with the HRIA in China during employed at night or in hazardous conditions. maximum standards, and this code should not be used to 4.4 These policies and procedures shall conform to the prevent companies from exceeding these standards. Companies 2011 this approach to labour rights will be provisions of the relevant ILO standards. applying this code are expected to comply with national and assessed and to be extended to Marshalls other applicable law and, where the provisions of law and this suppliers in China. The 2011 COP will 5. Living wages are paid. Base Code address the same subject, to apply that provision which affords the greater protection. document progress in this respect. 5.1 Wages and benefits paid for a standard working week meet, at a minimum, national legal standards or industry benchmark standards, whichever is higher. In any event wages should always be enough to meet basic needs and to provide some discretionary income. 34 35 Human Rights 2011 Targets – Human Rights Targets 2010 Targets 2011 Maintain accreditation to Integrated Maintain accreditation to Integrated Management Systems. ✔ Management Systems. Research and reporting on labour Continue researching, reporting and laws and their implications. ✔ embedding relevant information regarding labour laws and their implications; both in India & China. Continue monitoring the environmental India impact of quarrying on the water table. ✔ Maintain funding for NGO in India. Further develop and enhance the weekly reporting process regarding social auditing. Continue to deliver workers’ rights education camps. Continue education on health & safety practices. Maintain funding for NGO. ✔ China Put in place a social auditing process in China Weekly reports from the social auditor. Monthly reports from NGO. ✔ Delivery of workers’ rights education camps. ✔ Continued education on health and safety practices. ✔ 36 37 Environment Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 70% Carbon Reduction fleet of vehicles is modern, mostly with Euro5 diesel engines that are fuel efficient. Throughout 2010 Marshalls had The programme of ‘greener driver training’ demonstrated good energy management Reviewing Feedback continues to achieve increased awareness, & Developing Our Delivering Best by achieving The Carbon Trust Standard. Legal Compliance Approach Practice better driving skills resulting in lower levels The organisation is now well equipped fuel consumption and therefore emissions. for the Government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC) which was launched in April 2010, Waste Reduction Throughout 2010 Marshalls continued to measure the amount of waste leaving site. The business KPI’s are aligned to CRC by The aim is a reduction of 3% per annum measuring energy at both absolute and averaged over a three year period. The relative intensity levels and the business business is focused upon waste reduction remains committed to reducing energy and investigates all of the opportunities for use in relation to both of these measures. recycling within its sites. Marshalls aims to reduce the absolute CO2 emissions by 2,000 tonnes annually, In 2009 93.6% of waste was recycled or and to meet the government’s target of an reused, an increase of 3.6% on 2008 figures. 80% reduction by 2050. The organisation Figures for 2010 will be available early in recognises that renewable energy will be 2011. required in order to achieve the later and is currently investigating different options. The Environment Packaging Plans to investigate further energy saving Marshalls’ target is to reduce packaging by opportunities are underway. Partial funding 2% per annum, over a three year period. was received in 2010 from CO2 Sense Appropriate packaging is used to ensure safe Due to Marshalls plc status the Yorkshire to progress with a renewable handling, storage, transport and to maintain environmental key performance indicators energy project at a regional site with a product safety. Packaging principally will be published alongside the annual report. view to reducing the carton intensity of the comprises timber pallets and polythene. This will be available online in due course. Group’s heating system. Marshalls carefully monitors the sourcing of timber by its timber pallet suppliers having In addition the 2009 COP detailed Marshalls continues to voluntarily submit worked with them to achieve Forestry comprehensively Marshalls progress data to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Stewardship Counsel (FSC) accreditation at with regards to the environment. The the end of 2009. environmental targets documented in this Water report are long term and the information from the 2009 COP is still highly relevant. The Marshalls remains on track to reduce its Suppliers & Contractors 2009 COP can be viewed at www.marshals. water consumption to 0.050m3 per tonne Marshalls Procurement Policy guards against co.uk/sustainability in the publication section. of production by 2012. The business has the company procuring from companies demonstrated its commitment to water that ‘wilfully and avoidably damage the harvesting on numerous sites and utilises environment. The Group continues to work quarry water where appropriate in its with its key suppliers to ensure they have operations. appropriate environmental management systems in place and to develop Transport environmental best practice standards Following a review of its transport activities and to share the benefit of environmental an increased amount of the Group’s haulage improvements. is now undertaken in-house. Marshalls’ 38 39 Environment Environment Ecopoints 2011 Targets – Environment Marshalls target is to develop Ecopoints for Commercial Landscapes during 2011. Accurate environmental profiling is vital in order to provide meaningful comparisons Targets 2010 Targets 2011 between different products. Although CO2 is the most important, other significant To reduce emissions of CO2 in line with To reduce emissions of CO2 in line with factors can be considered such as pollution, Government targets; 80% by 2050 and Government targets; 80% by 2050 and waste disposal and water extraction. With environmental profiling, designers are able 34% by 2020. ✔ 34% by 2020. to compare products for similar building specifications and merchants can present Carbon labelling of 500 consumer Carbon labelling of 500 consumer accurate and validated environmental products and 1565 commercial paving products and 1565 commercial paving information about their products. products ✔ products Throughout 2010 Marshalls worked with the Building Research Establishment (BRE) Uphold the May Day Network pledges ✔ Uphold the May Day Network pledges to establish the Ecopoints rating for its commercial products, in order to provide Marshalls Energy Savings Week ✔ Marshalls Energy Savings Week a single score environmental assessment of different building materials, based on a Reduce use of water from mains and Reduce use of water from mains and complete Life Cycle Assessment. licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per tonne Ecopoints are based on a range of 13 tonne of production by 2015 ✔ of production by 2015 different environmental impacts, which are then given percentage weightings based Develop biodiversity plans for all Develop biodiversity plans for all on the relative importance of different appropriate sites by 2012 ✔ appropriate sites by 2012 sustainability issues: 1. Climate change Reduce by 3% the total waste-to-landfill Reduce by 3% the total waste-to-landfill 2. Water extraction per production output per annum on per production output per annum on 3 3 year rolling average. Reduce by 2% year rolling average. Reduce by 2% per 3. Mineral resource extraction per tonne of production output per tonne of production output per annum 4. Stratospheric ozone depletion annum over a 3 year cycle to a level over a 3 year cycle to a level where pack 5. Human toxicity where pack and product safety is not and product safety is not compromised. 6. Ecotoxicity to freshwater compromised. ✔ 7. Nuclear waste (higher level) 8. Ecotoxicity to land 9. Waste disposal 10. Fossil fuel depletion 11. Eutrophication 12. Photochemical ozone creation 13. Acidification 40 41 Anti Corruption Anti Corruption Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 60% 2011 Targets – Human Rights Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice Targets 2010 Targets 2011 The development and implementation Make the Procurement Policy of a plan of activity focused upon Statement available online identifying areas of potential issue and the development of anti corruption processes and procedures ✔ Brief the procurement department on the UNGC and specifically the AntiCorruption principles. Engage procurement personnel in Anti Corruption UNGC activities. Produce an Anti-Corruption Guidance Document for multiple stakeholders. The tenth principle commits UNGC It is likely that April 2011 will see the signatories not only to actively avoid bribery, commencement of the Bribery Act in the UK. extortion and other forms of corruption but to The UK Bribery Act will protects companies Make the Anti-Corruption Guidance develop policies and concrete programmes that are committed to conducting business in Document available online. to address corruption and related risks. a lawful and ethical manner. Ensure the Anti-Corruption Guidance Bribery is not a victimless crime; it During 2010, Marshalls has further developed Document is part of the procurement discourages developmentally effective its Procurement Policy Statement which policy process. trade, siphons off funds away from projects covers; procurement objectives; legality, designed to help the most disadvantaged. ethical, social and responsible sourcing; It tarnishes reputations, drains corporate Communicate with all existing suppliers code of conduct for procurement; conflict of motivation and distorts competition. regarding the Anti-Corruption Guidance interests’ anti-competitive behaviour; serious Document. concerns; structure and authority; payment; At the 1998 Organisation for Economic intellectual property and commercial Co-operation & Development (OECD) information; information & reporting; and Identify key overseas partners/suppliers Convention on Bribery international consensus was gained with regard to the compliance. This policy can be viewed at and undertake face-to-face briefing/ following: www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability working sessions to identify areas of risk and to develop appropriate plans. 1. Governments must have effective laws and Throughout 2010 a plan of activity has been enforcement capacity in place. developed which further supports Marshalls’ 2. Governments must take action against the stance in this area. The key performance Review and develop anti corruption cultures of bribery that exist in certain sectors indicators regarding this plan are reflected processes and procedures in certain parts of the world. within the targets for Anti-Bribery for 2011. 3. Businesses must be pro-active in adopting anti-bribery measures. 42 43 Third Party Recognition & Awards Third Party Recognition & Awards Awards – 2009 and 2010 November 2009 Halifax Courier The first ever Evening Courier Charity and Business Partnership of WIN Community and Community and Environment the Year Environment Awards Awards pay tribute to the cream of Calderdale’s unsung heroes, volunteers and green gods. November 2009 Building Magazine Celebrating the green champions Green Guru WIN pushing at the boundaries of low energy design and construction. December 2009 Wildlife TrustsAwards The Wildlife Trusts’ Biodiversity Biodiversity Benchmark – Stoke Hall ACCREDITATION January 2009 Sustain Magazine International Award for Trade – Supply Chain Ethics WIN Marshalls at the BITC Awards for Neil Davidson, Chris Harrop and Chris Harrop picking up the PLC Christine Morris at the British Precast Benchmark is the first award for Award for Governance – Carbon Labelling Excellence Yorkshire event, sweeping up Graham Holden at the BITC Awards Awards 2009 Achievement in Awards receiving the Sustainability Site business to recognise Award continual for Sustainability, Business and the WIN five awards for Sustainable Marketing, for Excellence event in London where Sustainability Award for the second year Award on behalf of Marshalls’ Falkirk works. biodiversity improvement. Built Environment WIN Skills in the Workplace, Supply Chain Marshalls was named National Example running. Ethics, Climate Change, and Work of Excellence for Sustainable Marketing February 2010 The PLC Awards The PLC Awards event was Achievement in Sustainability WIN Experience. and Innovation. founded in 1987 to reward March 2009 Creating Better excellence in the smaller quoted WIN Futures Awards company sector March 2010 Business Now in its eighth year, Business Business Superbrand 2010 Third Party Recognition & Awards March 2009 Superbrands The PLC Awards Superbrands Achievementidentifies and pays in Sustainability tribute to the UK’s strongest B2B WIN brands. 2010 April2009 May British Precast Ethical Awards Corporation A celebration of excellent Sustainability Award (CorporateBest Collaboration Category) WIN HIGHLY Independent third party scrutiny and Marshalls has included this table of Awards responsible business Sustainability practices Award (Site by Category) WIN COMMENDED leading companies Award (Site Category) Sustainability HIGHLY COMMENDED verification is a key component to awards from the end of 2009 and 2010 to Concrete Targets 2010 Gold Award Outstanding with Performance WIN HIGHLY Marshalls’ approach to business, as is highlight the third party recognition of its Red Seal COMMENDED award recognition from external bodies. achievements. It is of great importance to Marshalls May 2010 British Precast The British Precast Concrete Sustainability Award (Site Category WIN Federation Ethicaltrade association Awardof – Falkirk) that the awards entered both showcase June 2009 Marketing Awards Society Awards Marketing precast concrete manufacturers HIGHLY COMMENDED and challenge the company’s pioneering Health & Safety Award – approach. Sittingbourne WIN June 2009 Business in the Community Climate Change BIG TICK June 2010 AwardsBusiness in the The UK’s most Supply influential, Chain Ethics Sustainable Marketing NATIONAL EXAMPLE RE-ACCREDITED Community Awards independent, peer assessed Eco-Efficiency OF EXCELLENCE RE-ACCREDITED corporate responsibility awards Skills in the Workplace BIG TICK July 2009 Business Commitment to the Premier Product Category MAJOR COMMENDATION Re-accreditation – Supply Chain Environment (BCE) Environmental Ethics RE-ACCREDITED Leadership Awards Re-accreditation – Climate Change RE-ACCREDITED Nov 2009 Building Green Guru Regional Work Experience WIN HIGHLY COMMENDED August 2010 Sustainability Awards Manufacturer of the Year Shortlisted October 2010 Construction Digital Communications Award Shortlisted Marketing Awards 44 45 Third Party Recognition & Awards Third Party Recognition & Awards Auditing Independent auditing Accreditation In the past, Marshalls has worked with Marshalls works with Just Solutions in order Marshalls only works with reputable and generally recognised auditors for its work to gain a consistent approach to auditing reliable suppliers that meet its own stringent in India. Whilst working in India however, its supplier network and ensure supply requirements and those within the industry. Marshalls found it really needed to work chains remain ethical and best practice is With Marshalls’ help, Stoneshippers with auditors with specialist knowledge of shared where possible. Led by expert supply India recently achieved the internationally trade unions and ILO (International Labour chain auditing specialist Stirling Smith, recognised integrated management system Organisation) standards. The auditing Just Solutions is an SAI listed consultant that Marshalls has in the UK, incorporating process for Marshalls is not just about hitting who works to develop and extend the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. the baseline and doing the minimum, it’s SA8000 standard and the ETI Base about going the extra mile and ensuring Code. The company relies upon the hard the process is as thorough and rigorous as core of convinced companies to engage Marshalls would like to thank all of its possible. stakeholders and professionals together in stakeholders who had input into this first an agreed programme. UNGC Communication on Progress, namely: Marshalls’ supply chain strategy follows the ETI Base Code, which is based on Audits are carried out at least annually, by Marshalls employees the International Labour Organisations a two-person team over two days. Also, Customers conventions. a qualified Marshalls assessor goes out Suppliers to India five to six times a year to audit Partners In embedding the Base Code in the informally. If non-compliance is found, an NGOs. supply chain, Marshalls has put in several action plan is agreed to ensure rectification processes to ensure compliance and takes place and this is followed up by an Marshalls is grateful for the comments from improvement. external audit. all of its stakeholders. In 2010, Marshalls took auditing to a new level. Having already independently audited sole Indian Sandstone supplier Stoneshippers and verified working practices by regular Marshalls visits, the company took the bold step of employing a full time social auditor. Working on the ground alongside Stoneshippers and Hadoti, the auditor ensures all areas of the ETI Base Code are upheld. 46 47 For more information on Marshalls, visit www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability Marshalls plc, Birkby Grange, Birkby Hall Road, Birkby, Huddersfield, HD2 2YA Telephone: 01484 438900 www.marshalls.co.uk ©COPYRIGHT MARSHALLS FEBRUARY 2011
