Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 − Web version − Every year the Daikin Group reports on its CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities. On the Sustainability section of the Daikin Web site, we have past years’ data and related information so that you can read the details of all activities we are involved in. This PDF file contains all the fiscal 2009 information from the Sustainability section of our Web site. You may download and print it out. Note: The printed version of the CSR Report 2010 focuses on our main activities and efforts. It can also be downloaded as a PDF file. Contents Editorial Policy 2 Environmental Management 119 Environmental Management System 121 Daikin's CSR 6 Environmental Audits 125 Business Overview 7 Environmental Risk Management 126 Chairman's Message 10 Environmental Accounting 128 CSR Philosophy 12 Environmental Education 131 Participation in the Global Compact 16 Environmental Communication 132 CSR Management 17 Environmental Seminars and Exhibits 133 CSR Management Structure 20 Environmental Education Corporate Governance 21 and Awareness Activities 135 Compliance and Risk Management 22 History of Environmental Activities 137 Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings 26 Prohibiting Bribes 26 Responsibility to Stakeholders 139 Information Security 27 Responsibility to Stakeholders 140 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights 27 Customers 142 Respect for Human Rights 28 Product Quality and Safety 144 Honors for Daikin 29 Customer Satisfaction 150 Independent Opinions 32 Protecting Customer Information 153 Employees 154 Key Activities 34 Employee Evaluation and Treatment 157 List of Fiscal 2009 Key Activities 35 Workplace Diversity 158 Products That Contribute Work-Life Balance 163 to Global Warming Mitigation 37 Labor Management Relations 166 Environmental Impact Reduction Occupational Safety and Health 167 in the Fluorochemicals Business (Products) 47 Fostering Human Resources 171 Environmental Impact Reduction Business Partners 175 in the Fluorochemicals Business (Production) 51 Philosophy on Suppliers 176 Biodiversity Preservation 54 Working Closely with Suppliers 177 Product Quality Assurance 57 Green Procurement Guidelines 180 Global Human Resource Development 60 Shareholders and Investors 181 For Shareholders 182 Environment 63 Information Disclosure Policy 185 Overview of Environmental Impact 64 Communities 186 Towards an Environmentally Advanced Company 66 Promoting Art and Culture 188 Fiscal 2009 Environmental Action Achievements 69 Promoting Sports 190 Low Impact Products 72 Contributing to Education 192 Daikin Eco-Products 75 Environmental Contributions to Society 195 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products 81 A Good Corporate Citizen Promoting the Use of Heat Pump Space —Activities in Each Community 197 and Hot Water Heaters 82 Products That Help Customers Save Energy 84 Data 210 Environmentally Conscious Fluorochemical Products 88 Overview of GRI Guidelines 226 Low Impact Refrigerants 90 GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 (G3) 227 3R & Repair 92 Low Impact Production 95 Preventing Global Warming — Production, Transportation 98 Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners 105 Green Procurement 109 Compliance with J-Moss 112 Management of Chemical Substances 114 Reducing Waste 116 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 −Web version− Editorial Policy 2 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy This site details the Daikin Group's CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities: basic CSR philosophy, performances in fiscal year 2010, and plans for the near future. Information that, due to space limitations, could not fit into the CSR Report 2010 (printed version) released in June 2010 is included on this Web site. We divided the CSR Report by what we consider to be the key themes of our CSR activities: the environment, quality and customer satisfaction, human resources, and social contribution. Each chapter deals with the Daikin Group's major areas of activity and subjects in which our stakeholders are most interested. (For more details, see the PDF version of the report.) You'll find features on the Daikin Group's human resource training and on our efforts to curb global warming, which has been a major focus for us in recent years. This Web site is divided into sections on our environmental protection activities and on each stakeholder group: customers, suppliers, shareholders and investors, employees, and local communities. This allows readers easy access to important information concerning Daikin. Environment (See page 63) Responsibility to Stakeholders (See page 139) We also give specific examples of how Daikin and its bases around the world contribute to key efforts of working to prevent global warming and preserve biodiversity, and to foster human resources. Key Activities (See page 34) To ensure an objective assessment of our activities and of this report, and to deepen dialogue with stakeholders, we have included independent, third party opinions. Independent Opinions (See page 32) Reference Guidelines Environmental Reporting Guidelines (fiscal 2007 edition) released by the Ministry of the Environment. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Third Edition (G3) released by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Note In reporting on fiscal year 2009 environmental protection activities, data was carefully reviewed and was revised in cases where discrepancies occurred between actual results and information reported for fiscal year 2008. Also, because figures are rounded off, totals may not equal the sum figures. 3 Editorial Policy Forecasts, Expectations, and Plans This report includes forecasts, expectations, and plans, in addition to past and present facts, about Daikin Industries, Ltd. and its subsidiaries (collectively called the Daikin Group). Please be aware that these are assumptions and judgments made based on the information available at the time this report was written and thus incorporate a degree of uncertainty. Consequently, there is a risk that events occurring in the future may turn out differently from the forecasts, expectations, and plans stated in this report. What This Report Covers Term Covered This report covers fiscal year 2009 (April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2010). Daikin Organizations Covered This report covers Daikin Industries, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Environmental performance data, however, covers four Daikin Industries, Ltd. production bases, eight production subsidiaries in Japan, and 17 production subsidiaries overseas. (See our Web site for company names and other information.) Note that only the figures on pages 3-4 (printed version, CSR Report 2009) for performance, number of employees, and number of subsidiaries include O.Y.L. Industries, which Daikin acquired in 2006, and O.Y.L. subsidiaries. Japan Daikin Industries, Ltd. Head Office Tokyo Office Sakai Plant Air conditioning/refrigeration equipment, compressors Shiga Plant Air conditioning equipment, compressors Yodogawa Fluorochemical products, hydraulic equipment, air-conditioning equipment, precision defense Plant equipment Kashima Plant Fluorochemical products 8 Production Subsidiaries Daikin Sheet-Metal Co., Ltd. Daikin Piping Co., Ltd. Daikin Applied Systems Co., Ltd. Daikin Hydraulic Engineering Co., Ltd. Daikin Rexxam Electronics (Japan) Ltd. Daikin Sunrise Settsu Ltd. Toho Kasei Co., Ltd. Kyoei Kasei Industries, Ltd. 4 Editorial Policy Overseas 17 Production Subsidiaries Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Daikin Airconditioning (Thailand) Ltd. Daikin Europe N.V. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o. Daikin Industries Czech republic s.r.o. Daikin Air conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Daikin Air conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (Huizhou Branch) Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co., Ltd. Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Daikin America, Inc. 5 Editorial Policy Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 −Web version− Daikin's CSR Business Overview 7 Chairman's Message 10 CSR Philosophy 12 Participation in the Global Compact 16 CSR Management 17 CSR Management Structure 20 Corporate Governance 21 Compliance and Risk Management 22 Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings 26 Prohibiting Bribes 26 Information Security 27 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights 27 Respect for Human Rights 28 Honors for Daikin 29 Independent Opinions 32 6 Daikin's CSR Air Conditioning and Chemical Technologies Work Hand-in-Hand Daikin has made global warming prevention its most important priority and actively pursues environmental impact reduction in all business activities. The Daikin Group offers products utilizing technologies in both air conditioning and fluorochemicals to provide living space with comfort. We also contribute to sustainable development of society through proprietary advanced technologies and advanced R&D in our oil hydraulics business, which encompasses energy-efficient technologies cultivated in our air conditioning business, and our defense systems business, which provides a wide range of products from aerospace parts to home medical equipment. Daikin Group Business Air Conditioning Business Achieving Both Comfort and Environmental Consciousness to Meet All Global Air Conditioning Needs Chemicals Business World's Leading Lineup of Fluorine Compounds Oil Hydraulics, Defense Systems Business Proprietary Technologies at Work in a Range of Industries 7 Daikin's CSR Ever since we developed Japan's first air conditioner in 1951, the Daikin Group has used the air conditioning and chemical expertise it has built up to bring comfort to people around the world, whether they are at home or at work. In the fields of oil hydraulics and defense systems, our proprietary cutting-edge technologies and R&D capabilities have advanced industry and improved people's lives. Of all our businesses, those with the greatest impact on society are the air conditioner business and our fluorochemical business, which makes the fluorocarbon refrigerants for air conditioners. Air conditioners use large amounts of energy, and fluorocarbons are greenhouse gases that cause global warming. The structure of our business necessitates that we make it our mission to help prevent global warming. We thus do all that we can to reduce environmental impact in all areas of business. Our aim is to be an environmentally advanced company by developing and marketing environmentally conscious products and services and by reducing emissions of fluorocarbons and CO2 in the production, distribution, and marketing stages. Worldwide Business Daikin Group strives to be a company that can meet the expectations of various stakeholders while respecting the diverse cultures and values of people in each country and region. The Daikin Group does business around the world in countries and regions like China, Southeast Asia, Oceania, Europe, and North America. We have 38,874 employees at worldwide production and sales bases, with about two-thirds of employees outside Japan. By respecting the cultures and values of each country and region, we strive for a workplace that brings out the motivation and unique personality of each employee. Daikin Group 8 Daikin's CSR The Daikin Group does business in Japan, China and the rest of Asia, Oceania, Europe, and the United States with the goal of maximizing corporate value to become a truly global and excellent company. In fiscal 2006, we further expanded our geographical area and markets through the acquisition of O.Y.L. Industries (headquarters: Malaysia), which has solid air conditioning business networks in North America and Asia. As we continue to grow worldwide, we are striving even further to contribute to society in respecting the diverse cultures and values of the countries and regions where we operate and by hiring locally to ensure our products and services meet local needs. People are the force behind improving corporate value. To become a company trusted throughout the world, all Group employees must understand and implement our Group Philosophy, and our company must create a work environment in which employees can maximize their unique traits and work with enthusiasm and pride. We will continue to reward stakeholders-customers, shareholders, employees, and local citizens-through our corporate growth. In the process, we will think globally while being a good citizen of the Earth and acting in the best interests of each community in our goal of becoming a truly first-rate company. 9 Daikin's CSR The Daikin Group provides customers with the ultimate in convenience and comfort through high-quality products and services and practices a shared code of conduct that includes fair corporate activities, vigorous environmental protection, and proactive contributions to local communities. The world is simultaneously recovering from economic recession and transitioning to low-carbon societies. Anticipating this change in the times, the Daikin Group is engaging in business activities grounded in the pillars of CSR: creation of new value, provision of environmentally conscious products and services on a global scale, and development of the human resources that make these activities possible. Contributing to Protection of the Environment through Environmental Technologies and Products In the FUSION 10 five-year strategic management plan, the Daikin Group set forth a basic policy of combining social contributions from proactive solutions to global environmental problems and business expansion. In addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from production and raising the environmental awareness of our employees, we have undertaken environmental initiatives that have tremendous potential to become the cornerstone for our environmental strategy. These initiatives include contribution to society through the provision of environmental technologies and products, worldwide expansion and enhancement of the environmentally conscious products, full-scale entry into the heating business using heat pump technology, and the establishment of a structure for the applied solutions business. These actions have made it possible for the Daikin Group to provide products that meet the environmental needs of countries and regions including Europe, China, and the United States. 10 Daikin's CSR In China, through a collaborative venture with Gree Electric Appliances, Inc. of Zhuhai, one of China's largest air conditioning manufacturers, we have developed inverter air conditioners in the low-price zone and greatly contributed to the appeal of inverter models. In Europe, commercialization of heat pump heaters began at an early stage. After obtaining European Parliament approval of heat pump technology as a technology that captures renewable energy, the business has become remarkably successful and is being developed as the next pillar of our business operations. In the United States, we established the Applied Development Center for developing global models of energy-saving, large-scale air conditioning systems, and in May of this year, we newly established the Applied Solution Business Division to provide a structure for taking the large-scale air conditioner business forward. In the chemicals business, we have created products and technologies that contribute to improving the efficiency of lithium ion rechargeable batteries and solar cells. The year 2010 is the final year of our current strategic management plan and the year for deciding a new five-year plan. In the next management plan, the environment will remain a pillar of corporate management. We will also refine our technologies and products and contribute to society by providing people around the world with products that contribute to protecting the environment. Leveraging Diversity as a Strength and Promoting Personnel around the World The Daikin Group believes that the cumulative growth of all Group members serves as the foundation for the Group's development. Consequently we practice People-Centered Management and strive to create workplaces where each employee can fully demonstrate his or her capabilities. As business globalization continues to accelerate, worldwide recruitment and fostering of human resources, as well as their suitable deployment and compensation, have become essential themes in our aim for further growth. By providing workplaces where talented people can thrive regardless of their nationality, we are convinced that we can contribute to a sustainable society through our business activities. People-centered management in the age of globalization necessitates global business expansion that respects each world culture, its customs, and history and leverages diversity as a strength to address the needs of society in each region. To human resources capable of expanding our business, Daikin provides equal opportunity for advancement and develops human potential to the fullest as we engage in management that takes even greater advantage of our human resources. Aiming for a Truly Global and Excellent Company To clearly define a code of conduct for our business activities around the world, in October 2008, Daikin joined the United Nations Global Compact, which sets forth basic principles pertaining to human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. We have meaningfully incorporated the spirit of the Global Compact into our Handbook for Corporate Ethics and endeavor to instill it within the Group. As our business develops, our responsibility to society will increase. We intend to remain a corporate group that enjoys the trust of society by increasing the transparency of our business activities and discharging our social responsibility while meeting the expectations of our various stakeholders. With environmental protection and human resource development as the pillars of CSR, we will contribute to the sustainable development of society as we aspire to further corporate growth. June 2010 11 Daikin's CSR 12 Daikin's CSR How We View CSR in the Daikin Group 1. By ensuring implementation of our Group Philosophy, the DAIKIN Group will execute our social responsibilities globally in relations with all our stakeholders, and thereby raise our corporate value and contribute to the sustainable development of society. 2. Based upon thorough observance of legal compliance and corporate ethics, the DAIKIN Group will carry out our CSR initiatives with priority on contributing to society through our business activities such as: Creating and offering new value by anticipating the future needs of customers; Taking initiatives to sustain and improve the environment in all aspects of our business operations, and promoting the development of new products and the innovation of technologies that will lead to a more environmentally healthy world; Building friendly yet competitive relations with all our business partners such as suppliers; and Cultivating workplaces that foster pride and enthusiasm in each employee. Furthermore, as a good corporate citizen the DAIKIN Group will make beneficial contributions to each community in which we are based by being highly receptive to its needs. 3. Instead of simply giving consideration to CSR, the DAIKIN Group will proactively incorporate CSR initiatives in all our business activities, fuse and integrate such initiatives with these activities in order to ensure truly ongoing CSR initiatives and lead to the improvement of our business performance. 4. The DAIKIN Group will pursue CSR in our unique way by riding on our strengths, such as our atmosphere of freedom and boldness, thorough customer-oriented management, warm hospitality and other valued traditions and culture, as well as world-leading technologies. 5. The DAIKIN Group will fulfill our CSR by promoting interactive communications widely with society, achieving accountability, and maintaining high transparency. Environmental Philosophy Be a Company that Leads in Applying Environmentally Friendly Practices As we continue developing our business operations in various fields, it is our mission to proactively develop initiatives to respond to environmental issues. Incorporating environmental initiatives throughout our management must be a priority for us. In all aspects of our business operations, including product development, manufacturing and sales, we need to formulate initiatives that sustain and improve the environment. Meanwhile, we need to promote the development of new products and the innovation of technologies that will lead to a more environmentally healthy world. Under the precept environmental response is an important management resource, we must integrate environmental initiatives into our corporate management since they can lead to business expansion, improved business performance, and further enhancement of our credibility with outside parties. We intend to continue being a leading company in the practice of environmental management, thus contributing to a healthier global environment as a good citizen of the earth. 13 Daikin's CSR Action Guidelines 1. Ensure that all members of the Group deepen our understanding of environmental issues and take responsibility for the impact our actions have on society in general. 2. Establish, promote, and continuously improve an Environmental Management System to actively and effectively implement Environmental Management as a Group. 3. Develop and implement environmental initiatives in all aspects of our business operations, including product development, production, sales, distribution, services, and recycling. In particular, be a leader in society by developing products, technologies, and business opportunities that contribute to sustaining and improving our environment. 4. Implement environmental initiatives that are globally consistent as well as promote initiatives that respond to the particular circumstances of each country and region. Furthermore, actively promote cooperation and alliances with related companies, external organizations, and institutions. 5. Disclose environmentally related information in a truthful and fair manner. Listen to the views of people both inside and outside the company to continuously improve our environmental preservation efforts. Group Compliance Guidelines These compliance guidelines set forth the basic premises to observe as a basic framework for compliance for all Group companies as well as each and every one of their executives and employees in the worldwide expansion of the Daikin Group. Each company of the global Group shall draft specific criteria based on these guidelines as a code of conduct that corresponds to differences in laws and customs of each country and region and thoroughly maintains compliance. 1. Providing Safe, High Quality Products and Services We shall make every effort to ensure the safety and quality of our products and services from the standpoint of our customers. Should a problem occur regarding safety, we shall immediately take appropriate action. 2. Free Competition and Fair Trading We shall perform fair corporate activities in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations relating to fair competition and fair trade of each country and region. 3. Observing Trade Control Laws We shall not participate in any transactions that may undermine the maintenance of global peace and security and world order in compliance with all applicable export and import related laws and regulations of each country and region as well as Daikin Group Policy. 4. Respect and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Recognizing that intellectual property rights are important company assets, we shall strive to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights and effectively utilize them. Furthermore, we shall respect and make every effort not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of other companies. 5. Proper Management and Utilization of Information We shall properly manage and effectively utilize the confidential information of our company, the confidential information obtained from other companies, and the personal information of our customers and employees and shall not obtain any information through improper means. We shall thoroughly execute IT security management for our computer systems and the data-resources saved on them. 14 Daikin's CSR 6. Prohibition of Insider Trading To maintain the trust of the securities market, we shall not use non-public information about the Daikin Group or other companies to buy or sell stocks or other securities (insider trading). 7. Timely and Appropriate Disclosure of Corporate Information Aiming to be an open company with high transparency and earn the respect of society, we shall actively convey corporate information in a timely fashion not only to shareholders and investors but also to a wide spectrum of society, and engage in two-way communication. 8. Preservation of the Global Environment We shall observe all applicable environment laws and regulations of each country and region and practice initiatives that sustain and improve the environment in all aspects of our business operations, including product development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, and services. Also, each and every one of us shall strive to promote environmentally conscious actions. 9. Ensuring the Safety of Operations We shall take all possible precautions for safe operations and act with a mindset of Safety First to ensure the safety of the workplace and further gain the trust of people in the regions we serve. 10. Respect for Human Rights and Diversity in the Workplace and Observance of Labor Laws We shall respect the human rights of each and every employee and diversity in values and approach to work while striving to create a workplace that is safe and comfortable to work. We shall also observe both the letter and spirit of all labor laws and regulations of each country and region, and under no circumstances sanction the labor performed under compulsion or against a person's will (forced labor), or labor of children who do not meet the minimum age requirements for labor as regulated by laws and regulations of each country and region (child labor). 11. Protection of Company Assets We shall properly manage the tangible and intangible assets of our company to protect and utilize effectively these assets. 12. Proper Handling of Accounting Procedures We shall comply with all accounting standards and tax laws of each country and region as well as internal company rules in properly performing accounting procedures and shall make every effort to improve internal controls. 13. Practicing Moderation in Entertainment and Gift Exchanges We shall exercise moderation and perform within the acceptable range of social norms and obey the laws and regulations of each country and region in regards to entertainment and exchange of presents performed relating to our business. In particular, we shall neither entertain nor provide gifts of monetary value to public officials at home and abroad in violation of applicable laws and regulations in each country and region. 14. Maintaining a Firm Attitude against Anti-social Activities We shall take a firm attitude against anti-social force or organization that threatens the safety and order of the citizens of society 15. Observing Various Business Law and Regulation We shall accurately comprehend and observe all business laws and regulations of each country and region applicable to our business activities. 15 Daikin's CSR Participation in the Global Compact Building a System for Unified Group Action In October 2008, Daikin Industries' participation in the United Nations Global Compact was acknowledged. The United Nations Global Compact, proposed by former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 1999 at the World Economic Forum, presents a unique strategic platform for companies to advance their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship. The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. In August 2008, we established our Group Compliance Guidelines. And in September 2008, we revised our Handbook for Corporate Ethics, adding items such as the abolition of forced labor and child labor. In this way, we are incorporating the spirit of the Global Compact into our Group management strategy and putting it into action in our business activities as we strive to contribute to a sustainable society and raise the Daikin Group's corporate value. Ten Principles of UN Global Compact Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 16 Daikin's CSR The Daikin Group believes that CSR is the meticulous practice of Our Group Philosophy on a daily basis. We also create systems for our worldwide bases that promote corporate ethics and legal compliance as the foundation of our CSR. CSR Management Structure Building a System for Integrated Group CSR The Daikin Group has systems for the comprehensive, crossorganizational promotion of CSR activities throughout the entire group. (See page 20) Corporate Governance Outside Viewpoint Ensures Sound Transparent Management Daikin Industries' corporate governance system aims for fast decisionmaking and execution by having the two together in an integrated (See page 21) management framework. We also have mechanisms that ensure the soundness and transparency of our management. Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The board of directors oversees the CSR Committee, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, and the Disclosure Committee, all of which work to ensure that corporate governance is based firmly in corporate social responsibility. Compliance and Risk Management Daikin Joins UN Global Compact; Establishes Group Compliance Guidelines The Daikin Group has systems for carrying out integrated action in compliance and risk management. (See page 22) In October 2008, we joined the United Nations Global Compact. Prior to Management Structure that, in September 2008, we established our Group Compliance Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Guidelines, which include Global Compact philosophies including the Handbook for Corporate Ethics abolishment of forced labor and child labor. These guidelines were Legal Compliance Audits, Compliance added to our Handbook for Corporate Ethics, an action guide for Daikin Education employees. In-House Information Help-Line See Participation in the Global Compact. (Page 16) Risk and Measures Preparing for Earthquakes 17 Daikin's CSR Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings The Daikin group strives for fair business practices through measures for complying with the Anti-Monopoly Act, Misleading Representations Act, (See page 26) and the Subcontract Act. Prohibiting Bribes We do our utmost to ensure that business entertainment and gift-giving related to business are conducted within the laws and customs of each (See page 26) country and region. Information Security We ensure the proper management and use of information by thoroughly educating employees and by properly managing confidential information (See page 27) that we obtain from other companies. Company divisions and departments have information managers, and we ensure information is being properly managed through legal compliance audits and other measures. Respect for Intellectual Property Rights We recognize intellectual property as one of a company's most valuable assets. We carry out proper and fair exercise of rights in response to (See page 27) violation of intellectual property as well as respect other companies' intellectual property. Training is held for each management level of employees and thorough checks are carried out during development of new products and technologies to ensure there is no infringement on the intellectual property of other companies. Suppliers Must Be in Legal Compliance Management That Achieves Legal Compliance throughout the Supply Chain The Daikin Group urges its suppliers to abide by labor-related laws. (See page 177) Before taking on new suppliers, in the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division, we inquire into things like their management policies and labor situation. The Chemicals Division carries out unscheduled audits and monitors suppliers for improper labor practices such as excessive work hours. 18 Daikin's CSR Respect for Human Rights Basic Policy of Respect for Human Rights and Diversity, and Compliance with Labor Laws Daikin Industries makes employees aware of human rights issues as part of its goal of becoming a company free of discrimination where each (See page 28) individual is respected. Policy and Management Structure The Handbook for Corporate Ethics states our policy of respecting Human Rights Education human rights and diversity in the workplace and abiding by labor laws, and Preventing Sexual Harassment we constantly remind employees to be aware of this. 19 Daikin's CSR CSR Management Structure Building a System for Integrated Group CSR Firmly grounded in legal compliance and corporate ethics, the Daikin Group's CSR efforts are aimed at contributing to society through its business activities. The CSR Committee chaired by Daikin's COO sets Daikin's CSR direction and monitors the progress of CSR activities. Under this committee, officers in charge of CSR and their staff in the CSR & Global Environment Center lead comprehensive, cross-organizational CSR activities throughout the entire group. 20 Daikin's CSR Corporate Governance Outside Viewpoint Ensures Sound Transparent Management Unlike the committee system* in the United States, where decision-making and execution are completely independent of each other, the Daikin Group employs an integrated management framework in which directors assume responsibility for both management and execution. Daikin uses this framework because it effectively speeds up decision-making and execution by integrating the two according to the characteristics of Daikin's business. We also have mechanisms that ensure the soundness and transparency of our management. We appoint two outside board members with no vested interest in our company to take part in decision-making from an outsider's point of view. We also appoint two external auditors who not only sit in on the Auditors Meeting and the Board of Directors Meeting but also on key meetings such as the Executive Officers Meeting where they monitor and manage the execution of policy. The Group Auditors Meeting, made up of auditors from major group companies, meets periodically to ensure that the entire Group's auditing and management functions are constantly improving. We also strive to raise soundness and transparency Corporate Governance through the Corporate Advisors, who offer unbiased operational advice, and the Personnel and Compensation Advisory Committee, which works to improve the transparency of personnel matters and the compensation of directors. The Independent Committee was formed to ensure that when there is a large-scale purchase of Daikin shares, Daikin's corporate value and shareholders' joint profit are protected. The committee helps provide our shareholders with impartial information so that there is transparency in our paperwork and dealings, as well as a high degree of objectivity. To ensure that the interests of stakeholders other than shareholders are respected and protected, the board of directors oversees the CSR Committee, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, and the Disclosure Committee, all of which work to ensure that corporate governance is based firmly in corporate social responsibility. * A company with a committee comprising mostly outside directors instead of auditors to raise management transparency. 21 Daikin's CSR Management Structure Integrated Group-Wide Promotion of Compliance and Risk Management In fiscal year 2003, the Daikin Group established the Corporate Ethics Committee as an organ for leading group-wide corporate ethics activities. In fiscal year 2007, the name was changed to the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee for the purpose of carrying out integrated action in compliance and risk management. In the area of legal compliance, compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs) in each division gather the latest legal information and check to see if laws are reflected in company rules and manuals. There are also monthly daily triple checks to ensure everyone is following laws and company rules and manuals. The results of these checks are reported at monthly CRL meetings for the sake of sharing information. There are also self assessments carried out once a year to ensure that employees are following the Compliance Action Guidelines stipulated in the Handbook for Corporate Ethics. In the area of risk management, we have a group-wide cross-organizational risk management. Every year, self assessments are accompanied by risk assessment in all divisions. From the results, the key risks in each division are identified and measures are then created to reduce these risks. Based on the results of self assessments and risk assessment, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee draws up an annual company-wide to do list, along with a time frame and managers responsible for carrying out the tasks on the list. These tasks are carried out using the PDCA management cycle. For more information, see Risk and Measures . (Page 24) Sharing Information with Overseas Group Companies Since fiscal 2003, nine major overseas group Corporate Ethics and Risk Management companies* have had CRLs (compliance and risk management leaders) to lead compliance activities based on the Daikin Industries' model and adapted to their own particular situation. With compliance committees, Corporate Ethics Handbooks, and regular self assessment and risk management conducted, these companies strive for the same level of compliance as Daikin Industries. Representatives of Daikin Industries regularly visit these companies and meet with the CRLs to see how they are progressing and share valuable information. * Daikin Europe N.V., Daikin America Inc., Daikin Air Conditioning America, Daikin Air conditioning (Singapore) Pte., Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd., Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd., Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. 22 Daikin's CSR Handbook for Corporate Ethics Daikin Industries' Handbook for Corporate Ethics Revised; Group Divisions and Overseas Group Companies Follow In fiscal 2008, Daikin Industries revised the Handbook for Corporate Ethics, a valuable guide to employee behavior. At that time, hearings were held with overseas group companies and the Group Compliance Guidelines were formulated to clarify common compliance matters for the entire group worldwide. Employees in Japan have been given compliance cards and are urged to carry these with them at all times to ensure that they always follow rules and ethics. The revisions provided an opportunity for renewed education and training. The multi-faceted training uses every opportunity to teach the basics of the handbook items and carry out practical study and discussion of case studies. See Suppliers Must Be in Legal Compliance (Page 177) Legal Compliance Audits, Compliance Legal Audits Ensure Laws are Being Followed Based on self assessment results, legal compliance audits are conducted to make sure that Daikin is abiding by laws and regulations. In fiscal 2009, audits were conducted in all divisions of Daikin Industries. All relevant documents were inspected and CRLs led hearings with managers. Audit results were reported to general managers so that everyone could share an awareness of what must be done to improve compliance. Number of compliance violations, countermeasures Fiscal 2009 Details 0 No laws or regulations were broken. Education New Education Program Follows Compliance Action Guidelines The revisions to the Handbook for Corporate Ethics provided an opportunity to also revise our education program to make it more focused on the practical matters of compliance. The Compliance Action Guidelines, created based on the Group Compliance Guidelines, were the topic of monthly training for CRLs in all divisions starting in September 2008. There was also training that used case studies to teach the most relevant laws in the areas of marketing, manufacturing, and purchasing. New employees and newly appointed managers also received compliance training. And in fiscal 2009 officers were trained in the areas of corporate ethics and legal compliance. To make these training sessions as practical as possible, participants submitted questions and queries that were used to make databases of the most common issues. We are also continuing training and courses divided by management level and that focus on themes peculiar to each division. 23 Daikin's CSR In-House Information General Managers and Managers Speak on the Importance of Compliance To raise employees' awareness of compliance, general managers and managers take every opportunity to give talks on the importance of compliance that draw on their wealth of experience. In November 2009, Daikin Industries created a publication called the Compliance Information Archives, a compilation of information that is given to managers. They then use this to continually keep their employees informed and aware of the importance of compliance. Help-Line Help-Line for Corporate Ethics Offers Counseling and Gathers Opinons We have a Help-Line for Corporate Ethics in the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center, where employees can give opinions or receive consultation on all corporate ethics matters. Although corporate ethics issues are normally taken care of in the part of the organization where they occur, sometimes this is not easy. In that case, the corporate ethics manager, representing the Help-Line for Corporate Ethics, consults directly with the employee to hear his or her opinions. The help-line is designed to be worry-free and accessible: users can contact it by phone, fax, or mail and their names are kept confidential. All queries and opinions to the help-line are investigated, and discussions are held with the related company division, with measures promptly carried out so that problems do not reoccur. Drastic measures will be carried out in the case of a potential company-wide problem. To ensure that the help-line is well publicized, the help-line's contact information is provided on the compliance card that all employees carry with them at all times. Risk and Measures Risk Management Identifies Most Important Risks Across Entire Company and Implements Measures With the Daikin Group expanding rapidly around the globe, we introduced company-wide, cross-organizational risk management in 2006 in order to quickly get an overall picture of risks from a global point of view and reduce the risks. We conduct risk assessment every year and based on the results we identify the most important areas of risk, then plan and implement measures to deal with risks. In fiscal 2009, we identified seven risk items: product liability and quality, IT, technological information leaks, transfer pricing taxation, global safety, new types of influenza, and earthquakes. The Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee is looking into measures to deal with these. Most Important Risks and Measures Product Liability and Quality Risk In the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division, we have continued efforts to make products safer; for example we have made electronic component housing more flame resistant and protected it with metal plating, given printed circuit boards improved coating, and given outdoor units protective metal plating. In fiscal 2009, we incorporated design review and strengthened technologies in order to make products safer. 24 Daikin's CSR IT Risk A breakdown of computer systems would mean a major interruption to business activities and a huge inconvenience to our customers. To ensure this does not happen, in fiscal 2009 we reinforced our systems and have measures in place to ensure that they are quickly up and running in case of a breakdown. Technological Information Leaks Risk To create an environment in which our global technological information is adequately protected, in fiscal 2009 we formulated and began implementing boosted security measures. Transfer Pricing Taxation Risk With the Daikin Group rapidly expanding globally, transfer pricing taxation presents a major form of risk. To avoid infringement on transfer pricing taxation, we are thorough in conducting business transactions between countries. Global Safety Risk Because we have manufacturing bases around the world, the Daikin Group is working to ensure that our factories and employees are as safe as possible. In fiscal 2009, the Chemicals Division conducted global safety audits. As well, the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division and the Chemicals Division each held hands-on safety training. Daikin is also working towards certification for the OHSAS 18001 international occupational health and safety management system. New Types of Influenza Risk As a measure against the spread of new types of influenza, in fiscal 2009 we established an emergency management system that allows us to quickly adapt to changes in the state of this risk. We also implemented measures to prevent the spread of viruses, made available preventative tools like gauze masks and hand sanitizer, and worked to ensure that business interruptions are kept to a minimum and that our customers experience as little inconvenience as possible. Preparing for Earthquakes Preparing for Earthquakes through Safety Confirmation System and Building Reinforcement In the event of an earthquake, ensuring the safety of employees and their families is first and foremost. To this end, in fiscal 2008 we built a safety confirmation system in which we have the cell phone numbers of all Daikin Industries' employees and their family members on file. In fiscal 2009, we expanded this system to include all Daikin Group company employees. We are also working towards protecting employees by gradually reinforcing company buildings against earthquakes. We are currently in the process of formulating a business continuity plan (BCP) so that we can stay in business or recover within a short time after an earthquake. 25 Daikin's CSR Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings Thorough Compliance with the Anti-Monopoly Act, Misleading Representations Act, and Subcontract Act The Daikin group strives for fair business practices through measures for complying with the Anti-Monopoly Act, Misleading Representations Act, and the Subcontract Act. Besides education in each division, the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center holds training when necessary. Employees also ensure they are in compliance through self assessments. Reasonable Business Entertainment and Gift-Giving Thorough Measures to Prevent Bribes The Group Compliance Guidelines state that we shall conduct business entertainment and gift-giving within the laws and customs of each country and region. We are especially strict in enforcing this in relation to gifts and entertainment for government officials. The Compliance Action Guidelines also refer to sound and transparent relations with government offices, compliance with the Political Funds Control Law and the Public Offices Election Act, and reasonable entertainment and gift-giving with suppliers, and we strive to thoroughly educate all employees on these points. Self assessments allow employees to stay in compliance with the above policies, and company-wide training is conducted thoroughly and regularly. 26 Daikin's CSR Proper Management and Use of Information Proper Management and Use of All Confidential Information Including That of Other Companies We manage and use confidential information appropriately, be it our own or that of other companies, according to the stipulations of the Rules for Managing Confidential Information, which we formulated in 2006. Our Compliance Action Guidelines also state our policy of properly managing and using confidential information that we obtain from other companies through proper channels. We provide a company-wide education program on this. For the management of information, the executive officer in charge of legal affairs assumes responsibility for managing corporate secrets. As well, divisions and departments have information managers who also contribute to running of the information management system. The Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center has a Corporate Secrets Management Office. In addition to self assessments for ensuring employees are protecting confidential information, legal audits are also conducted regularly. See Protecting Customers' Personal Information (Page 153) Respect for Intellectual Property Rights Respect Intellectual Property of Other Companies As Well We recognize that intellectual property is a valuable company asset. Our Compliance Action Guidelines clearly state that we shall carry out proper and fair exercise of rights in response to violation of intellectual property as well as respect other company's intellectual property. We hold basic employee education on these guidelines. In addition to employee seminars, training is held for new employees, engineers, and various levels of management. In the new product and new technology development process, the design review involves verifying that these products and technologies do not infringe on existing patents. We will continue to conduct precise surveys to prevent inadvertently infringing on the intellectual property of other companies. As part of efforts to strengthen systems overseas, our development bases have managers in charge of protecting intellectual property rights. See Guarantee of Employees' Intellectual Property Rights (Page 174) 27 Daikin's CSR Policy and Management Structure Respect for Human Rights Based on Action Guidelines That the Spirit of the U.N. Global Compact is Incorporated in Daikin Industries makes employees aware of human rights issues as part of its goal of becoming a company free of discrimination where each individual is respected. To this end, regular self assessments by employees and annual legal compliance audits ensure that no human rights violations occur. Divisions also hold human rights education when necessary. In 2008, Daikin Industries took part in the United Nations Global Compact for aligning operations to universally accepted principles on human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. Prior to that, the Compliance Action Guidelines were revised to state our policy of no forced labor or child labor, respect for individual human rights and for diverse values and ways of looking at work, and the creation of an employee-friendly workplace. Daikin Industries will continue to urge all employees to be aware of human rights issues as we strive to abide by the letter and spirit of labor-related laws in Japan and around the world. Human Rights Education Training for All Job Descriptions including Officers, Managers, and New Employees Part of Daikin Industries' human rights awareness efforts is the annual Antidiscrimination Committee meetings, under which is held human rights training for job descriptions including officers, managers, and new employees. Other efforts to raise human rights awareness among employees include articles in the company newsletter and human rights slogan contests at the factories. Preventing Sexual Harassment Sexual Harassment Education for Managers The Compliance Action Guidelines promote respect for human rights and diversity and compliance with labor laws in the workplace. It is our policy to respect human rights by building a fair workplace that is free of sexual harassment and power harassment. We also carry out company-wide sexual harassment education: besides a training course for 70 head office managers, there are regular explanatory sessions as part of section and division managers meetings at all Daikin bases. 28 Daikin's CSR Overall CSR (Include SRI) Daikin Group Socially Responsible Investment Indexes Chosen for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (for eight consecutive years up to fiscal year 2009) Chosen for inclusion in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index Sustainable Management Received a Bronze Class rating for corporate sustainability from Sustainable Asset Management (SAM), a Swiss asset management company Environmental Protection Daikin Industries Environmental Index Selected for inclusion in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for 2009 Global Warming Prevention Received the Osaka Governor's Award, 2009 Osaka Stop Global Warming Awards Freezing, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Heat Recovery System Director General Prize of Agency of Natural Resources and Energy, 2009 Energy Conservation Awards DESICA System Award of Technology, 47th Society of Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Sanitary Engineers of Japan Awards Japan Society for the Promotion of Machine Industry Chairman's Prize, 7th Japan Society for the Promotion of Machine Industry Awards 2009 Medal for New Technology, Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Energy Award, 2009 Lloyd's List Global Awards 29 Daikin's CSR Daikin Airconditioning UK Ltd. Daikin Altherma Hot-Water Heating and Interior Heating Systems Rushlight Natural Energy Award, Rushlight Awards 2009 Award in Heating, Plumbing, Ventilation and Building Service Category, Self-Build Product Innovation Awards 2010 Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. (Thailand) Improving Manufacturing Processes 2009 Thailand Energy Award, Ministry of Energy Daikin Industries and Daikin Group companies in Japan Employees' Environmental Action Nikkei Ecology Award, 2009 Eco-Unit Awards Social Contribution Recognition of Product and Service Quality Daikin Industries Deodorizing with Water (Function equipped in air conditioner and air purifier) Chairman's Award, 2008 Society of Indoor Environment Japan Properties of the Electrolytic Solution Using Fluoroether 2009 Committee of Battery Technology Award Eco-Cute Easy User Guide Excellence Award in the Sheet Manuals / Package Manuals Category, Japan Manual Contest 2009 Daikin AC (Americas), Inc. VRV III, VRV III-C, Quaternity, Daikin Altherma AHR Expo Innovation Awards 2010 30 Daikin's CSR Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Distinguished Brands 2009 China Brand & Communication Forum and Awards Ceremony on Brands of Distinguished Contributions Daikin Europe N.V. European Design Air Conditioner 2010 iF Product Design Award, red dot design award 2010 Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Gold Award in the Reader's Digest Trusted Brand Awards 2009 Recognition of Occupational Safety and Health Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ranked BizSafe Level 3 note: Ranked according to the implementation level of occupational safety and health Recognition of Personnel Systems Daikin Europe N.V. Chosen one of the Top Employers of 2010 note: Awarded to companies with outstanding personnel systems Recognition of Social Contribution Helping Needy Families McQuay International (United States) Toys for Tots program Commander's Award 31 Daikin's CSR Outside Expert Comments on Daikin Group CSR Become a Leader in Helping Employees Lead Rich, Rewarding Lives The human race consumes vast amounts of energy in Daikin Industries' main business of heating and cooling. In a world where humans waste so much, it is fitting that Daikin is using the energy-efficient technologies it has built up to contribute to society worldwide. It's fair to say that Daikin is a leader in helping protect the global environment. I'm also impressed at Daikin's success in dramatically reducing the greenhouse gases from its business activities. Minoru Mizuno Professor Emeritus, Dr.Eng. I believe that for us to achieve our goal of a sustainable society, we must change our Osaka University focus from living comfortably and conveniently to living smart. The former means consumers sit back and let equipment create comfort for them; I say that people are merely passive bystanders in this system. The latter is a total system in which the intelligent users take control by selecting the ideal equipment for their specific needs (of course these needs can be modified). It should be said that the manufacturer does not merely provide equipment but also supports the users' smart lifestyle and provides the users with useful information over the life cycle of the equipment. This is one of the keys to protecting our environment. Daikin Industries has advanced technology for machine information systems, and I hope that the company uses this technology to achieve a society where people live smart. The CSR Report also advocates nurturing human resources. But this means more than just one's own employees. I hope that Daikin Industries also helps the consumers who use its products go to the next level in their lifestyles by developing innovative new heating and cooling systems. 32 Daikin's CSR Balanced Global Management Global business management is the smart use of people, assets, and capital in order to achieve a corporate vision and implement company policies. Using this as criteria for Daikin Industries, its four-region global business system and balanced sales performance throughout the world have earned it accolades as a company that has long achieved sustainable growth. My next hope for Daikin Industries lies with the overseas bases it has been focusing so much attention on in recent years: I want to see Daikin achieve the same type of balance with its human resources by entrusting management of overseas bases to a diverse range of people. Toshio Mitsutomi Representative, Learning Works International A Multinational Company that Balances Centralization and Chairman, Japan Society for Human Resource Management Decentralization Depending on the degree to which worldwide companies balance centralization and decentralization, they are classified as either international, multinational, global, or transnational. Using this to classify Daikin, the company appears to aspire to transnationalism, with an ideal balance of centralization and decentralization, along with its efforts to internationalize its Japanese bases while localizing its overseas bases. I'm eager to see how fast Daikin becomes a truly transnational company. People-Centered Management Makes Employees Glad to Be Part of Daikin The American economist James Abegglen said that the Japanese philosophy of taking care of employees is applicable anywhere in the world. In this sense, companies are closely watching Daikin's efforts to apply people-centered management at its worldwide bases. I hope that Daikin uses its four-region global business system to build a company of competitive-minded employees who are glad they chose to work at Daikin. 33 Daikin's CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 −Web version− Key Activities List of Fiscal 2009 Key Activities 35 Products That Contribute to Global Warming Mitigation 37 Environmental Impact Reduction in the Fluorochemicals Business (Products) 47 Environmental Impact Reduction in the Fluorochemicals Business (Production) 51 Biodiversity Preservation 54 Product Quality Assurance 57 Global Human Resource Development 60 34 Key Activities Previous Reports 35 Key Activities 36 Key Activities As a global corporation, the Daikin Group strives to provide air conditioning products tailored to the specific characteristics and requirements of regions around the world. Differences in climate, culture, and economic conditions result in a variety of region-specific needs in the environment and energy sectors. Daikin will contribute to global warming mitigation by applying environmental technologies cultivated over the years to develop equipment and systems adapted to the individual requirements of the geographical regions where we do business. Daikin strives to mitigate the environmental impact of air conditioning through technologies cultivated over the years. Heat Pump Systems for Space Heating and Water Heaters This method performs space heating and water heating by extracting and transferring thermal energy stored in the air (or water). It generates less than half the CO2 emissions used in heating systems that directly burn fossil fuels such as gas, oil, and coal (in the case of Japan and Europe). 37 Key Activities The Heat Pump Mechanism Inverter Technology Inverters are frequency conversion devices that control electrical voltage, current, and frequency. Since inverter technology enables the minute control of room temperature, air conditioners equipped with inverters can reduce annual power consumption by approximately 30% compared to non-inverter models (Daikin estimate for residential air conditioners). What is inverter technology? 38 Key Activities Combustion-type heaters with high CO2 emissions are dominant The climate in much of Europe is cold, and the high environmental impact of heating is a major issue. The heaters in common use are combustion-type heaters that heat the air using water heated by burning gas, oil, or other fossil fuels. Since these heaters emit large amounts of CO2, Daikin aims to replace these conventional systems with air source heat pumps for space heating and domestic hot water use. The EU government has decided a policy of increasing the proportion of renewable energy use to 20% or higher with the aim of reducing CO2 emissions by 20% in 2020 from the 1990 level . The heat pump technology Daikin uses in air conditioners and other products has been formally approved as a technology that captures renewable energy and is expected to contribute to CO2 emissions reduction. Replacing Combustion-Type Heaters with Heaters That Use Air Source Heat Pumps for Space Heating and Domestic Hot Water Promotion and Enhancement of Daikin Altherma Heat Pump Systems for Space Heating and Domestic Hot Water In the cold regions of Europe, Daikin focuses its efforts in the development of air source heat pumps for residential space heating and domestic hot water use. These systems produce hot water for floor heating and other applications by extracting thermal energy from the outside air. They drastically reduce CO2 emissions per household compared to fossil fuel boilers ordinarily used in Europe. (See figure below) Daikin Altherma experimental house 39 Key Activities Since the introduction of these systems in 2006, Daikin has increased unit sales by expanding product range based on needs of the local markets. Daikin also allows for system connection to solar panels that can provide 30% to 70% of the heat used for domestic hot water. Units for retrofitting existing combustion-type boilers have also been launched. Daikin is also developing a heat pump convector as a replacement for normal radiators in Europe. This will take maximum advantage of the efficiency of heat pumps. Daikin Altherma Configuration Diagram CO2 Reduction Effect Due to Heating Conversion (Per unit of heating capacity Daikin estimate) From Europe to the World: The Pursuit of Product Development Adapted to Local Needs Because awareness for heat pump heating is low in Europe, Daikin has worked to promote the effectiveness of its technology and products. Emphasis is always placed on improved environmental impact. Also, since many sales agents lack experience in the handling of the refrigerants required for heat pumps, we provide them with technical education in refrigerant piping and have developed models that don't require refrigerant piping. Furthermore, in fiscal year 2009 we began full-scale proposal activities for heat pumps for space heating and domestic hot water use in China, the United States., and Oceania, where the environmental impact of heating is similarly great. Future plans call for further product development adapted to local climate conditions and heating needs and efforts to correctly communicate to customers the energy-saving characteristics and safety of heat pumps and further promote these products. 40 Key Activities Energy-saving performance is becoming an increasingly important consideration in commercial central air conditioning In the United States, the Green New Deal Policy for economic stimulation through environmental investment has provided impetus for energy conservation efforts. Most office buildings in the United States are equipped with central air conditioning. Since commercial central air conditioning equipment is often customized according to the requirements of individual facilities, it is called applied equipment. Daikin seeks to take advantage of its inverter expertise in this market sector. Energy Savings from the Use of Inverters in Commercial Central Air Conditioning Equipment Full-Scale Operation of a Development Center That Pools the Wisdom and Technologies of Engineers around the World McQuay International, the world's fourth largest manufacturer of large-scale central air conditioning equipment and systems operating mainly in the United States, joined the Daikin Group in 2007. The union of Daikin and McQuay made possible product development that combines McQuay's large-scale central air conditioning technologies with the environmental technologies at which Daikin excels. A laboratory at the Applied Development Center 41 Key Activities The two companies have established the Applied Development Center in Minnesota as a base for the development of environmentally-conscious global base models. The center has pooled the wisdom and technologies of Daikin and McQuay engineers around the world to develop large-scale central air conditioning systems (air-cooled screw chillers) that are up to 38% more energy efficient than conventional systems. Air-Cooled Screw Chiller From the United States to the World: Supply of Environmentally-Conscious Base Models In May 2009, the Applied Development Center, an R&D facility equipped with one of the world's largest air conditioning testing facilities, was completed in Minnesota. Because the facility can reproduce the world's atmospheric temperature range of -25℃ to 60℃ and the electrical frequency and voltage used in every country of the world, it is possible to conduct rigorous energy conservation performance testing adapted to climate conditions around the world. A newly opened equipment Daikin and McQuay will use the equipment and systems developed at the center as global showroom base models for use in customizing and supplying products adapted to the climates and conditions of regions around the world. Air-Cooled Screw Chiller IPLV* Improvement Value * IPLV: Abbreviation for Integrated Part Load Value, a measure of annual performance under conditions of actual use. The higher the value, the better the performance. 42 Key Activities The penetration rate of inverter air conditioners is increasing: The key to accelerating product acceptance is price reduction. In China, factors including an increase in the number of middle income earners and a construction boom are fueling enormous demand for air conditioning. Although low energy efficiency non-inverter air conditioners have been popular until now for their affordable prices, government subsidies for high-efficiency air conditioners have resulted in a dramatic increase in the sales ratio of high efficiency inverter models from 8% in 2008 to above 30% in 2009. Daikin aims to reduce the price of inverter air conditioners and increase product penetration by applying its expertise in inverter technologies to joint development of high efficiency inverter models with a local manufacturer. Promotion and Widespread Adoption of Energy-Efficient Inverter Air Conditioners for Home Use Joint Development of High-Quality, Low-Priced Inverter Models and Collaboration Start with Local Manufacturer To solve price issues and increase the widespread use of inverter models in China, in March 2008, Daikin entered into an alliance with Gree Electric Appliances, Inc. of Zhuhai, one of China's largest air conditioning manufacturers. The companies began joint development of affordable inverter models to combine the mass production technologies and low-cost production expertise of Gree, which produces more than 20 million air conditioners per year, with Daikin's inverter technologies. 43 Key Activities Production of jointly developed products at Daikin production sites worldwide and outsourced production at a Gree factory began in October 2009. For Daikin's outsourced production, Gree installed operation inspection equipment that enables the same inspections as those performed at Daikin. Daikin quality assurance and manufacturing personnel have been assigned to work in the Gree factory where they are developing processes to ensure a high level of quality. Daikin's Strategy for China From China to the World: Marketing of Jointly Developed Products in the Global Marketplace Having developed a system that can mass produce affordable products while maintaining high quality, Daikin plans to reinforce its sales capabilities and move forward with full-scale promotion and adoption activities. According to our estimates, conversion of half the air conditioners currently used in China to inverter models would make it possible to reduce electric power consumption by 50 billion kilowatt-hours (equivalent to the output of eight nuclear power stations). However, at present the worldwide penetration rate of inverter models is approximately 20%. It is important to ensure the widespread use of inverters not only in China, but worldwide. We will move forward with efforts to promote inverter models throughout the world, especially in Asia where expectations for energy-efficient inverter air conditioners are increasing, and Europe and other regions where new air conditioning demand is robust. Power Consumption Reduction Effect Due to Inverter Model to Dissemination (Estimate) 44 Key Activities Energy-efficient air conditioning is already in widespread use: The challenge is to achieve further CO2 emissions reduction The Japanese government has announced the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in 2020 by 25% from the 1990 level. The revised Rationalization in Energy Use Law went into effect in April 2010, obligating a greater number of companies to report energy use and setting non-binding targets for energy conservation measures. An especially important task for companies is to save energy in air conditioning, which accounts for 40% of energy consumption in office buildings. Daikin is increasing the efficiency of air conditioning equipment and offering energy-saving operation through after-sales support. Solutions That Maximize the Performance of Energy-Efficient Air Conditioning Air Conditioning Network Service System II Realizes Energy Savings of Approximately 20% Saving energy used in air conditioning, which accounts for approximately 40% of energy consumption in office buildings, is an important priority for companies. Differences in how air conditioning systems are used result in major differences in energy conservation performance. Accordingly, Daikin offers the Air Conditioning Network Service System II to provide after-sales support for energy-efficient operation. Through this system, we remotely monitor the status of air conditioner system operation at office buildings, detect and notify customers of wasteful operation, and propose measures to increase efficiency. Graphical display of air conditioner operation status The system also enables visualization of operation status on the Web to enable customers to identify areas for improvement themselves. This system realizes an energy savings benefit of approximately 20%. As a result of introducing the system at schools and other buildings in addition to office buildings, we estimate an annual CO2 emissions reduction effect of 1,320 tons per year. 45 Key Activities Daikin began operating similar service overseas in fiscal 2009. Customers highly rate the services not only for energy savings, but also for inspection and maintenance follow-ups, and we have begun full-scale introduction in Europe, China, Asia/Oceania, and North America. Structure of the Air Conditioning Network Service System II From Japan to the World: Proposing Global Solutions In addition to the Air Conditioning Network Service System, Daikin provides numerous solutions developed in Japan to customers around the world. We fuse software (system control technologies) and hardware (equipment) to propose global solutions to the problems customers face. One example is the DESICA humidity controlling heat recovery ventilation system, which offers separate control of temperature and humidity in buildings to ensure comfort and energy savings. We also offer a freezing, refrigeration and air-conditioning heat recovery system for retail stores that recovers and uses waste heat by integrating freezing, refrigeration, and air conditioning and a total energy conservation solution that combines infrared reflective fluoro coatings with air conditioning. CO2 Reduction Effect Due to the Air Conditioning Network Service System II (Estimate) 46 Key Activities The Daikin Group supplies a wide range of fluorochemical products to a number of market sectors, including leading-edge industries. Notably, we provide many products that help improve the efficiency and lower the cost of electric cars, solar cells, and other products in the clean energy sector. Daikin fluorochemical technologies developed over many years make an important contribution to solving pressing energy and environmental problems. Using Fluorine to Realize a Low-Carbon Society In 1933, Daikin became the first company in Japan to begin research into fluorocarbon gases. Since that time, we have developed an integrated R&D system encompassing every process from molecular design to processing and have developed, manufactured, and sold highly original products in wide-ranging fields. In nature, the element fluorine does not exist in isolation, but in combination with other elements such as metals in the form of fluorine compounds. Daikin takes advantage of the heat resistance, chemical resistance, weather resistance, and other highly useful properties of these fluorine compounds to create a diverse range of products that benefit society in a variety of settings. Above all, in recent years we have created numerous technologies and products that contribute to environmental protection, including materials that increase the energy efficiency of electric cars and solar cells. We are focusing on research and development to maximize the properties of fluorine compounds to contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society. Example of Daikin product 47 Key Activities The Diverse Properties of Fluorine Fluorine Compounds Applications Example of Daikin product 48 Key Activities To Increase the Safety and Cruising Distance of Electric Vehicles Increasing Battery Capacity and Life with Fluorine Compounds There are high expectations for the full-scale dissemination of electric vehicles. However, the running distance per charge of the lithium ion battery incorporated in current electric vehicles is inadequate when compared to the running distance per fueling of gasoline vehicles. Although higher battery capacity is necessary for increasing the running distance per charge, an obstacle to increasing battery capacity is the issue of how increased charging voltage accelerates electrolyte deterioration. To address this issue, in 2009, Daikin developed new solvents and additives for the electrolyte to take advantage of the resistance that fluorine compounds demonstrate, even at high temperatures, against chemical reactions and deterioration. With these products, we succeeded in suppressing electrolyte deterioration while increasing safety, battery capacity, and battery life. At the same time, we have established a production system to ensure a stable supply of high-purity solvents. Daikin also contributes to the promotion of environmentally conscious electric vehicles by supplying fluororesins used for the binders and gaskets of electrodes, a component of lithium ion batteries. Lithium Ion Battery Structure Diagram 49 Key Activities ETFE* Film Contributes to the Promotion of Solar Cells Proposals Together with Coatings That Increase Weather Resistance and Durability The promotion and widespread use of solar cells is desirable from the perspective of solving energy and environmental problems. However, since the front sheets of conventional solar cells (the part exposed to sunlight) are made of glass, they are heavy and unsuited to many installation sites. The use of film made of the fluororesin ETFE for front sheets has made it possible to reduce the weight of solar cells. ETFE film has dramatically increased added value in solar cells because it offers excellent weather resistance, transparency, and strength, does not crack like glass when dropped, and increases flexibility in construction and installation. Daikin contributes to the dissemination of the flexible solar cells made from these materials. Another Daikin product is ZEFFLE fluoropolymer coating for solar cells, which is used in production of the back sheets that prevent rainwater and other substances from flowing into solar cells. ZEFFLE contributes to the promotion of solar cells by delivering weather resistance and durability equivalent to that of conventional fluororesin films at low cost. Furthermore, Daikin is developing highly damp-proof moisture barrier film that will protect thin film solar cells from wind and rain for long periods of time. Along with ZEFFLE, this product is expected to prolong the life of solar cells. * ETFE: Ethylene tetrafluoroethylene, a fluororesin with excellent chemical resistance and insulating properties that is used in coatings for electrical cables and other products Solar Cell Structure Diagram 50 Key Activities Although fluorine compounds are beneficial in many sectors of society, their production entails the emission of greenhouse gases such as fluorocarbons and CO2. The Daikin Group strives to minimize fluorocarbon emissions in its production processes and simultaneously endeavors to reduce energy consumption by applying groundbreaking measures for improving production methods. Rigorous Implementation of Fluorocarbon Reduction Measures and Measures to Cut Energy Consumption in Chemical Products Production Fluorocarbons are greenhouse gases that have global warming potential ranging from several hundred times to up to ten thousand times that of CO2. Daikin has recovered and appropriately disposed of these substances. As a result of these efforts, in fiscal 2009, we reduced fluorocarbon emissions by 96% from the fiscal 1995 baseline. Another important environmental priority is the reduction of CO2 emissions associated with energy use in production activities. Production processes in the chemicals business account for 66% of the energy-induced CO2 emissions from Daikin's production activities overall. Accordingly, we have begun new energy conservation (CO2 emissions reduction) initiatives, beginning with the chemicals production facilities at the Yodogawa Plant. Fluorocarbon Emissions Breakdown of Energy-Induced Reduction CO2 Emissions 51 Key Activities Production Innovation in the Chemicals Division The Production Innovation Project to Improve Production Process Ordinarily, the basis for energy conservation (CO2 emissions reduction) at machinery assembly plants is production efficiency improvement. This is because the ability to produce a greater number of products using the same amount of energy leads to production time reduction, which is to say, lower energy consumption. However, this cannot be easily accomplished at chemical plants owing to unique production circumstances. At chemical plants, where gases, liquids, and other raw materials and intermediate products flow through tanks and pipes, the production process cannot be A manufacturing facility seen. This makes it difficult to implement improvements on the production floor. (anhydrous hydrofluoric acid) Accordingly, the improvement of production efficiency requires shortening of the preparation period and stabilization of the plant operation. To address this issue, Daikin launched the Production Innovation Project at the Yodogawa Plant in fiscal 2004. This is a project for fundamental innovation through a completely unprecedented approach aimed at optimization of the entire plant. Improvement of Production Preparation Work through Production Innovation Increasing Production Efficiency and Contributing to Energy Conservation through Central Control of Operation Information and Expertise At chemical plants, workers operate production facilities while monitoring production remotely using numerous sensors attached to pipes and tanks. When production abnormalities occur, decisions on changes in operating conditions and the like are made on the basis of the judgment of operators who infer the causes of the problems by comparing the information displayed on hundreds of sensors with their own past experience. The investigation of an abnormality in a production facility that cannot be visually observed is like judging how a stew is cooking from only the sound of the boiling and the steam coming from the pot. A great deal of experience is required before accurate judgments can be made. The Production Innovation Project was undertaken to increase the speed of operator judgments and decisions and to further increase production efficiency by drawing on the expertise of experienced workers. 52 Key Activities First, through the central control of sensor data and operation information operators record on checklists or in work journals, improvements were implemented to enable workers to rapidly obtain necessary information. This increased the speed of decisions on changes in operating conditions and reduced raw materials and energy waste. Next, to tap into the vast store of operating expertise residing in the minds of highly experienced workers, we identified the entire process by which experienced workers infer causes when abnormalities occur and decide on responses from among multiple possible courses of action. We validated this worker know-how in accordance with rules and principles, systematized the knowledge, and standardized facilities operating methods. This resulted in a decrease in the number of abnormality alarms and contributed to plant stability. Furthermore, we standardized plant production preparation work. For instance, at one plant operation is suspended once a year for periodic maintenance. Standardization of the preparation work performed from the resumption of production following maintenance until stabilization of production resulted in shortening of the preparation period by two-thirds and a reduction in CO2 emissions of approximately 200 tons. Daikin plans to cross-implement the results obtained from efforts at the Yodogawa Plant chemical production facilities at other chemical production sites. We will increase production efficiency and achieve further CO2 emissions reductions by proceeding with the centralization of operation information and the systematization and standardization of know-how. Reduction of work time, which varied from worker to worker, led to energy savings Although plant production preparation work has always followed set procedures, unexpected abnormalities are often found at chemical plants. The workers developed a mindset against them, which has resulted in the lengthening of work time for some people. The systematization of past experience and expertise made it possible to efficiently use the minimum required Masakazu Edo motive power in the shortest possible time, which resulted in energy savings. I think workload Expert alleviation for the workers is an added benefit. Resin Production Department Chemicals Division Receipt of the Fiscal 2009 Osaka Stop Global Warming Award Osaka Prefecture Governor's Award Daikin Industries received the Governor's Award in the Fiscal 2009 Osaka Stop Global Warming Awards*. The award was conferred in recognition of greenhouse gas emissions reductions in Osaka Prefecture of approximately 1.5 million tons from the fiscal 2005 level (approx. 86%). The award recognized Daikin's efforts heretofore to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through enhancement of fluorocarbon recovery in fluorocarbon gas and fluororesin manufacturing processes and fluorocarbon destruction incinerator improvements. * The Osaka Stop Global Warming Awards are awarded to businesses that set examples of best practices in curbing emissions of greenhouse gases and exhaust heat in business activities in accordance with Osaka Prefectural Ordinance regarding Global Warming Prevention. 53 Key Activities Daikin engages in activities to regenerate and preserve the forests that are home to diverse organisms and activities to reduce CO2 emissions that are a cause of global warming, which increases the risk of species extinction. Through an ingenious mechanism that links energy-efficient air conditioner operation and reforestation, we share with our customers the desire to achieve a healthy balance between comfort and energy efficiency and jointly engage in an activity to protect the global environment. Global Warming Adversely Affects Biodiversity Biodiversity not only provides humans with food, timber, and other direct blessings of nature, but also provides all living things with indirect blessings such as water resources and soil activity. However, human activity has drastically altered the natural environment. For instance, humans reduce the size of the tropical forests that are habitats for diverse organisms by 14.2 million hectares per year. Environmental change caused by global warming is also one of the factors that increase extinction risk ,which knows no national borders. We consider the most significant impact our businesses have on biodiversity to be their impact on global warming, and we strive to prevent global warming through our business activities. We also engage in activities to increase CO2 absorption and preserve habitats through reforestation. Countries with Extensive Forest Area Reduction (2000 to 2005) 54 Key Activities A Reforestation and Biodiversity Awareness Activity Conducted Jointly with Customers Linkage of Energy-Efficient Air Conditioner Operation and Reforestation Nurturing of Forests in Cooperation with Local Residents Daikin conducts the Re: AIRCON Project to enable customers to participate in reforestation while enjoying energy-efficient air conditioner operation. Energy-conserving Ururu Sarara (R Series) room air conditioners, introduced to Japan in 2007, are equipped with the comfortable eco-operation function, which ensures comfort and energy conservation performance. These air conditioners also feature on the remote control unit display an eco-point system for showing points accumulated by operation in eco-operation mode and a virtual tree that grows as points accumulate. Monitoring growth of the virtual tree is a fun way for customers to experience energy conservation activities. A customer whose tree has become fully mature from eco-friendly air operation can contact Daikin to request the planting of a tree in our reforestation project. The reforestation project is an activity Daikin began in a national park on the island of Java in June 2008 in cooperation with the Ministry of Forestry of Indonesia and an NGO. Although the site is one of the world's great plant and animal habitats, forest devastation due to human activity is progressing. In this project, we are implementing a plan to reforest approximately 200 hectares of land by 2011. As of March 2010, we have reforested approximately 150 hectares in cooperation with local residents. One of the causes of the forest devastation is that local residents rely on crops grown in the park for subsistence. For this reason, we consider it important that the residents understand the great importance of the forest, earn a living from agriculture that makes possible coexistence with the forest, and participate in conservation activities. Accordingly, we provide livelihood support through operation and maintenance of a seedling nursery and conduct environmental education. Children at a reforestation site in Environmental preservation lesson Local residents managing Indonesia taught at an elementary school reforestation site Java, Indonesia (c) conservation International, (c) conservation International, (c) conservation International, Photo by Anton Ario Photo by Anton Ario Photo by Anton Ario Reforestation That Builds Ties with Customers* * This service is currently available only in Japan. 55 Key Activities Comfortable eco-operation is extremely convenient. It adjusts the temperature to warm you when you feel cold and cool you when it's hot. And, you can contribute to the environment. I think it's a great experiment. I began thinking about ecology. I wanted to continue growing my tree even after it matured. It's good that you can participate easily at home. Someday I want to visit a Daikin tree-planting site. It's fun that points accumulate. My child enjoyed watching the changes to the tree on the remote control. A Thought Support Environmental Education Program That Applies Reforestation Experience Furthermore, Daikin is using the reforestation initiative in Indonesia as subject matter to develop a thought support education program to make children aware of their personal connection with global environmental problems and think about these problems. In April 2010, we began providing instructional materials with content linked to sixth year elementary school science, social studies, and ethics instruction. We have incorporated into the program teaching techniques to make children aware of the difficulty of environmental preservation through experience. One such technique is role-playing to understand the conflicting perspectives of people in different positions, including local residents who have cleared forestland to grow crops, people working in NGOs that wish to engage in reforestation, and local government officials. The children can learn about global environmental problems as problems that affect them personally. For example, they learn that products raised on land cleared from tropical forests are in widespread use in Japan. We not only provide instructional materials, but also dispatch employees to serve as instructors on request. Daikin will continue this activity as well as mangrove tree-planting activities conducted by our employees around the world. We will continue to provide opportunities in which individual employees can convert their feelings for the earth (what we call green heart ) into actions to preserve the world's ecosystems where diverse organisms interact to maintain balance. An education program that Tree planting at Daikin Industries Tree planting at OYLM (Malaysia) applies the reforestation Thailand experience in Indonesia to encourage children to consider the importance of biodiversity It was a great experience for the children and educators alike. Although there are lots of instructional materials that cover environmental problems, not many cause children to take their thinking a step further. I think it is well worth a try. The students were very interested in the content, and had no end of questions. It was a program rich in instructional materials and information for conducting classes to satisfy the children's interest. 56 Key Activities Each day Daikin engages in product quality improvement, safety assurance, and new product development. This is how we put into practice the Group management philosophy Create new value by anticipating the future needs of customers. In this feature we introduce an example of this commitment: a mechanism for reflecting customer opinions in product and service quality improvement. Handling Numerous Comments and Opinions from Consumers To put into practice the Daikin Group's management philosophy Create new value by anticipating the future needs of customers, it is essential to pay careful attention to customer opinions. For this reason, the role of the Daikin Contact Center, which serves as a point of contact with customers, is critically important. The Contact Center accepts all inquiries regarding Daikin, including requests for repairs and technical consultation, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The Center conveys this customer feedback to the concerned Daikin divisions, which make use of them in product quality improvement and service enhancements. Daikin believes that the 1.8 million customer inquiries received each year include information that can be utilized more effectively. Inquiries to the Daikin Contact Center 57 Key Activities Creating a Mechanism for Utilization of Customer Opinions in Product Improvement and Development Contact Center Lookouts Utilize Customer Opinions to Maximum Advantage Contact Center lookouts are analysts and Contact Center employees organized to take maximum advantage of the valuable customer opinions received at the center. They convert customer requests and questions to text, enter them into a database, and use a technique called text mining to automatically retrieve valuable information. The lookouts pay constant attention to customer opinions, and by analyzing frequency of a word's usage and correlation of keywords found in the enormous quantities of data accumulated in this way — for instance, hot water, settings, indicators, and display for Eco-Cute — they The Daikin Contact Center delve into customer needs and unearth hints for new product development or product modifications. The Residual Hot Water Display Is the Result of Urgent Customer Requests There are many examples of new product development and product modifications undertaken based on input from Contact Center lookouts. One example of this is a modification to Eco-Cute. Eco-Cute is a heat pump water heater that uses a natural refrigerant and offers excellent energy efficiency. Since Eco-Cute heaters store hot water in a tank, the Contact Center received many inquiries from customers accustomed to using gas water heaters that boil water instantaneously. A particularly urgent request expressed by customers that attracted the attention of the lookouts was the desire to know the amount of hot water remaining in the tank. Thinking that this was a point for modification that should be given high priority, Daikin formed a crossorganizational working group and devised a specific product improvement measure. This resulted in an unprecedented new residual hot water display method. We made it possible to more accurately indicate residual hot water by changing from the previous method of measuring the amount of hot water available for use using the temperature of the water in the tank to measuring the amount of heat in the water. We also added a function that shows at a glance the amount of hot water expected to be used during a given day based on usage history. Following confirmation of the popularity of the new display method in a user interview survey, we began incorporating it into products in 2010. The Eco-Cute Residual Hot Water Display Modification 58 Key Activities The Eco-Cute Easy User Guide Operation Manual Wins the Excellence Award in the Japan Manual Contest 2009 In August 2009, the Easy User Guide, an Eco-Cute product operation manual, won the Excellence Award in the Quick Start Manuals / Package Manuals Category in the Japan Manual Contest 2009, sponsored by the Japan Technical Communicators Association. The award was conferred for the guide's ease of use and ease of understanding. Discovery of Genuine Customer Needs through Staff Awareness Enhancement We also undertook to increase the awareness of the Contact Center customer service staff. We use the term perceptions, we mean the questions or insights that occur to employees during conversations with customers. When center employees become aware of something noteworthy during conversations with customers, they record their perceptions in a database, using the expression Remark. We link these perceptions to discovery of customer needs by having specialists subsequently examine the recorded information. For employees to have perceptions, they must have meticulous sensitivity to customer comments. For example, they must be able to intuit from a customer question that the explanation in a user guide is insufficient. This sensitivity increases as the employees record Remark. We also strive to increase sensitivity by having the Center employees exchange information concerning customer needs and problem recognition among themselves. Daikin will continue to have employees exercise their imagination to identify the unexpressed wants, needs, and aspirations of customers and link this awareness to product and service development and modification. We will take maximum advantage of the many valuable comments we receive Following its establishment, the Contact Center has been the principal point of contact for customer comments. For that reason, I feel an enormous responsibility to consider how to take advantage of the many valuable comments we receive to improve customer satisfaction and what the staff should do to achieve this. I will Takeo Miyamoto continue to strive to discover product quality improvements and new customer After Sales Service Division needs. West Japan Contact Center The Idea Contest Each year since 2006, Daikin Industries has conducted an internal product development idea contest. Teams made up of members who have different expertise in various fields, with an emphasis on development specialists, pit their ideas against each other. One idea that came from the contest was for a new deodorizing feature that can remove approximately 90% of the odor from walls and curtains with water. Internal contest judging This feature has been incorporated into air conditioners and Clear Force air purifiers since 2008 and has won the Society of Indoor Environment Japan Award. 59 Key Activities Daikin believes The cumulative growth of all Group members serves as the foundation for the group's development. Accordingly, we have set forth and implemented a policy of PeopleCentered Management in the belief that the development of people contributes to corporate growth and development. Among a rapid globalization of our business, we aim for further growth by developing local staff overseas as leaders. Acceleration of Business Globalization Necessitates the Development and Promotion of Local Employees The Daikin Group is globalizing its businesses. Two-thirds of our employees reside overseas, and overseas sales account for more than 60% of total sales. Under these circumstances, the development and promotion of globally oriented personnel is essential for providing products and services adapted to the characteristics of different regions and achieving further growth as a global corporation. Accordingly, we are proceeding with the internationalization of our personnel in Japan and developing employees at overseas operations into leaders who understand the Daikin philosophy and can drive internationalization. We are increasing employee motivation by accelerating the promotion of excellent people to management positions and attempting to achieve growth by the practice of people-centered management. Sales Contribution by Region Workforce Composition by (Fiscal Year 2009) Region (Fiscal Year 2009) 60 Key Activities Developing Employees at Overseas Operation into Leaders Promotion of Local Employees to Executive Positions in China and Europe The Start of Development Support for Global Personnel What Daikin requires from the managers of its overseas operations is the practice of People-Centered management. That is to say, managers must understand Daikin's philosophy and policies and apply them in local management while at the same time fully eliciting the abilities and motivation of subordinates and linking them to business results. To develop managers with these leadership capabilities, in 2004 we started the Daikin Business School, an institution for group training. This training, conducted for management At the regional headquarters candidates selected from among overseas employees, is a one-year program for the office in China development of management skills. Japanese executives serve as instructors who directly impart the Group's philosophy and principles to the management trainees. A total of 54 employees have graduated from the school to date. They have developed into leaders who are playing key roles at their respective business sites. In fiscal year 2009, a number of Daikin Business School graduates were appointed to senior management positions at the regional headquarters companies in Europe and China. At Daikin (CHINA) Investment Co., Ltd. in China, one graduate was promoted to vice president and two were promoted to regional business managers. At Daikin Europe N.V. in Europe, three graduates were newly promoted to directors, following the previous promotion of two other graduates. The following comments from Daikin Business School graduates reconfirmed that personnel development increases motivation. I learned that the company is serious about developing and fast-tracking local employees, I felt I could gain career experience and aim for the top. As of September 2009, 90 local employees serve as directors of Group subsidiaries, accounting for about half the total number of directors. Daikin intends to further increase the proportion of local employees responsible for management of overseas business operations. Accordingly, in fiscal year 2009 Daikin headquarters prepared a development plan to identify and develop executive management candidates throughout the Group. It is now the expressed purpose of the Group to select personnel targeted for development and systematically conduct training, make assignments to management positions, and evaluate performance. It is actually felt that a local employee is appointed as the management The main asset for me during Daikin Business School was the exchange of ideas and thoughts with people from other Daikin subsidiaries. It became clear to me that one of the main challenges for Daikin in the coming years will be to successfully merge the different identities of the global subsidiaries. One of the most appealing speakers in Daikin Business School was Daikin A/C America's Peter Van Den Broecke president who explained about the 4P's. I would be a happy man if I could transfer to my General Manager, colleagues the importance of passion for the company, passion for their jobs, and passion for Finance & the way they act professionally, in short, passion in their professional lives. Accounting Department Daikin I feel that many of my colleagues are proud that the localization in Daikin Europe N.V.(DENV) Europe N.V. continues even to extend that the majority of DENV Board of Directors are local directors. Most of them realize that localization is the responsibility of each of them and that at least we? as local directors? have proven that people who are going for it are given the opportunity to be promoted to the highest echelons in DENV. 61 Key Activities I want to ensure permeation of the management philosophy in day-to-day actions I participated in the Daikin Business School in my fifteenth year with the company and now am a sales executive. When I first joined Daikin, I didn't have a clear career plan and didn't imagine I would be blessed with the many work and growth opportunities I enjoy now. I am delighted that my efforts, abilities, and performance are recognized by top management. I think that this is a Wang Yi Feng true indication of the Daikin management philosophy that regardless of country or region, job Zhejing Regional description, or division, provided an individual makes an effort, he or she will be recognized as Sales Director Daikin (CHINA) Investment an important member of the organization. Co., Ltd. I think that to gain understanding of the Daikin management philosophy among my young subordinates, I must demonstrate the philosophy through my own words and actions. I want to realize the management philosophy in day-to-day actions by striving and experiencing the joy of success together with my subordinates. Developing Conditions That Promote Success in Global Roles In this way, the Daikin Group actively promotes local personnel at its overseas business sites. Sharing of the Group's philosophy is essential to ensuring that the Group companies around the world grow in pursuit of a unified goal. At the Daikin Business School, Daikin has positioned further penetration of the management philosophy as a key goal and adopted a policy of conducting training based on a practical curriculum to develop leadership skills aligned with the management philosophy. Opportunities that require Amid acceleration of business globalization, Daikin must insure appropriate personnel success in global roles will increase. assignments across national and regional boundaries. With the aim of becoming a corporate group in which each employee can grow on the basis of lofty goals and high motivation, we will develop and implement a personnel compensation system based on shared Group performance indicators to ensure conditions in which employees can successfully perform global roles. 62 Key Activities Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 −Web version− Environment Overview of Environmental Impact 64 Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons Towards an Environmentally Advanced Company 66 from Customers' Air Conditioners 105 Fiscal 2009 Environmental Action Achievements 69 Green Procurement 109 Low Impact Products 72 Compliance with J-Moss 112 Daikin Eco-Products 75 Management of Chemical Substances 114 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products 81 Reducing Waste 116 Promoting the Use of Heat Pump Space Environmental Management 119 and Hot Water Heaters 82 Environmental Management System 121 Products That Help Customers Save Energy 84 Environmental Audits 125 Environmental Risk Management 126 Environmentally Conscious Fluorochemical Products 88 Environmental Accounting 128 Environmental Education 131 Low Impact Refrigerants 90 Environmental Communication 132 3R & Repair 92 Environmental Seminars and Exhibits 133 Low Impact Production 95 Environmental Education and Preventing Global Warming Awareness Activities 135 — Production, Transportation 98 History of Environmental Activities 137 63 Environment Reducing CO2 and Fluorocarbon Emissions is a Top Priority The Daikin Group focuses on reducing both fluorocarbon emissions generated during product manufacture and electricity used during air conditioner use, the major contributors to global warming. Likewise, we strive to reduce environmental impact through the recovery and destruction of fluorocarbons during the processes of production, maintenance, and product disposal. In product development, we are shifting to refrigerant alternatives that do not deplete the ozone layer as we continue to work toward lessening the impact our business has on the environment. 64 Environment 65 Environment Achieving both environmental protection and economic growth will make Daikin Group a sustainable corporate group. We will realize this through the following three actions. These actions are positioned as strategic environmental themes under the FUSION 10 strategic management plan. Providing the World with Products That Help Customers Reduce CO2 Emissions An air conditioner's life cycle shows that actual product use represents the greatest amount of energy use. We help customers reduce CO2 emissions with our energy-efficient products. Baseline Scenario of CO2 Emissions from Product Use Promote the use of inverter products offering Reduce CO2 emissions by promoting the use of both comfort and energy efficiency heat-pump type heating systems Offer energy-saving solutions Develop future refrigerants Air Conditioning Network Service System II VRV using CO2 refrigerant (Germany) 66 Environment Key Activities Feature 1: Products That Contribute to Global Warming Mitigation (See page 37) Key Activities Feature 2: Environmental Impact Reduction in the Fluorochemicals Business (Products) (See page 47) Low Impact Products (See page 72) Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Production Greenhouse gas emissions from production processes represent a major impact of Daikin's business activities on the environment. We aim to reduce fiscal year 2010 greenhouse gas emissions from production processes to just half of 2005 levels (to less than 1.4 million tons). Reduction in the Entire Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduce CO2 emissions Improve production from production efficiency Key Activities Feature 3: Environmental Impact Reduction in the Fluorochemicals Business (Production) (See page 51) Low Impact Production (See page 95) 67 Environment Spreading a Green Heart * The first step towards passing the abundance of nature on to future generations comes from cultivating a love of nature and putting this love into action. We widely promote a Green Heart to communities and to future generations through contributions that meet the needs of each country and region. * Green Heart : think of the Earth and take care of the environment. Expanding Green Heart Reforestation and Environmental education tree-planting Reforestation project (Indonesia) Environmental education (China) Key Activities Feature 4: Biodiversity Preservation (See page 54) Environmental Communication (See page 132) Responsibility to Communities (Environmental Contributions to Society) (See page 195) Reference Honors for Daikin (See page 29) Endorsement as an Eco First Company (http://www.daikin.com/csr/eco.html) 68 Environment Overview of Fiscal 2009 Successes Steadily Decreasing Greenhouse Gases from Production Processes Promoting the Use of Air Conditioners That Help Reduce CO2 Emissions To reduce environmental impact during production, we reduced fluorocarbon emissions from manufacturing processes and decreased CO2 emissions from energy use by improving production efficiency. As a result, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 71% compared to fiscal 2005. To reduce the environmental impact of products, we raised the percentage of Daikin Eco-Products (which are assessed on stricter standards as of last year) from 14% to 39% of all products. We also did our utmost to increase sales of energyefficient air conditioners and heat-pump heating systems, which contribute to reduction of environmental impact. In Europe, we sold 50% more heat-pump heaters in fiscal 2009 than in fiscal 2008. To improve environmental performance of our plants, we set targets for each factory and assessed scores for level of achievement. The four factories for which targets were achieved were designated as Green Heart Factories. Environmental Action Plan 2010*1 We have evaluated the results of FY2009 environmental conservation activities and expressed the achievement of each activity relative to our targets in three grades: Outstanding Achievement Good Achievement Needs Improvement Results/Achievements in SelfItem Objectives/Viewpoint Target for FY 2009 FY2009 evaluation Establish an Environmental Management System (EMS) at all Environmental Have all production group bases (including Certification completed at Management bases certified for non-production bases) and have all all production bases. System ISO 14001. group members operate under this Environmental EMS. management Have all employees Improve knowledge of aware and taking All group employees in Shared environmental issues among all action on their Japan took a semi-annual awareness group members. responsibilities to e-learning course. society. 69 Environment Results/Achievements in SelfItem Objectives/Viewpoint Target for FY 2009 FY2009 evaluation Published annual Recognizing that accurate Group report. and impartial disclosure of Published annual information is a Provide more information CSR Report in Information responsibility of corporate and a wider range of PR Europe, China, and provision citizens, Daikin will gain the activities. ASEAN. trust of customers and Published Environmental society. information on communication website. Conducted activities in different regions. Community Carry out environmental Example: Tree planting and Carry out activities on a activities that help by employees environmental regular basis. communities and society. (Thailand), contributions environmental lessons in schools (China, Japan) Reduce environmental Daikin Make products achieving the impact from products by Eco-Products new voluntary environmental Eco-products accounted making more (Air standards account for 30% for 39% of all products. environmentally conscious conditioners) of products sold in Japan. products. Have at least a Increase procurement from 95% green Japan 99% suppliers offering products procurement Green rate. manufactured with Product efforts procurement consideration for the Thailand: 97%, China: (Air environment. Expand green Overseas 89%, Europe 63%, conditioning procurement. Oceania: 85% equipment) Recover at Prevent further depletion of least*2 85% of Recovered 91% from the ozone layer and work to refrigerants from used products. prevent global warming by Japan Recovery and used products Recovered 88% from encouraging the recovery of and products products under repair. destruction of refrigerants on the market under repair. refrigerants and reducing refrigerant emissions from active and Build system for Installed recovery used products. Overseas recovering equipment at all service refrigerants. stations. 70 Environment Results/Achievements in SelfItem Objectives/Viewpoint Target for FY 2009 FY2009 evaluation Assess production bases in Four plants in Japan Green Heart Raise environmental Japan and overseas, and certified; drew up action Factory performance of plants. establish targets for fiscal plans for achievements 2010. in fiscal 2010. Reduction of Reduce greenhouse gas Reduce greenhouse gas greenhouse emissions at plants for the emissions by 45% against 71% reduction gas emissions entire Group. fiscal 2005. Reduce CO2 emissions per Japan sales by 14% 34% reduction Reduce the energy compared to Reduction in consumption of the entire fiscal 2000. energy Daikin Group and consumption decrease emissions of Reduce CO2 CO2. emissions per Overseas sales by 8% 16% reduction compared to fiscal 2005. Maintain and Reduce waste from every improve zero Maintained a 99.5% Production Japan production base by waste recycling rate. efforts achievements. promoting recycling and Waste emissions reuse, by eliminating Improve the disposal (zero waste recycling rate Eight of 17 companies emissions), and by landfill Overseas (according to achieved zero and incineration. targets in each emissions. region). Reduce emissions of hazardous substances Japan 88% reduction (PRTR Promote management of substances) by chemicals according to 70% against Chemicals Daikin's guidelines for the fiscal 2005. management management of chemical substances. Control the amount of hazardous Control carried out on a Overseas substances regular basis. released and handled. Increase the proportion of Greater sales of Increase sales of energy efficient air Sales of heat pump products that energy-efficient conditioners to reduce heaters increased by Sales contribute to products. CO2 emissions resulting 50% over fiscal 2008 in reduced Increase sales of heat from the operation of air Europe. environmental impact pump heaters. conditioners. Reduce CO2 Reduction in CO2 Reduce CO2 emissions by emissions per Logistics emissions resulting promoting efficiency in Japan sales by 8% 11% reduction from transportation transportation. compared to fiscal 2005. *1 Excluding the OYL group. *2 Based on Daikin standards. 71 Environment The Daikin Group is developing products with minimal environmental impact by raising energy efficiency, switching to refrigerants with the least possible burden on the environment, and making products easier to recycle. We are also striving to reduce the impact that chemicals have on human health and the environment. Daikin Eco-Products 39% of Products Satisfy Strict New Voluntary Standards for Daikin Eco-Products We assess products starting from the planning and design stages to ensure that they are energy efficient and recyclable. (See page 75) We have in-house standards for assessment criteria and products that Environmentally Conscious Design through achieve these standards are named Daikin Eco-Products. These Product Assessment Eco-Products account for an increasingly higher percentage of the Product Assessment Items (Details) products we sell. Daikin Eco Products as percentage of all products Voluntary environmental standards for Daikin products (established 2001, revised 2007) Improving Energy Efficiency of Air Conditioners Sample of LCA Electricity consumption and energy consumption efficiency (residential air conditioners) Electricity consumption and energy consumption efficiency (commercial air conditioners) Daikin Eco-Products Promoting the Use of Inverter Products 2009 Joint Venture with Major Chinese Manufacturer to Tap World Inverter Product Market The Daikin Group aims to provide more highly energy efficient inverter air conditioners worldwide and thus reduce the amount of CO2 emissions (See page 81) from energy consumption during product use. Promoting the Use of Inverter Products Inverter air conditioners as percentage of all room air conditioners in China 72 Environment Promoting the Use of Heat Pump Space and Hot Water Heaters Promoting Heat Pump Products in Space and Hot Water Heating Market The Daikin Group is developing space and hot water heaters using highly energy efficient heat-pump technology. In heat pump technology for air (See page 82) conditioning, heat is drawn from the air and transferred for use as cooling or heating. Compared to space or water heating methods that burn fossil Promoting the Use of Heat Pump Space and Hot Water Heaters fuels directly, it produces approximately one-third the CO2. Features of the MEGA-Q Comparison of Annual CO2 Emissions: MEGA-Q Large-Scale Commercial Heat Pump Water Heating System versus Combustion-Type Boiler Products That Help Customers Save Energy Daikin Helps Customers Reduce CO2 Emissions with Air Conditioners, Chemicals, and Oil Hydraulic Products Room air conditioners, large commercial air conditioners, fluorochemical products, and oil hydraulic products-Daikin develops environmentally (See page 84) conscious products so it can offer complete packages for helping customers reduce their overall CO2 emissions. Air Conditioning Products Structure of the Air Conditioning Network Service System II DESICA Commercial Air Conditioning System Freezing, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Heat Recovery System Fluorochemical Products ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Fluoride Materials That Reduce Automobile Fuel Transpiration into the Atmosphere Oil Hydraulic Equipment Electricity consumption of Super Unit and conventional hydraulic unit Hybrid Construction Machinery Environmentally Conscious Fluorochemical Products The Unique Characteristics of Fluorine are Applied in Fields Such as Fuel Cells and Solar Cells Fluorine mainly bonds with carbon atoms to give compounds that are highly stable and have useful functions such as the ability to resist heat (See page 88) and repel chemicals. Fluorochemical Products That Contribute to Daikin uses the unique characteristics of fluorine to bring consumers a Environmental Protection range of products that help protect the environment. Environmental solutions pioneered with fluorochemical products Cross-section of three-layer fuel hose using fluoroelastomer Reducing PFOA Emissions 73 Environment Low Impact Refrigerants Daikin is developing refrigerants that do not deplete the ozone layer and that have low global warming potential. We can offer the most adequate refrigerant for each case, we are conducting R&D that will achieve practical use of everything from natural (See page 90) refrigerants to HFC fluorocarbons, which have a relatively low global warming potential. Protecting the Ozone Layer Low-Impact Refrigerants Switching to HFC refrigerants around the world Daikin's Stance on the Environmental Impacts of Refrigerants 3R & Repair Designing Products that are Easy to Dismantle and Separate: Recycling Used Air Conditioners The Daikin Group strives to use resources as effectively as possible by carrying out the 3Rs-reducing, reusing, and recycling-along with (See page 92) repairing under its 3R & Repair initiative. 3R & Repair We develop products that are smaller and lighter, and that use materials 3R & Repair: Approach and designs that are easy to separate and recycle. 3R & Repair: Effective Use of Resources Recycling Reducing Amount of packaging per product (wood, cardboard, styrofoam, etc.) Reusing Repair Daikin Service Network Recycling Residential Air Conditioners Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners in FY2009 (Japan) 74 Environment Environmentally Conscious Design through Product Assessment Only Products that Pass 14 Assessment Items Make it to Market To continue improving products' environmental performance such as energy efficiency and recyclable, the Daikin Group uses product assessment items during the development and design stages. There are 14 assessment items that include energy efficiency, reduced weight, and use of recycled materials and parts. Only products that pass all 14 items make it to market. We also assess global warming impact of air conditioners using the life cycle assessment (LCA) method, which allows us to determine the environmental impact at each stage of a product's life cycle. Product Assessment Items (For more information, see page 78) 1. Weight reduction of products 8. Packaging 2. Use of recycled materials and parts 9. Safety 3. Raise possibility of reuse of resources 10. Environmental conservation capabilities 4. Product life extension 11. Energy and resource conservation in use 5. Ease of collecting/transporting 12. Disclosure of information 6. Ease of disassembly and separation of materials 13. Reduction in environmental impact in the by hand manufacturing process 7. Ease of shredding/classifying for recycling 14. LCA Products that Pass Voluntary Environmental Standards Designated as Daikin Eco-Products We have voluntary environmental standards for Daikin Eco Products as percentage of all products assessment criteria with an especially large environmental impact, and we assess scores on the environmental impact of residential products and their packaging. Products that score 80 points or more are designated as Eco-Products, a category that accounts for an increasing percentage of our offerings: 92% in fiscal 2007. To make products with even higher environmental performance, we revised our voluntary environmental standards in fiscal 2007 by tightening criteria for Note: We revised our voluntary environmental standards in fiscal 2008. global warming impact. In fiscal 2009, 39% of our products achieved this strict new standard for Eco-Products. 75 Environment Voluntary environmental standards for Daikin products (established 2001, revised 2007) Products that score 80 points or more are designated as Eco-Products points Has added value in the form of energyand resource-saving functions. 5 Consumes less energy during product use. 25 Global warming prevention Consumes less energy in standby mode. 7 During disassembly, no environmentally harmful substances leak and the 1 product poses no danger to humans. Products are of reduced weight and size. 4 Less refrigerant (HFC) is used; or refrigerant has a low global warming 5 impact. Product itself Structure and assembly allow for easily disassembly by hand. 8 Resource savings Greater percentage of total product can be recycled. 5 Uses easy-to-recycle plastic. 5 Uses recycled plastic. 5 Product has greater durability. 2 Fewer hazardous Contains no hazardous substances. 15 substances Contains no PVC. 2 LCA Environmental impact in the product life cycle can be decreased. 5 Resource savings Packaging is lighter, smaller, and simpler. 4 Packaging Fewer hazardous There are no substances harmful to human health, and there are no 2 substances substances that hinder efforts to properly treat and recycle materials. total 100 Improving Energy Efficiency of Air Conditioners Improving Energy Efficiency by Achieving Fiscal 2010 Standards In the life cycle of an air conditioner, from design and manufacture to use and disposal, the majority of the CO2 that is emitted occurs during product use: over 90% in fact. That is why when we revised our voluntary environmental standards in fiscal 2007, we tightened our criteria for energy efficiency in the product use stage in order to improve the energy efficiency of products. 76 Environment Sample of LCA: Comparison*1 of Life Cycle CO2 Emissions(energy-induced CO2) More than 90% of the CO2 emissions (energy-induced CO2) during the life cycle of an air conditioner come during product use. That's why we put the majority of our efforts into making products more energy efficient. *1 Based on Daikin standards for 14-kW class commercial air conditioners and 2.8-kW class residential air conditioners. *2 The seasonal power consumption is calculated in accordance with: The standard of the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industries Association for commercial air conditioners. The Japanese Industrial Standards for residential air conditioners. Electricity consumption and energy consumption efficiency (residential air conditioners)* * Calculated for Daikin 2.8-kW class air conditioners. Under JIS conditions. Electricity consumption and energy consumption efficiency (commercial air conditioners)* * Calculated for Daikin 14.0-kW class air conditioners. Under conditions of the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association. 77 Environment In 2006, the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy was partially revised: residential air conditioners of 4.0 kW or smaller now have to achieve not only the COP standard values, but also APF standard values with fiscal 2010 as the target year. * COP APF: COP (coefficient of performance): The value of kW of cooling or heating capacity generated per 1 kW of power consumption. Calculated as follows: Cooling or heating capacity (kW) divided by electricity consumption (kW). APF (annual performance factor): The ratio of the total heat quantity (Wh) required to cool and heat a room during both the cooling and heating period to the total power consumption (Wh) during the same period. This allows calculation of an efficiency figure that more closely approximates the figure during actual use. Daikin Eco-Products Ururu Sarara Daikin's Ururu Sarara residential air conditioner includes energy-efficient functions like a swing compressor and slick fin heat exchanger, allowing users to save up to 50% of seasonal power consumption compared to 11 years ago. Product Assessment Items Assessment item Assessment standard 1-1 Weight reduction of product Has product weight been reduced? 1-2 Weight reduction of main Have main materials and parts been reduced, or been used in improved materials and parts yield? 01. Weight reduction of products 1-3 Weight reduction of scarce Have fewer scarce materials been used? materials 1-4 Reduction of refrigerants, use Has less refrigerant (HFC) been used, or has refrigerant with low GWP of natural refrigerants been used? 2-1 Use of recycled plastics Have recycled plastics been used? 02. Use of recycled 2-2 Labelling use of recycled Have parts been labelled as using recycled plastics? materials and parts plastics 2-3 Use of recycled parts Have reused parts been used, and are these of standard quality? 3-1 Raise recycling ratio Has the overall possible recycling ratio of the product been raised? 03. Raise possibility of reuse of resources 3-2 Raise possibility of use of Have easy-to-recycle plastics been used? plastics 4-1 Improve durability of products Are products more durable? 4-2 Improve durability of parts and Have durable parts and materials been used? materials 4-3 Improve ease of parts Does construction allow for easy consumables replacement, and is replacement information provided on how to replace consumables? Have parts requiring maintenance and repair been clearly 04. Product life extension 4-4 Make it easier to maintain and indicated? repair Are parts common across products? Does construction allow for easy maintenance and repair? Has information been provided to end users and repair outlets on 4-5 Tell customers how to get how to get longer use out of products? longer use out of products Have repair outlets been provided with information on repair diagnosis and repair measures, and safety? 78 Environment Assessment item Assessment standard Have items been loaded evenly and balanced, and can 5-1 Make work of collecting and collection and transport take place safely? transporting easier For heavy, bulky items, are handles and wheels properly 05. Ease of collecting/transporting positioned? 5-2 More efficient loading when Is it easy to improve loading efficiency, and is there no danger of collecting and transporting items falling off? 6-1 Make it easier to Does construction allow for easy removal of items to be disassemble and separate items disassembled and separated by hand? by hand Are construction and assembly such that disassembly by hand is easy? 6-2 Make disassembly easier Are there fewHas compound material been reduced? screws 06. Ease of disassembly and that need to be removed during disassembly by hand? separation of materials by hand Has information been provided that makes disassembly easy? 6-3 Reduce compound materials Has compound material been reduced? 6-4 Use common materials Have common materials been used across products? across products 6-5 Label types of materials to Have plastic parts been properly labelled as such? make separation easier Is shredding with a shredder easy? Can products and parts fit into a shredder? 7-1 Make shredding easier Has there been a check to ensure that there are no 07. Ease of shredding/classifying substances that may damage or dirty the equipment or the for recycling materials that will be reused? Are there any foreign materials containing similar properties? 7-2 Make classifying easier Have common materials been used across products? Has packaging weight been reduced, and packaging 8-1 Reduce weight of packaging, simplified? simplify packaging Is used packaging compact, or is it easy to take apart, collect, and transport? Has the use of compound materials been reduced? Is it easy to separate each type of material in compound 8-2 Make it possible to recycle materials? more packaging Have common materials been used across products? 08. Packaging Has packaging reuse been considered? 8-3 Reduce or eliminate Has there been a check to ensure that there are no substances hazardous or poisonous used that are harmful to human health, or that will hinder proper packaging materials processing or recycling? 8-4 Use recycled packaging Has recycled packaging material been used? materials 8-5 Have labelling identifying Does labelling identify packaging materials according to laws? packaging materials 9-1 Improve safety in the Is the production process safe? production process 9-2 Improve safety in distribution Is transportation safe? 9-3 Improve safety during Is it safe to use the product? 09. Safety product use 9-4 Improve safety during Is product servicing safe? servicing 9-5 Improve safety during Is it safe to recycle the product? recycling Is it safe to disassemble and separate the product by hand? 79 Environment Assessment item Assessment standard 10-1 Ensure compliance with legal Are amounts of environmentally harmful substances within legal restrictions on environmentally harmful limits? substances Are products free of prohibited substances on the list of designated chemical substances in the Green Procurement 10-2 Remove environmentally harmful Guidelines (4th edition)? substances from products Prohibited substances are (1) previous prohibited substances, F gas from foaming agents, (2) RoHS substances. 10-3 Reduce PVC Has the amount of PVC been reduced? Has it been ensured that during disassembly, environmentally harmful substances will not leak or will not pose a danger to workers? Has it been ensured that the recycling facilities will not be 10-4 Ensure environmental protection harmed in any way by the recycling process? 10. Environmental conservation during recycling and disposal Have substances that may cause environmental impact capabilities during recycling or afterwards been reduced to the minimum? Is it easy to remove parts containing environmentally harmful substances? Have users been given important information at time of purchasing? Have users and repair persons been informed of important points to keep in mind during product use, repair, and movement? 10-5 Provide information to persons at Does the user manual and other documents give users all stages of the life cycle important points to keep in mind when disposing of product? Can retailers, or those transporting, installing, or collecting products easily know important points to keep in mind during product collection and transport? Are important points to keep in mind written on the product itself for those recycling and disposing of the product? 11-1 Include energy and resource Are there energy and resource saving functions? saving functions 11-2 Improve energy efficiency during Has the product been made more energy efficient during use? 11. Energy and resource use conservation in use 11-3 Reduce energy consumption in Has the product been made more energy efficient in standby? standby mode 11-4 Reduce amount of product Has the amount of consumables been reduced? consumables 12-1 Label product, parts, user Is labelling of product, parts, user manual, and packaging in line manual, packaging, etc. with labelling guidelines? 12. Disclosure of information Are there sufficient documents (treatment manuals) with 12-2 Provide information on recycling information on safety during processing so as to promote and waste treatment recycling and environmental protection? 13. Reduction in environmental 13-1 Reduce emissions from Has the amount of by-products (emissions from manufacturing) impact in the manufacturing manufacturing been reduced? process 14-1 Determine the environmental Has environmental impact been determined for the material, impact at each lifecycle stage production, transport, use, and disposal stages? 14. LCA 14-2 Consider how to reduce environmental impact during the Is it possible to reduce environmental impact? lifecycle 80 Environment Promoting the Use of Inverter Products Joint Venture in China Aims for Greater Worldwide Market Penetration The Daikin Group aims to provide more highly energy efficient inverter air conditioners worldwide and thus reduce the amount of CO2 emissions from energy consumption during product use. The motor rotation in an inverter type air conditioner is variably controlled, which reduces energy use by about 30% compared to non-inverter models. While most air conditioners in Japan today are inverter models, most in use outside Japan are non-inverter models. Making inverter air conditioners more affordable is key to achieving their widespread use. To this end, in March 2009, Daikin Industries and major Chinese air conditioner manufacturer Gree Electric Appliances, Inc of Zhuhai established two joint venture companies to manufacture key components and molds for highly efficient, low-cost inverter air conditioners. The joint ventures will fuse Gree's strength in production and procurement of raw materials and parts with Daikin's expertise in energy-efficiency technology. The aim is to tap markets where inverter products still have low market penetration. Inverter air conditioners as percentage of all room air conditioners in China Data released by research companies in China For details, see Key Activities: Products That Contribute to Global Warming Mitigation (Page 37) 81 Environment Promoting the Use of Heat Pump Space and Hot Water Heaters Bringing More CO2-Reducing Heat Pump Space and Hot Water Heaters to the European Market The Daikin Group is developing space and hot water heaters using energy-efficient heat pump technology. This technology, which is also used for air conditioning, involves drawing heat from the air and transferring it for use in cooling and heating. Compared to space or water heating methods that burn fossil fuels directly, it produces approximately one-third the CO2. The EU has set a target of having renewable energy such as wind and solar power account for 20% of the energy mix by 2020. In January 2009, heat pumps were recognized in the EU as technology that captures renewable energy and heat pump heaters are being recommended as part of this target. In 2006, the Daikin Group began selling a heat-pump type hot water heaters and heating system in Europe and we have been expanding the product lineup since then. With the opportunity provided by European energy policy, Daikin will work to spread the use of heat pump products throughout the continent. For details, see Key Activities: Products That Contribute to Global Warming Mitigation (Page 37) MEGA-Q Large-Scale Heat Pump Hot Water System Developed The Daikin Group is developing space and hot water heaters using highly energy efficient heat-pump technology. In Japan, the Eco-Cute heat pump hot water heater is becoming more prevalent. And in April 2009, we released a commercial heat pump water heating system (MEGA-Q) for large-scale facilities such as hotels and hospitals that can supply up to 120 tons of hot water a day while attaining about a 50% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to combustion-type water heaters. It also allows running cost reductions of approximately 60%. As well, we are working to spread the use of the Danzen Heat system for commercial facilities. We are contributing to energy efficiency by replacing combustion type water heaters with heat pump models. 82 Environment Features of the MEGA-Q Latest energy-efficient technology enables dramatic reductions in CO2 emissions and water-heating costs compared to combustion-type water heaters. With the ability to supply up to 120 tons of hot water a day, it is deal for large-scale facilities such as hotels, hospitals, and public care institutions. Because it gets it heat from a number of sources, there is minimized risk of hot water supply stoppage due to breakdowns and inspections. As well, with two compressors to one heat source, one compressor can break down but the other can still supply 50% of capacity. Because the heat source and heat exchange pump are compact, they require less space for installation than any competing product. With the (separately sold) operation data monitoring software installed in a computer and running in unison with the hot water system controller, customers can use their hot water use as a basis for storing just the right amount of hot water. This saves customers energy and money. Comparison of Annual CO2 Emissions: MEGA-Q Large-Scale Commercial Heat Pump Water Heating System versus Combustion-Type Boiler 83 Environment Air Conditioning Products Air Conditioning Network Service System II Remotely Monitors Building Air Conditioning and Suggests Ways to Improve Energy Efficiency Air conditioning accounts for about 40% of the energy consumed by commercial buildings in Japan. Daikin strives to bring more energy-efficient air conditioners to market. But we also know that how these air conditioners are used can greatly affect the amount of energy consumed. That's why we offer the Air Conditioning Network Service System II to remotely support energy-efficient air conditioner operation. This service started out as a maintenance function to monitor air conditioner operation in order to prevent malfunctions or breakdowns before they occur. But to add more value, we came up with a remote energy-saving tuning function, which keeps air conditioners at the most energy-efficient operation level by monitoring product use and weather conditions. This service was recognized for energy savings of up to 20% and reduction of CO2 emissions and was awarded the Minister of the Environment Prize in the 2008 Eco-Product Awards in Japan. In March 2009, we added an energy saving improvement support function to the Air Conditioning Network Service System II. Using an online screen showing daily operational data of the air conditioning system in a customer's building, Daikin monitors operation in each room for four criteria-that rooms are not overheated or overcooled, that lights are turned off, that filters are properly cleaned, and that electricity use is not exceeding targets. Daikin then makes suggestions based on these. Structure of the Air Conditioning Network Service System II For details, see Key Activities: Products That Contribute to Global Warming Mitigation (Page 37) 84 Environment DESICA Commercial Air Conditioning System Award of Technology, 47th Society of Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Sanitary Engineers of Japan Awards Conventional air conditioning systems use a single unit for controlling both temperature and humidity. This makes it difficult to achieve the ideal balance of both, and it also wastes energy. But in the DESICA system, temperature and humidity are controlled by two separate units, thus achieving both energy efficiency and room comfort. It is about 20% more energy efficient than conventional systems. It was these benefits that earned the DESICA system the Award of Technology at the 47th Society of Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Sanitary Engineers of Japan Awards. The DESICA commercial air conditioning system Freezing, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Heat Recovery System Energy Conservation Center Chairman's Prize, 2009 Energy Conservation Awards The Freezing, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Heat Recovery System for use in convenience stores and supermarkets is an integrated refrigeration, heating, and cooling system that is controlled by just one outdoor unit. Not only does it save space, but it also recovers heat from the freezing and cooling processes to heat the building interior. This leads to big energy savings: This system can save about 56% on annual energy consumption over conventional systems. 2009 Energy Conservation For its heat recovery technology and widespread use in convenience stores across Japan, Awards Director General Prize of the system won the 2009 Energy Conservation Awards. Agency of Natural Resources and Energy Fluorochemical Products ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Eases Air Conditioning Burden Daikin developed ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating, a fluororesin-based paint that reflects the sun's infrared rays off building roofs. Compared to conventional paints, ZEFFLE reduces building roof surface temperature by as much as 15-20°, thus keeping inside temperature down. ZEFFLE could almost be called a easy-to-install ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating Energy Award, 2009 Lloyd's List air conditioner. Used in combination with an Global Awards energy-efficient air conditioner, ZEFFLE can help reduce electricity consumption. 85 Environment Fluoride Materials That Reduce Automobile Fuel Transpiration into the Atmosphere DAI-EL Fluoro TPV Increasingly tighter restrictions are being placed on the transpiration into the atmosphere of VOCs (volatile organic compounds) contained in gasoline, which are one of the causes of air pollution from automobiles. Daikin's fluorochemicals are resistant to heat and chemical penetration, and when used to make automobile fuel hoses and tubes can reduce the permeation of automobile fuel. Daikin's newly developed DAI-EL Fluoro TPV can reduce the permeation of automobile fuel to about one-twentieth compared to our previous fluoroelastomers. This is turn reduces transpiration into the atmosphere. Fuel hose (Inner layer is DAI-EL Fluoro TPV; outer layer is nitrile rubber) Oil Hydraulic Equipment Energy-Efficient Hybrid Hydraulic Super Unit Energy Savings and Lower CO2 Emissions in Factories Daikin also leads the industry in making energy-efficient hydraulic units for factory production lines. The energy-efficient hybrid hydraulic Super Unit employs the same motor technology that is used in Daikin's energyefficient air conditioners. The Super Unit determines the load on the machine, depending on whether it is in standby, operation, or pressure holding mode, and electronically controls the pump at the necessary RPM. The result is energy savings of more than 50% in pressure holding mode (compared to Daikin piston pumps). For use on presses, molding equipment, and inspection devices, the Super Unit contributes to energy savings and lower CO2 emissions. Electricity consumption of Super Unit and conventional hydraulic unit 86 Environment Daikin's Motor Inverter Saves 40% on Fuel in Hybrid Construction Machinery Just as in the automobile industry, the field of construction machinery is moving towards hybrid motors. Backhoes have begun employing hybrid drive systems of engines and motors and Daikin provides the key parts for these systems. In a hybrid backhoe, when the shovel circles around the chassis, the energy from this movement is stored in a battery, and this energy is supplied via the generating motor to assist the engine. This allows engines to be smaller and more fuel efficient. Daikin makes the rotating motor, which creates the rotating energy stored in the battery, the generating motor, which generates energy and assists the engine, and the controller for these. 87 Environment Fluorochemical Products That Contribute to Environmental Protection Fluorochemical Products That Contribute to Environmental Protection Fluorine mainly bonds with carbon atoms to give compounds that are highly stable and have useful functions such as the ability to resist heat and repel chemicals. Daikin uses the unique characteristics of fluorine to bring consumers a range of products that help protect the environment. Environmental solutions pioneered with fluorochemical products Fluoride Materials Reduce Permeation of Gasoline Fluororesins and fluoroelastomers, which are used to make automobile fuel hoses, prevent leaking of VOCs (volatile organic compounds) and keep the permeation of gasoline at a low level even while the car engine is hot. Daikin's newly developed DAI-EL Fluoro TPV can reduce the permeation of automobile fuel to about one-twentieth compared to our previous fluoroelastomers. Cross-section of three-layer fuel hose using fluoroelastomer 88 Environment ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Eases Air Conditioning Burden Applying Daikin's ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating to building roofs reflects the sun's infrared rays and keeps inside temperature down: this eases the burden on air conditioning. And by reducing the electricity used for air conditioning, it also contributes to preventing global warming. Contributing to the Energy Field Including Fuel Cells Fluoropolymers are chemical resistant, heat resistant, and weather resistant, qualities that make them ideal for use as material in cutting-edge energy technologies such as fuel cells, lithium ion batteries, and solar cells. For example, the fluororesin (ETFE) used for the surface protection film on solar cells lasts for more than 20 years under the sunlight with no degradation and does not lose its light transmittance. For details, see Key Activities: Environmental Impact Reduction in the Fluorochemicals Business (Products) (Page 47) Fluoride materials contribute to reduced environmental impact in a range of other applications as well. FEP fluororesins have superb flame resistance, which allows them to replace metal pipelines as covering for LAN wiring and thus save resources; and PTFE fluororesins prevent air pollution and save resources when used as highly efficient, long-lasting dust-collecting bag filters in incinerators and power stations. Reducing PFOA Emissions Voluntary Targets Aim for Total Elimination by 2012 Daikin is working to totally eliminate its use of Perfluorooctanoic Acid (PFOA), a fluorochemical compound concerned to have environmental effects. Daikin uses PFOA as a polymerization aid for some fluororesins and fluoroelastomers that are used in a wide range of fields including semiconductors, information and telecommunication, automotive, and aerospace. As well, minute quantities of PFOA are given off as a by-product in the production process of fluorochemical products that are applied to the surface of clothing and carpets to repel water and oil. While stable, it does not readily degrade in the environment, and if it is ingested by living organisms, it may remain for relatively long periods in the body. Therefore, in 2006 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced the creation of the 2010/15 PFOA Stewardship Program. Daikin and seven other of the world's leading fluorochemical manufacturers are participating in this program. As a result of an in-house reduction program, Daikin is gradually switching to substitutes. So far, we have successfully reduced our PFOA use by 95% and we are working to achieve our target of totally eliminating the use of PFOA by 2012. Switching to a Polymerization Aid with Low Environmental Impact As part of our efforts to achieve our reduction target, in 2008 we began switching to a polymerization aid with a lower environmental impact than PFOA. By the end of 2012 we will have switched to substitutes in all products where PFOA is used. Developing Products That Don't Give Off PFOA in the Production Process We developed waterand oil-repellent products (repellents) that effectively give off no PFOA during their production process and began selling these in 2007. By the end of 2012, all of the repellent products that we produce will give off no PFOA during their production. Unidyne water and oil repellent 89 Environment Protecting the Ozone Layer Refrigerant is used to transport heat between the interior and exterior units of an air conditioner. HCFC used to be the major refrigerant used, but in the 1980s experts suspected it was depleting the ozone layer, so under the Montreal Protocol developed nations agreed to completely phase out its production in developed countries by 2020. Daikin has for years worked to prevent ozone layer destruction by developing substitute refrigerants that do not deplete the ozone layer. In 1991 we began the first mass-production in Japan of HFC, a refrigerant with an ozone depletion potential of zero, and in 1995, we began selling air conditioners that use HFC as the refrigerant. Besides switching to HFC refrigerants, we have also been working to ensure that there is no leakage into the atmosphere: we design and develop products that are easy to recover refrigerant and prevent its leakage, and we recover refrigerant during the manufacturing stage and product repair. In April 2002, we began a fluorocarbon recovery and destruction business in which we recover and properly dispose of refrigerants from used air conditioners. Low-Impact Refrigerants Switching to Refrigerants with Zero Ozone Depletion Potential outside Japan The Daikin Group is phasing out conventional HCFC Switching to HFC refrigerants around the world refrigerants and switching to HFC, a refrigerant with an The majority of air conditioners sold use Japan ozone depletion potential of zero. HFC refrigerant Europe We sell only products using HFC Daikin sells only products using HFC in Japan and Europe. We were also the first company in China to offer Australia We sell products using HFC HFC VRV, and we currently provide HFC residential air U.S. We sell products using HFC conditioners as well. China We sell HFC VRV systems In Southeast Asia and other countries where HCFC air Other parts of Asia, rest We sell HFC VRV systems of world conditioners are the norm, we are offering HFC models (where possible given current infrastructure) and promoting their benefits. Refrigerants with Low Global Warming Potential Although HFC has an ozone depletion potential of zero, it contributes to global warming if released into the atmosphere. The Daikin Group is conducting research aimed at achieving practical use of refrigerants that contribute less to global warming than HFC, currently the most widely used refrigerant. Our research focuses not only on the direct effect of the refrigerant but also on the global warming impact throughout the entire lifecycle, including its energy efficiency during air conditioner use. So that we can offer the most adequate refrigerant for each case, we are conducting R&D that will achieve practical use of everything from natural refrigerants to HFC fluorocarbons, which have a relatively low global warming potential. We are also doing all we can to provide the public with information on the global warming impact of refrigerants and on what can be done to prevent this. 90 Environment Developing VRV Using CO2 Refrigerant In October 2008 at an exhibition in Germany, Daikin caused a sensation when it introduced the world's first VRV using CO2 refrigerant. The VRV also received high praise at exhibitions that followed in Spain and France. But because CO2 refrigerant has a lower energy efficiency than HFC refrigerant, we are continuing to develop technologies to raise the energy efficiency. We are continuing to search for other low global warming potential refrigerants besides natural refrigerants including CO2, as well as develop air conditioners that can use them. Starting in fiscal 2009, we began such research and development under a project by NEDO (New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization) in Japan. VRV using CO2 refrigerant (Germany) Daikin's Stance on the Environmental Impacts of Refrigerants ( Benefits Problems) Refrigerants ODP GWP*1 Atmospheric life(years) Flammability Toxicity Conventional HCFC22 0.055 1,500 12 Nonflammable Low refrigerants HFC134a 0 1,300 14 Nonflammable Low Current refrigerants HFC410A 0 1,725 Nonflammable Low HFC32 0 650 4.9 Slightly flammable Low HFO1234yf*2 0 4 11days Slightly flammable Testing CO2 Future refrigerants (carbon 0 1 120 Nonflammable Low Natural dioxide) refrigerants Ammonia 0 0 0 Slightly flammable Strong Propane 0 3 10 Highly flammable Low Refrigerants Refrigerant characteristics Daikin's stance Conventional Completely phased out in HCFC22 Eliminated all production refrigerants developed countries as of 1995 HFC134a Currently in the process of All of the major models in Japan and Europe Current refrigerants replacing HCFC with this completed refrigerant switchover from HCFC to HFC410A substitute HFC Has a low global warming HFC32 potential for an HFC Slightly flammable Seen as a possible refrigerant in the future Has a low global warming HFO1234yf*2 potential; can be used as a substitute for HFC134a Put into commercial production as refrigerants CO2 Has low energy efficiency for for hot water supply units, for which Future refrigerants (carbon air conditioning systems performance is equivalent to that of conventional dioxide) refrigerants Natural Used for large refrigeration and air conditioning An efficient refrigerant, but refrigerants Ammonia systems where strict control is possible, such as toxic and slightly flammable factories An efficient refrigerant, but Technical development is needed to adopt as Propane highly flammable and thus refrigerant for air conditioners in order to ensure susceptible to explosion safety *1 Source: IPCC Second Assessment Report, other documents *2 Reference value ( HFO1234yf was not reported in the IPCC Second Assessment Report) 91 Environment 3R & Repair Effective Use of Resources in Design The Daikin Group strives to use resources as effectively as possible by carrying out the 3Rs-reducing, reusing, and recycling-along with repairing under its 3R & Repair initiative. This initiative plays a key role in our product design and development. Based on product assessment, we design and develop products that are smaller and lighter, and that use materials and construction that make them easy to maintain, separate, and recycle. 3R & Repair: Approach Reduce Make products smaller and lighter, Use recycled materials Reuse Use parts from end-of-life products Design products that are easy to separate and recycle Use plastics that are easy to recycle Development Recycle Indicate the materials used Construct products that are easy to disassemble After use Recycle end-of-life products Development Design products that are easy to maintain Repair After disposal Have a repair support system that contributes to long-lasting products 3R & Repair: Effective Use of Resources Recycling Designed for Easy Disassembly Product design stresses 3R & Repair based on product assessment. Since 1997, we have designed products so that their construction makes them easy to disassemble. 92 Environment Reducing Smaller and Lighter Products Making products smaller and lighter means they will use fewer resources. When making air conditioners, we set weight reduction targets for both the entire product and its components. However, it is technically difficult to achieve this without sacrificing energy efficiency. If making it smaller and lighter means that it consumes more energy, then the product's environmental performance throughout the entire lifecycle has not yet been improved. When the Daikin Group develops new products, we establish weight reduction targets for each product on the condition that the energy efficiency (COP) does not decrease. Reducing Packaging Amount of packaging per product (wood, cardboard, styrofoam, etc.) We set a target of reducing the amount of packaging for air conditioning products by 6% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2005. As of fiscal 2009, we had achieved a 5% reduction. Reusing Repair and Reusing Parts that have Already Been Replaced In the Daikin Group, we try to use resources efficiently. We take parts that have already been replaced and that contain multiple components, such as printed circuit boards, and we repair any malfunctions or replace the worn-out components. These parts (the printed circuit board, for example) are then tested for quality by ensuring that they are functioning properly and, with the customer's permission, are used as replacement parts when performing repair on a product. Repair Reinforcing the Global Repair System Making products that last longer means that fewer resources are used. To this end, the Daikin Group is strengthening its repair system by establishing service outlets around the world to take customer repair requests and questions and enquiries regarding products. In Japan, the Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take inquiries, while 52 service outlets across the nation carry out product repair and maintenance. We will continue to strive for even greater customer satisfaction by improving the technical expertise and etiquette of our service engineers. 93 Environment With Daikin picking up the pace of its overseas expansion in recent years, it is crucial that we strengthen our service network in each country. We have added service bases in countries like Spain, Singapore, and Italy through the integration of the service system of O.Y.L. Industries Bhd, which Daikin acquired in 2006. In North America and China, Daikin is working with O.Y.L company McQuay International to exchange employees and utilize networks so as to improve the service system. Daikin Service Network Recycling Residential Air Conditioners Recycling Ratio of 84% Well above Obligations under Home Appliance Recycling Law The Home Appliance Recycling Law obligates manufacturers to recycle at least 70% of the material from their own air conditioners as well as recover and then reuse or destroy refrigerants. In fiscal 2009, the Daikin Group recovered about 170,000 units of its residential air conditioners (7% more than the previous year), and recycled 6,996 tons of this, or 84%. We also recovered 100 tons of refrigerants. Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners in FY2009 (Japan) 94 Environment The Daikin Group strives to reduce environmental impact during production (including procurement and transportation). Besides making it a priority to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases during production, we do all we can to manage and reduce emissions of chemicals and reduce waste. We are also working to achieve targets that our manufacturing bases around the world have set for recovering and destroying fluorocarbon refrigerants during production process and during maintenance or final disposal of air conditioners. Preventing Global Warming — Production, Transportation Reduced Emissions to Half of Fiscal 2005 Levels Ahead of Schedule: Fiscal 2009 Emissions Down 71% Against Fiscal 2005 The Chemicals Division and machinery divisions of the Daikin Group emit during production four kinds of fluorocarbons (HFC, PFC, CFC, and (See page 98) HCFC) that are greenhouse gases. We therefore make it a top priority to reduce fluorocarbons by preventing their leakage during production Reducing Overall Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions processes and by recovering and properly destroying them. Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Entire Group We also reduce CO2 emissions during production and transportation by Daikin Joins Japan's Voluntary Emissions introducing energy-efficient technologies and raising transportation Trading Scheme efficiency. Reducing Fluorocarbon Emissions HFC and PFC emissions and global warming impact CFC and HCFC emissions and global warming impact Inspecting for Refrigerant Leaks in the Air Conditioner Manufacturing Process Reducing Energy-Induced CO2 Total CO2 Emissions, CO2 Emissions per Sales CO2 emissions per sales Reducing CO2 Emissions during Transportation CO2 emissions per sales during transportation Green Heart Factories Saving Energy at Overseas Bases 95 Environment Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners Proper Recovery of Refrigerants during Air Conditioner Disposal and Repair Prevents Release into the Atmosphere To protect the ozone layer and help curb global warming, it is crucial that we prevent release of air conditioner refrigerants (fluorocarbons) into the (See page 105) atmosphere. The Daikin Group has a system for recovering and treating refrigerants so that they are not released into the atmosphere during the Recovery and Destruction Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners maintenance, upgrading, or disposal of air conditioners. Efforts to prevent environmental burden from CFC emissions Daikin strives to prevent refrigerant emissions post-sales. We have a Recovery and Destruction of Refrigerants fluorocarbon recovery and destruction business in which we take requests from customers for refrigerant recovery. Efforts in Japan Unified Management System of Refrigerant Recovery and Destruction Amount of fluorocarbon recovered during maintenance and disposal Types of fluorocarbons recovered during maintenance (Japan) Recycling System for Commercial Use Air Conditioners Efforts Overseas Green Procurement Picking Up the Pace of Overseas Green Procurement: 97% in Thailand, 89% in China, 63% in Europe, and 85% in Oceania Whenever possible, the Daikin Group purchases only green parts and materials from suppliers and throughout the entire supply chain. (See page 109) Since fiscal 2000, we have been urging our suppliers to comply with our Green Procurement Green Procurement Guidelines in order to conduct their business in an Green procurement rate (Japan) environmentally conscious manner. Green Procurement Rate by Region Overview of Green Procurement *Green procurement rate: The percentage of our suppliers that have scored at Guidelines, 5th Edition least 82% on the green procurement survey. Compliance with Restrictions on Toxic Chemicals Specified Chemical Substance List (for products) Compliance with J-Moss For Daikin room air conditioners, we report which of the six substances covered by J-Moss (the marking of presence of the specific chemical (See page 112) substances for electrical and electronic equipment) are contained in our products. Compliance with J-Moss The substances contained in Daikin room air conditioners 96 Environment Management of Chemical Substances Goal to Reduce PRTR Substances in Japan to Half of Fiscal 2005 Achieved in Fiscal 2007, Ahead of Schedule The Daikin Group has voluntary restrictions that its uses to strictly manage the chemical substances used in production processes in the (See page 114) Chemicals Division. We set a goal of reducing emissions of PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Registry) substances by 50% in fiscal Management of Chemical Substances 2010 compared to fiscal 2005. We achieved this goal as of 2007. Chemical Substances Management Guidelines (Factory Version) Emissions of PRTR Substances (Japan) Compilation of PRTR Substances in Fiscal 2009 (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) Reducing Waste Daikin Companies in Japan Achieve Zero Waste for General Waste. Eight Overseas Companies Achieve Zero Waste All Daikin Group manufacturing bases in Japan have achieved zero waste for both industrial and general waste. (See page 116) We are working to recycle waste and achieve zero waste throughout the Reducing Waste entire Daikin Group worldwide: overseas, eight manufacturing Amount of waste and amount recycled subsidiaries including Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) have achieved (Japan, Overseas) zero waste. Recycling Efforts Using Water Resources 97 Environment Reducing Overall Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduced Emissions to Half of Fiscal 2005 Ahead of Schedule, Fiscal 2009 Levels Down 71% from Fiscal Year 2005 The Daikin Group emits two kinds of greenhouse gases: CO2 from energy use, and fluorocarbons handled in the production processes. In 2001, the first year we began full-scale efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we made it a top priority to reduce emissions of fluorocarbons, which accounted for over 90% of all Group greenhouse gas emissions. We have worked to recover and properly destroy fluorocarbon gases that are a by-product of production processes of fluorochemical products and which account for more than 85% of our fluorocarbon emissions. As a result, fiscal 2005 greenhouse gas emissions during production were just one-third the level of the base year. One of the key environmental targets of the fiscal 2005 FUSION 10 strategic management plan that was set in fiscal 2005 was to reduce fiscal 2010 greenhouse gas emissions to half of fiscal 2005 levels. As a result of efforts towards this target, overall Group greenhouse gas emissions in fiscal 2009 were 830,000 tons-CO2, down by 71% over fiscal 2005. Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Entire Group 98 Environment Daikin Joins Japan's Voluntary Emissions Trading Scheme In 2008, Daikin Industries participated in the Japanese government's Voluntary Emissions Trading Scheme. Under this scheme, participating companies commit to a certain reduction amount in their CO2 emissions. The scheme also allows them to trade CO2 emission quotas to meet their reduction targets. Participation in the scheme by Daikin Industries' air conditioning factories in Japan was approved after the company committed to CO2 reductions (reduction in CO2 emissions per sales against fiscal 1990: 57% in fiscal 2008, 60% in fiscal 2009, and 63% in fiscal 2010) greater than the industry target (a 35% reduction in CO2 emissions per sales against fiscal 1990). In fiscal 2008, we exceeded our target with reductions of 60%. Kyoto Protocol An international agreement under which developed countries are obligated to reduce overall greenhouse gases by at least 5% compared to 1990 between 2008 and 2012. It was passed in 1997 at the 3rd Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto. Greenhouse gases designated by the Kyoto Protocol are CO2, methane N2O, HFC, PFC, and SF6. Major developed nations are obligated to reduce greenhouse gas emissions: Japan by 6%, the United States by 7% (although the United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol), and the EU by 8%. In March 2008, Japan's Cabinet approved a revised plan for targets that includes additional measures to improve the energy efficiency in the residential and construction sectors. The government is also aiming to achieve Japan's targets through revision of the Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming. Reducing Fluorocarbon Emissions Greenhouse Gases HFC and PFC Reduced by 82% in Fiscal 2009 Against 2005 There are four kinds of fluorocarbons generated during Daikin's production processes: HFC and PFC, which are covered by the Kyoto Protocol, and CFC and HCFC, which are not. We have set reduction targets for each of these fluorocarbons. Fiscal 2009 emissions of the HFC and PFC covered by the Kyoto Protocol were 100 tons (420,000 tons CO2 equivalent), an 82% reduction over fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2009 emissions of CFC and HCFC were 1 ton and 235 tons respectively, a 70% decrease over fiscal 2005. HFC and PFC emissions and global warming impact 99 Environment CFC and HCFC emissions and global warming impact Fluorocarbon Recovery Equipment Ensures Proper Destruction of Refrigerants (Chemicals Division) The fluorocarbons emitted in the Chemicals Division are raw materials and by-products in the production of fluorochemical products. To prevent such emissions, we have been installing recovery equipment on production lines and properly destroying the fluorocarbon gases recovered. We also take the fluorite generated during the destruction process and use it as raw material for the production of fluorochemical products. Establishing Facilities for the Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons in Production Processes To reduce fluorocarbon emissions, the Chemicals Division has been establishing facilities since fiscal 2001 for the proper recovery and destruction of fluorocarbons during manufacturing processes. In fiscal 2009, we built new recovery facilities at the Yodogawa and Kashima plants, and we upgraded destruction facilities (special incinerator) at the Yodogawa Plant to ensure stable operation. In countries in which we operate that have no fluorocarbon emission restrictions, we voluntarily recover gas and either destroy it at our factories or outsource destruction. In December 2008, fluorocarbon destruction facilities that we built in Daikin Thailand were certified by the government and this site can now destroy fluorocarbons recovered at other group companies in Thailand. Ensuring No Leaks When Filling Air Conditioners with Refrigerant (Machinery Divisions) During the air conditioner manufacturing process, we do everything possible to ensure no refrigerants (HFC, HCFC) leak during filling. These measures include the following: We inspect all pipes for leakage before refrigerant filling. If operation inspections show that a product must be fixed, we do so after recovering all the refrigerant from it. We take every precaution possible during refrigerant filling to ensure there are no leaks. Recovering refrigerant All this and other related work is done by certified technicians according to maintenance manual procedures. 100 Environment Switching from HCFC to Helium Gas in the Inspection Process To prevent refrigerant gas from leaking from air conditioners, all products are inspected for air-tightness during manufacturing using inspection gas. For this inspection gas, the Daikin Group has gradually been switching from HCFC to helium, which does not deplete the ozone layer and is not a greenhouse gas. This means that even if a product is defective and leaks gas during inspection it will not harm the environment. In the machinery divisions of the Daikin Group, where air conditioners are made, we have switched from HCFC to helium gas for inspections at 20 manufacturing bases around the world. With the switch to helium gas at the Sakai Plant in 2009, all Daikin plants in Japan no longer use HCFC as inspection gas. Before the end of 2010, we will phase out the use of HCFC at plants in Belgium, Thailand, and Shanghai and thus complete our worldwide switch to helium for inspection gas. Inspecting for Refrigerant Leaks in the Air Conditioner Manufacturing Process Daikin Industries carries out three inspections for refrigerant leaks during the residential air conditioner production process. This gives customers highly reliable products and prevents refrigerant emissions due to product defects. 1. Air-tightness and pressure resistance 2. Gas leak inspection 3. Pre-delivery inspection inspection After ensuring there are no leaks, When the product is completed and Before we insert refrigerant, we pump air at refrigerant is sealed inside and a packed, a refrigerant detector is once an extremely high pressure of 4.2 MPa to refrigerant detector is used to inspect all again used to ensure no refrigerant has check for leaks at the welded sections, pipes, brazed parts. leaked. and other parts refrigerant passes through. Reducing Energy-Induced CO2 20% Reduction in CO2 Emissions per Sales In fiscal 2009, we made it a top priority to raise productivity and reduce energy loss. We reduced lead time to a minimum and boosted production efficiency in the air conditioner production process. In the Chemicals Division as well, the Production Innovation Project boosted efficiency ( see Key Activities for details on page 51) and thus reduced energy loss. As a result, Group CO2 emissions in fiscal 2009 were down 25,000 tons over the previous year, and CO2 emissions per sales were down 20%. 101 Environment Total CO2 Emissions, CO2 Emissions per Sales CO2 emissions per sales The amount of CO2 emitted by net sales. The lower this figure, the less CO2 a company emits per unit of production and thus the more efficiently that company can make products. Reducing Energy Use by the Accumulation of Small Efforts Daikin employees do every little thing possible in their daily work to contribute to energy-efficient operation. At the Sakai Plant, unnecessary lights are turned off and conveyor belts are only run when needed. We also have energy efficiency patrols going through factories to ensure that no energy is being wasted. Dedicated Employees Monitor Electricity Used At the Sakai Plant, specific employees in charge of monitoring the operation of equipment wear name tags. To make this system easy to remember and clear to everyone, Daikin named it SEE, which stands for Safety Environment Eco. Reducing CO2 Emissions during Transportation Increasing Direct Shipment Decreases CO2 Emissions by 11% Over Fiscal 2005 Daikin Industries set a goal of decreasing CO2 emissions (per sales) from transportation by 10% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2005, and efforts to this end have included switching from trucks to trains and ferries. In fiscal 2009, we placed two more containers than the previous year on the trains delivering our products, delivered directly from factory to customer, and shipped directly from overseas production sites to Japan. The result was an 11% decrease in CO2 emissions per sales over fiscal 2005 in the transport of air conditioning products. 102 Environment Reducing Other Environmental Impact during Transportation At manufacturing bases in Japan, we have replaced gasoline-powered forklifts for logistics with electric models. We are introducing more natural-gas-powered and other low-pollution vehicles for company cars. As of fiscal 2009 there were 11 natural gas vehicles. All vehicles driving at manufacturing bases turn off their engines when not moving to reduce exhaust fumes. CO2 emissions per sales from transportation (Air-conditioning) Green Heart Factories Three Plants and Daikin Sunrise Settsu Designated as Green Heart Factories Daikin Industries strives to make its plants more environmentally conscious through an in-house certification system called Green Heart Factories. Those that score at least 85 points out of 100 on five criteria including reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are designated as Green Heart Factories. In fiscal 2009, three Daikin plants (Shiga, Sakai, Yodogawa) and Daikin Sunrise Settsu were designated as Green Heart Factories. Green Heart Factory certificate Saving Energy at Overseas Bases 2009 Thailand Energy Award Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. (Thailand) won the 2009 Thailand Energy Award. Sponsored by Thailand's Ministry of Energy, the award goes to companies and organizations demonstrating outstanding energy savings or use of alternative energy. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd.(Thailand) was highly recognized in the following efforts. All employees contribute to energy savings. The awards ceremony Major impact on reducing energy use and CO2 emissions. Efficient operation of boilers and low-pressure compressors. Control of equipment parameters and temperature of washing devices. 103 Environment Europe: Purchasing Green Energy In Europe, Daikin Europe N.V., sales companies in France and Italy, and a chemical manufacturing base in the Netherlands purchase green energy. Green energy is generated by natural energy sources (wind power, hydro power, biomass, etc.) and produces minimal CO2. Daikin uses green energy whenever possible to prevent the exhaustion of natural resources. Green Energy certification (Italy) China: Solar Power Our manufacturing base in China uses a solar water heater, which gets its power from the sun's rays. Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. applies infrared reflective coating to the roofs of its plant and warehouse to reflect heat from the sun. This prevents the inside of the buildings from getting too hot in summer and saves on air conditioning costs. Solar water heater China: Approximately 15,000 m2 of Rooftop Greenery In fiscal 2009, Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., with the cooperation of the municipal government, covered approximately 15,000 m2 of rooftop space on its buildings with greenery, which acts as an insulator to reduce air conditioning burden and alleviate the heat island phenomenon. Rooftop greenery is a natural insulator Czech Republic: Sensitive to Electricity Savings Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. is keeping employees constantly aware of how to save electricity. The company is eliminating excess energy use by monitoring power consumption on each line and in each room, as well as installing motion sensor lightings and having employees turn off equipment while on their break. 104 Environment Recovery and Destruction Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners Thorough Recovery during Production, Maintenance, and Upgrading The fluorocarbons used as refrigerants in air conditioners have a global warming impact that is approximately 2,000 times more than that of CO2. As an air conditioner manufacturer, Daikin has taken responsibility to prevent fluorocarbons from entering the atmosphere. We are also conducting research and development into refrigerants with a low global warming potential and preventing the release of refrigerants into the atmosphere during production and post-sales. At all worldwide production bases, we recover and destroy refrigerants placed in air conditioners during testing and other processes. We also have destruction facilities in Japan and Thailand. During maintenance and upgrading of customers' air conditioners, the service or installation staff always start by thoroughly recovering the refrigerant. Efforts to prevent environmental burden from CFC emissions Recovery and Destruction of Refrigerants 105 Environment Efforts in Japan Refrigerant Recovery Network System In Japan, we are thorough in our recovery of fluorocarbons (refrigerants) from commercial air conditioners. In September 2006, we created a network system for the integrated management of all information from recovery to destruction of refrigerants. By computerizing all previously written records, from amount of refrigerant recovered to amount destroyed, we have made it easier to accurately keep track. The companies recovering and destroying the refrigerants add up the totals and these are reported annually to the prefectural governments in Japan. Because these reports can be generated from the system, these companies can work more efficiently. Unified Management System of Refrigerant Recovery and Destruction With each instance of refrigerant recovery, details such as the model of air conditioner and number of units, and the amount of refrigerant recovered, are entered into the electronic manifest. This makes it possible to get an accurate picture of the refrigerant recovery rate. Recovery and Destruction 24 Hours a Day, 365 Days a Year (Fluorocarbon Recovery and Destruction Business) We take requests from retailers and other businesses for the proper recovery and destruction of refrigerants. The Daikin Contact Center takes calls all day, every day, and the recovered refrigerants are taken to our Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant, or one of the contracted destruction facilities around Japan where they are properly destroyed. In fiscal 2009, 349 tons of fluorocarbons were destroyed. Recovered Fluorocarbons (at time of repair and at time of disposal) Fluorocarbon destruction facilities (Yodogawa Plant) 106 Environment Maintenance Only After Thorough Recovery of Refrigerant During the parts replacement that takes place during maintenance of air conditioners, refrigerant can leak out into the atmosphere. To prevent this, the Daikin Group has recovery equipment at service outlets across Japan that carry out such maintenance, and this equipment is used to recover refrigerant before any repair work begins. In fiscal 2009, a total of approximately 315 tons of refrigerants were recovered at all service outlets. Types of fluorocarbons recovered during maintenance (Japan) Training for Refrigerant Recovery Personnel The recovery of refrigerants requires special knowledge and skills. Daikin Industries provides the necessary training for the sales, technical, installation, and service staff who will be recovering refrigerants. After one of these training programs, the technician training course, participants take a final test and if they pass are registered as refrigerant recovery technicians by the Refrigerants Recycling Promotion and Technology Center. In fiscal 2009, 1,910 people, mostly from retailers and installers, passed the test. Of all those registered as refrigerant recovery technicians in Japan, 43% took the Daikin technician training course. Training courses also include environmental education Recycling System for Commercial Use Air Conditioners Covering Multiple Regions, System Properly Recovers and Destroys Refrigerants Under the Home Appliance Recycling Law, manufacturers are obligated to recover refrigerants, materials, and parts from used residential air-conditioners for recycling. But there is no similar law for commercial air-conditioners. For this and other reasons, manufacturers cannot get a clear picture of the recovery situation. While metallic materials are recycled, many manufacturers view recovery and destruction of refrigerants as economically unfeasible, which makes it difficult to build a system to do this. Against this background, the Daikin Group is working with companies specializing in recycling, waste processing, and recovery and destruction of refrigerants in an effort to build a system for the proper recovery and destruction of refrigerants from commercial air-conditioners. This recycling system went into operation in fiscal 2004 in the Osaka, Chukyo, and Niigata districts of Japan and in fiscal 2005 in the Kyushu, Kanto, and Chugoku districts. 107 Environment Conventional disposal process for commercial air-conditioners New recycling system Efforts Overseas Training Personnel in Refrigerant Recovery and Installing Recovery Equipment At the Daikin Europe Academy, training is held to teach the knowledge and skills needed to carry out refrigerant recovery. Course content is also in line with the EU regulations to prevent the release of refrigerants into the atmosphere. In China and other parts of Asia, all service bases have refrigerant recovery equipment. As we recover refrigerants, we remind customers how important this activity is to environmental protection, irrespective of the cost. 108 Environment Green Procurement A Global Effort Since fiscal 2000, the Daikin Group has been requiring suppliers in Japan to comply with the Green Procurement Guidelines in the procurement of materials and parts used in manufacturing. In fiscal 2009, Group companies in Japan had a green procurement rate of 99%. To ensure maximum effectiveness of green procurement, we grade our suppliers on their environmental protection efforts and CO2 emissions using criteria on a green procurement survey. Suppliers who fail to achieve these assessment criteria are visited and given guidance towards improvement. Our production bases in Southeast Asia, China, and Europe also strive for green procurement. In fiscal 2009, green procurement rates were 97% in Thailand, 89% in China, 63% in Europe, and 85% in Oceania. Green procurement rate (Japan) Green Procurement Rate by Region (%) Japan Thailand China Europe Oceania Value of goods procured from suppliers FY2008 97 85 79 69 Green procurement rate = who meet our assessment criteria Value of all goods procured FY2009 99 97 89 63 85 Overview of Green Procurement Guidelines, 5th Edition Environmental Management Conditions for Suppliers Suppliers should have an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system Suppliers must themselves be carrying out green procurement Suppliers must have their own chemical substances management system Product-Related Conditions Materials and parts delivered to Daikin should have no substances forbidden by Daikin Production processes should use no substances forbidden by Daikin Upon request, provide Daikin with information on the amount of chemicals contained, which part it is used in, why it is being used, and its toxicity. Voluntarily reduce the amount of chemicals for which Daikin requests reduction Reduce and optimize product packaging 109 Environment Compliance with Restrictions on Toxic Chemicals Managing Chemical Substances in Products The Daikin Group has a list (shown below) of 30 substances not allowed in products, as well as SVHC (substances of very high concern) under the REACH Regulation, which will be added in future. Daikin requires suppliers to ensure that they comply with the Daikin Group Green Procurement Guidelines. When the Green Procurement Guidelines were revised in October 2009, we updated the list of restricted substances and increased the number from 26 to 30. Specified Chemical Substance List (for products) Control Substance name levels Hexavalent chromium compounds Polychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs) *2 Lead and lead compounds Polychloronapthalenes (C1=>3) Mercury and mercury compounds Short chain chlorinated paraffins Tributyl tin oxide (TBTO) Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOSs) *3 Tributyl tins (TBTs) compounds *1 F gas (HFC, PFC, SF6) *4 Triphenyl tins (TPTs) compounds *1 Asbestos Prohibited Dibutyl tin compounds (DBTs) *1 Azocolourants and azodyes which form certain Dioctyltin compounds (DOTs) *1 aromatic amines *5 Polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) Ozone depleting substances (other than HCFCs) Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) *6 Deca-Bromodiphenylether (Deca-BDE) *2 Radioactive substances Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) Phenol,2-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-4,6-bis(1,1Cadmium and cadmium compounds dimethylethyl) *2 Dimethlyfumarate (DMF) *7 Vinyl chloride polymer (PVC) *8 Reduced Ozone depleting substances (only HCFCs) Beryllium oxide (BeO) *2 Phthalates (DINP, DIDP, DNOP) *2 Perchlorates *2 Nickel and nickel compounds *9 Managed Brominated flame retardants (other than PBBs, PBDEs, HBCDDs) Formaldehyde *2 EU REACH Regulation (SVHC: substances of very high concern) group (Prohibited materials specified by this guideline are excluded) *10 *1 The use of TBTs and TPTs is prohibited as of July 2010. The use of DBTs will be prohibited as of January 2012 (January 2015 for certain substances). The use of DOTs will be prohibited as of January 2012. However, only Commodities that touch the skin and Two-component normal temperature silicone modules will be prohibited. *2 Materials added to JIG representation material (July 2009). *3 The use of PFOSs is prohibited as of May 2009 under the POPs Agreement. Prohibited as of April 2010 under Japan's Law Concerning the Evaluation of Chemical Substances (except for applications in semiconductors, etching, and business photographic film). *4 The use of F gas (HFC, PFC, etc) is prohibited in one-component foams (except when required to meet national safety standards). (Banned in the EU starting in July 2008.) The use of F gas (HFC, PFC, etc.) is permitted for refrigerants. *5 Limited to applications in azo dyes and pigments which constitute the specific amines defined by the German Consumer Goods Ordinance and which come into contact with the human body for long hours. *6 The use of HCFC for the production of foams shall be prohibited, and the use as refrigerants for Japan and EU models shall also be prohibited. *7 Use prohibited as of May 2009 (formerly used as a fungicide in leather products and furniture before being prohibited in the EU). *8 There are fewer substances that can be used as PVC substitutes. *9 In cases in which the nickel comes into contact with the human body for long hours. *10 All SVHC (substances of very high concern) added in future shall be managed. Postscripts do not need to be added in future. 110 Environment Traceability Information for REACH Substances The REACH Regulation on chemical substances went into effect in Europe in June 2007. REACH obligates companies manufacturing or importing at least 1 ton of chemical substances a year in the EU to register with EU authorities. REACH covers almost all chemicals on the market in the EU. In 2008, the Daikin Group completed preregistration for all chemical substances contained in products. We are now preparing for full registration through the building of systems and other measures. Complete Elimination of All RoHS Directive Substances The RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive; full name is Directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment) went into effect in July 2006, and restricts the use of six hazardous materials: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and two specified bromide fire retardants (polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated biphenyl ether (PBDE)). To this list, the Daikin Group added azo compounds to make seven substances that it prohibits in parts from suppliers. As of March 2006, Daikin had eliminated the use of all of these in relevant products for the European and Japanese markets. If we suspect that RoHS substances are contained in parts, we examine them with a fluorescence spectrometer or conduct a survey of toxicity using the MSDS-Plus database. Elimination of Substances Ahead of the Chinese Version of RoHS In March 2007, the Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products Regulation (China RoHS) was enacted. This directive specifies the same six substances (lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, specified bromide fire retardants) designated by the European RoHS Directive. Although the directive does not cover air conditioners, the products that the Daikin Group is selling in China do not contain RoHS substances. And we are gradually introducing products without these substances in Southeast Asia, where there are still no equivalent regulations banning their use. 111 Environment Compliance with J-Moss We release information on the presence in our products of the six substances covered by J-Moss (the marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment). Daikin room air conditioners are covered by J-Moss. Since 2001, Daikin has been determining and controlling chemical substances contained in products and we have stopped using substances specified under J-Moss. As a result, all models of our air conditioners (produced since July 2006) contain none of the substances exceeding the amounts under the standards. We will continue to actively provide information about our environmentally conscious products so that we can offer customers a peace of mind when making purchases. J-Moss Also known as JIS C 0950, J-Moss is an abbreviation of The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment. J-Moss requires the labelling of electrical and electronic products containing six substances: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and two specified bromide fire retardants (polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated biphenyl ether (PBDE)). There are seven types of products covered: personal computers, unit air conditioners, TVs, electric refrigerators, electric washing machines, microwave ovens, and clothes dryers. Daikin Products The substances contained in Daikin room air conditioners are shown on the table below. Note that the room air conditioners shipped in Japan starting in 2007 bear the Japan's Green Mark eco-label. Product type: Room air conditioner (interior/outdoor units) Model: All models produced since in July 2006 (see note 3). Chemical substance code Class Pb Hg Cd Cr(VI) PBB PBDE Manufactured parts ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Refrigerant system parts N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Electrical/electronic parts N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Compressor N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Refrigerant ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Accessories ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Notes: JIS C 0950:2008 1. A ◯ symbol means that the substance contained does not exceed the allowable amount under the standard. 2. N/A means the substance is not applicable for labelling. 3. Models designated below. Indoor unit: Wall mount, embedded ceiling cassette (single flow, double flow), embedded wall, built-in amenity, floor standing Exterior unit: For the following: Pair type, System Pack, Multi-Split System, Wide Select Multi, Equipped with Hot Water Floor Heating function 112 Environment Overview of J-Moss Under Japan's Law for the Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources, relevant equipment must meet J-Moss standards. J-Moss (JIS C 0950) The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment Gist of the Standards Indicating on labelling which of the specified chemical substances are contained in electrical and electronic equipment is meant to achieve the following: Management of chemical substances will be improved in all stages of the supply chain and life cycle. End consumers can easily understand the substances contained. It will lead to more effective use of resources and less impact on the environment. Spread the use of electrical and electronic equipment in which substances are properly controlled. Products Covered (1) Personal computers, (2) Unit air conditioners, (3) TVs, (4) Electric refrigerators, (5) Electric washing machines, (6) Microwave ovens, (7) Clothes dryers Specified chemical substances Chemical substance Code Standard for % by weight Lead Pb 0.1 Mercury Hg 0.1 Cadmium Cd 0.01 Hexavalent chromium Cr(VI) 0.1 Polybrominated biphenyls PBB 0.1 Polybrominated biphenyl ether PBDE 0.1 Content Labelling If the content of the specified chemical substance exceeds the standard values, its content must be indicated on the product itself, the packaging, and on catalogs and other documentation. This information must also be put on the company's Web site. The content of some of the chemical substances does not need to be indicated on the labelling, and other chemical substances do not need to be indicated on labelling if they are Label indicating substances below the standard value. However, these must still be shown on the company's Web site. contained in product Green Mark Labelling Electrical and electronic equipment whose content of the specified chemical substances does not exceed the standard values may bear Japan's Green Mark eco-label on the conditions stated in the Guidelines for Using the Green Mark for Specified Chemical Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Note: The Guidelines are recognized by the following groups. Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Green Mark Japan Electrical Manufacturers' Association (JEMA) Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association (JRAIA) 113 Environment Management of Chemical Substances Comprehensive Management of Chemical Substances The Daikin Group carries out comprehensive management of the variety of chemical substances that it handles in production processes. Each substance is given a designation, such as prohibited for production or use, or reduced as far as the amount emitted. Chemical Substances Management Guidelines (Factory Version) Control levels Examples of substances Prohibited PCB, polychloronapthalenes, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, lead, etc. (15 substances) Eliminated Vinyl chloride polymer (PVC), HCFC (two substances) Reduced Phthalates, antimony, arsenic, beryllium, etc. (nine substances) Compliance with the PRTR Law The Daikin Group set a target of reducing PRTR substances by 50% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2005, and in fiscal 2007 we achieved this, three years ahead of schedule. When Japan's PRTR Law was revised in October 2009, a large number of chemicals were added to the list of restricted substances. In response, Daikin is working to determine the amounts of these new substances that were used so it can properly document this in its fiscal 2010 report. Emissions of PRTR Substances (Japan) PRTR Law (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law) Enacted in Japan in 1999, the PRTR Law is a legal framework in Japan for the calculation and publicizing of the amounts of certain hazardous chemical substances that are emitted or transferred as waste into the environment (air, water, and soil) or into public sewage systems. Other countries have similar regulations. The PRTR Law was revised in 2009. 114 Environment Compilation of PRTR Substances in Fiscal 2009 (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) Amount transported Amount emitted(tons) (tons) Substance name Public Air Soil Waste Sewage waterways Tetrafluoroethylene 42.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Chlorodifluoromethane (also called HCFC-22) 38.54 0.00 0.00 4.53 0.00 Dichloromethane (also called methylene chloride) 27.68 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.00 Toluene 2.70 0.00 0.00 0.34 0.00 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane (also called HCFC-141b) 1.93 0.00 0.00 0.81 0.00 Xylene 0.78 0.00 0.00 0.70 0.00 Chloroform 0.67 0.00 0.00 1.30 0.00 Ethylbenzene 0.28 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane (also called HCFC-142b) 0.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Hydrogen fluoride and other water-soluble salts 0.17 0.00 0.00 57.00 0.00 1,1,1-trichloroethane 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2-aminoethanol 0.02 0.00 0.00 4.36 0.00 Acetonitrile 0.01 0.00 0.00 2.10 0.02 N,N-dimethylformamide 0.00 0.00 0.00 6.30 0.00 Carbon tetrachloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Polyoxyethylene alkyl ether (those whose alkyl group carbon number is 0.00 0.00 0.00 18.00 0.11 between 12 and 15, or compounds of these) Acrylic acid 0.00 0.00 0.00 14.00 0.00 Antimony and antimony compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.20 0.00 Polyoxyethylene octyl phenyl ether 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.10 0.01 Hydroquinone 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.90 0.00 Allyl alcohol 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.10 0.00 Water soluble lead compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.72 3.00 Ethylene glycol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.33 0.00 Polycondensates of 4,4-isopropylidene diphenyl and 1-chloro2,3-epoxypropane (also called bisphenol A epoxy resin) (only in liquid 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 0.00 state) Molybdenum and molybdenum compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2-Chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (also called HCFC-124) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Styrene 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Bis (hydrogenated tallow) dimethylammonium chloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Methacrylic acid, 2-ethylhexyl ester 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total 115 0 0 119 3 115 Environment Reducing Waste Definition of the Daikin Group's Zero Waste The Daikin Group's zero waste goal is an effort to landfill or incinerate (but not for heat recovery) less than 1% of all waste from production processes overseas (0.5% in Japan) and to recycle at least 99% overseas (99.5% in Japan). Eight Overseas Production Subsidiaries Achieve Zero Waste By fiscal 2005, all Daikin Group manufacturing bases in Japan had achieved zero waste (at least a 99.5% recycling ratio). Overseas companies have been working to reduce waste and as of the present, eight overseas production subsidiaries, including Daikin Thailand and Daikin Europe, have achieved zero waste (at least a 99% recycling ratio). Amount Recycled and Amount Disposed of (Japan) Separating garbage in efforts to achieve zero waste (Daikin Thailand) Amount Recycled and Amount Disposed of (Overseas) 116 Environment Recycling Grinding Sludge Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. (DCI; head office: Thailand), the manufacturing base for compressors for residential air-conditioners, mixes the sludge from grinding and the cutting debris from casting, dries the mixture out, compresses it, and recycles it as casting material. Recycling Wooden Palettes The Shiga Plant has been procuring an increasing amount of materials and parts from overseas and these have been accompanied by an increasing number of pallets. The plant tried to figure out how to recycle these pallets and came up with the idea of making them into charcoal, which is now used as deodorizing agent in the deodorizing equipment on painting lines. Absorption deodorizer Crushing wooden palettes Making charcoal (activated charcoal) Reducing Waste by the Accumulation of Small Efforts Daikin employees do every little thing possible in their daily work to reduce the amount of waste generated. The Sakai Plant reuses buffer material in product packaging. The Shiga Plant has reduced the amount of wood waste by 75% by reusing this valuable resource whenever possible. And it has reduced the water content of sludge after wastewater treatment by approximately 20%. Daikin will take these successes to other bases, while at the same time starting new efforts such as separating plastics so as to make greater use of recycled materials. The Chemicals Division incinerates waste on site to create raw materials that can be used. 117 Environment Using Water Resources We compile data on amount of water used and emitted as waste water. Environmental Impact: The Big Picture (See page 64) Each plant measures the substances contained in waste water. Site Report (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) Recycling Sewage Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. (Thailand) (DCI) has installed a new filter system on the water treatment equipment for waste water from the cafeteria and restrooms. This waste water can be made as clean as industrial-use water and is used for the company toilets. 118 Environment We are striving to strengthen environmental audits, eliminate environmental risks, and provide environmental education with the aim of establishing the integrated group environmental management system. Environmental Management System ISO 14001 Certification at All the Major Bases around the World A common goal of the entire Group is to build and operate ISO 14001-based environmental management systems (EMS) that will boost (See page 121) our environmental activities. Environmental Management System In Japan, all Daikin bases and subsidiaries come under an integrated System Driving Environmental EMS. We are currently working to establish an EMS that encompasses Management the systems at all worldwide bases. Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification Daikin bases certified for ISO 14001 The creation of environmental management systems is also proceeding (Japan, overseas) at companies in the OYL Group, which joined the Daikin Group in 2006. Global Environmental Meetings Environmental Audits Internal Auditors Conduct Strict Audits The Daikin Group has regular annual environmental audits: internal audits by Daikin itself and audits by third-party certification institutes. (See page 125) These help us check and constantly improve the functioning of our systems. Environmental Audits Fiscal 2009 report from audits 119 Environment Environmental Risk Management Audits and Regular Disaster Drills Reduce Environmental Risk A company-wide internal environmental auditing team carries out regular legal audits once a year to ensure environmental risk is kept to a (See page 126) minimum. Environmental Risk Management If any accidents or calamities should occur, manufacturing bases and Disaster Drills Overseas production subsidiaries are prepared to deal with the problem thanks to Monitoring Environmental Standards regular disaster drills for all employees. Measures for Soil and Groundwater Pollution Storage and Treatment of PCBs Environmental Accounting In FY2009, we spent 5% more on research and development related to energy efficiency and refrigerants Environmental accounting gives a quantitative representation of the costs and effects of environmental measures and constitutes an (See page 128) important item of environment information. As well, it is a tool for managing the overall environmental impact of our global group and for Environmental Accounting coming up with the most efficient and effective ways to reduce this Accounting Method impact. Breakdown of environmental conservation costs Cost of environmental conservation Effects of environmental conservation Economic benefits of environmental conservation efforts (monetary benefits) Environmental Education E-learning Boosts Environmental Awareness The Daikin Group has a variety of environmental education programs that get employees to take action by deepening their understanding of (See page 131) things like environmental management systems and Daikin's effect on the environment. Part of this education is done via e-learning over our intranet for employees both in Japan and overseas. 120 Environment Environmental Management System Creating Integrated Group Environmental Management The diagram below shows the organization for the Daikin Group's environmental management. Overseas, environmental meetings are held once a year in each of four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/ Oceania). Besides sharing Group policy and medium and long-term targets, these meetings allow attendees to share a variety of information with the aim of achieving an integrated group environmental management system. The creation of environmental management systems is also proceeding at companies in the OYL Group, which joined the Daikin Group in 2006. System Driving Environmental Management 121 Environment Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification History of Integrated EMS In 1996, individual production bases in the Daikin Group in Japan began creating and operating their own EMS for the sake of environmental protection. Sites created and operated their own EMS based on the characteristics of their business and regions because at that time environmental protection was mainly aimed at preventing pollution such as air and water pollution. But as society underwent changes, Daikin realized that environmental protection activities are an integral part of its business and management. In 2002, Daikin came out with a policy that advocated the integration of environmental and business activities and the full-fledged pursuit of environmental management. In order to incorporate measures that would make this policy common to the entire Group, the individual EMS of the various bases and subsidiaries had to be consolidated into an integrated EMS. We thus began creating an EMS that would integrate the bases and subsidiaries (including non-production bases and subsidiaries), and in March 2004 all bases and subsidiaries (including non-production bases) in Japan received integrated certification for ISO 14001. This has given us a system for conducting environmental management across the entire group in Japan, including non-production bases such as sales companies. Global Environmental Meetings Boosting Environmental Action by Sharing Information and Discussing Challenges To ensure the continuous improvement of the Daikin Group's environmental management, environmental meetings are held once a year in four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/ Oceania). These meetings allow attendees to share Group policy and medium and long-term targets, as well as a variety of other valuable information. An environmental meeting in North America Daikin bases certified for ISO 14001 (Japan, overseas) Daikin bases certified for ISO 14001 (Japan) Japan 1996: Daikin Industries Group in Japan* * Sakai Plant certified in October 1996. Certification followed at Daikin Industries' bases and domestic manufacturing subsidiaries. In March 2004, certification for the Daikin Industries Group in Japan was upgraded to integrated certification. 122 Environment Certification for Overseas Subsidiaries (as of March 2010) Date Subsidiary certified Sep. 1997 Daikin America, Inc. Feb. 1998 Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Feb. 1998 Daikin Europe N.V. Nov. 2001 Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co,. Ltd. Nov. 2001 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2002 Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co,. Ltd. Nov. 2002 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Huizhou Branch Jan. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning (Thailand ) Ltd. Jan. 2004 Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Jan. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning Germany GmbH Jun. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning Spain S.A. Dec. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning France S.A.S. Dec. 2004 Daikin Compressor Industries, Ltd. Jan. 2005 Siam Daikin Sales Co.,Ltd. Jan. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Central Europe Feb. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Poland Sp. zo.o Feb. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A Mar. 2005 Daikin Trading (Thailand) Ltd. Mar. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Apr. 2005 Daikin Asia Servicing Pte. Ltd. Apr. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Belgium N.V. Dec. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning U.K., Ltd. Dec. 2005 Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2006 Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. Jun. 2006 Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Jul. 2006 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Sep. 2006 Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Oct. 2006 Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Dec. 2006 Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. May. 2007 Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Aug. 2007 Daikin Airconditioning (Malaysia) Sdn., Bhd. Aug. 2007 Daikin Airconditioning (Hong Kong ) Ltd. Nov. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Shanghai), Ltd. Dec. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Beijing), Ltd. Dec. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Guanghou), Ltd. 123 Environment Date Subsidiary certified Jan. 2008 Cri-Tech Inc. Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai Branch Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Beijing Branch Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Branch Mar. 2008 Daikin America, Inc. (Orangeburg) Jun. 2008 Daikin Chemical Europe GmbH Jul. 2008 Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o. Sep. 2008 Daikin Airconditioning Portugal S.A. Jan. 2009 Daikin Airconditioning Greece S.A. Certification for OYL Group Companies Date Company certified Nov. 2004 Shenzhen McQuay Air Conditioning Co., Ltd. Mar. 2007 OYL Technology Sdn. Bhd. May. 2007 McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. Jul. 2007 PT. OYL Sentra Manufacturing Dec. 2007 O.Y.L. Manufacturing Co. Sdn. Bhd. Jan. 2008 AAF (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2008 AAF (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2008 McQuay Suzhou Nov. 2008 OYL Research & Development Centre Sdn Bhd Jan. 2009 American Air Filter Manufacturing Sdn Bhd Mar. 2009 OYL Steel Centre Sdn Bhd Jun. 2009 OYL Condair Industries Sdn Bhd Aug. 2009 J&E Hall Refrigeration Sdn Bhd Jan. 2010 J&E Hall Limited (United Kingdom) Jan. 2010 McQuay Italia S.p.A.(Italy) Jan. 2010 McQuay (Faribault) Jan. 2010 McQuay (Owatonna) 124 Environment Environmental Audits Audit by Internal Auditors and Third-Party Institutes The Daikin Group has regular annual environmental audits performed by internal auditors and third-party certification institutes. This lets us know if our EMS is working as it should and helps us improve. In fiscal 2009, 57 internal auditors carried out thorough audits, and confirmed that the new system that we introduced in fiscal 2007 was firmly established and working effectively. Fiscal 2009 report from audits Problems found from internal environmental Problems found by third-party certification audits institutes Major 3 0 non-conformance Minor 99 1 non-conformance Items improved 214 10 Violations Details of fiscal 2009 Details No violations There were no violations of environmental laws or regulations Training Internal Auditors There are currently 57 internal auditors undergoing training and skills improvement. New and experienced auditors work in pairs so as to pass on skills from one generation to the next. Internal auditors also improve their skills through training once a year. 125 Environment Environmental Risk Management Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations Once a year, the Daikin Group has company-wide environmental auditing teams conduct audits to check for legal compliance and ensure there are no environmental risks. We have systems in place that allow us to minimize environmental damage if there should be an accident or calamity at the production site of Daikin or a subsidiary. We also maintain close relations with neighborhood associations through factory tours and Drill to practice putting up an other activities so that we can have a joint system of emergency measures with local emergency oil fence (Shiga Plant) communities. Regular Emergency Drills Keep Daikin Ready Joint System of Emergency Measures with Local Communities We have systems in place that allow us to minimize environmental damage if there should be an accident or calamity at the production site of Daikin or a subsidiary. The Chemicals Division and machinery divisions created the Disaster Prevention Manual, which details how to deal with emergencies like chemical and oil leaks. The manual is the basis for regular emergency drills. In fiscal 2009, we held regular drills that prepare us for emergencies such as oil leaks. In the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division, we have a business continuity plan (BCP) so that we can get our company up and running in case there is an earthquake or other disaster. We are looking into creation a system for warning and evacuation in case a disaster occurs at night, as well as planning drills for such a system. We also consider it a top priority to guarantee the safety of those people living near our factories. Our Yodogawa Plant is particularly close to residential neighborhoods, so we use risk assessment to minimize environmental risks. We also maintain close relations with neighborhood associations through factory tours and other activities with the aim of having emergency measures in cooperation with local communities. Disaster Drills Overseas Daikin's overseas manufacturing bases hold drills to ensure safety and security at all times. Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. holds Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. holds holds drill in preventing chemical leaks a disaster prevention drill drill in dealing with oil leaks 126 Environment Reducing PFOA Emissions in Fluorochemical Products Accelerating the Switch to Substitutes to Totally Eliminate PFOA by 2012 The Daikin Group is working towards its target of totally eliminating the use of PFOA (a fluorine compound that persists indefinitely in the environment) by 2012. PFOA is used in the production of fluorochemical products and is present in minute quantities in some products. For details, see Reducing PFOA Emissions (Page 89) Monitoring Environmental Standards Strict Management at Manufacturing Bases Exceeds Legal Restrictions The Daikin Group controls air and water pollution, as well as noise and vibration, using voluntary standards that are stricter than national and local government standards. We have set control values at approximately 60% of legal standards, and we regularly measure our various environmental impacts and work to either prevent or decrease them. Monitored environmental data for Daikin Industries' four manufacturing bases is on the Daikin Web site. Site Report (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) Measures for Soil and Groundwater Pollution Groundwater Cleanup Continues at Kashima Plant In 2000, the concentration of organic chlorine-based compounds in groundwater at the Kashima Plant was found to exceed environmental standards. We therefore removed and cleaned the contaminated soil, pumped out and cleaned the groundwater, and took precautions to prevent pollution from spreading to outside the plant and to remediate all types of pollution. Thanks to improvements in purification facilities, in fiscal 2009 the concentration of pollutants in the groundwater and soil continued to decrease. However, the cleanup will still take time and we will continue these efforts. Storage and Treatment of PCBs Strict Management of Equipment Containing PCBs Daikin abides by national laws in properly managing equipment containing PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls). We have already planned for the disposal of some of this equipment through early registration with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO). Daikin's Storage of PCBs Plant Details Shiga Plant 5 condensers, 126 fluorescent ballasts Sakai Plant 4 ballasts, 36 liters of additional insulating oil Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant 12 condensers, 476 ballasts All of the above is stored in special storage containers in dedicated warehouses. 127 Environment Environmental Accounting Daikin's Environmental Accounting Philosophy Daikin believes that environmental accounting, a measure of the cost and effectiveness of environmental efforts, is a vital part of the environmental information we provide, as well as an important tool in our environmental management. Environmental accounting is thus the basis for the Daikin Group's efforts to most effectively and efficiently lessen the worldwide environmental impact of its worldwide business activities. FY2009 Environmental Accounting Figures Total environmental protection costs in FY2009 were ￥15.7 billion (investment in equipment: ￥3 billion; expenses: ￥12.7 billion), up 5% over the previous year. Research and development costs accounted for 69% of this. For the air-conditioner business, we focused our R&D efforts on developing technologies for energy efficiency and refrigerants. Amidst rising concern about global warming, we have been developing basic technologies and equipment in a number of areas including inverters for improving air conditioner energy efficiency and heat pumps for use in space and water heating. Accounting Method The costs and effects of Daikin's environmental efforts were calculated based on the Environmental Accounting Guideline 2005 released by Japan's Ministry of the Environment. Costs of Environmental Conservation Expenses include labor costs but not depreciation expenses for investment in facilities. The expenses not full allocated to environmental protection were proportionally divided and totaled according to a relevant Daikin standard. Effects of Environmental Conservation Please see the relevant page for details of each item. Economic Benefits of Environmental Conservation Efforts The environmental conservation effects and economic benefits were calculated by comparing the adjusted output to the previous fiscal year. Breakdown of environmental conservation costs (% of total) 128 Environment Environmental Accounting in Internal Management For some time now, we have been working to incorporate environmental accounting into our internal management. Currently, the level of investment in environmental protection and investment efficiency are assessed against trends, other companies, and other divisions in our company. The results are used to develop methods for making investment decisions. By prioritizing our environmental protection efforts, the worldwide Daikin Group can achieve more efficient use of environmental investment and more efficiently reduce environmental impact. As part of these efforts, we are considering introducing an integrated assessment index for environmental impact; and material cost accounting, which we use to assess the cost of things like materials used and energy lost in production processes. FY2009 environmental costs (￥ million) Cost of environmental conservation FY2008 FY2009 Category Major activities Amount of Amount of equipment Expenses equipment Expenses invested invested Cost in business area 1,370 2,948 810 2,600 Introduction, maintenance, and management of pollution prevention facilities/equipment, expenses for 1. Pollution prevention 948 1,040 239 611 measurement/analysis of air pollution control, water pollution control, vibration, and noise. Introduction of energy efficient facilities/equipment, 2. Global environmental reduction of fluorocarbon emissions in the production 326 291 511 469 conservation process, and recovery of fluorocarbons. Reduction or recycling of waste, subcontracting of 3. Resource circulation 96 1,617 60 1,520 waste disposal, and resource conservation activities. Recycling of used products, and recovery, recycling, Upstream/downstream and destruction of fluorocarbons in used products or 119 300 28 446 products still in service. Running of company organization for environmental matters, environmental education, environmental Management activities 30 604 24 705 information disclosure, and establishment/maintenance of environmental management systems. Work on three major tasks for air conditioners, and Research and development of fluorochemical products with minimized 2,090 7,230 2,185 8,602 development environmental impact. Provision of personnel and monetary aid to Social activities environment-related organizations, and environmental 5 150 0 122 protection activities in local communities. Environmental damage Costs for purification of polluted groundwater and soil. 2 108 0 205 Total 3,618 11,340 3,047 12,680 Total of investment in facilities within the period 60,600 28,400 Total of investment in R&D activities within the period 30,500 28,200 129 Environment Effects of environmental conservation FY2008 FY2009 Effects figures figures 1. Effects of the resources used Energy consumption ▲4,000 tons ▲65,315 tons for business activities Reduction in water consumption ▲77,000m3 ▲1,173,562m3 Reduction in NOx emissions ▲3 tons ▲54 tons Effects corresponding Reduction in SOx emissions 8 tons 1 tons with costs within Reduction in VOC emissions 96 tons 8 tons business area 2. Effects against environmental Reduction in fluorocarbon emissions 179 tons 53 tons impacts and waste resulting from Reduction in total COD of drain water ▲12 tons ▲202 tons business activities Reduction in nitrogen ▲3 tons 19 tons Reduction in phosphorous emissions 0.3 tons 0.4 tons Reduction in waste materials 3,241 tons ▲2,738 tons Number of residential air conditioners Effects associated with benefits 143,000 units 170,000 units Effects to upstream/ collected and services that are calculated 376 tons 349 tons downstream costs Amount of fluorocarbons recovered and based on business activities 36.3 tons 129.1 tons Amount of packaging material recycled (￥ million) Economic benefits of environmental conservation efforts (monetary benefits) Effects FY2008 FY2009 Profit Profit from sale of recycled waste 773 328 Reduction in energy expenses resulting from energy conservation efforts ▲201 30 Reduction in expenses Reduction in waste disposal expenses resulting from resource conservation or recycling ▲142 20 resources 130 Environment Environmental Education Environmental Education that Leads to Employee Awareness and Action Be it through educational or on-the-job opportunities, the Daikin Group promotes employee awareness of how our business affects the environment to encourage employees to take positive action for its preservation. In Japan, we hold e-learning on the intranet once a year in order to enhance employees' understanding about the environmental issues most important to Daikin. We have an in-house environmental newsletter that introduces actions that each company division are taking. The intranet and Daikin newsletter also provide the useful tips to reduce the environmental impact at home such as how to save electricity and water usage. To coincide with World Environment Day on June 5, since fiscal 2008, Daikin has had a range of environmental activities at the company and employees' homes. In fiscal 2009, 11,564 employees, or about 90% of all employees, took part. Daikin managed to reduce CO2 emissions by 34 tons through activities including taking public transportation to work instead of driving, having all employees leave work at an appointed time and turning off lights and air conditioners, and using reusable tote bags for shopping. Results in 2009 In-house environmental newsletter E-learning textbook Daikin newsletter introducing successful eco-action at work 131 Environment The Daikin Group holds environmental seminars and education for children on a regular basis. This allows us to reflect what our stakeholders are saying in our business activities and to expand green hearts (think of the Earth and take care of the environment). Environmental Seminars and Exhibits Daikin Joins Environmental Exhibits Daikin strives to educate the public by holding environmental seminars on energy, climate, and other issues closely tied to our business, and by (See page 133) taking part in exhibits of environmentally conscious products. We also release information to the community on the environmental impact of our Environmental Seminars and Exhibits business activities. Daikin Cooperates in Formation of Environmental Policy Daikin Environmental Report Environmental Education and Awareness Activities Daikin Cooperates in Fiscal 2009 Children's Environmental Education Sponsored by Japanese Government The Daikin Group conducts environmental education and awareness activities around the world with the aim of helping children develop (See page 135) better understanding about environmental issues and thus better able to lead future generations. Efforts Overseas Efforts in Japan Employees' Daily Efforts Raising Awareness Among Daikin Family Members 132 Environment Environmental Seminars and Exhibits Exchanging Opinions on Key Issues at Air Conditioner Forum Since 1995, the Daikin Group has held air conditioner forums where Daikin and noted names in the field exchange opinions on the future of air conditioning. With Daikin's rapid business expansion worldwide, we began holding forums in fiscal 2007 in Europe and North America as well. Fiscal 2009 marked the start of these forums in China as well. Here, we introduce Daikin energy-saving technologies like inverters, heat pumps, and Air Conditioning Network Service Air conditioner forum System, and participants discuss government energy policies and trends in the air conditioning market. Daikin Joins Environmental Exhibits To let as many people as possible know what Daikin is doing for the environment, we take part in exhibits and trade fairs around the world, and we hold environmental seminars for experts in construction and other industries. International Air-Conditioning, Seminar for the construction Energy Challenge Fair 2009 Heating, Refrigeration Exposition industry (Singapore) (Singapore) (AHR Expo) (Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S.A.) Daikin Cooperates in Formation of Environmental Policy Provides Technical Information on Refrigerants Emerging nations like India and China are considering switching to refrigerants other than HCFCs that do not deplete the ozone layer. These efforts are in line with provisions of the Montreal Protocol restricting the use of ozone-depleting substances. At conventions sponsored by the United Nations and various national governments, Daikin is taking part by providing technical information on refrigerants. We will continue to closely cooperate with them to decide which new refrigerants to use. 133 Environment Daikin Environmental Report Reports Published in Japan and Other World Regions Since 1998, Daikin Industries has published an environmental report (now called the Corporate Social Responsibility Report) to inform all stakeholders of the Daikin Group's environmental philosophy and eco-actions. We supplement these reports with more detailed information on our Web site. Our overseas Group companies also publish environmental reports once a year. There are versions for Asia and Oceania, Europe, and China. Asia and Oceania Europe China 134 Environment Efforts Overseas Employee Initiated Children's Environmental Seminars The Daikin Group in China runs environmental seminars for elementary school students. Acting as instructors, Daikin employees use original teaching materials and games to help children learn the importance of the environment and what they can do every day to protect it. After these seminars were started by Daikin Air Conditioning Technology (Beijing) Co.,Ltd. in fiscal 2005, they spread to sites in Shanghai and Hangzhou in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2009, we used our product showrooms to hold seminars on Daikin's energy-efficient technologies and products, and approximately 700 elementary school students attended. Seminar for elementary school children at a showroom in Hangzhou Efforts in Japan Participation in Sakai Environmental Education Project The Sakai City Board of Education sponsored the Environmental Education Project for elementary schools in Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, which is the home of Daikin Industries' Sakai Plant. Daikin has been taking part in this project since fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2009, we developed an environmental education program and sent employees to three elementary schools to teach this to fifth and sixth grade students. The lessons gave children a chance to think about environmental problems in their daily lives by introducing the relationship between worldwide issues and the way we live, and by showing examples of what Daikin is doing to protect the environment. Daikin employees give an environmental lesson 135 Environment Employees' Daily Efforts Eco Activities Earn Employees Right to Join Commemorative Event The Sakura Project was started in fiscal 2009 at Daikin Industries' Shiga Plant to raise employees' daily environmental awareness. Under this project, employees assess their own environmental protection activities, and points are awarded based on community volunteer work, and environmental protection at home and in the workplace. The 40 groups with the highest number of points earn the right to participate in the planting of 40 sakura (cherry) trees to commemorate the 40th anniversary of Sakura Project the Shiga Plant. More than 90% of employees participate in these self assessments, and the increase in points shows that employees are gradually thinking more about the environment. We will continue to think of innovative ways to make employees ever more aware of protecting the environment. Raising Awareness Among Daikin Family Members Employees Take Eco Awareness Home To get Daikin employees thinking as much about the environment at home as they do at work, we started an initiative to get them thinking and taking eco action in their daily lives. Under this at-home eco action, for two months starting in February 2008, we gave employees an Eco-Action Kit that included a checklist of things any family can do—watch one hour less TV, shower for a minute less—and had them report on the weekly results. The efforts of the 3,300 who volunteered to take part resulted in CO2 emission reductions of eight tons. There is also a site on the Daikin intranet dedicated to this home eco action initiative, where users can download checklists, read articles written by participating employees and their families, and see figures showing the amount of CO2 emissions this initiative has reduced. Eco-Action checklist Employees check off whether they did each of the 20 eco actions each day —such as shop with a reusable tote bag and set the air conditioning 1℃ higher. On the last day, participants can calculate how much their actions helped reduce CO2 emissions. 136 Environment History of Environmental Activities Air Condtioning Chemicals Daikin Group Divisions(Japan) Division(Japan) 1970s Environmental Pollution Control System established Environmental Pollution Control Committee established Environmental Pollution Control Regulations enacted Environmental Month started 1980s Daikin Group Environmental Control Committee established Daikin Group Environmental Management Regulations enacted Began dealing with fluorocarbon problem 1991 Began HFC mass-production 1992 Director responsible for environmental protection and Global Environment Dept.established 1993 Actions Principles on Environmental Protection enacted Environmental Action Plan enacted 1994 Began building environmental management system 1995 Environmental audits launched Released chiller using HFC refrigerant Ceased production of CFC 1996 Acquired ISO 14001 certification in all Daikin Industries production bases in Japan 1997 Began working towards ISO 14001 certification in overseas production bases 1998 First Environmental Report published Released Super Inverter 60 ultra-energyefficient commercial air conditioner Released HFC multi-purpose air conditioner for buildings, HFC residential air conditioners 1999 Environmental accounting introduced, Established Environmental Meetings launched fluorocarbon destruction facilities 137 Environment Air Condtioning Chemicals Daikin Group Divisions(Japan) Division(Japan) 2000 Start of green procurement Released Super Inverter ZEAS ultraenergy-efficient HFC air conditioner 2001 Environmental Action Plan 2005 enacted Achieved zero waste emissions in Daikin Industries production bases in Japan (machinery divisions) Regional Environmental Meetings launched 2002 Environmental Philosohy enacted Began fluorocarbon recovery and destruction business Completed Conversion to HFC refrigerant for all major products (in Japan) 2003 Aquired integrated ISO 14001 certification in Daikin Group in Japan 2004 Achieved zero waste emissions in all Daikin Industries production bases in Japan 2006 Environmental Action Plan 2010 enacted Released heat pump-type hot water heaters and heating systems in 2006 in Europe 2008 Formulated the latter half of the FUSION Started Re: AIRCON Project for 10 strategic management plan, which reforestation in Indonesia stresses proactive contribution to solving Released world’s first VRV system environmental problems, as well as using CO2 refrigerant business expansion 138 Environment Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 −Web version− Responsibility to Stakeholders Responsibility to Stakeholders 140 Business Partners 175 Customers 142 Philosophy on Suppliers 176 Product Quality and Safety 144 Working Closely with Suppliers 177 Customer Satisfaction 150 Green Procurement Guidelines 180 Protecting Customer Information 153 Shareholders and Investors 181 Employees 154 For Shareholders 182 Employee Evaluation and Treatment 157 Information Disclosure Policy 185 Workplace Diversity 158 Communities 186 Work-Life Balance 163 Promoting Art and Culture 188 Labor Management Relations 166 Promoting Sports 190 Occupational Safety and Health 167 Contributing to Education 192 Fostering Human Resources 171 Environmental Contributions to Society 195 A Good Corporate Citizen —Activities in Each Community 197 139 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin products such as air conditioners, fluorochemical products, and hydraulic equipment are used by families and industries around the world. We provide products and services that anticipate society's needs. We believe these products must satisfy customers with safety and high quality. Product Quality and Safety Customer Satisfaction Protecting Customer Information Daikin Contact Center Customer satisfaction questionnaires Support seminars for dealers Service engineer offers helpful extra information during maintenance calls (the fiveminutes of extra care standard ) Approximately 40,000 employees work at Daikin bases around the world. The growth of our employees—who sustain our business—is the growth of the Daikin Group. We stress fairness of opportunity and reward for all employees, regardless of age, sex, or nationality in order to make the most of their diverse abilities. We create an environment where they Employee Evaluation and can work in safety and health, and consider their work-life balance. Treatment Workplace Diversity Work-Life Balance Labor Management Relations Interviews based on employee self-assessments Occupational Safety and Labor-management council meetings, labor union council meetings Health Fostering Human Resources Group Management Meeting Respect for Human Rights 140 Responsibility to Stakeholders The supply chain is made up of not only suppliers from whom we directly procure raw materials and parts but also those suppliers further upstream. We build a relationship of mutual growth and prosperity by communicating frequently and continuously with suppliers in order to ensure product quality and safety. A prerequisite to this is fair and honest business dealings. Philosophy on Suppliers Working Closely with Suppliers Green Procurement Meetings for suppliers Award ceremonies for suppliers Guidelines Technology discussions, quality and safety gatherings Quality and environmental audits Help Line for Corporate Ethics We operate on capital provided by approximately 30,000 shareholders. We make the best use of capital to achieve solid profitability and a firm financial base to maximize corporate value and meet shareholder and investor expectations with stable dividends. We provide the necessary information promptly and continuously interact with shareholders and investors. For Shareholders Information Disclosure Policy Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders Briefings on financial results, briefings for investors Annual Report, business reports Information on Web site Inquiries by telephone and Internet At bases in more than 38 countries, we have a strong desire to form lasting bonds with local communities and economies and make a positive contribution as good corporate citizens. We contribute to regional industry and economy through our business, and ensure that our bases are safe and open to local communities. We encourage each Promoting Art and Culture Daikin base to think and take action that contributes to the community. Promoting Sports Contributing to Education Environmental Contributions to Society Public liaison person at each Daikin base A Good Corporate Citizen Informing local community of emergency disaster drills —Activities in Each Community Factory tours for local citizens Participation in local groups Involvement in local events We strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in all business activities to achieve our most important mission: curbing global warming. We are also promoting our green heart philosophy to communities and to future generations through environmental protection activities. Environmental seminars, environmental exhibitions Various forms of environmental PR Environmental education Green procurement briefings 141 Responsibility to Stakeholders With the world's leading technologies in air conditioning and fluorochemicals, the Daikin Group meets society's needs for safe products that offer peace of mind. We also ensure customer satisfaction with advanced support systems. Product Quality and Safety Strict Design Review Ensures Safety: Our Top Priority for Customers Our responsibility goes beyond simply satisfying customers; we believe that we also have a duty to society to offer products and services that are (See page 144) safe, high quality, and environmentally conscious. Product Quality and Safety Policy Quality is a top priority during the development and production stages in Product Quality Management Structure our Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division and Chemicals Division, both Quality Control System of which have obtained the ISO 9001 (quality management system) Quality Control Process certification. We also provide customers with the information they need to Cooperation with Suppliers use our products safely. Employee Education Improving Quality During Development And we continue to gather information on products in use in the market so Development Process Raises Quality we can improve their quality. Handling Product Accidents Product Safety Voluntary Action Guidelines Disclosing Product Information Universal Design in Product Development Example of Universal Design Customer Satisfaction Speed, Accuracy, and Good Manners is Our Basic Policy to Pursue Customer Satisfaction The Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take repair requests and offer technical advice. We are also rapidly (See page 150) working on further enhancement of after sales service around the world for handling customer inquiries and thus achieve a service system geared Customer Satisfaction Policy to customer needs. Customer Response and Support System Daikin Global Service Network The many opinions and requests received by the center are reflected in Support for Dealers our product development and service so that we can stay one step ahead Raising Customer Satisfaction of customer needs. Using Customer Opinions Number of calls to the Daikin Contact Center Employee Education 142 Responsibility to Stakeholders Protecting Customer Information Protecting Customer Information in Every Way We established the Personal Information Protection Rules and Guidelines to properly protect and manage the range of customer (See page 153) information that we gather through repair requests and other means. Each division and group company has a personal information manager and carries out a variety of employee education on personal information. 143 Responsibility to Stakeholders Product Quality and Safety Policy We believe that when customers buy Daikin, they are buying quality. With this in mind, we strive to stay ahead of customer needs by providing high-quality products and services based on our corporate policies of Absolute Credibility , Enterprising Management , and Harmonious Personal Relations . Our quality control is based on the idea that the added value we give to products is quality, and that this quality is what customers are buying. And each Daikin employee constantly puts quality ahead of everything else. Product Quality Management Structure ISO 9001-Compliant Quality Assurance System Company divisions build ISO 9001-compliant quality assurance systems so that they can maintain our high levels of product quality. Each division is audited twice a year so that we can assess our quality situation and if necessary further improve it. Based on our annual Daikin Group policy, each division formulates its key quality measures and targets, which are used to create a detailed quality program (fiscal year action plan) for all stages including design and development, materials and parts procurement, and production. Quality Control System Quality Control Process 144 Responsibility to Stakeholders Cooperation with Suppliers Efforts with Suppliers to Raise Product Quality and Safety (See page 178) Employee Education Daily Meetings Raise Quality Awareness The Daikin Group has numerous ways to educates employees in quality. Since 2004, the 19th of every month has been quality day, when each workplace in the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division holds discussions on ways to improve quality. Since November 2008, each division has held 10-minute daily quality meetings. These meetings are now an established way of keeping employees thinking of new ways to pursue quality and sharing up-to-date information of quality matters. Improving Quality During Development Only Those Products That Pass Our Strict Design Review for Product Safety Make It to Market In fiscal 2005, the Air Conditioning Development Process Raises Quality Manufacturing Division reformed its development process with a stricter, more segmented design review (DR)*. First, the personnel in charge of the relevant divisions inspect the proposed products for conformity to Daikin standards using the four criteria of an individual design review (DR): product quality, monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), cost-effectiveness, and compliance. Products that pass the individual DR are then subject to a gate DR: six stages of design reviews and to-market reviews by top management. Only those that pass all reviews make it to market. In August 2006, we further raised our product safety standards and now conduct reviews to ensure that products are absolutely safe to use and problems with previous models have been fixed. Our next goal is to make even safer and higher quality products by ensuring that our development process detects problems and solutions early on and helps us predict potential problems during product use. * Design review: In a process involving the entire Daikin organization, products under development are assessed for quality of design and all other processes leading up to product realization. Only those that pass each stage can move forward. 145 Responsibility to Stakeholders Handling Product Accidents Protocol for Promptly Handling Product Accidents Daikin products are designed based on quality standards and design standards that ensure that, even if users err in operating the machinery or use it beyond recommended limits, there is no danger for the users; and even if there is a product accident, the danger to the user is minimized. In case of a product accident, we have systems in place that allow us to quickly relay the necessary information and handle the problem, and minimize the impact on the product users and the general public. We also place top priority on detecting product problems before they lead to a major accident. When the cause of a minor accident is discovered, we determine whether this could also cause a major accident and we reflect this into the development of future products. Some Recalled Air Conditioner Had Not Been Inspected or Repaired Daikin Industries recalled air conditioners manufactured between January 1995 and March 1998 (for free inspection and repair). But although the products had supposedly been inspected and repaired, there was fire damage inside one of the recalled outdoor air conditioner units in November 2009. An investigation into the cause revealed that a worker at a repair outlet labeled some units as repaired when in fact they had not been. The products that had been in the care of this worker were once again inspected and repaired, and Daikin questioned all repair outlets to ensure there were no other such instances. As well, all repair staff were given exhaustive training in the repair work protocol and exactly what is involved in repair. We will review our management systems so that we can offer customers an even higher quality of service. See (available in Japanese only) （http://www.daikin.co.jp/taisetsu/2010/100209/index.html） Some Air Purifiers Recalled for Free Inspection and Repair Three models of residential air purifiers manufactured by Daikin Industries between August 2006 and July 2009 presented the danger of giving off smoke or fire due to a problem with the electric dust collecting section. And air purifiers with humidifying and dehumidifying functions manufactured between August 2007 and January 22, 2010 could possibly give off extreme heat if foreign particles became attached to the dehumidifying element. Daikin informed customers of the models in questions through press releases and announcements in the mass media, and Daikin engineers conducted inspections and repairs free of charge. Free Inspection and Repair Customers owning the models in question should phone this number. 0120-330-696 (24 hours a day, every day; toll free in Japan only) For details on free inspections and repairs, see (available in Japanese only) （http://www.daikin.co.jp/taisetsu/2010/100409/index.html） 146 Responsibility to Stakeholders Product Safety Voluntary Action Guidelines The Daikin Group (hereinafter, the Group ) believes that its most important management task is to provide products that satisfy customers from the standpoint of our customer when designing and making products that have a high level of safety and quality. To this end, we have formulated the following basic policies on product safety in efforts to provide ever-greater levels of safety and quality in products. 1. Legal Compliance The Group shall observe the Consumer Product Safety Law and other product-related laws and safety standards. 2. Ensuring Product Safety The Group shall establish a quality management system and execute measures to maintain product safety in all processes extending from product design to production, sales, and after sales service. And the Group shall display appropriate, easy-to-understand instructions and warnings on products and in instruction manuals to ensure the safe use of our products by our customers. 3. Collecting and Providing Product Accident Information The Group shall actively collect information from our customers concerning accidents involving Daikin products and quickly report this information to our executive management while providing customers with suitable information. 4. Immediate and Appropriate Response to Product Accidents In the unlikely event of a safety problem occurring in the use our product, our first and primary concern shall be for the safety of our customers, and we shall take immediate actions to minimize and prevent the occurrence of a serious accident. Actions to be taken immediately shall include repairing or replacing the product in question, publicizing the problem through the appropriate media, and submitting a statutory report on the problem to the relevant authorities. All relevant people outside the company, including sales personnel, will be informed of the situation. 5. Product Safety Promotion The Group shall establish a quality assurance system that it uses to ensure product safety and quality. We shall ascertain information related to the safety and quality in the marketplace and provide accurate feedback to personnel within our company in order to reflect it into future product design and manufacture. 6. Education, Training, and Monitoring The Group shall constantly make every effort to promote the safety and quality of our product through widespread education and training in laws and regulations within the company on product safety. We also shall regularly monitor work to ensure product safety is being achieved. Disclosing Product Information Air Conditioning Business: Providing Information That Prevents Accidents from Product Degradation The Consumer Product Safety Law obligates companies to design products for safety and provide consumers with information and warnings so that household product accidents can be avoided. Based on the failsafe*1 philosophy, Daikin's system of checks ensures that customer safety is the top priority in design and that design review (DR)*2 leads to safe products. Our home page also provides consumers with information including product model numbers and year of products already on the market. In April 2009, the Ministerial Ordinance of technical standards for the Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Law went into effect. We abide by this ordinance by placing labels on our residential air conditioners and ventilation fans (which are covered by this law) that state the duration of product use. 147 Responsibility to Stakeholders In Japan, where about one-third of the product accidents are the result of improper product operation, we believe it is important to provide customers with accurate, easy-to-understand information on using products. The Daikin Group complies with industry guidelines, such as the Guidelines for Labeling Household Products for Safe Use (4th edition, revised March 2009), published by the Association for Electric Home Appliances, and the Revisions Labeling Procedures (March 2010), published by the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association. *1 Failsafe: Checks and measures are in place to ensure safety in case of a breakdown of mechanisms or systems. *2 Design review: In a process involving the entire Daikin organization, products under development are assessed for quality of design and all other processes leading up to product realization. Only those that pass each stage can move forward. The Eco-Cute Easy User Guide Operation Manual Wins the Excellence Award in the Japan Manual Contest 2009 In the Japan Manual Contest 2009, the Daikin Eco-Cute Easy Guide won an Excellence Award in the Sheet Manuals/Package Manuals category. Why the Eco-Cute Easy User Guide Won The guide uses illustrations of the actual operation panel so users know exactly what buttons to press. The simple color coding makes it easy for any family member to learn how to use the Eco-Cute in a hands-on manner. Chemicals Business: Cautioning Customers About Manufacturing Processes Of the fluorochemical products handled by our Chemicals Division, customers must take particular care when processing and molding fluororesin. All Daikin products come with an MSDS* and important cautionary items are written on the spec sheets and product labels. All written information is confirmed with a checklist compliant with product liability laws, and discussed at a design review. We are also in the process of re-labeling to inform customers that fluororesin is not designed for use with medical applications. Because simply touching hydrofluoric acid is dangerous, we do more than just label it: we hold workshops several times a year on how to handle it safely. * MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet): Included with shipments of chemical substances, these documents contain information on the safe use and handling of substances. Universal Design in Product Development Product Design Engineers Study Universal Design Philosophy Daikin incorporates universal design into product development to enable even the elderly and physically disabled to operate products with ease. In fiscal 2007, we teamed up with NPO Universal Design of Citizen Network to offer training in universal design. In this training, engineers learn the principles of universal design through discussions with general customers and participation in activities mimicking the challenges facing the physically disabled. 148 Responsibility to Stakeholders In April 2009, our product developers held discussion sessions with NPO Universal Design of Citizen Network to discuss the Eco-Cute heat pump water heater, and the results of these talks will be reflected in future products. Universal design is central to monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), because it involves designing a product so that everyone, no matter what their age or physique, can use it with ease. We are continuing to offer universal design training so that the concept becomes second nature to all engineers. Example of Universal Design Simpler Remote Controller Makes the Most of the Energy Efficiency of the Eco-Cute Heat Pump Water Heater Introduced in February 2010, the Daikin Eco-Cute X-Series has energy efficiency among the highest in the industry as well as an eco-confirmation function that helps users operate the product in the manner that is most energy efficient for their operating conditions. The display on the remote controller shows helpful advice and the effects of energy saving functions. This remote controller boasts the industry's first full-color display, which enables any user to easily understand and operate the product. For example, when the Eco-Cute is dispensing hot water, red lettering warns users of this high temperature. This means users get both aural and visual information and are thus doubly safe in product use. 149 Responsibility to Stakeholders Customer Satisfaction Policy The Ultimate in Quality Service: Speed, Accuracy, and Good Manners Based on its service quality policy, the Daikin Group strives to continuously improve service through assessment and analysis by establishing an annual action plan of quality targets. Daikin Group service quality policy The ultimate in quality service through speed, accuracy, and good manners 1. Offer service that meets customer needs while complying with laws 2. Establish quality targets and revise these as necessary 3. Continuously improve the effectiveness of our quality management system Customer Response and Support System Building a Worldwide Customer Support System The Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take repair requests and offer technical advice to customers around the world. We are striving to enhance its service quality to ensure customers are satisfied with the responses they get from the Contact Center. With more and more of Daikin's product sales occurring outside of Japan, we must offer a service network capable of meeting the needs of as wide a customer base as possible. That Shanghai Service Center means taking our basic service quality policy—speed, accuracy, and good manners—to other countries by using the meticulous service know-how we have built up in Japan to satisfy the need for quality that is common to people around the world. We have added service bases in Daikin Global Service Network countries like Spain, Singapore, and Italy through the integration of the service system of O.Y.L. Industries Bhd, which Daikin acquired in 2006. In North America and China, employees at O.Y.L company McQuay International are trained in Daikin's service quality management system to ensure the highest level of quality. We will continue to enhance customer satisfaction in after sales service by establishing contact centers at all service bases and offering local language support. 150 Responsibility to Stakeholders Support for Dealers Online Support in Consulting Sales for Distributors The Air Conditioning Sales Division provides distributors with marketing ideas. Online, distributors have constant access to technical information and 10 years of information on all products, as well as software for making product and service estimates and for making CO2 reduction calculations and other energyand cost-related calculations. The site is also optimized for use with a mobile phone, so distributors can access it while they are out visiting a customer. They can also create proposals easily with their mobile phones. To help distributors suggest ways for customers to cut their energy costs, we recommend they acquire the Eco Test (Certification Test for Environmental Specialist) just like the one members of Daikin's sales divisions get. In this way, we help them become more eco-wise and strengthen their consulting ability. Raising Customer Satisfaction Customer Surveys Go Towards Improving Service Quality Daikin Group divisions conduct customer surveys to enhance customer satisfaction. By constantly surveying and analyzing the voice of customers, we can further boost the quality of our service. The After Sales Service Division conducts annual surveys to determine the level of customer satisfaction with our after-sales service. As a result of efforts to complete repairs in a single visit, improve repair techniques through training, and get better at dealing with customers, all under our slogan of Customer first, we have been able to gradually improve customer satisfaction since fiscal 2007. The Air Conditioning Sales Division includes a questionnaire with products that allows us to determine customer needs and levels of satisfaction. User opinions about each product are then put on our home page. In the Chemicals Division, we distribute questionnaires once a year that help us boost customer satisfaction. Customer opinions are analyzed and appropriate measures are created. After the fiscal 2008 survey showed insufficient communication with customers, we increased the number of customer opportunities for interacting with customers so that we could talk with them more often. The fiscal 2009 survey responses showed that customers now found communication had improved, a direct result of efforts to raise awareness of this issue with our employees. We will continue to use customer opinions to improve the level of customer satisfaction. Recognition of Customer Satisfaction Daikin Second in Nikkei Business Ranking of After-Sales Service in Residential Air Conditioner Category Daikin Second in Ranking of Manufacturer Air Conditioner Repair During Summer Peak (according to RIC, publisher of home electronics magazines). 151 Responsibility to Stakeholders Using Customer Opinions Customer Inquiries Used in Improving Products and Developing New Ones Many of the 500,000 technical inquiries that the Number of inquiries to the Contact Center (Japan) Contact Center gets from customers each year hold the clue to solving issues we face in the market at an early stage and making product quality better. The inquiries, including common key words and their frequency, are stored in a database that is shared with the relevant Daikin divisions and used to solve potential quality problems. Information in the database is also used in the planning of new products. To stay one step ahead with products that meet customers' underlying needs, we explore new product concepts from customers. See Key Activities, Discovering Latent Needs from Customer Opinions and Developing Products People Will Want Next. (Page 57) Employee Education Year-Long Training and Service Competitions Among Daikin Bases The Daikin Group strives to improve the quality of service by teaching employees the necessary knowledge and techniques. Besides basic training in service quality, a variety of training courses and license-certification course are offered to each management level and job description. The After Sales Service Division has the year-long Service University training program. Just like in university, participants can choose the courses right for their job. They also have regular tests to ensure they are retaining what they have learned. At service bases across Japan, teams are created that compete against each other in the annual Service League tournament. There, teams are quantitatively judged and awarded on the speed, accuracy, and good manners that constitute our after sales service policy. This makes for a fun way to raise our ability to offer customer satisfaction. Boosting the Technical Expertise of Service Engineers Service engineers' individual technical expertise is crucial to providing quality service. Since fiscal 2006, we have been holding workshops and giving technical assessment tests to all service engineers. Our rule is that service engineers must be certified with a minimum level of skill before they can do repair work alone. To further improve their abilities, since fiscal 2008 we have been holding training for chief engineers and we currently have 830 employees who have passed our chief engineer test. To help service engineers better deal with customers, in fiscal 2007 we started working with outside experts to hold service etiquette classes. We will continue to give our service engineers to technical skills and people skills they need to make Daikin No. 1 in service in the eyes of customers. 152 Responsibility to Stakeholders Protecting Customer Information Personal Information Managers and Thorough Employee Education The Daikin Group is entrusted with a range of customer information including data on repair requests. Because we consider it an important responsibility to protect this information, we have established the Personal Information Protection Rules and Guidelines, and each division and Group company has a personal information manager. Our Compliance Action Guidelines state our policy of properly handling personal information, which we implement through company-wide education and training aimed at the highest level of personal information security. Measures for Information Protection FY Approach Encrypting of all information on PCs and recording media that is taken off company premises 2005 Locking of PCs in company offices Special tools for employees to properly erase data on PCs that will be discarded 2006 Tools for encrypting all attachments to email going outside the company. 2008 Remote locking function for mobile phones 153 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Daikin Group's management are people-centered in the belief that people are the source of a company's competitiveness. We believe in the unlimited potential of every person and that the sum of the potential and talent of our diverse people forms the pillars of our company operations. By integrating the characteristics and ideas of our diverse range of employees, we can energize our company and strengthen our competitiveness. The Daikin Group is striving to build new corporate value through a strategy of management diversity. Employee Evaluation and Treatment Fairness of Opportunity and Reward The Daikin Group offers fairness of opportunity and reward : a a workplace where employees are rewarded for putting their motivation to (See page 157) work and taking every opportunity for success. Employee Evaluation and Treatment Policy Employee Evaluation and Treatment Job Placement Workplace Diversity A Workplace Where Everyone Can Contribute The Daikin Group believes it is our people who make us competitive. A company can only grow stronger by having a diverse range of (See page 158) employees—men and women of all ages, nationalities, races, and years of experience in the company—working within an organization that is Workplace Diversity Policy conducive to mutual understanding of one another's distinct values and Employee Composition (Data for Daikin Industries) that allows everyone to shoot for a lofty goal. Putting More Women into Management Our Group Compliance Guidelines state that while respecting diverse Positions values and approaches to work, we shall mutually accept our respective Hiring Women differences, act in harmony, gather the abilities we possess, and strive to Number of women periodically hired; percentage of all employees be a Group in which each member expresses his or her ambitions and then takes bold actions with great passion and perseverance to realize Re-employment of Retired Employees those ambitions. Number of Retirees, Number of Re-employed Workers and Percentage Re-employed After Retiring Hiring More People with Disabilities Number of Disabled People Employed External Awards Diversity Education for Employees 154 Responsibility to Stakeholders Work-Life Balance Full Range of Childcare Leave and Childcare Support Systems Daikin Industries stresses a work life balance for employees. We have a range of work systems that allow employees to work flexible duties and (See page 163) flexible schedules. Work-Life Balance Policy The company has established an action plan for helping employees with Helping Employees Match Work Schedule children continue both work and home duties with peace of mind and has with Lifestyle been certified as a company complying with the Law for Measures to Number of employees leaving, employee turnover Support the Development of the Next Generation. We have been particularly active in urging male employees to take advantage of our Support for Childcare systems for childcare leave and childcare support. Leave before and after child is born, childcare leave, leave taken by men and women Details of Second Action Plan Support for Family Care Family care leave, leave taken by men and women Other employee benefit systems Labor Management Relations Frank Exchanges of Opinion Create Favorable Labor-Management Relations Daikin Industries believes that cooperative labor management relations are the foundation of company management. We therefore place the (See page 166) utmost emphasis on equality of labor and management as well as mutual trust between both sides. Labor Management Relations Policy Dialog with Employees Occupational Safety and Health Keeping the Workplace Safe and Employees Physically and Mentally Fit The Daikin Group's Group Compliance Guidelines state our top priority of ensuring a safe, healthy workplace where employees can work in peace (See page 167) of mind. To achieve this, we constantly strive to create a zero accident workplace where Daikin employees and subcontract employees work Occupational Safety and Health Policy safely, both for their own sake and to instill a feeling of safety in the minds Frequency Rate of residents around our factories. Number of accidents resulting in time off work Occupational Safety and Health Management Structure System for Occupational Safety and Health Employee Education and Training Employee Health Management Mental Health Shortening Working Hours Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave Average hours of overtime per employee (Daikin Industries only) 155 Responsibility to Stakeholders Fostering Human Resources Training Employees to Take the World Stage The Daikin Group philosophy states that the cumulative growth of all group members serves the foundation for the group's development. (See page 171) Based on the belief that people grow through work experience, the Daikin Group develops employee capabilities through on-the-job training Philosophy (OJT)*1. We also supplement this with off-the-job training (Off JT)*2, such Education Systems as the Daikin Leadership Development Program for next generation Education System executives, the Daikin Business School (D-BS) for executive Passing on Skills management candidates of overseas bases. We also provide Passing on Skills at Overseas Bases opportunities for independent learning through language training and Fostering Young Engineers and Technicians correspondence courses. Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property *1 OJT: Employees learn and acquire the skills, knowledge, and degree of Number of Patent Applications commitment required of their positions while performing their jobs. *2 Off JT: Employees study outside of their workplaces in order to acquire the knowledge and skills needed for their jobs. Respect for Human Rights Basic Policy of Respect for Human Rights and Diversity, and Compliance with Labor Laws Daikin Industries does all it can in educating employees about human rights so that we can establish a corporate group free of discrimination (See page 28) where everyone's rights are respected. 156 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employee Evaluation and Treatment Policy The Daikin Group offers fairness of opportunity and reward : a workplace where employees are rewarded for putting their motivation to work and taking every opportunity for success. Employee Evaluation and Treatment Fairness of Opportunity and Reward In fiscal 2001, we eliminated standardized wage scales based on age and seniority, along with uniform pay raises. Instead, we switched to a compensation system that rewards performance, not age or seniority. Our performance evaluation focuses on how well employees improve their abilities. This evaluation also looks at job results in three categories called achievements, challenging spirit, and growth. To ensure even greater fairness of evaluation, managers evaluate their staff only after consulting with other managers. Employees are also evaluated based on their level of contribution to company successes and to the organization as a whole. In 2002, this compensation system was extended to include Daikin Group companies in Japan. We are planning to create unified worldwide guidelines that cover our philosophy of performance-based pay and detail how job results should be reflected in pay. This will give the entire Group a fair, credible compensation system. Daikin Europe Selected a Top Employer Daikin Europe N.V. was chosen one of the Top Employers* of 2010 for its outstanding human resource systems. Recognized for its working conditions, evaluation systems, and programs for employee education and training, Daikin Europe received its fifth selection in a row. Top Employers * Sponsored by CRF International, a company conducting research into best practices in human resources around the world. Job Placement Placing Employees in Desirable Workplaces Whenever possible, Daikin Industries talks with employees and assigns them to departments and sections where they want to work. All new employees are interviewed to determine their hopes and desired area of work in order to ensure they are placed in the most appropriate jobs. Every year, employees fill out their own record of work, which includes a column for free comments about health, family, and job positions desired. When we consider transferring an employee, we look at these comments and talk to them in efforts to ensure, whenever possible, that their job desires and spirit of challenge is reflected in the posts they are assigned to. We will continue to build rewarding workplaces for our employees by matching their dreams and goals with those of Daikin. 157 Responsibility to Stakeholders Workplace Diversity Policy The Daikin Group believes it is our people who make us competitive. A company can only grow stronger by having a diverse range of employees—men and women of all ages, nationalities, races, and years of experience in the company —working within an organization that is conducive to mutual understanding of one another's distinct values and that allows everyone to shoot for a lofty goal. Our Group Compliance Guidelines state our aim of becoming a group is passionate, strong, and forward-thinking and in which there is respect for a diverse range of values and work philosophies, and in which employees respect their differences and cooperate to pool their strengths so that each person can achieve his or her dream. The Daikin Group's employee make-up is becoming increasingly diverse, with a greater number of non-Japanese and women in our ranks. Since introducing our rehiring system in 1991, we have been making greater use of Daikin's experienced retirees. Employee Composition (Data for Daikin Industries) (Note: Number currently employed) The end of March The end of March The end of March The end of March The end of March 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Number of employees 6,036 635 6,245 695 6,360 816 6,452 868 6,558 897 Average range of 19.0 12.0 19.0 12.0 19.0 12.0 18.9 12.0 17.9 10.8 services (years) Average age 42.4 34.8 42.2 34.3 41.9 32.9 41.6 32.8 41.8 33.6 Number of managers 949 10 958 9 969 12 925 13 886 14 Number of board 34 1 41 1 41 1 47 1 45 1 members Number of foreign 22 27 28 12 28 12 53 nationals Putting More Women into Management Positions Making Enthusiastic, Talented Women into Managers Daikin Industries strives to create identical working conditions for men and women because our goal is to use the talents of both sexes to the fullest. In 2001, we eliminated the barrier between general clerical work and management track jobs so that female employees have more career possibilities. We have also systematically increased the number of female managers from two in fiscal 2001 to 15 in fiscal 2009. Future efforts such as giving more opportunities for self-development and hiring experienced personnel from outside the company for management positions will ensure that we get enthusiastic, talented women to lead Daikin. 158 Responsibility to Stakeholders Hiring Women Increasing Percentage of Female Employees and Average Number of Years Worked As of March 2010, women accounted for 12.0% of Number of women periodically hired; percentage of all employees all employees of Daikin Industries, an increase of 0.1% over 2009. In the past, job applicants for technical and skills positions were mostly men, which kept the ratio of female employees low. We therefore set a goal of achieving the national average, 12%, for female employees as a percentage of total by fiscal 2009. As a result of efforts to hire as many women as possible, we achieved this goal in 2008, a full year ahead of schedule. Re-employment of Retired Employees Re-employment System Makes the Most of Experienced Employees In 2001, Daikin became one of the first companies in Japan to introduce a re-employment system in which retirees wishing to participate can work until they are 65, thus providing an opportunity for them to make the most of their skills and knowledge. Since introducing this system, over 100 have been re-employed each year. In fiscal 2009, there were 484 retirees working under this system at Daikin. To comply with Japan's Law Concerning Stabilization Number of Re-employed Workers of Employment of Older Persons, all group companies in Japan introduced this re-employment system in fiscal 2006. Those applying for this system may work until they are 65, with their working hours and pay scale decided on by labor and management. The contribution of these experienced workers is becoming more important with Japan's declining birthrate and aging population. We are also sending these experienced workers to provide their skills and knowledge to overseas bases as Daikin expands on a global scale. We plan to place these workers in positions that are best for them by considering their requests and expertise and by having them consult with their superiors. 159 Responsibility to Stakeholders History of Daikin's Re-employment System 1979 Retirement age extended from 55 to 60. 1991 Introduction of re-employment system for employees up to 63. 2001 Age raised from 63 to 65. 2004 Senior Skill Specialist contract employee system introduced. 2005 Experience worker revitalization project started. 2006 System introduced at Daikin Group companies in Japan in 2006. Hiring More People with Disabilities Hiring More People with Disabilities across the Entire Group The Daikin Group strives to hire the disabled based on its policy of providing opportunities for disabled people to grow personally and make contributions to society through production activities. In 1993, Daikin Industries established Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd., a cooperative venture with the Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City governments. Disabled persons form the nucleus of the workforce. As of March 2010, the company has 74 disabled employees who work side-by-side with their fellow workers. In June 2009, Daikin Sunrise Settsu's new plant was established, another step in hiring more disabled. The duties of these employees have also expanded from machine parts processing and assembly, and the manufacture of chemicals, to computer assisted design and the publication of documents. After this success in Japan, Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. now also hires the disabled. As of the end of March 2010, the company had 59 disabled employees working on production lines and accounting for 7.7% of all employees. Daikin Sunrise Settsu (Japan) New plant of Daikin Sunrise Settsu Number of Disabled People Employed *1 Legally, 1 severely disabled person employed is counted as 2 disabled persons. *2 Employment rate = number of disabled persons employed / number of persons employed. *3 Disabled employment rate for only Daikin Industries until FY2006 and for the entire Daikin Group from FY2007. 160 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Slogans of Daikin Sunrise Settsu 1. Creating economic independence through individual effort and teamwork 2. Contributing to personal growth and community development through manufacturing 3. Creating a company in which employees, their families, and the region can take pride External Awards Model Improved Workplace Employing People with Disabilities, sponsored by the Japan Organization for Employment of Persons with Disabilities with the support of the Ministry of Health Labour and Welfare First Place Award (Labour Minister's Award, 1998) Outstanding Achievement Award (2002, 2003) Encouragement Prize (2005) First Asahi Corporate Citizenship Award (2004) Businesses and Individuals That Provide Employment Opportunities for People with Disabilities Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Award(2009) Daikin Sunrise Settsu President Yoshio Ohtake Receives Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Award Daikin Sunrise Settsu (in Osaka Prefecture) President Yoshio Ohtake received the Fiscal 2009 Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Award as an individual that provides employment opportunities for people with disabilities. The award recognizes President Yoshio Ohtake and Daikin Sunrise Settsu an exemplary case of a workplace that promotes hiring of the disabled, thus arousing enthusiasm and an independent work spirit in the disabled, and deepening interest among businesses and the public in the hiring of the disabled. President Yoshio Ohtake was honored as an individual contributing to hiring the disabled and providing them with steady employment. Besides Daikin Sunrise Settsu's efforts in hiring the disabled, the award was also the result of President Yoshio Ohtake's work educating the public about hiring the disabled, including his work as vice chairman of the Japan Association of Employers of persons with Severe Disabilities, and with the Osaka Shogaisha Koyo Shien Network (employment support service for people with disabled) . Daikin Sunrise Settsu Certified as a Leading Company That Promotes the Employment of People with Disabilities by Japan's Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry In March 2009, Daikin Sunrise Settsu was certified as a Leading Company That Promotes the Employment of People with Disabilities by Japan's Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry. This certification came after Daikin Sunrise Settsu passed minimum standards under a certification system for companies that are run by the Japan Association of Employers of persons with Severe Disabilities, which is under Heartful Ribbon Mark authorization of Japan's Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry. Certified companies may use the Heartful Ribbon Mark issued under this system. 161 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Named Certified Disabled Training Center in Shanghai Using the experience of Daikin Sunrise Settsu in Japan, Daikin Air Conditioning Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. has expanded its hiring of the disabled. Companies in Shanghai must have disabled account for at least 1.6% of their workforce. As of the end of March 2010, Daikin Shanghai had 59 disabled employees working on lines and in offices, accounting for 7.7% of all employees. In July 2006, the Shanghai Federation for the Handicapped certified the company as a Production line run by disabled employees at Daikin vocational training center for the handicapped. Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) In 2005, Daikin Shanghai established a product packaging assembly line operated by the many disabled the company hired that year. This line was separated from the current production line in order to ensure the safety of the workers. As the company improved its work environment and these employees gradually improved their skills, they began working more and more with other employees. And like all other employees, the disabled are compensated based on an evaluation of their performance. Diversity Education for Employees Training Japanese Employees for Work at Overseas Bases Daikin Industries has a variety of training for Japanese employees who will be working at overseas bases so that they are able to respect the values of local employees and communicate with them properly. This training has two goals. One is to improve understanding of the situation in the appointed region or country, the thinking and values of the people there, and the main considerations when doing business there. And because the Japanese employee will often be a manager, another goal is to teach that person about Daikin's basic stance on personnel and labor matters, particularly cultural differences that could be important when evaluating employees. In 2009, 21 Daikin employees bound for bases in the United States learned about current affairs and day-to-day personnel and labor matters in that country, while five Daikin employees appointed to bases in China learned the essentials of doing business in that country. In 2010, training is being held for 27 Daikin employees heading for Mexico, Brazil, and other Latin American countries so that they can understand the intricacies of the culture and customs of these countries. 162 Responsibility to Stakeholders Work-Life Balance Policy Daikin Industries stresses a work life balance for employees. We have a range of work systems that allow employees to work flexible duties and flexible schedules. The company has established an action plan for helping employees with children continue both work and home duties with peace of mind and has been certified as a company complying with the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. We have been particularly active in urging male employees to take advantage of our systems for childcare leave and childcare support. Helping Employees Match Work Schedule with Lifestyle Flex Time and Discretionary Work System Allow Employees to Continue Working To allow this diverse range of employees to work Number of employees leaving, employee turnover under flexible conditions and working hours, we introduced the flex time system in 1991. In 2001, we introduced a discretionary work system in use in the R&D department and other company departments to accommodate the needs of employees with specialized duties such as those involved in planning, proposals, and surveys related to company operations. Thanks to these efforts to give employees flexible working conditions and working hours, Daikin has an employee turnover of just 3.5% (including mandatory retirement age employees): this is far below the average of 14.6% for all industries in Japan (according to a 2008 survey by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare). Support for Childcare A Company Conducive to Both Working and Raising Children Daikin Industries strives to create an environment where employees can continue their jobs even after having children. In March 2007, we were certified for compliance with the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation after reaching the targets of our first action plan. Our second action plan started in April 2007 with a number of support efforts. One of these introduced in June 2007 was a childcare support system under which parents working overtime or taking business trips, or taking care of sick children, were eligible to receive financial aid from the company to cover part of the expenses such as babysitters. In fiscal 2009, 33 employees took advantage of this system. Daikin Group companies in Japan are also doing all they can to help employees raise their children. Many companies allow employees with school-age children to choose from systems of flexible working conditions and staggered or flexible working hours. 163 Responsibility to Stakeholders Get-Together for Daikin Parents and Their Bosses In June 2009, nine companies in West Japan held a get-together for employees with children and their bosses to hold frank discussions on the issues both sides face. This was the third such gathering for working parents since fiscal 2007. But since employees need to communicate frankly with their superiors in order to ensure a proper balance of their jobs and child-raising, the June 2009 event welcomed the participation of managers and others in company leadership positions for the first time. Of the 66 participants (28 managers, 38 working parents), Daikin sent 12 (five managers, seven working parents). The event featured a panel discussion of employees, managers, and human resource personnel on the theme Better communication between working parents and bosses makes for a stronger organization and teamwork. This was followed by participants exchanging opinions in small-group discussions. 74 Male Employees Take Childcare Leave Daikin Industries revised its childcare leave systems so that more men could take childcare leave. This was an important part of the company's second action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. The changes allow men with at-home spouses to take childcare leave until the child is 1 year old (compared to until eight weeks previously) and to take childcare leave twice (compared to once previously). Daikin aggressively publicized these revisions to get as many men as possible taking advantage of them. As a result, 74 men took childcare leave in fiscal 2009. Leave before and after child is born, childcare leave, leave taken by men and women (Daikin Industries only) Daikin Industries achieved the targets of its first action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. For this, the company was certified by the Osaka Labour Bureau. Symbol Showing Certification as a Company Supporting Employees Childcare Efforts Support Systems for the Balance of Work and Family 1992 Introduction of childcare leave system and shortened working hours for parents. 2005 First action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. Achievement of goals of first action plan. 2007 Creation of second action plan (implementation period: March 2007-March 2012). 164 Responsibility to Stakeholders Details of Second Action Plan Childcare flextime system extended for longer period Flexible working hours may now be used by parents of children still in elementary school (previously only for parents of preschool children). New plan established to provide financial assistance for childcare expenses. Parents working overtime or taking business trips, or whose children are sick, can choose to receive childcare services, with each family eligible to receive up to 200,000 yen a year in financial aid. More men encouraged to take childcare leave. We publicized changes to the system that make it easier for men to take childcare leave. Conference held on best balance of work and family. Information exchange conference allowed participants to share how best to balance work and family. Efforts made to shorten working hours We obligated employees to leave work at closing time at least once a week and prohibited them from coming to work on their days off. Support for Family Care Family Care Leave and Shortened Working Hours With the enactment of Japan's revised Child Care Number taking family care leave (Daikin Industries only) and Family Care Leave Law in 2005, Daikin Industries revamped its own systems for childcare and family care leave. We are doing all we can so that employees can take leave to care for their family when necessary, with minimal stress, and therefore create an environment in which employees can continue working for Daikin under these circumstances. Under our family care leave system, each employee can take leave up to a maximum of 365 days. Under our system for shortened working hours for family care, every 365 days, each employee can shorten working time to six hours a day, using either staggered or flexible working hours. Other employee benefit systems (some are abridged) Pension Defined contribution pension The employee gets three days of paid leave between the month the Seniors' leaves system Paid employee turns 55 and retirement age. leave Participation in Japan Overseas Employees may be allowed to take time off work for this. Cooperation Volunteers 165 Responsibility to Stakeholders Labor Management Relations Policy Daikin Industries believes that cooperative labor management relations are the foundation of company management. We therefore place the utmost emphasis on equality of labor and management, as well as mutual trust between both sides. Our stance has, and always will be, to face the truth in solving all problems, and to speak frankly and draw clear lines between what is and what is not possible. Except for managers and certain employees, everyone at Daikin Industries is a union member. The company holds frank discussions with the labor union. As soon as business plans are clarified, management holds a meeting where it explains these plans to the labor union. In fiscal 2009, there were 26 such meetings. Employee working conditions and status are matters discussed between labor and management, with results of these discussions promptly reported to employees of the various divisions. Dialog with Employees Hearings for Employees to Improve Working Conditions Daikin Industries has about 10 hearings a year with at least 2% of its employees (approximately 160 employees). Salary negotiations are held between labor and management with consideration for factors including company performance, operational issues, world trends, and the work of the labor union. Interviewing each employee based on these factors results in that person receiving a salary that both sides agree is fair under the circumstances. Besides salary, employees are also given hearings when there are matters to report from the company, such as new fiscal year policies, budget and performance reports, and a message from the president at bonus time. Other ways that we hold dialog with employees include meetings between managers and their workers during announcement of annual targets and employee evaluations. Listening to frank employee opinions ensures that we can continuously improve labor-management relations. 166 Responsibility to Stakeholders Occupational Safety and Health Policy The Daikin Group's Group Compliance Guidelines state our top priority of ensuring a safe, healthy workplace where employees can work in peace of mind. To achieve this, we constantly strive to create a zero accident workplace where Daikin employees and subcontract employees work safely, both for their own sake and to instill a feeling of safety in the minds of residents around our factories. Frequency Rate Note: This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of casualties for every 1,000,000 working hours. Severity Rate Note: This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. Number of accidents resulting in time off work 167 Responsibility to Stakeholders Occupational Safety and Health Management Structure Occupational Safety and Health Committee at Each Daikin Site Leads Safety and Accident-Prevention Efforts The chart below shows the Daikin Group's system System for Occupational Safety and Health for occupational safety and health and security. An Occupational Safety and Health Committee at each Daikin site leads efforts through the creation of voluntary annual policies and slogans. These committees also ensure the safety of facilities and prevent accidents through risk assessments, conduct site patrols to make sure rules are being followed, and raise employee safety awareness through hand-on workshops. The committees also send members to other sites to exchange safety information with committee members there. Employee Education and Training Raising Safety Awareness through Danger Prediction Drills Each site of Daikin Industries conducts courses and training in occupational safety and health. Special training is offered to licensed operators of equipment such as presses and forklifts. We also have danger prediction drills for all employees as well as employees of on-site partner companies with the aim of eliminating human error. We also carry out near-miss educational activities to prevent accidents during work commutes and raise traffic safety within the premises. Recognition of Occupational Safety and Health Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ranked BizSafe Level 3 Note: Ranked according to the implementation level of occupational safety and health. BizSafe 168 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employee Health Management Checkups and Counseling Support Employee Health Daikin Industries strives to maintain employees' health by providing all employees with semi-annual health checkups, as well as checkups for those doing physically demanding labor and other specialized work. Employees who are found to have problems are put under the direct guidance of the company health clinic, while employees with lifestyle-related diseases are taken care of by a public health nurse and nutritionist. We are trying to provide more opportunities for the employees themselves to use this health and nutrition advice for their own self improvement. Employees working excessive hours are checked by an industrial physician, and if the employee needs special attention, he or she and his or her superior will receive guidance from the physician. We also work to increase employees' health awareness by holding seminars on preventing metabolic syndrome and lifestyle-related diseases, and providing information that helps employees who smoke kick the habit. Mental Health Determining Individual and Organizational Health, Providing Care by Professionals Daikin Industries strives to maintain the physical and mental health of employees. Based on guidelines from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, four types of mental health care measures are implemented at all bases: self-care, care by managers, care by dedicated in-house staff, and care by dedicated outside staff. Specialized staff work closely with each workplace to create a working environment conducive to mental and physical well-being. Industrial physicians provide mental health checkups to employees who are transferred and to newly hired employees after three months, as well as to employees who questionnaires have showed are facing problems. We also have once-a-year mental health lectures for managers. Shortening Working Hours Shortening Work Hours by Obligating Employees to Leave at Closing Time and by Boosting Work Efficiency Since fiscal 2003, Daikin Industries has obligated employees to leave the office at closing time once a week and prohibited employees from coming to work on their days off. Yearly plans are made for each employee's duties and working hours, and to ensure that work and personnel management are in line with the plans, checklists are filled out to manage daily work and systems are in place to record daily attendance. We will continue to do everything we can to shorten working hours, boost work efficiency, and eliminate unpaid overtime. 169 Responsibility to Stakeholders Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave Average hours of overtime per employee (Daikin Industries only) Measures to reduce working hours 1. Daily management of operations Self-checks and mutual-checks using checklists. 2. Raising awareness and changing company culture Managers lead the way by not working on days off or late at night. Change from calculating working hours by month to calculating by week in order to more quickly adjust work plans and work load. 3. The 5 Rules Ensure that employees leave work at closing time once a week. Nobody works on days off. Do not allow employees to work excess hours. Do not make employees do unpaid overtime. Late night work is prohibited. 4. Clarify management of operations Establish a work attendance system. 5. Set goals to improve productivity and work efficiency in each division. 170 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy The Daikin Group philosophy states that the cumulative growth of all group members serves the foundation for the group's development. Based on the belief that people grow through work experience, the Daikin Group develops employee capabilities through on-the-job training (OJT)*1. We also supplement this with off-the-job training (Off JT)*2, such as the Daikin Leadership Development Program for next generation executives, the Daikin Business School for executive management of overseas bases. We offer provide opportunities for independent learning through language training and correspondence courses. *1 OJT: Employees learn and acquire the skills, knowledge, and degree of commitment required of their positions while performing their jobs. *2 Off JT: Employees study outside of their workplaces in order to acquire the knowledge and skills needed for their jobs. Education Systems Growth through Work Experience Helps Employees Take the World Stage With the Daikin Group's business spreading worldwide, it is crucial that we train people to be leaders with the management skills to guide employees with a diverse range of values in a common direction. To this end, in May 2008, we established the Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan. Here, new intensive courses for all worldwide Daikin employees are geared to the changing needs of the times, such as Skills Leader Training for people leading our overseas production bases, and Bridge Person Training for people who will promote understanding and practice of the Group Philosophy worldwide. Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Bridge Person Training Center See Key Activities, Global Human Resource Development. (Page 60) 171 Responsibility to Stakeholders Education System New Employee Training The goal of new employee training is to foster business people capable of frankly expressing their own opinions and communicating with people with differing opinions. Trainees learn what it takes to be a company employee, and about the past, present, and future direction of the Daikin Group. There are also five days of English-language training as part of efforts to help new employees become global citizens and understand other cultures. New employees also spend five nights and six days at the Daikin Ales Aoya global training center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan. There, hands-on, participatory training has new employee holding discussions and practicing concepts focusing on Daikin's People-centered Management and how to become an ideal employee. Fast and Flat Training This training focuses on improving the levels of leadership demonstrated by managers based on Daikin's concept of People-centered management. It is to facilitate Fast and Flat management of people and organization appropriate to each workplace. Between June 2006 and May 2007, all Daikin Industries' division managers took this training. In fiscal 2010, section managers will take Fast and Flat training. Overseas Base Practical Training To ensure we have internationally minded employees who can lead our global business in future, we send young employees (who have been with Daikin between two and nine years) to work at overseas bases for two years. Unlike other Daikin employees working overseas, these people make the most of their time in a foreign country, as they learn the practical side of all aspects of business by working with local dealers, suppliers, business partners, and universities, and acquiring firsthand the job skills and knowledge they need and learning about local cultures. This program started in 1999 and as of the end of fiscal 2009, 91 employees had taken part. 172 Responsibility to Stakeholders Bridge Person Training This training gives participants the work knowledge, experience, and networking and people skills that will make them a bridge between overseas bases and their Daikin divisions in Japan. Trainees learn to improve communication skills in English, and to gain a deeper understanding of foreign culture and Daikin Group's Philosophy. This training began in 2008 and by the end of fiscal 2009, 32 employees had completed it. Study Trips in Japan Daikin sends young employees in Japan to universities such as Toyota Technological Institute and the International University of Japan in order to improve their technological skills, widen their perspective, and build human resource networks. There are currently nine Daikin employees studying at Toyota Technological Institute. Daikin Leadership Development Program, Daikin Business School Both the Daikin Leadership Development Program and the Daikin Business School foster the next generation of Daikin Executives; the former is for managers in Japan while the latter is for local nationals who are managers at Daikin's overseas bases. Centered on Our Group Philosophy, the program turns out executives who can lead and manage their company for the common good of the entire Daikin Group. Passing on Skills Meister and Expert Systems Foster a New Generation In 2001, Daikin Industries introduced a system to pass on advanced skills to young workers. This system ensures that we give the next generation of technical leaders the advanced skills that form the foundation of manufacturing. In the air conditioning divisions, workers with advanced skills are designated as Meisters. As of March 2010, there are 18 designated Meisters in the skill areas of brazing, lathing, sheet metal working, arc welding, die making, and tooling. These Meisters teach their skills at Daikin bases worldwide, thus fostering future engineers and technical leaders. The Chemicals Division has since 2006 had a system to designate Experts, who pass their advanced skills on to others. As of March 2010, there are four designated Experts working in plant operations. Passing on Skills at Overseas Bases Global Trainer Program Teaches Foreign Nationals to be Technical Leaders Starting in 2002, Daikin Industries began sending experienced employees designated as Meisters overseas to help raise the skill levels at overseas Group production bases. With Daikin Industries rapidly expanding on a global scale in recent years, we are rushing to improve the skills level of our employees. In May 2009, we started the Global Trainer Training foreign nationals to be technical trainers Program in which Meisters lead training in Japan for international employees assigned to take up technical leader posts at their bases. Under this system, these foreign nationals are certified as trainers and return to the Daikin base in their countries to lead their colleagues in boosting technical expertise. In fiscal 2009, 11 joined the Global Trainer Program. 173 Responsibility to Stakeholders Fostering Young Engineers and Technicians Experienced Workers Pass On Techniques and Skills Since 1994, the Shiga Plant of Daikin Industries has worked to boost the level of its manufacturing by having a Kaizen Team of experienced workers lead training for young employees in the production division. The system began with training for mid-level employees but now focuses on passing on skills and techniques to young employees. A total of 96 employees took this training in fiscal 2009. During the four-to-six-month training, each young employee is led by two or three experienced workers. Participants get practical work in the main aims of the particular session, taking classroom lectures in subjects like electrical circuitry, as well as applied learning in sheet metal working, arc welding, and circuitry. While young workers pick up technical knowledge, they get a chance to interact with experienced workers, which help young workers develop a sense of professionalism. Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property Two Systems Stimulate Creation of Intellectual Property Daikin Industries has two systems for stimulating employees' motivation to invent and for spurring the creation of intellectual property. The first is the Compensation System for Employee Inventions, a system in which Daikin pays employees for inventions created on the job that result in patent applications as well as successful uses of the patent. In fiscal 2009, Daikin compensated employees for 1,095 patent applications and 462 successful uses of the patent. The second is the Incentive System for Valuable Patents, which gives employees incentive bonuses for valuable patents. In fiscal 2009, we awarded incentive bonuses to the creators of 91 patents. These systems have taken root and employees are increasingly interested in discoveries and patents. We now aim to devise ways to stimulate enthusiasm for inventions in a wider range of fields, as well as create a system of rewards that appropriately compensate employees for their success. Number of Patent Applications 174 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Daikin Group strives to build a relationship of trust with its suppliers. Through a synergistic relationship, both sides seek to meet each other's expectations for the sake of mutual growth and progress. To achieve this, we do our utmost to conduct fair and open dealings, and we constantly communicate with suppliers to ensure ever-improved quality and safety. Philosophy on Suppliers Open to All Suppliers of Any Nationality, Size, and Experience In choosing our suppliers, we have an open-door policy in which potential business partners, whatever their nationality, can view our requirements (See page 176) for quality, cost, and delivery on our website before submitting a bid. Philosophy on Fair Dealings Purchasing Philosophy and Purchasing Policy Fair Dealings Management Structure Working Closely with Suppliers Growing and Evolving with Suppliers We take every opportunity for communicating with suppliers so that we can develop a relationship of mutual understanding and trust. (See page 177) In order to grow and evolve with suppliers, we help them build Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire management systems offering better quality and safety, hold meetings Supply Chain jointly with suppliers where both sides can solve key problems, and offer Helping Suppliers Build Quality Management Systems training for employees of distributors. Raising Product Quality, Ensuring Safety ZD Activities with Suppliers Making Plants Safer Training for Distributors A Relationship of Growth Green Procurement Guidelines Guidelines Require Suppliers to Carry Out Environmental Management and Chemical Substances Management Daikin's Green Procurement Guidelines went into effect in fiscal 2000 to help our suppliers procure green parts and materials. These guidelines (See page 180) are consulted during the procurement stage in Japan, China and Southeast Asia, and the EU. 175 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy on Fair Dealings Dealings Based on Our Purchasing Policy The Daikin Group has a Purchasing Policy that is the basis for fair dealings with suppliers. Purchasing Philosophy and Purchasing Policy Purchasing Philosophy: Respect Independence and Cooperation and Competition Purchasing Policy: Fair relations based on an open-door policy Provide open, equal, and fair opportunities for all companies, regardless of their locality, size, and sales results. Mutual growth through mutual trust Create open conditions for business dealings and respect free competition. Look for good partners In procuring from overseas, look for companies to share common profit and offer society useful products. Observe laws, and maintain confidentiality Observe laws on business dealings and respect the spirit of these laws. Fair Dealings Management Structure Dealings Based on Our Purchasing Policy The Daikin Group has an open door policy on choosing suppliers in which we welcome bids from any company, regardless of nationality, size, or years in business. Before starting business dealings, we ensure potential partners understand our Purchasing Policy and pass our assessment. And we continue to improve our business dealings by regularly assessing our suppliers. In our air conditioning business, information on product specs, desired quality and cost, and delivery times is posted on our website in order to achieve equality of opportunity. Before we start transactions with new suppliers, we use the Supplier Assessment Standard Sheet to judge companies based on their administration, quality, price, delivery, and environmental measures. Besides ensuring that suppliers are in compliance with laws, we assess them in CSR aspects such as voluntary efforts to improve labor and environmental matters. All companies satisfying our criteria become eligible to do business with us. Suppliers continue to be assessed every year based on our Assessment System for Continuation of Business, of which we constantly update the criteria and standards to keep up with the changing times. In our chemical business as well, we do business with any supplier meeting our criteria for quality, price, and delivery time. Once dealings begin, we use as many criteria as possible in order to evaluate our suppliers fairly: this includes discussing business with the supplier using multiple Daikin representatives, and making regular visits to the supplier. 176 Responsibility to Stakeholders Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire Supply Chain Promoting Compliance Among Suppliers The Daikin Group strives to achieve legal compliance throughout the supply chain by helping suppliers abide by laws. In the air conditioning business, we raise supplier awareness through written requests for legal compliance and meetings five times a year at which we introduce case studies. When renewing agreements with suppliers, those that fail to meet our standards are asked to write up plans for improvement, which we follow up on. We believe it is important to constantly assess suppliers throughout the year to ensure that they are making improvements. We also provide environmental support information on a special Web site for suppliers. In the chemicals business, we carry out surprise spot audits. We know that we must continue to work with suppliers in order to eliminate excessive and unfair labor and to ensure human rights are respected. Compliance with the Subcontract Act Japan's Subcontract Act covers about 3,000 Daikin Industries' suppliers and subcontractors. Our Subcontract Act Compliance Guidelines ensure that all Daikin divisions are in compliance with the Act in respect to matters such as prompt payment. All divisions are made constantly aware of the importance of compliance through both in-house and third-party seminars. Comprehensive compliance inspections ensure that appropriate payment methods are being followed. Helping Suppliers Build Quality Management Systems Helping Suppliers Obtain ISO Certification Daikin Industries' Green Procurement Guidelines state that suppliers must be ISO 14001 certified. And to promote more complete quality management systems, we provide the latest information on environment-related laws, and we request our primary suppliers, as well as their suppliers, to conduct green procurement and build a chemical management system. The Chemicals Division requests that its suppliers obtain ISO 14001 certification, and it offers a range of advice on building quality management systems, improving production processes, and streamlining the organization so that suppliers can also obtain ISO 9001 certification. See Green Procurement (Page 109) See Green Procurement Guidelines (Page 180) 177 Responsibility to Stakeholders Raising Product Quality, Ensuring Safety Suppliers Take Part in Quality Improvement Conferences, Receive Quality Guidance Suppliers are indispensable to our goal of providing customers with reliable products. Daikin strives to raise quality by working closely with its suppliers. In our air conditioning business, we hold briefings to enlist the help of suppliers in improving quality and achieving zero defects. To this end, the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division and the Global Procurement Division hold the monthly Supplier Quality Conference, where we assess and analyze the quality of parts we purchase and, when necessary, ask that Supplier Quality Conference suppliers solve quality-related issues, even going so far as to visit their factories to offer assistance. In our chemicals business, we hold an annual quality forum for sharing Daikin quality policies and giving suppliers a chance to report on their quality improvement activities. We also conduct quality audits at suppliers to ensure they are in compliance with laws and regulations. We will continue to work closely with suppliers to ensure our products are of the highest Annual Quality Forum quality. Aiming for Zero Defects through ZD Activities Since fiscal 2007, the Air Conditioning Division has ZD Activities with Suppliers been working with suppliers taking part in the Supplier Quality Conference in an initiative called ZD (zero defect) activities. The goal is to achieve zero defects through 3S (visual checks), preventative measures (look for potential problems in production processes), and prevention of reoccurring problems (through regular maintenance). As of fiscal 2009, 13 suppliers were taking part in ZD activities, which, combined with the Supplier Quality Conference, contributed to an approximately 70% drop in defects between fiscal 2005 and 2009. Making Plants Safer Business Partners Contribute to Plant Safety Daikin Industries asks for business partners' cooperation in making plants safer. There are many employees of business partners working in Daikin plants, so it is essential we provide them with information and guidance on safe work practices and conduct safety patrols of the plants. With so many vehicles entering and exiting plants, safe driving is crucial. At the Yodogawa Plant and Kashima Plant, for example, an accident with the chemicals produced there could mean disaster. That's why we hold regular driving safety seminars for delivery vehicle drivers to teach them traffic rules and promote safe driving. In fiscal 2009, approximately 300 drivers joined these seminars. 178 Responsibility to Stakeholders Training for Distributors 52 Courses for Acquiring Air Conditioning Skills Daikin Industries has five training centers around Japan where we hold a variety of courses so that distributors can learn design, installation, and service techniques. In October 2006, the Tokyo training center was moved to Tsukuba City, Ibaraki Prefecture, and named the Tsukuba Training Center. With the goal of offering customers service that is practical, easy to understand, and pleasant, the center uses the latest simulation machinery to offer realistic practice, as well as electronic blackboards and videos teaching materials, along with a range Tsukuba Training Center of other state-of-the-art teaching aids. Training includes systematic step-up training to improve trainees' levels, solution training that helps distributors meet their customers' needs, and certification classes. There are a total of 52 courses. Starting in fiscal 2010, we began a complete overhaul of our service-related courses, adding a new course called Air Conditioning Service Basics while updating two courses: Room Air Conditioner Service and Sky Air Service. Electronic blackboards Environmental Awareness Training Held in Conjunction with All Courses We have developed two environmental courses to boost our eco-efforts, as well as four solution-based courses. Starting in fiscal 2008, we are aiming to raise awareness of the importance of environmental protection: trainees in all courses receive an eco-booklet containing general knowledge on global warming and ozone layer destruction, handling fluorocarbons, and steps to preventing global warming. eco-booklet A Relationship of Growth Communication = Understanding and Trust The Daikin Group takes every possible opportunity to communicate with suppliers and promote understanding and trust. In the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division, global purchasing officers, the head of the Global Procurement Division, and managers regularly visit suppliers for exchanges with their counterparts. Other ways we promote communication include supplier meetings, goodwill Workshop for dealers of the gatherings, and award ceremonies to recognize supplier achievements. Oil Hydraulics Division The Chemicals Division fosters good relations through the Quality Forum. It also has employees in charge of dealing with suppliers in five areas: main raw materials and auxiliary materials, packaging materials, equipment, outsourcing, and general purchasing. These employees work regularly and closely with suppliers to gather information and exchange opinions on issues including technology, quality, and price. Quality Forum sponsored by the Chemical Division 179 Responsibility to Stakeholders Green Procurement Guidelines Helping Suppliers be Legally Compliant In fiscal 2000, the Daikin Group established the Green Procurement Guidelines, and it has been promoting environmental management throughout the entire supply chain in order to provide more environmentally responsible products. At our major manufacturing bases in Japan, China, and Southeast Asia, we help suppliers abide by the Green Procurement Guidelines and inspect products from our suppliers to determine the chemical substances they contain. To help suppliers comply with laws and regulations, we hold meetings to explain environmentally related laws and how the Daikin Group abides by these, and release information on our Web site. In October 2009, we published the 5th edition of the Green Procurement Guidelines, which includes an updated list of restricted chemical substances. Overview of the Green Procurement Guidelines (PDF file) Guidelines PDF Data (150KB) (Oct.2009 revised) Green Procurement Inspection List PDF Data (55KB) You need the Adobe Reader application, offered by Adobe Systems Incorporated, to read PDF files. If it is not installed in your computer, please download an appropriate version of the application according to the model and specifications of your computer. Download Adobe Reader 180 Responsibility to Stakeholders Besides stressing CSR as part of its management, the Daikin Group strives to improve financial performance to maximize corporate value. Raising corporate value helps us meet shareholder and investor expectations and leads to further growth for our company. For Shareholders DOE of Plus 2.0% Means Stable Dividends To offer shareholders and investors higher stock prices and stable dividends, we strive to make the best use of capital to achieve solid (See page 182) profitability and a firm financial base. Maximizing Corporate Value Fiscal year end stock prices Operating income margin Daikin Included in SRI Fund Indexes Distribution of Profit Dividends Dividends to shareholders equity Respect for Exercising Voting Rights Voting Rights Exercised Breakdown of shareholders Information Disclosure Policy Constant Efforts to Disclose Information, Including 300 Seminars a Year The Daikin Group takes increasing responsibility to release information on its business situation promptly and properly. We are particularly diligent (See page 185) about being transparent with our shareholders and investors. Disclosing Information in a Fair and Timely Manner 181 Responsibility to Stakeholders Maximizing Corporate Value Short-Term Profit and Medium-to-Long-Term Growth Despite the Severe Economy The Daikin Group works to boost business performance and raise corporate value in order to meet the expectations of shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders. To this end, we stress free cash flow (a management indicator that can be said to be the source of corporate value), boost earnings, and reduce accounts receivable and inventory. Fiscal 2009 saw the first signs that the financial crisis and worldwide economic recession were coming to an end. Still, Daikin was hurt by unfavorable currency fluctuations brought on by a stronger yen, as net sales were 1.239 trillion yen, down 14.8% over the previous year, and operating income was down 28.3% to 44 billion yen. This situation makes 2010, the final year of our FUSION 10 strategic management plan, a year in which we must increase income and profit. We believe that success this year will lead to sustainable growth and development in the longer term. To accelerate Daikin's journey to this success, the entire Group will work as one to expand global business and will put all its energies into developing and disseminating energy-saving products such as hot water and space heaters. Fiscal year end stock prices Operating income margin 182 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Included in SRI Fund* Indexes Daikin Industries has been selected for the seventh year in a row for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, which comprise approximately 300 leading companies worldwide selected through evaluation based on economic, environmental, and social criteria. Daikin has also been selected for the Morningstar and other SRI * (socially responsible investing) funds. * SRI Fund: SRI funds are made up of companies that, in addition to being rated as financially sound, demonstrate outstanding environmental protection and social responsibility in areas such as legal compliance and the promotion of human rights. Bronze Class Rating for Daikin in SAM's Corporate Sustainability Assessment Daikin Industries underwent a corporate sustainability assessment conducted by Sustainable Asset Management (SAM), a Swiss asset management company, and was given a Bronze Class rating. SAM ranks companies into Gold Class, Silver Class, or Bronze Class based on criteria including economic, environmental, and social sustainability. This year SAM evaluated 2,500 companies in 58 sectors, with 246 selected (including 39 Japanese companies). In the Industrial Engineering sector, in which Daikin is classified, two companies achieved the Silver Class and four companies achieved the Bronze Class. Daikin Industries was the only Japanese company among these six. Distribution of Profit Dividends according to Profits Based on Stability By setting a target of maintaining at least a 2.0% ratio of dividends to shareholders equity, we strive to pay stable dividends that take into account a range of factors including consolidated performance, financial situations, and capital needs. The dividend for fiscal 2009 is expected to be 32 yen, down 6 yen from the previous fiscal year. With regard to internal reserves, we will allot them to strategic investments aimed at strengthening the management structure, accelerating the development of global business, promoting the development of environmentally conscious products, achieving business expansion, and improving competitiveness. 183 Responsibility to Stakeholders Dividends Dividends to shareholders equity Respect for Exercising Voting Rights Helping More Shareholders Exercise Voting Rights To ensure that shareholders have more time to consider new proposals before voting at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, we send announcements of the meeting a week earlier than is legally required. To remedy the discrepancy in information available in Japan and other countries, we translate announcements of shareholder meetings into English and send these to overseas institutional investors, and we have an English version of our Web site. Since fiscal 2003, shareholders have been able to vote over the Internet. This means that those who cannot attend meetings in person can still exercise their voting rights by personal computer or mobile phone. In fiscal 2006, we adopted a platform for exercising voting rights, which made it even easier for institutional investors to vote. As a result of these efforts, the percentage of voting rights exercised reached 81.5% in fiscal 2009. The number of votes cast over the Internet also increased to 897,490 in fiscal 2009 (779 shareholders). Voting Rights Exercised Breakdown of shareholders Voting rights Votes cast over Shareholders exercised the Internet voting online Fiscal 81.72% 903,216 691 2007 Fiscal 85.43% 864,879 926 2008 Fiscal 81.50% 897,490 779 2009 184 Responsibility to Stakeholders Disclosing Information in a Fair and Timely Manner Information through Briefings and Our Web Site Daikin Industries fulfills its responsibility to keeping stakeholders informed by stressing timely, accurate disclosure of information. Particularly in regard to shareholders and investors, we believe we must improve the transparency of our management and provide as much information as possible through a variety of IR activities. For analysts and institutional investors, we hold interim and end-of-year financial performance End-of-year financial briefings, and conference calls every first and third financial quarter. As well, we visit and hold performance briefing for talks with institutional investors in Japan and other countries. In fiscal 2009, we spoke with analysts and institutional investors investors on nearly 300 occasions. We try to provide a wealth of information on the IR site of our home page and disclose information—including documents required by law such as securities reports and documents related to our business performance—in a prompt, fair, and timely manner. The opinions from shareholders and investors are reflected in our management. We will continue to release appropriate information in order to improve the transparency of the Daikin Group. 185 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employees are front and center in community service that covers arts and culture, human resource development, and environmental protection. We strive to provide each region with the support it needs. Promoting Art and Culture Daikin Supports National Museum of Art Established to promote art and culture, the Daikin Industries Foundation (See page 188) to Promote Modern Art supports a wide range of activities including Policy on Contributing to Furthering Art and exhibitions by the National Museum of Art, lectures, academic research, Culture and publications. Overseas as well, we support local culture through the Supporting Art and Music sponsorship of music festivals and other events. National Museum of Art, Osaka Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Other Organizations Supported by Daikin Industries Promoting Sports Daikin Employees Run Golf Tournament and Foster Future Golfers With the aim of deepening relations between Okinawa and mainland Japan, every spring we sponsor the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf (See page 190) Tournament, the opening event of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. Policy on Promoting Sports Held in conjunction with the tournament is the Orchid Bounty Foundation, Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament which collects donations to support local arts, culture, and education. Contributing to Education Support Education for Youth The Daikin Group, through its local companies, supports education for (See page 192) youth by donating financial aid and offering technical courses. Policy on Contributing to Education Efforts in Japan Other Educational Activities in Japan Efforts Overseas Singapore Thailand Other Education Efforts Overseas 186 Responsibility to Stakeholders Environmental Contributions to Society Employees Worldwide Volunteer to Plant Trees Daikin Industries works with the NGO Conservation International in a new reforestation project in Indonesia. Daikin overseas group companies also (See page 195) conduct their own tree-planting activities in efforts to contribute to the absorption of CO2. Policy on Environmental Protection Efforts in Japan See Key Activities, Biodiversity Preservation. (Page 54) Efforts Overseas Italy Thailand Other Tree-Planting Activities Overseas A Good Corporate Citizen—Activities in Each Community Employees Will Continue to Be Front and Center by Listening to the Needs of the Community We want to be a good corporate citizen by being keen to the problems of the communities we operate in and conducting activities that lead to (See page 197) solutions. Philosophy Employees at regional Daikin bases have planned ways to interact with Hiring More People with Disabilities local communities. Employees will continue to be front and center by Building Trust with Communities listening to the needs of the community: this will make Daikin a known and Safety and disaster prevention at plants trusted member of local society. (Japan) Local cleanup activities (Japan) Contributing to local safety (Japan) Exchanges with Local Communities Exchanges with Local Communities in Overseas China Regional independent activities (Overseas) Charitable Activities The diagram below shows Daikin's donations in fiscal 2009 Daikin Aids Victims of Quinhai Earthquake in China Helping the Needy 187 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Contributing to Furthering Art and Culture Established to promote art and culture, the Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art supports a wide range of activities including exhibitions by the National Museum of Art, lectures, academic research, and publications. Overseas as well, we support local culture through the sponsorship of music festivals and other events. Supporting Art and Music The Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art The world's outstanding artistic and cultural works transcend national borders. Daikin is committed to bringing the joy of these works, and the creativity they inspire, to a wider audience. This desire has compelled Daikin to focus on promoting art and music. In March 1996, Daikin Industries established the Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art to mark the company's 70th anniversary on October 25, 1994. In the foundation's first year, Daikin Industries donated ￥200 million for the basic fund, followed by another ￥200 million after three years. With another donation of ￥100 million in 2004, Daikin's 80th anniversary, total founding so far amounts to ￥500 million yen. The foundation supports a wide range of projects designed to teach art appreciation, such as exhibitions at the National Museum of Art, Osaka (NMAO), lectures, publications, surveys, and research. Our goal is to contribute to the revitalization of culture and art in our home territory of Osaka by promoting museum activities. National Museum of Art, Osaka (4 Nakanoshima, Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan Museum director: Akira Tatehata ) Established in 1977 in Expo Park, Suita, NMAO was established to collect, preserve, and research works of art in order to contribute to Japanese art and spotlight its relationship to art worldwide. Beloved as Osaka's only national museum, the NMAO was relocated to Nakanoshima in November 2004 due to aging of its former facilities. All the exhibition halls are located below ground in a temperatureand humidity-controlled environment. The new museum contains 13,487 square meters of floor space. The museum strives to represent new artistic trends by presenting exhibits focusing on modern art. In recent years, it has hosted a wide range of educational projects for both adults and children. It clearly plays an important role in promoting the Japanese art world. 188 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Supports the Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Daikin Industries supports the Osaka-based Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra. Formed in 1970, it became a specified nonprofit corporation in 2003. The orchestra is an integral member of local society, giving community concerts at its practice hall and hiring as many local musicians as possible. Daikin has supported the Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra and since 2007 Daikin CEO Noriyuki Kansai Philharmonic Inoue has been a director on the orchestra's committee. Orchestra Other Organizations Supported by Daikin Industries New National Theatre, Tokyo National Museum of Ethnology Kaitokudo Kyoto National Museum Osaka Wasso Cultural Exchange Association 189 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Promoting Sports With the aim of deepening relations between Okinawa and mainland Japan, every spring we sponsor the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament, the opening event of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament Ever Onward With Okinawa : Boldly Taking on the Future, Together With Okinawa In order to expand the circle of interaction among people through sports, Daikin Industries sponsors the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament, a pro event. Our hope is that our promotion of sports will contribute to the advancement of life in Okinawa. The Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament was inaugurated in 1988 as the opening round of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. As its sponsor, Daikin contributed the slogan Ever Onward A number of participants in the With Okinawa, indicating our desire to join with Okinawa in boldly addressing the challenges amateur tournament have gone of the future. on to take part in the pro tour Local Amateur Golfers Invited to Participate in Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament The Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament was created to help develop and revitalize the Okinawa golf scene. It has been an open tournament since 1997, giving Okinawa's amateur golfers the chance to compete with top professional players. Those aspiring to play in the tournament proper must first qualify in the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Amateur Golf Championship, which has been the proving ground for many professional female golfers active today such as Ai Miyazato, Shinobu Moromizato (Daikin Industries' pro), and Mika Miyazato. Midori Yoneyama was the winner of the tournament's 20th edition Bridging Okinawa and the Mainland The pro and amateur tournaments and the pre-tournament festival enable representatives of local and mainland businesses to interact in an informal setting and gain a better understanding of each other's perspectives. This has led to the emergence of the Okinawa Konwakai, an organization created to consider future development in Okinawa. The association organizes a variety of vibrant activities that include forums and presentations on how to promote and develop Okinawa. 190 Responsibility to Stakeholders Local Volunteers Contribute to a Successful Tournament Local volunteers from the city of Nanjo can be counted on to provide their invaluable time and labor to help run the tournament. Launched in 1997, the volunteer program now brings together more than 400 local volunteers every year. In appreciation of their efforts, Daikin donates books to the local Tamashiro Junior High School every year. The Orchid Bounty Foundation: Promoting the Culture and Sports of Okinawa All competitors in the professional and amateur tournaments provide their assistance by raising money through the Orchid Bounty fundraiser. These funds, augmented by donations from the sponsors, are used to aid the development of Okinawa prefecture, the tournament venue. Specifically, funding is provided to public organizations and individuals promoting artistic, cultural, sporting, and educational activities. At the 23rd tournament in 2010, ￥7.4 million was donated to a total of 12 organizations and individuals, bringing the total contributions since 1995 to ￥91.4 million. Local Junior High School Students Invited to Watch Tournament Many students from the local Tamashiro Junior High School are invited to watch the tournament every year. This gives the students a valuable opportunity to learn about and experience the joy of golf. Japan LPGA Chairperson Hisako Higuchi gives a briefing to the students before the event. By getting a close-up look at the demanding world of the professional golfer and seeing how a professional tournament is run, the students get a firsthand view of the amazing world of professional sports. 191 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Contributing to Education The Daikin Group, through its local companies, supports education for youth by donating financial aid and offering technical courses. Efforts in Japan Participation in Sakai Environmental Education Project The Sakai Board of Education sponsored an environmental education project for elementary schools in Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, home to a Daikin Industries plant. Daikin Industries has taken part in this project since fiscal 2008. Other Daikin production bases around Japan, meanwhile, invite elementary school students for factory tours. See Environmental Communication. (Page 135) Environmental Education Program Focuses on Biodiversity Daikin Industries, with the help of NGO Conservation International, has developed an environmental education program, called Circle of Life, to teach children how their lifestyles relate to the environmental problems that our world faces today. The program focuses on Daikin's reforestation efforts in Indonesia. Circle of Life is a partner program to the Children's Eco-Club, an initiative of Japan's Ministry of the Environment. Starting in fiscal 2010, elementary schools across Japan receive learning materials for this program. See Circle of Life program (Japanese version only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/csr/edu/index.html) See Reforestation in Indonesia (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/reforestation/index.html) 192 Responsibility to Stakeholders Other Educational Activities in Japan Site Activity Overview, results Support for the Sakai Rugby School The Kanaoka Factory lends its field three times a month to the Sakai Rugby School. In fiscal 2009, about 130 elementary and junior high school rugby players took part. Factory tours to educate local elementary school students about working society In fiscal 2009, 374 students from three schools took tours. Sakai Plant Work experience days to educate junior high school students on company life In fiscal 2009, three students took a one-day course hosted by the Sakai Plant. In fiscal 2009, the new strain of influenza caused the tours to be Factory tours to educate elementary schools in cancelled. Instead, Daikin gave DVDs showing the factory to the city about local industry schools that requested them. Daikin opened up its field to the public to use for baseball, pitchShiga Plant Daikin field opened to the public and-putt golf, softball, and other activities. Daikin invited children from day care centers to see the cherry Others blossoms in the plant's front garden. The tennis courts and other facilities were opened to the public. Kendo Training Hall for Children Classes were held three times a week, with 10 students each time. In fiscal 2009, only one elementary school (69 children visited) took Factory tours for local elementary schools tours because of restrictions due to the new strain of influenza. Yodogawa Plant Yodogawa Plant field opened to the public (Contract with governments of Osaka Prefecture On weekends, the field was opened for the general public to use. and Settsu City) On weekends and holidays, children and teenagers used the field Soka Station Activities plaza of the field opened to the public for sports, while the activities plaza was used for pitch-and-putt golf. Support for junior high school field trips Daikin hosted junior high school field trips. The goal was to show Tsukuba Training students how people work and live, and to get them to think about Center what it's like to work and set targets for what they want to do in future. In fiscal 2009, two students took part. 193 Responsibility to Stakeholders Efforts Overseas Daikin Supports Air Conditioner Technical Training in Singapore Daikin Air Conditioning (Singapore) Pte. and the Singapore government jointly developed a training program for the air conditioning industry and has been certified by the government as the training institute at which the program will be run. Because Singapore previously had no government-certified, licensed programs for the air conditioning industry, Daikin Industries developed and implemented the framework and training program for such certification, in the process helping both the government and industry. Providing Thai Students with Education and Job Prospects Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. runs a program in which outstanding students from impoverished regions who cannot afford to attend university receive two years of education and a guaranteed job with Daikin upon completion. So far, 38 have completed the program and are working mainly at manufacturing jobs. Also under this program, young employees of Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. eager to gain new knowledge are given the chance to take two years off work to get an education. Lecture for students Practicing on a production line Graduation ceremony Other Education Efforts Overseas No. of Managed by Activity name Overview Duration participants Daikin (China) Environmental Tours of Solutions Plaza were held throughout the 700 throughout the year (in Investment Co., seminar for year, and children learned about energy-efficient Shanghai, Hangzhou, Ltd. children technologies and products. Beijing) Signed an agreement with a technical high school Daikin Long-term for long-term internships in the northeast of the Compressor internship country, where job opportunities are few. The 104 Year long Industries Ltd. program students took a 10-month course to help them (DCI) become machine engineers. Took part in the school's skills improvement Mentorship program. Offered year-round support as mentors 5 students Year long to the students. McQuay International Sponsored interns from an engineering university. Internship Students earned university credits for working at More than 20 Year long program the company and getting experience in their major. 194 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Environmental Protection Daikin Industries works with the NGO Conservation International in a new reforestation project in Indonesia. Daikin overseas group companies also conduct their own tree-planting activities in efforts to contribute to the absorption of CO2. Efforts in Japan Sakai Plant in Tree-Planting at Forest of Coexistence On reclaimed land in Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, about 100 hectares of forest have been planted for the Forest of Coexistence, an effort to renew forest land and create a habitat for a variety of life. As of the end of March 2009, about 12,000 seedlings had been planted in an approximately 18,000m2 area. The goal is to take this reclaimed land—built from a bitter legacy of 30 years of industrial waste— and give it life by making it into an urban environment where a range of life forms can thrive. In April 2009, the first Forest Day was held with participation from citizens of Osaka Prefecture. A number of employees from Daikin Industries' Sakai Plant took part as volunteers, and the company received a letter of thanks from the Sakai municipal government. Sakai's Cool City Sakai initiative is its proclamation to create a low-carbon metropolis, and Daikin has been on the executive committee since 2009. Our goal is to work with local NPOs, citizens' groups, and the government as a good corporate citizen of Sakai. Efforts Overseas Reforestation in Indonesia (Re: AIRCON Project) Daikin Industries works with the Indonesia Ministry of Forestry and the NGO Conservation International in a reforestation project in which seedlings are raised and planted in a national park in Indonesia. For details, see Key Activities: Biodiversity Preservation (Page 54) See Reforestation in Indonesia (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/reforestation/index.html) Italy: Tree-Planting Aims to Absorb CO2 from Business Activities Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A (DACI) has taken part in the Impatto Zero Project since 2005. The project calls on Italian companies and organizations (over 500 are taking part so far) to plant enough trees to absorb the CO2 that they emit through their business activities. Since 2005, DACI has planted trees in national parks in Costa Rica and Italy over an area of approximately 2.3 km2. DACI took this project one step further in fiscal 2007 by pledging to plant enough trees to absorb the CO2 emitted as a result of using the Ururu Sarara residential air conditioners purchased by DACI customers in Italy. 195 Responsibility to Stakeholders Thailand: Employees Plant Mangrove Trees Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. (DCI) plants mangrove trees. Mangroves prevent shoreline erosion and coastal flooding, purify the seawater, and provide a home to a variety of marine life and thus protect biodiversity of the ocean. But mangroves around the world have been cut down in recent years to make way for human development. DCI has been planting mangrove trees since 2007 and in fiscal 2009 planted more than 8,000 trees. In DCI's home of Amata City, the company has been striving to reduce the environmental impact of its plant operations by taking part in city-sponsored tree-planting projects as well as tree-planting projects on Mother's Day and Father's Day. Thailand: Planting Endangered Tree Species In September 2009, Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. planted about 450 trees of an endangered species on the grounds of the Kaset Suwan Temple(Wat Kaset Suwan) about 100 km away. This new forest will be used as a nature classroom for children and as a meditation spot for the monks. Learning how to plant trees Families plant trees together About 200 employees and their families took part Other Tree-Planting Activities Overseas Tree-planting Planting trees in front of the office Tree-planting (at OYL (Guangzhou) (at J&E Hall) Manufacturing) 196 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy We want to be a good corporate citizen by being keen to the problems of the communities we operate in and conducting activities that lead to solutions. Employees at regional Daikin bases have planned ways to interact with local communities. Employees will continue to be front and center by listening to the needs of the community: this will make Daikin a known and trusted member of local society. Hiring More People with Disabilities Hiring More People with Disabilities across the Entire Group The Daikin Group strives to hire the disabled based on its policy of providing opportunities for disabled people to grow personally and make contributions to society through production activities. In 1993, Daikin Industries established Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd., a cooperative venture with the Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City governments. Disabled persons form the nucleus of the workforce and the company has operated profitably. See Responsibility to Employees. (See page 158) Building Trust with Communities A Safe Plant Open to the Community The Daikin Group does all it can to make its plants safe so that nearby residents can live in peace of mind. When there is noise or vibration from operations of a plant, we set up a number that residents can call so that we can quickly deal with any complaints. In particular, we make safety a top priority at the Yodogawa Plant, a chemical production facility located in a residential area. Through efforts such as risk assessment and near-miss training, we strive to eliminate the potential causes of disasters and accidents. We hold disaster prevention drills four times a year in cooperation with local authorities, and we have protocols for informing the authorities of any emergencies. At the Sakai Plant, in addition to talks with local authorities once a year, we are in close contact with the municipal government, police, fire fighting bureau, and labor standards office. At the Soka Station, Daikin works towards safety and peace of mind for residents through activities with the local traffic safety association and crime prevention association. Also as part of efforts to be a trusted and valuable member of society, we hold factory tours, summer festivals, and other events to promote communication and understanding between Daikin and communities. 197 Responsibility to Stakeholders Disaster Relief and Disaster Prevention Drills The Daikin Group has measures in place should there ever be a natural disaster. Besides providing its factories as evacuation shelters in the event of a disaster, Daikin companies have supplies of food, water, and emergency equipment. In 2009 at the Yodogawa Plant, we reinforced buildings to withstand a magnitude 6 earthquake and thus protect employees and minimize the impact damaged facilities would have on surrounding residents. We also have safety confirmation systems that can confirm the whereabouts and safety of all employees on-site within 20 minutes. At the Kashima Plant, a typhoon measures conference meets when storms are approaching to come up with ways to ensure safe plant operation and temporary shut-down. The Soka Station, Soka City, and five neighboring communities signed an agreement to cooperate in preparing for natural disasters, in which all parties come up with measures to implement immediately following a major earthquake. An expert panel of the Central Disaster Management Council of the Japanese government's Cabinet Office recognized the Soka Station as an outstanding example of a corporation acting as a bridge between local citizens and local government in supporting disaster relief. The Soka Station was also cited as an outstanding example at a United Nations conference on international disaster strategy in fiscal 2008. 13 Daikin Employees Act as Volunteer Fire Fighters in Settsu Employees at the Yodogawa Plant are taking part in fire-fighting activities as volunteer fire fighters for Settsu City. Unlike full-time firefighters who are on call all day, every day in case of fires, members of the Settsu City volunteer fire unit are locals who have other jobs. This means these people cannot always get away from their day jobs to fight fires. In response, Settsu City introduced fire departments with separate functions so that more personnel would be available on weekdays. Daikin and two other companies in Settsu with fire engines are taking part. As of January 2010, in the event of a large fire Daikin fire fighters drive fire engines to the scene and provide support under the direction of the Settsu City Fire Department. This is the first time in Japan that a corporate fire fighting unit is using its fire engines to help fight fires nearby, and it is drawing the attention of other local governments around the country. Safety and disaster prevention at plants (Japan) (See page 202) Local cleanup activities (Japan) (See page 204) Contributing to local safety (Japan) (See page 205) Exchanges with Local Communities Exchanges with Local Communities In 1973, Daikin became one of the first companies to create a Local Community Section within its organization. Since then, it has been strengthening ties and trust with communities through activities such as festivals and sporting events. Daikin's goal is to be a good corporate citizen that creates closeness among all people and works with communities in order to enrich lives and lifestyles. We will continue to value our relationship with nearby citizens and strive to be a company known and loved for its contributions to society. 198 Responsibility to Stakeholders Annual Summer Bon Dance Event Daikin-sponsored Bon Dance a Summer Traditional Along the Yodogawa River The Daikin-sponsored Noryosai Bon dance is a major event attracting large crowds of locals every summer. Employees make the most of this chance to bring joy to citizens in this corporate-sponsored traditional Japanese event. It has become such a successful example of corporate citizenship that it has been reported in news around the world. In 1971, an event initially planned as a social gathering for young employees of our Yodogawa Plant expanded into a program open to the community. It eventually grew to encompass the entire area. Initially attracting about 6,000 participants, it was run entirely by our employees and was intended to foster good relations with people of the region. Today, the event attracts 25,000 participants and has evolved into one of Japan's largest corporatesponsored Bon dance events. It is now established as a much-anticipated major summer event in the region. The Noryosai Bon dance is held at all Daikin bases in Japan. At the event at the Sakai Plant, local citizens' groups have stalls selling food and other goods. Locals take center stage as performances by high school brass bands and elementary school traditional dance troupes liven the proceedings. At the Kashima Plant, local taiko (Japanese drum) groups perform to help keep this traditional art alive. At the Soka Station, employees apply to work the Bon dance event and gain valuable experience in dealing with the public. The Bon dance has also spread to Daikin's overseas bases: employees at our bases in the United States (Daikin America), China (Daikin Shanghai), and Belgium (Daikin Europe) organize Bon dance events for locals. At Daikin Europe, local members of the taiko (Japanese drum) team delighted about 2,000 locals with a spirited performance of this traditional art. The Decatur Plant of Daikin America in Alabama holds a festival intended to introduce more people to Japanese culture. For this event, the plant distributes specially designed traditional Japanese happi coats (anglicized as happy coats ). Participants also enjoy the food stalls selling delicacies such as yakisoba and takoyaki. Now a major event attracting 10,000 visitors, the festival gains in popularity every China (Daikin Shanghai) year thanks to its friendly, welcoming atmosphere. By introducing people to Bon dance and other interesting and fun aspects of Japanese culture, such events help residents near Daikin bases understand our corporate culture and philosophy. Rugby School All for one, and one for all. This indomitable spirit, typical of rugby players, carries lessons that Daikin seeks to impart to children. With this in mind, Daikin, the City of Sakai, the Sakai Higashi Police Department, Seikeikai Hospital, and Nippon Steel collaborated in 1987 to launch Sakai Rugby School. Daikin is in charge of the playing field and secretariat. At the three monthly practices, the children's cheering reflects discipline combined with fun. The Sakai Rugby School is among the toughest competitors in its games against other schools. 199 Responsibility to Stakeholders Kendo Training Hall for Children The Kendo Training Hall for Children opened in 1975 for elementary school children living near the Yodogawa Plant. The goal of the school is to promote health through the martial art of kendo. Daikin employees who hold kendo rankings (dan) provide the instruction. When the school opened, expectations were exceeded when 108 children applied. Clearly, the school has been well received by local residents. In 1983, a new school —more than double the size of the original— was completed. Named Yushinkan by then-president Minoru Yamada, the school has since helped many young local kendo enthusiasts gain skills in this outstanding sport. Excited young voices can often be heard within its walls. Daikin Plants Clean Up the Neighborhood Employees at the Daikin plants in Yodogawa, Shiga, Sakai, and Kashima regularly pick up litter and pull up weeds in the surrounding areas. The Yodogawa Plant has a monthly litter pickup, and it takes part in a yearly cleanup of local ditches. At the Shiga Plant, employees join in local neighborhood cleanups four times a year, and the amount of litter both inside and outside the company premises has decreased. Besides local cleanups, we support local beautification: we cover a portion of the cost of local park maintenance (Kashima Plant), help maintain the cherry trees inside and near the plant premises (Shiga Plant), and we have local children paint pictures on the outside of the fence of our plant (Yodogawa Plant). At Daikin Air Conditioning Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., about 700 employees take part in a cleanup of nearby parks on the 18th of each month. Factory tours We open our plants to the community by hosting local government officials and elementary school children for tours. Exchanges with Local Communities in Overseas China: Aiming to Take Root in China On the occasion of the Daikin Group's 10th anniversary of business in China in 2005, full-fledged social contribution activities were begun in earnest with the aim of making Daikin a locally rooted company. Daikin aims to contribute in the three areas of social welfare, education, and environment. Examples of Contributions 1. Social welfare contributions Established a division in the plant in Shanghai to employ mainly people with disabilities for the purpose of furthering employment of the disabled. 2. Education contributions Created the Daikin Future Air Grand Prize to further air-conditioning technology and foster human resources in China. 3. Environmental contributions As a dedicated air-conditioner manufacturer, Daikin is active in creating standards related to the environment, energy conservation, and air-conditioners 200 Responsibility to Stakeholders Regional independent activities (Overseas) (See page 207) Students from Singapore's OYL Manufacturing gives a Institute of Technical Education factory tour take a factory tour Charitable Activities Donating to a Range of Causes The Daikin Group donates money to numerous arts, The diagram below shows Daikin's donations in fiscal 2009. culture, sports, and educational programs as part of its social contribution efforts. Besides donating on a regular basis for the promotion of culture and sports in Okinawa and the Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art, we have in recent years been giving more to international exchange and cooperation causes as we strive to contribute to societies around the world. Daikin Aids Victims of Quinhai Earthquake in China The Daikin Group (Daikin Industries, along with group companies in China including Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. and McQuay Air Conditioning) donated a total of 1.25 million yuan (approximately $184,500) to help victims and contribute to restoration following the Quinhai earthquake, which occurred on April 14, 2010. Helping the Needy McQuay International (U.S.) has a charity program in which employees and their families make donations to the needy in their communities. Over 200 employees and their Donating food for needy families. family members took part in a Food items were donated by program to donate Christmas more than 1,000 employees. presents to the needy. 201 Responsibility to Stakeholders Safety and Disaster Prevention Activities at Plants (Japan) Site Activity Overview, results The plants formed an in-house firefighting division, and Sakai Plant Formation of in-house firefighting unit in each division a firefighting unit was formed. The plants formed an in-house firefighting division, and Shiga Plant Formation of in-house firefighting unit in each division a firefighting unit was formed. Joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City Thirteen employees from the Yodogawa Plant joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City, which is the Support for first of its kind in Japan. Since January 2010, in the firefighting Yodogawa Plant case of a large fire that may affect surrounding areas, the Yodogawa Plant firefighters drive their fire engine to the scene and help under the guidance of the Settsu City Fire Department. A firefighting unit was formed in each division, and Tokyo Office Formation of in-house firefighting unit these are overseen by the Health and Safety Committee. Daikin helps the local government to rescue disaster victims. Formation of a rescue support Shiga Plant The plant is provided for use as an emergency shelter system for local disaster victims for nearby residents (for example, the field is opened up to the public). There are 140 employees living nearby who are Communication with An emergency rescue team was registered. When necessary, a team is gathered by Yodogawa Plant neighboring formed rounding up employees either from their homes or companies and workplace. residents To administrate local matters, Daikin joins with local Communication with neighboring Kashima Plant companies to be the contact point for local government companies and citizens. An agreement for made between the Soka Station, Soka City, and five neighboring towns. These three Soka Station Regional disaster agreement groups have agreed to work together regularly on plans to implement after major earthquakes occur. Secured emergency supplies such as water, food, and Sakai Plant Secure supplies for emergencies fire prevention equipment. Daikin is registered as a corporate supporter of Sakai Plant Lend equipment to disaster relief firefighting activities. (In emergencies, Daikin lends equipment like forklifts.) The plant makes effective use of site equipment (fire Use of equipment during disasters, engines, firefighting equipment; sends employees as Use equipment during well). disasters, and secure Yodogawa Plant and secure supplies for residents for supplies for emergencies Sufficient supplies have been set aside for all local emergencies residents in case of a major earthquake. Emergency supplies are stocked (megaphones, Shiga Plant Secure supplies for emergencies flashlights, food and water, etc.). Emergency supplies are stocked (megaphones, Secure emergency supplies, hold flashlights, food and water, etc.); these are inspected Tokyo Office regularly. evacuation training drills Evacuation training is held with other tenants. 202 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results All buildings on-site have been inspected for earthquake Make buildings earthquakeresistance. Building structures are being reinforced. Shiga Plant proof, hold evacuation drills Earthquake Fiscal 2009 drills were held in June, September, and November. measures In fiscal 2009, buildings were reinforced to withstand a magnitude Make buildings Yodogawa Plant 6 earthquake, which can endanger employees and nearby earthquake-proof residents. A meeting was held to examine measures to take in case of a Typhoon Kashima Plant Meeting on typhoon measures typhoon. Preventative measures were drawn up for safe operation measures or stoppage of machinery. A system was established that can confirm the safety of employees approximately 20 minutes after a disaster occurs. Safety Yodogawa Plant Safety confirmation system Emergency materials and equipment for searching and confirmation restoration are placed in all major buildings. system Established a system for confirming the safety of employees after Tokyo Office Safety confirmation system a disaster occurs. 203 Responsibility to Stakeholders Local Cleanup Activities (Japan) Site Activity Overview, results Continued participation in Adopt a Road cleanup initiative Under Sakai City's public cleanup campaign, employees took turns cleaning up the streets once a month. The area around the plant and nearby sidewalks were cleaned. Use of E3 bio-gasoline Sakai Plant Company cars were used in a trial sponsored by Osaka Prefecture. Employees patrolled the plant at night to ensure there was no disturbing Anti-noise measures noise or vibration that would disturb nearby residents. Employees took part in tree-planting in a seaside district to plant 10,000 Tree-planting trees in the Forest of Coexistence. Employees removed weeds that had spread to adjoining public roads Weeding and cleanup and picked up litter. Cleanup Litter was picked up around the plant (4 times a year). Shiga Plant Greenery enhancement Weeding, flower planting, and care for the cherry trees was carried out. Cherry trees were planted in fiscal 2010 to mark the plant's 40th anniversary. Areas around the site cleaned up (once a month). Employees took part in cleanup of local waterways (once a year). Yodogawa Plant Cleanup Area around main and west gates (near bus stops) was cleaned up (everyday). Cleanup around the plant Cleanup staff were sent out (twice a month), cleanup days of plant held (once a month), meeting of activity managers held (once a year). Kashima Plant Took part in cleanup of industrial park along The association of 24 companies in the industrial park held a cleanup with other companies twice a year. Was Yashio City representative at Soka City Soka Station environmental conference 204 Responsibility to Stakeholders Contributing to local safety (Japan) Site Activity Overview, results Daikin worked with the Kinki Regional Police Bureau in a safety patrol Head Office Support for local safety activities campaign. Daikin took part in the North Sakai Police Crime Prevention Committee and Support for local safety activities the North/West Sakai Traffic Safety Association. Sakai Plant The Sakai Plant is registered as a place children can take sanctuary from Children's protection shelter threats. Disaster training was held once a year for the plant grounds and employee Disaster training dormitory; fire hydrant usage competition held (July); plant disaster training held (June, November); evacuation training for earthquakes held. Participation in the Fire Prevention The Shiga Plant took part in a disaster prevention training convention in Association unison with the fire department. Participation in local safety activities Shiga Plant In October, the Shiga Plant took part in a firefighting competition. In November, it took part in joint disaster training for private companies. Letter of agreement signed for support Under this agreement, the Shiga Plant will dispatch industrial physicians and of fire prevention in case of disaster its in-house fire-fighting unit, and offer the plant as an evacuation shelter. Thirteen employees from the Yodogawa Plant joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City, which is the first of its kind in Japan. Since January Special firefighting team of Settsu City 2010, in the case of a large fire that may affect surrounding areas, the Yodogawa Plant firefighters drive their fire engine to the scene and help under the guidance of the Settsu City Fire Department. Control damage, confirm people's safety (evacuation), hold earthquake Joint disaster training held (with training. participation of local fire and police Installed breathing apparatus, held fire hydrant usage competition (once departments) a year). Yodogawa Plant Participated in disaster training held by Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City (once a year). Took part in nighttime patrols. Participation in local safety activities Took part in nationwide awareness activities for fire prevention (in spring and autumn). Took part in nationwide traffic safety campaign. Held safety seminars Safety courses held for distributors and delivery companies (twice a year). The Yodogawa Plant is registered as a place children can take sanctuary Children's protection shelter from threats. 205 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Disaster training held twice a year in cooperation with the Fire Hydrant Disaster training Association Joint disaster training was held with the fire department as part of cooperation among companies in the industrial park (once a year). As part of cooperation among companies, once-a-year training was held Participation in local safety events with firefighters, labor board personnel, and police officers as instructors. The goal was to raise safety and disaster awareness. Kashima Plant Rescue training Participation in disaster training events with the fire department, labor board, and police department. Police officers were invited to be instructors at a traffic safety training Safe driving course held conference (once a year) to help drivers improve their road manners. Campaign to stop drunk driving over the Traffic safety committee members handed out drunk driving leaflets winter season. urging people to follow the rules. Activities were held to raise awareness about safe driving and operation Held Safe Work Environment Day of forklifts and company cars (May 2009). Contest to prevent accidents and abide by The Soka Plant took part in a rules-of-the-road contest held annually by Soka Station rules of the road the Police Department. (August 2009 January 2010). Participation in meeting of Tokyo Metropolitan The Tokyo Office took part in scheduled meetings and training sessions, Tokyo Office Police Department to prevent organized as well as responded to various requests. crime. 206 Responsibility to Stakeholders Regional Independent Activities (Overseas) Site Activity Overview, results The prize money from the CEO Award (an annual award in the Daikin Donation of air purifiers Group) was used to purchase 55 air purifiers that were given to schools with children suffering from diseases. Coloring books were donated to the children's section of a general hospital Donation of coloring books Daikin Europe N.V. near the Oostende Plant. Employees took part in a candle sale activity sponsored by an orphans Support of orphans foundation foundation. Christmas presents to local Christmas presents were given to local residents. (This took the place of the residents fiscal 2009 Bon dance festival, which had been cancelled.) Blood donation A blood donor clinic was held twice a year. The second Saturday of January is Thai Children's day. DIT joins with the Daikin Industries Children's day activity community to provide many activities for children. Thailand To celebrate DIT's 20th anniversary, a total of 18 air conditioners were Air conditioner donations donated to six schools and two government organizations. Support for medical center Donations were made to Ren Ci Hospital & Medical Centre (a charity Daikin Airconditioning charity show hospital). (Singapore) Pte. DSP sponsored the 25th edition of a golf tournament with a total of 306 Charity golf tournament held participants. The money donated went to a number of charity organizations. Daikin AC (Americas) Inc. Daikin bases in the U.S., China (Shanghai), and Belgium carry on this Daikin Air tradition. Employees plan and run the festivals, which are open to not just Conditioning Daikin summer festival Daikin but also the customers of affiliates and local residents. These events (Shanghai) strengthen ties among employees, Daikin affiliates, and residents. Daikin Europe N.V.(Belgium) Visit to orphanage OYL Manufacturing Employees visited the orphanage and sang songs and played games with the Company children. 207 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Financial support was provided to the River Bend Financial Support of River Bend Nature Center in Minnesota. The donation supports Nature Center school program resources and equipment, and scholarships. A donation was made to the camp, which covers topics such as bike safety, injury prevention, and Owatonna Support for Kids Safety Camp electrical/fire/water safety. Employees also volunteered as coordinators at the camp. Employees donated presents to the nationwide Faribault, program, which provides Christmas presents to Owatonna, Participation in Toys for Tots children whose families would not otherwise be able Plymouth to afford gifts at Christmas. Participation in Salvation Army Angel Tree Program Employees donated presents to the nationwide program, which provides Christmas presents to Staunton children whose families would not otherwise be able to afford gifts at Christmas. Employees joined with the West Financial Credit Union in donating winter hats and mittens to children Plymouth Hat and mitten donations whose families would not otherwise be able to afford McQuay International them. Toys for Tots Soup Luncheon Employees put on a homemade soup luncheon and sold tickets to raise money. The money collected was Owatonna used to purchase toys for the the Toys for Tots program. Donations to the Food Bank program Faribault, Employees donated food to the Gleaners Community Owatonna, Food Bank, which was distributed to over 1,000 Plymouth, Service families in need. Donations to the Food Bank Employees donated their holiday turkey to the food Staunton program bank to provide meals for families in need. Faribault, Monetary donations from employees go to many Owatonna, Donations to United Way community programs to help families in need or in Plymouth, crisis. Staunton, Service 208 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results McQuay sponsored the student breakfast of the SEED Sponsorship of Scholarly Excellence Award program, which honors high-achieving students at in Equity and Diversity (SEED) the University of Minnesota with diverse identities, Program including students of color, women, and students with disabilities. McQuay employees taught students interviewing and resume writing at the MRC, which meets the needs of Volunteering at Minneapolis Resource individuals with disabilities or other barriers to Center (MRC) self-sufficiency, by providing customized career services through effective community partnerships. Support of Plymouth & Monticello Fire McQuay contributed money to support the local volunteer Fighters fire fighter departments. Volunteering in People Serving People McQuay employees volunteered to serve meals with People Serving People, a meal program for people who Plymouth are homeless. McQuay International McQuay employees donated Valentines cards/gifts for families staying at the Ronald McDonald House, a Volunteering at the Ronald McDonald residence where family members of children with cancer House can stay during the children's treatment. The company also donated proceeds from candy vending machines. McQuay makes monetary donations to Plymouth Music in Donation to Plymouth Music in the the Park, a community music event. It originally began in Park the parking lot at the McQuay building and is now held at a community park. Raising money for hospitalized Employees held a craft/bake sale and donated the employee proceeds to an employee who is hospitalized. Proceeds from candy vending machines were donated to Donation to Drug Abuse Resistance DARE, a charity program that serves to educate children Education ( DARE ) Program on the dangers of drugs. Plymouth, Employees participated in the Red Cross mobile blood Faribault, Blood donations donor clinics. Owatonna 209 Responsibility to Stakeholders Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 −Web version− Data 210 Data Pages focusing on environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. Companies covered by data: D Daikin Industries JG Including group in Japan OG Overseas group companies only OJG Including group companies in Japan and overseas Quality & Customer Satisfaction Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center JG (thousands) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Repair inquiries 842 815 827 794 735 Technical advice 414 507 534 575 658 Parts inquiries 304 326 328 323 332 Others 109 96 104 60 56 Number of compliance violations, countermeasures JG Fiscal 2009 Details 0 No laws or regulations were broken Low Impact Products Materials used JG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Iron 69,888 65,585 69,178 57,512 40,637 Copper 14,397 22,172 24,358 18,684 15,698 Aluminium 10,771 15,314 16,797 13,319 8,962 Refrigerants 4,165 4,228 4,254 3,711 2,872 Plastics 8,626 11,552 13,712 13,928 9,147 Chemicals (PRTR14,967 140,212 132,743 102,322 92,325 designated) Packaging 8,767 11,613 9,778 9,644 7,579 211 Data Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners JG 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Residential air conditioners collected by 4 major manufacturers (including Daikin) (units: 1,000) 1,990 11,620 1,890 1,970 2,150 Residential air conditioners collected by Daikin only (units: 1,000) 120 120 130 140 170 Amount Recycled (tons) 5,508 5,218 4,702 5,294 5,927 Recycling ratio (%) 83 84 84 85 84 Iron (%) 40 49 47 44 42 Copper (%) 7 9 9 8 8 (Breakdown) Aluminium (%) 6 7 6 8 7 Mixture of non-ferrous and iron composite materials (%) 26 28 31 32 34 Other valuable materials (%) 5 7 7 8 9 Refrigerants recovered (tons) 72 69 76 85 100 Daikin Eco Products as percentage of all products JG (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Daikin Eco Products 87（Previous Standard) 90 92 14 (New Standard) 39 Note: We revised our voluntary environmental standards in fiscal 2008. Low Impact Production Fiscal 2009 for OYL : Data for OYL Industries Bhd. and its subsidiaries, which the Daikin Group acquired in fiscal 2006. 1) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Entire Group (Production) OJG (10,000 tons-CO2) Base year* 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 OYL2009 CO2 (Energy) 15 43 47 47 44 41 5.5 HFC 946 72 66 49 26 18 1.2 PFC 72 168 140 83 25 24 0 Total 1,033 283 253 178 94 83 6.7 * CO2: 1990, HFC and PFC: 1995 Note that since not all calculations have been completed, the following data is not included in the base year data: CO2 emissions from overseas energy consumption and fluorocarbon emissions in the machinery divisions. HFC, PFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact OJG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 OYL2009 HFC 198.9 150.8 247.5 113.7 71.2 8.4 PFC 199.2 164.7 100.2 31.2 28.6 0 Global warming impact with fiscal 2005 set as 100% 86% 55% 21% 18% 100% (%) 212 Data CFC, HCFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact OJG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 OYL2009 CFC 3.1 2.2 0.7 0.3 0.1 0 HCFC 839.6 447.4 381.8 346.2 234.7 1.9 Global warming impact with fiscal 2005 set as 100% 59% 50% 44% 30% 100% (%) Total CO2 Emissions OJG (10,000 tons-CO2) 2000 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 OYL2009 Japan 18.7 17.9 18.9 17.4 14.7 14.0 Overseas 12.4 25.4 28.0 29.2 28.5 26.8 5.5 Total 31.2 43.3 47.0 46.6 43.3 40.8 5.5 CO2 Emissions per Sales OJG (tons per 100 million yen) 2000 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Emissions per sales 59 55 52 44 44 47 (consolidated) CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (Air-conditioning) D (%) 2001 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 CO2 emissions per sales with FY2001 set 100 82 80 72 74 72 as 100% Recovered Fluorocarbons (at time of repair and at time of disposal) D (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Recovered fluorocarbons at time 52.5 44.3 36.3 41.3 34.4 of disposal Recovered fluorocarbons at time 245.4 245.4 299.5 335.0 314.6 of repair 2) Energy Consumption Energy Consumption D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Electricity (MWh) 161,289 172,376 162,628 145,850 133,472 City Gas (m3) 42,420,000 43,300,000 45,000,000 37,240,000 35,660,000 LPG (tons) 0 0 131 0 45 Steam (GJ) 305,396 353,382 334,637 256,617 235,670 Petroleum (kl) 471 496 459 471 547 213 Data 3) Green Procurement Green Procurement Rate (Japan) JG (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Green Procurement 97 (Previous Standard) 80 (New Standard) 95 97 99 Rate Green Procurement Rate by Region*1 OJG (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Japan 97 80 95 97 99 Thailand 85 97 China 79 89 Europe 69 63 Oceania 85 *1 Green procurement rate= Value of goods procured from suppliers who meet our assessment criteria / Value of all goods procured *2 New standard starting in fiscal 2006 4) Water Water used OJG (10,000 m3) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 OYL2009 Japan 354 337 326 292 302 Overseas 323 331 334 323 302 6.9 Total 677 668 660 615 604 6.9 Waste water OJG (10,000 m3) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 OYL2009 Japan 305 272 247 219 206 Overseas 260 276 288 268 238 2.7 Total 565 548 535 487 444 2.7 5) Water pollutant and air pollutant emissions Water pollutant emissions D (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 COD 17 17 14 12 7 Water pollutant emissions JG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 COD 17 18 15 13 9 214 Data Water pollutant emissions OG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 COD 881 909 992 925 928 Air pollutant emissions D (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 NOx 44 53 49 49 63 SOx 0.8 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.0 VOC 294 306 132 43 32 Air pollutant emissions JG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 NOx 44 54 50 50 63 SOx 0.8 1.2 1.4 1.3 0 VOC 298 311 137 48 35 Air pollutant emissions OG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 NOx 84 98 82 78 55 SOx 36 42 20 10 6 VOC 406 439 304 184 105 6) Chemical substance emissions Release of Substances Designated by PRTR Law D (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Release of Substances 931 558 341 201 115 Designated by PRTR Law 215 Data Compilation of PRTR Substances (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) JG 2009 Amount emitted Amount transported (tons) (tons) Substance name Public Air Soil Sewage Waste waterways Tetrafluoroethylene 42.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Chlorodifluoromethane (also called HCFC-22) 38.54 0.00 0.00 0.00 4.53 Dichloromethane (also called methylene chloride) 27.68 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.06 Toluene 2.70 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.34 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane (also called 1.93 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.81 HCFC-141b) Xylene 0.78 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.70 Chloroform 0.67 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.30 Ethylbenzene 0.28 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane (also called 0.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 HCFC-142b) Hydrogen fluoride and other water-soluble salts 0.17 0.00 0.00 0.00 57.00 1,1,1-trichloroethane 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2-aminoethanol 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 4.36 Acetonitrile 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.02 2.10 N,N-dimethylformamide 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 6.30 Carbon tetrachloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Polyoxyethylene alkyl ether (those whose alkyl group carbon number is between 12 and 15, or 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.11 18.00 compounds of these) Acrylic acid 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 14.00 Antimony and antimony compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.20 Polyoxyethylene octyl phenyl ether 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 2.10 Hydroquinone 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.90 Allyl alcohol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.10 Water soluble lead compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.00 0.72 Ethylene glycol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.33 Polycondensates of 4,4-isopropylidene diphenyl and 1-chloro-2,3-epoxypropane (also called 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 bisphenol A epoxy resin) (only in liquid state) Molybdenum and molybdenum compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2-Chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (also called 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 HCFC-124) Styrene 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Bis (hydrogenated tallow) dimethylammonium 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 chloride Methacrylic acid, 2-ethylhexyl ester 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total 115 0 0 3 119 216 Data 7) Waste Amount Recycled and Amount Disposed of (Japan) JG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Disposed 461 507 180 167 61 Recycled 30,539 31,469 34,112 33,233 21,784 Amount Recycled and Amount Disposed of (Overseas) OG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Disposed 13,635 11,196 13,393 9,080 9,995 Recycled 13,025 17,713 24,708 22,791 18,470 8) Calculation standard Calculation standard Item Indicator Calculation method Japan Eco-Action 21, formulated by Ministry of the Environment in CO2 emission coefficient for electricity 1998 use Overseas Japan Electrical Manufacturers Association. Japan Eco-Action 21, formulated by Ministry of the Environment in During Greenhouse 1998 production gas emissions CO2 emission coefficient for energy use Overseas Eco-Action 21, formulated by Ministry of the Environment in 1998 Japan CO2 emissions/japan consolidated sales CO2 Emissions per Sales Overseas CO2 emissions/overseas consolidated sales Environmental Management Fiscal 2009 for OYL : Data for OYL Industries Bhd. and its subsidiaries, which the Daikin Group acquired in fiscal 2006. Report from Audits JG 2005 2006 2007 Problems found from Problems found by Problems found from Problems found by Problems found from Problems found by internal environmental third-party certification internal environmental third-party certification internal environmental third-party certification audits institutes audits institutes audits institutes Major 2 0 1 0 0 0 non-conformance Minor 92 4 95 0 56 4 non-conformance Items improved 305 5 226 5 192 46 217 Data 2008 2009 Problems found from internal Problems found by third-party Problems found from internal Problems found by third-party environmental audits certification institutes environmental audits certification institutes Major 0 1 3 0 non-conformance Minor 31 8 99 1 non-conformance Items improved 111 71 214 10 Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification OJG (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 OYL2009 Japan 100 100 100 100 100 Overseas 82 85 95 99 99 57 Number of compliance violations, countermeasures OJG Fiscal 2009 Details 0 No laws or regulations were broken Employees 1) Number of employees, hiring, etc. Employee Composition (Data for Daikin Industries) (Note: Number currently employed) D As of end of March 2006 As of end of March 2007 As of end of March 2008 Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of employees 6,039 635 6,245 695 6,360 816 Average range of services (years) 19.0 12.0 19.0 12.0 19.0 12.0 Average age 42.4 34.8 42.2 34.3 41.9 32.9 Daikin Industries Number of managers 949 10 958 9 969 12 Number of board members 34 1 41 1 41 1 Number of foreign nationals 22 27 28 12 Total 7,798 8,084 8,345 As of end of March 2009 As of end of March 2010 Men Women Men Women Number of employees 6,452 868 6,558 897 Average range of services (years) 18.9 12.0 17.9 10.8 Average age 41.6 32.8 41.8 33.6 Daikin Industries Number of managers 925 13 886 14 Number of board members 47 1 45 1 Number of foreign nationals 28 12 37 16 Total 8,451 8,558 218 Data Employee make-up by region OJG 2005 2006 2007 Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of companies employees companies employees companies employees Daikin Industries (Only) 1 5,391 1 5,646 1 5,979 Domestic Group (Excluding Daikin 46 3,958 46 4,214 45 4,231 Industries) China 16 4,564 25 7,476 28 8,387 Southeast Asia, Oceania 14 3,992 41 6,902 41 7,619 Europe, Middle East, Africa 16 3,385 53 5,234 48 5,799 North and South America, Other 7 457 25 4,008 30 4,285 Total 100 21,747 191 33,480 193 36,300 2008 2009 Number of companies Number of employees Number of companies Number of employees Daikin Industries (Only) 1 6,186 1 6,379 Domestic Group (Excluding Daikin Industries) 40 4,432 42 4,665 China 31 10,551 31 10,072 Southeast Asia, Oceania 41 8,298 40 7,968 Europe, Middle East, Africa 61 6,006 58 5,654 North and South America, Other 29 4,423 27 4,136 Total 203 39,896 199 38,874 Number of employees leaving, employee turnover D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Men 163 168 207 241 225 Japan Women 31 38 24 48 36 Employee turnover 3% 3.1% 3.3% 3.9% 3.5% Number of women periodically hired; percentage of all employees D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Men 127 207 216 242 157 Women 83 85 139 52 34 Total 210 292 355 294 191 Women as % of all 39.5% 29.1% 39.2% 17.7% 17.8% employees 219 Data 2) Occupational Safety and Health Frequency Rate* D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Daikin Industries 0.24 0.30 0.07 0.13 0.06 National average for 1.85 1.95 1.83 1.75 1.62 all industries National average for manufacturing 1.01 1.02 1.09 1.12 0.99 industry Note: This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of calamities for every 1,000,000 working hours. Frequency rate = Number of calamities by industrial injuries / Total actual working hours × 1,000,000 Severity Rate* D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Daikin Industries 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.06 0.00 National average for 0.12 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.09 all industries National average for manufacturing 0.09 0.11 0.10 0.10 0.08 industry Note: This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. Severity rate = Total number of working days lost / Total of actual working hours × 1,000 3) Re-employed Workers Number of Re-employed Workers D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of Retirees: 92 0 97 4 112 5 139 6 141 4 Number of 80 0 84 4 98 3 117 5 118 3 Re-employed Workers Percentage Re-employed After 87.0% 87.1% 86.3% 84.1% 83.4% Retiring 4) Disabled People Employed Number of Disabled People Employed* JG 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Number of disabled 204 205 237 248 264 people employed* Employment rate** 2.73% 2.63% 2.13%*** 2.17% 2.27% * Legally, 1 severely disabled person employed is counted as 2 disabled persons. ** Employment rate = number of disabled persons employed / number of persons employed *** Disabled employment rate for only Daikin Industries until FY2006 and for the entire Daikin Group from FY2007 220 Data 5) Work-Life Balance Leave before and after child is born, childcare leave, leave taken by men and women D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Number taking leave before Women 17 16 19 20 30 and after child is born Number taking Men 1 1 32 89 74 childcare leave Women 27 32 35 33 49 Number taking family care leave D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Number taking Men 1 3 0 0 0 family care leave Women 0 0 1 0 0 Number of accidents resulting in time off work D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Accidents resulting in 11 9 12 13 6 Number of time off work accidents resulting in Commuting time off work accidents 2 3 2 18 4 resulting in time off work Frequency Rate 0.24 0.30 0.07 0.13 0.06 Severity Rate 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.07 0.00 Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave D (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Percentage of Daikin 93.9 92.8 90.2 92.4 90.6 Industries employees Percentage of Japanese workers in the manufacturing 53.0 54.9 53.1 54.0 54.5 industry (according to Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) 6) Patent Applications Number of Patent Applications 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Japanese applications 1,027 1,337 1,469 1,698 1,069 Overaseas 260 297 392 451 309 applications 221 Data Shareholders and Investors Consolidated Sales by Business Segments (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Air Conditioning/Refrigeration 80.9 82.5 87.7 88.1 88.7 Equipment Chemicals 13.5 12.8 9.0 8.5 8.4 Oil Hydraulics, Defense 5.5 4.7 3.3 3.4 2.8 Systems and Others Consolidated Sales by Region (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Japan 53.6 48.5 35.7 39.6 37.6 China 14.1 18.1 19.8 24.1 23.8 Asia and Oceania 12.8 Europe, Middle East, 22.6 25.8 27.5 25 22.4 and Africa The Americas and 5.7 5.9 12.7 11.6 13.1 Others Net Sales (￥ billion) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Consolidated 792.8 911.7 1,291.1 1,202.4 1,024.0 Non-consolidated 435.2 454.1 499.2 424.9 365.4 Total Assets (￥ billion) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Consolidated 719.4 1,161.4 1,210.1 1,117.4 1,139.7 Non-consolidated 499.2 791.7 786.4 766.7 783.2 Ordinary Profit (￥ billion) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Consolidated 68.2 78.3 121.7 52.0 43.8 Non-consolidated 32.1 34.1 38.2 (5.2) 15.0 Fiscal year end stock prices (yen) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Fiscal year end stock 4,120 4,100 4,290 2,680 3,825 prices Dividends (yen) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Dividends 22 28 38 38 32 222 Data Breakdown of shareholders 2005 2006 Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Financial institutions 135 115,193,006 43.7% 149 118,319,706 44.8% Securities companies 56 3,520,930 1.3% 64 7,155,113 2.7% Other corporations 310 30,070,360 11.4% 342 36,054,260 13.7% Foreign corporation 417 96,628,254 36.6% 409 83,444,832 31.6% Individuals, other 10,590 18,401,423 7.0% 14,116 18,840,062 7.1% Total 11,508 263,813,973 100.0% 15,080 263,813,973 100.0% 2007 2008 Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Financial institutions 181 141,302,883 48.2% 183 149,285,576 50.9% Securities companies 86 7,181,326 2.5% 65 4,408,469 1.5% Other corporations 571 40,848,052 13.9% 621 43,053,817 14.7% Foreign corporation 469 81,575,368 27.8% 479 70,912,586 24.2% Individuals, other 28,422 22,206,344 7.6% 35,580 25,453,525 8.7% Total 29,729 293,113,973 100.0% 36,928 293,113,973 100.0% 2009 Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Financial institutions 171 138,391,233 47.2% Securities companies 65 8,358,282 2.9% Other corporations 567 42,336,605 14.4% Foreign corporation 472 79,918,106 27.3% Individuals, other 32,513 24,109,747 8.2% Total 33,788 293,113,973 100.0% Dividends to shareholders equity (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Dividends to 47.7 34.4 45.3 42.2 43.5 shareholders equity Voting Rights Exercised 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Voting rights 78.6% 81.3% 81.72% 85.43% 81.5% exercised (%) Votes cast over the 4,335 457,012 903,216 864,879 897,490 Internet Shereholderes voting 385 289 691 926 779 online 223 Data Business / Financial Data (Consolidated) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Years ended March 31, 2007 Years ended March 31, 2008 Years ended March 31, 2009 Years ended March 31, 2010 (Forecast) Net Sales (￥Million) 911,794 1,291,081 1,202,419 1,070,000 1,155,000 Operating Income 80,754 128,098 61,394 44,037 73,000 (￥Million) Ordinary Income 78,285 121,708 52,007 43,768 69,000 (￥Million) Net Income (￥Million) 45,419 74,822 21,755 19,390 37,000 Earnings Per Share 172.66 262.24 74.51 66.44 (yen) Overseas Business 52 64 63 62 Ratio (%) Free Cash Flow 1,300(*) 6,100 ▲7,000 80,700 (￥Million) Return on Assets (%) 5.9 6.3 1.9 1.7 Return on Equity (%) 12.3 15.8 4.3 4 Shareholders' Equity 34.4 45.3 42.2 43.5 Ratio (%) Plant-and-Equipment 41,100 51,300 60,600 28,400 Investment (￥Million) Reseach & Development Costs 27,200 32,100 30,500 28,200 (￥Million) Liability with Interest 39.2 29.4 37.4 35 Ratio (%) Employees 33,776 36,406 40,126 39,132 (*)not include the OYL acquisition The diagram below shows Daikin's donations D (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Education 37.4 43.2 51.8 22.9 31.7 Environmental 4.8 2.0 0.9 8.3 14.9 protection International exchange 15.3 11.5 10.3 18.2 14.9 and cooperation Art, culture 17.3 11.7 10.7 11.7 13.5 Local community and 3.7 5.9 2.3 10.2 5.8 society Donation of products, 2.0 11.3 8.2 1.9 3.6 etc. History, traditional 5.6 1.9 2.8 1.2 2.9 culture Academic research 3.5 2.8 1.7 1.3 2.2 Other 10.4 9.7 11.3 24.3 10.5 224 Data Governance Executive compensation 2006 2007 2008 2009 Number 11 11 12 10 Directors Amount of compensation 666 816 748 717 (million yen) Number 4 4 4 5 Corporate Amount of Auditors compensation 79 86 93 90 (million yen) Number 15 15 16 15 Total Amount of compensation 746 903 842 808 (million yen) Note: About compensation amounts For fiscal 2006, bonuses to directors included. From fiscal 2007, bonuses to directors (excluding outside directors) include expenses related to stock acquisition rights given to directors as stock options. For fiscal 2008, the compensation amount for the term of office of two directors who retired during the period is included; however, the JPY 146 million for retirement benefits is not included. For fiscal 2009, the compensation amount for the term of office of one auditor who retired is included. Starting salary (yen) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 University grad 200,000 202,000 204,000 215,000 215,000 Masters 227,800 229,800 231,800 234,800 234,800 PhD 252,800 254,800 256,800 258,800 258,800 Number of compliance violations, countermeasures OJG Fiscal 2009 Details 0 No laws or regulations were broken 225 Data Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 −Web version− Overview of GRI Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 (G3) 227 226 Overview of GRI Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 (G3) See Data, environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. (Page 210) GC Indicators WEB Principle 1.Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or 1.1 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its Message from strategy. the Chairman 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2.Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 2.3 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2.5 major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Daikin's CSR 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organization, including: -Number of employees; -Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); -Total capitalization 2.8 broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and-Quantity of products or services provided. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including:-The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and 2.9 expansions; and-Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). Honors for 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Daikin 3.Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Editorial Policy 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 227 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content, including: -Determining materiality; -Prioritizing topics 3.5 within the report; and Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, Editorial Policy 3.6 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report8. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and 3.8 other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and 3.9 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and 3.10 the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3.11 methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. This page Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope Independent 3.13 and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the Opinions reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance 4.1 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if CSR 4.2 so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). Management For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the 4.3 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Corporate Governance Responsibility Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the to Shareholders 4.4 highest governance body. and Investors Labor Management Relations Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 4.5 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6 avoided. CSR Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest Management 4.7 governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant CSR 4.8 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Philosophy 228 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Governance Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, CSR 4.9 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Management internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly 4.10 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Compliance and Risk Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed Management 4.11 by the organization. Product Quality and Safety Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other 4.12 Global Compact initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Daikin Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Cooperates in national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: -Has positions 4.13 Formation of in governance bodies; -Participates in projects or committees; -Provides substantive Environmental funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. Policy Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Responsibility Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type to Stakeholders 4.16 and by stakeholder group. Responsibility to Stakeholders Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and 4.17 how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5. Performance index Economic Management Approach Goals and performance Responsibility to Shareholders olicy and Investors Investor Additional Contextual Information Relations Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, For operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community Shareholders EC1. investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and Charitable governments. Activities GC Core Message from principles Indicators Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's the Chairman EC2. 7,8 activities due to climate change. Environmental Accounting EC3. Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC4. Significant financial assistance received from government. Additional Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage GC principle EC5. Indicators at significant locations of operation. 6 229 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Economic Market Presence Responsibility Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at EC6. to Business significant locations of operation. Partners Core Indicators Feature 6: Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from GC principle Global Human EC7. the local community at locations of significant operation. 6 Resource Development Indirect Economic Impacts Responsibility Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided to Communities EC8. primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono Core engagement. Charitable Indicators Activities Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including Environmental EC9. the extent of impacts. Accounting Environmental Management approach GC Environmental Goals and Performance principles Action plan 7,8,9 2010 Towards an Environmentally GC Advanced Policy principles Company 7,8,9 Environmental Philosophy GC Environmental Organizational Responsibility principles Management 7,8,9 System GC Environmental Training and Awareness principles Education 7,8,9 GC Environmental Monitoring and Follow-up principles Audits 7,8,9 GC Additional Contextual Information principles 7,8,9 Materials Overview of GC principle EN1. Materials used by weight or volume Environmental 8 Core Impact Indicators GC EN2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. principles 8,9 230 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Environmental Energy GC EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Overview of Core principles 8 Environmental Indicators GC EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Impact principles 8 GC Daikin EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. principles Eco-products 8,9 Feature 1: Products That Contribute to Global Warming Mitigation Daikin Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products GC Eco-Products Additional EN6. and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these principles Promoting the Indicators initiatives. 8,9 Use of Inverter Products Promoting the Use of Heat Pump Space and Hot Water Heaters GC EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. principles 8,9 Water Overview of Core GC EN8. Total water withdrawal by source. Environmental Indicators principles 8 Impact GC EN9. Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. principles 8 Additional Indicators GC EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. principles 8,9 Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, GC EN11. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected principles 8 Core areas. Indicators Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Feature 4: GC EN12. biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Biodiversity principles 8 protected areas. Preservation GC EN13. Habitats protected or restored. principles 8 Feature 4: Additional Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on GC EN14. Biodiversity Indicators biodiversity. principles 8 Preservation Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with GC EN15. habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. principles 8 231 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Environmental Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Overview of GC Environmental principles 8 Impact EN16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Preventing Core Global Warming Indicators Production, Transportation GC EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. principles 8 Preventing GC Additional Global Warming EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. principles Indicators Production, 8,9 Transportation Overview of GC Environmental principles 8 Impact Preventing Global Warming Production, EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Transportation Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners Core Indicators GC EN20. NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Overview of principles 8 Environmental GC Impact EN21. Total water discharge by quality and destination. principles 8 Overview of GC Environmental principles 8 EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Impact Reducing Waste Environmental GC EN23. Total number and volume of significant spills. Risk principles 8 Management Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed GC EN24. hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, principles 8 Additional and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Indicators Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and GC EN25. related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's principles 8 discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services GC Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and Low Impact EN26. principles extent of impact mitigation. Products Core 8,9 Indicators GC Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed EN27. principles 3R & Repair by category. 8,9 232 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Environmental Compliance Environmental Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary GC EN28. Risk Indicators sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. principles 8 Management Transport Overview of GC Environmental principles 8 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Impact Additional EN29. and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting Preventing Indicators members of the workforce. Global Warming Production, Transportation Overall Additional GC Environmental EN30. Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Indicators principles 8 Accounting Social Labor practices and Decent Work Management Approach GC Message from Goals and performance principles the Chairman 3,6 Employee Evaluation and Treatment Policy Workplace Diversity Policy Work-Life Balance Policy Labor GC Management Policy principles Relations Policy 3,6 Occupational Safety and Health Policy Fostering Human Resources Philosophy Policy and Management Structure GC Organizational Responsibility principles 3,6 Fostering Human GC Resources Training and Awareness principles Occupational 3,6 Safety and Health GC Monitoring and Follow-Up principles 3,6 GC Additional Contextual Information principles 3,6 233 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Social Labor practices and Decent Work Employment Daikin's CSR LA1. Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Workplace Core Diversity Indicators Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and GC Work-Life LA2. region. principles 6 Balance Additional Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or GC LA3. Indicators part-time employees, by major operations. principles 6 Labor/Management Relations GC Labor LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. principles Management Core 1,3 Relations Indicators Minimum notice period (s) regarding operational changes, including whether GC LA5. it is specified in collective agreements. principles 3 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management Additional LA6. worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on Indicators occupational health and safety programs. Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and LA7. Safety and number of work-related fatalities by region. Core Health Indicators Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in Employee LA8. place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members Health regarding serious diseases. Management Additional LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Indicators Training and Education Feature 6: Global Human Resource Core Development LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Indicators Fostering Human Resources Feature 6: Global Human Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Resource LA11. continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career Development Additional endings. Fostering Indicators Human Resources Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12. development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per GC Workplace LA13. category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and principles Diversity Core other indicators of diversity. 1,6 Indicators GC LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. principles 1,6 234 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Social Human Rights Management Approach GC Message from Goals and performance principles the Chairman 1,2,4,5,6 GC Respect for Policy principles Human Rights 1,2,4,5,6 CSR Management GC Structure Organizational Responsibility principles Compliance 1,2,4,5,6 and Risk Management GC Respect for Training and Awareness principles Human Rights 1,2,4,5,6 Suppliers Must Be in Legal GC Compliance Monitoring and Follow-Up principles Compliance 1,2,4,5,6 and Risk Management GC Additional Contextual Information principles 1,2,4,5,6 Investment and Procurement Practices GC Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that HR1. principles include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Core 1,2,4,5,6 Indicators GC Suppliers Must Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2. principles Be in Legal screening on human rights and actions taken. 1,2,4,5,6 Compliance CSR Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning GC Additional Management HR3. aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principles Indicators Respect for percentage of employees trained. 1,4,5 Human Rights Non-Discrimination Legal GC Core Compliance HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. principles Indicators Audits, 1,6 Compliance Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association GC Core HR5. and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to principles Indicators support these rights. 1,3 Child Labor Compliance GC and Risk Core Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and HR6. principles Management Indicators measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. 1,5 Respect for Human Rights 235 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Social Human Rights Forced and Compulsory Labor Compliance Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or GC and Risk Core HR7. compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or principles Management Indicators compulsory labor. 1,4 Respect for Human Rights Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or GC Additional HR8. procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to principles Indicators operations. 1,2 Indigenous Rights Additional Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people GC HR9. Indicators and actions taken. principles 1 Society Management Approach GC Message from Goals and performance principles 10 the Chairman Compliance and Risk GC Management Policy principles 10 Group Compliance Guidelines CSR GC Organizational Responsibility Management principles 10 Structure Compliance GC Training and Awareness and Risk principles 10 Management Compliance GC Monitoring and Follow-Up and Risk principles 10 Management Compliance GC Additional Contextual Information and Risk principles 10 Management Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess Core GC SO1. and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, Indicators principles 1 operating, and exiting. Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to GC SO2. corruption. principles 10 Compliance and Risk Core Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies GC SO3. Management Indicators and procedures. principles 10 Prohibiting GC Bribes SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. principles 10 236 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Social Society Public policy Daikin Cooperates in Core Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and GC SO5. Formation of Indicators lobbying. principles 10 Environmental Policy Additional Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, GC SO6. Indicators and related institutions by country. principles 10 Anti-Competitive Behavior Compliance and Risk Management Additional Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and Free SO7. Indicators monopoly practices and their outcomes. Competition and Fair Business Dealings Compliance Compliance and Risk Management Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SO8. Legal Indicators sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Compliance Audits, Compliance Product Management Approach Responsibility Goals and performance to Customers Product Quality and Safety Product Safety Policy Voluntary Action Guidelines Product Quality Organizational Responsibility Management Structure Product Quality Training and Awareness and Safety Product Quality Monitoring and Follow-Up and Safety Additional Contextual Information Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services Core PR1. are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and Responsibility Indicators services categories subject to such procedures. to Customers Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Product Quality Additional and Safety PR2. codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during Indicators their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 237 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Social Product Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Core GC PR3. percentage of significant products and services subject to such information Indicators principles 8 requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary GC Product Quality PR4. codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of Additional principles 8 and Safety outcomes. Indicators Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Customer PR5. measuring customer satisfaction. Satisfaction Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Core PR6. marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and Indicators sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Additional Product Quality PR7. codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, Indicators and Safety promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy Protecting Additional Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8. Customer Indicators privacy and losses of customer data. Information Compliance Core Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and Product Quality PR9. Indicators regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. and Safety See Data, environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. (Page 210) 238 Overview of GRI Guidelines
