２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 1 ABOUT THE REPORT This is Sinochem Group’s first report to use the name “Sustainable Development Report. ” Previously, Sinochem Group published a Corporate Social Responsibility Report in April 2004, June 2008, June 2009, and June 2010. REPORT SCOPE This report covers Sinochem’s activities between January 1st, 2010 and December 31st, 2010. Parts of the content may reflect activities and data from previous years. Report Publication Cycle This report is an annual report. Report Guidelines This report follows the guidance of the Guidelines for Key State-owned Enterprises to Fulfill Corporate Social Responsibility, the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1), and ISO 26000: 2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility. Report Improvements Compared with last year’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report , this report features the following improvements: Adds “serving people’s livelihoods” as a new social responsibility issue, reflecting the company’s practices in serving people and the State. Builds a corporate social responsibility matrix, showing the actions taken by Sinochem’s five business sectors in fulfilling corporate social responsibility. Increases the breadth and depth of corporate social responsibility information disclosure, making the report more informative. Data Sources The data used in the report are all from the company’s official documents and statistical reports. Note on Names Used For the convenience of expression and reading, “Sinochem Group” in this report is also referred to as “Sinochem,” “we,” and “the company.” Obtaining Copies of the Report The report is available in both Chinese and English editions. To read or download the report, please visit the Sinochem Group’s website at www.sinochem.com. 2 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 3 CONTENTS President’s Message 04 1 Serving the National Economy and 16 People’s Livelihoods for Mutual About Us 06 Prosperity Corporate Strategy and Governance 08 Safeguarding National Energy Security 17 CSR Management 12 Protecting National Agricultural Security 20 S e r v i n g t o I m p r o v e C h i n e s e P e o p l e ’s 22 Livelihoods and Happiness Creating Best Value for Shareholders 24 2 Providing Value-Added Services to Develop with Clients 26 Expanding Our Oil Business Service Portfolio 27 Establishing a Service System for “Agriculture, 28 Countryside, and Farmers” Providing Comprehensive Chemical Business 31 Service Developing Reliable and Efficient Financial 32 Service Developing High-Quality Commercial Real 33 Estates Services 3 Conducting Health Safety and Environment Management to Reach Harmony with Nature 34 Further Improving our HSE Management 35 System Occupational Health and Safe Production 37 Environmental Protection 39 Tackling Climate Change 41 4 Valuing People’s Talent to Develop with 42 Employees Protecting Employee Rights 43 Realizing the Value of Employees 45 Increasing Employee Sense of Belonging 46 5 Participating in Socially Beneficial Activities to 48 Facilitate Social Progress Poverty Alleviation 49 Donating to Charity 51 Win-Win Cooperation 52 Contributing to Community Development 53 CSR Feature Report 54 Future Outlook 57 Third-Party Comment 58 Global Reporting Iniatiative (GRI) Index 60 Feedback Form 64 4 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 5 President’s Message Chinese Yuan, both historical highs. Last year, we strove The year 2011 is the first year for the rollout of China’s The basis of an enterprise’s green and sustainable to deliver our best CSR performance and achieved fruitful “Twelfth Five-Year Plan.” Driven by the initiatives of our development is the recognition and support it receives results; we relied on our service system improvements “Third Long March,” we are aiming at consolidating our from all of its stakeholders; creating harmonious relations to increase core competitiveness and provide all-round industrial foundation, strengthening our industrial position, between a company and its stakeholders requires the professional services for our clients; we upheld the and pursuing industrial development with Sinochem company to take the initiative in fulfilling its corporate principle of “People First” by caring for our employees characteristics. We will stick to our corporate philosophy social responsibilities (CSR). Sinochem Group is dedicated throughout their career development; we rolled out a of “Creating Value and Pursuing Excellence.” As a good to creating value for the country and society, and delivers top-down Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) system corporate citizen we keep keep CSR in mind in order to CSR through every link of its products and services, trying with Sinochem characteristics, which helped us achieve to win the trust and support from all of our stakeholders its best to integrate CSR into its daily operations, increase zero major production accidents last year; we complied and to become a great company that commands respect sustainability, and pursue a balance between company with legal requirements while conducting our day-toworldwide. growth, social benefits, and environmental protection. day operations and vigorously participated in socially beneficial activities related to science and technology To achieve sustainable development requires that a The year 2010 marked the 60th anniversary of development, education, and environmental protection at company fulfill its responsibilities; fulfilling responsibilities Sinochem Group, and was also a milestone in home and abroad, making efforts to honor our global CSR requires communication; communication creates value. Sinochem’s development process. Under commitments. By publishing this CSR report, we hope to reflect the the guidance of the objectives for the trust and support of all stakeholders, to enhance our company’s “Third Long March” period, In the past year, the Sinochem Group has taken the communication with them, and to join our hands together we completed the tasks given Scientific Development Outlook as its guiding principle and to create an even brighter future. to us by the State-owned Assets sharpened its edge in its five major business segments, Supervision and Administration including energy, agriculture, chemicals, finance, and real Commission (SASAC) of the Chinese estate. We have been building a long-term management State Council, and realized sales mechanism guided by a culture of safety, a core of risk revenue of 335.33 billion Chinese management, and systematic and long-term management. Yuan and net profit of 7.35 billion We endeavor to build a company with safe production, energy conservation, and environmental friendliness, making our contributions to social harmony and progress by embarking on a sustainable path. Liu Deshu President & CEO Sinochem Group 6 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 7 ABOUT US Energy Business Sinochem Group is one of China’s top four national oil companies. Having been engaged in the oil business for Industrial Position: over 60 years, we have forged an operational and industrial landscape with our own characteristics. We enjoy a good reputation and exert a positive influence on the oil community at home and abroad. As a key state-owned enterprise, Sinochem Group has been on the Fortune 500 Sinochem Group’s oil business consists of six major segments, including exploration and production, crude oil, fuel largest global companies list 19 times, ranking 203rd in 2010. Business Overview: oil, light oil, warehousing and logistics, and oil refining, which are respectively involved in oil and gas exploration and production; international crude oil trading; domestic and international fuel oil and light oil trading and distribution; the Since its establishment, Sinochem has dedicated itself to creating value for the construction and operation of warehousing and logistic facilities; and the development and operation of refining projects. country and society, unremittingly exploring the rules of business development, seeking advantages in growing large and growing strong, gradually transforming Agriculture Business from a traditional state-owned trading company into an enterprise with advanced corporate philosophy, scientific management, and strong competitiveness. Sinochem Sinochem Group is China’s largest fertilizer distributor and imported fertilizers supplier as well as one of China’s Group’s influence and strength in these industries has been greatly enhanced. Industrial Position: biggest fertilizer producers. Sinochem is a domestic leader with global presence in the pesticides industry, which integrates pesticide R&D, production, trade and distribution. Its overall competitiveness ranks among the highest of domestic pesticide companies. Sinochem Group’s main business spreads across five areas: energy, agriculture, Sinochem Group is the only national-level seed company champion and has been positioned at the first place on the chemicals, finance, and real estate. Sinochem is China’s fourth largest national Chinese Ministry of Agriculture’s list of the top 50 Chinese seed companies twice in a row. petroleum company, largest integrated operator of agricultural inputs (fertilizers, pesticides, and seeds), the leading comprehensive service provider of chemical As China’s largest fertilizer supplier, distributor and service provider, Sinochem Group has a strong foothold in China and obtains high-quality fertilizer resources from the global market, serving domestic agricultural production and products, and at the same time has a strong presence in China’s high-end contributing to grain security. commercial properties and non-bank financial service sectors. Business Overview: Sinochem Group has made new efforts to streamline and consolidate its pesticide business. By doing so, we have strengthened our R&D and commercialization capacity. While we increase our domestic market share, we have also been developing the Sinochem Group has over 200 subsidiaries and branches at home and abroad, Southeast Asian market, with great results. Our pesticide imports and exports have been the highest in China for many years. and is the controlling shareholder of several listed companies including Sinochem As the only national-level state-owned company with seeds as a core business, Sinochem Group implements a strategy of highlighting R&D, increasing productivity, and promoting sales and marketing to further enhance core International Corp. (600500.SH) (Sinochem International), Sinofert Holdings Limited competitiveness and optimize the business structure. As a result, we have expanded our business scale and enhanced (HK, 00297) (Sinofert), and Franshion Properties (China) Limited (HK, 00817) our operational quality, with our profit markedly higher year on year. (Franshion Properties). On June 1st 2009, Sinochem Group made a major move to inject most of its assets into a joint-stock entity “Sinochem Corporation.” With Chemicals Business creative and pioneering spirit, Sinochem’s more than 40,000 employees adhere to While maintaining its position as China’s largest chemicals import and export service provider, Sinochem Group our corporate motto of “Creating Value and Pursuing Excellence,” strive to achieve Industrial Position: is dedicated to facilitating technological progress as well as safe, environmentally-friendly, and harmonious sustainable long-term development of the company, and try their best to build a development of the chemicals industry. great company that commands respect and influence worldwide. Sinochem Group has a relatively complete industrial chain, an extensive product line, and strong presence in the fluorine chemical business. As an international natural rubber manufacturer and China’s largest natural rubber marketer and distributor that Business Overview: integrates rubber planting, processing, marketing, and logistics, we boast the largest processing capacity among domestic enterprises. Sinochem Group owns the largest hazardous chemical fleet and ISO tank lorries in China, which use the strictest safety standards. We maintain a leading position in the market, with our HSE management reaching international levels. Finance Business Industrial Position: Sinochem Group is a leading financial service provider in China. Sinochem Group’s financial business is a non-banking financial system made up of a full range of services and product categories, including financial leasing, trust management, securities investment funds, life insurance, internal Business Overview: financial companies, and financial futures. Through continuous business development and risk control, and owing to our enhanced market competitiveness and sector influence, our financial business is becoming increasingly Company Name: Sinochem Group profitable, and making more contribution to Sinochem’s general development. Company Name: Sinochem Group Real Estate Business Registered Capital: 10.17 billion Chinese Yuan (RMB) 地产业 Sinochem Group is one of the key State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) approved by SASAC to run real estate and hotel Industrial Position: businesses. With our leading domestic market asset base and operational efficiency, we are among the largest Time of Establishment: March, 1950 domestic real estates companies running high-end commercial properties. Asset Scale: RMB 200.8 billion Sinochem Group’s real estate business involves the development and operation of high-end commercial property Business Overview: and residential buildings in prime locations in China’s first-tier cities. We are engaged in high-end commercial Headquarters: Central Tower, Chemsunny World Trade Center, 28 Fuxingmennei Street, Beijing property development, property leasing, and hotel investments. 8 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 9 Cooperate Strategy and Governance Our Industrial Service Strategy We refer to our Industrial Service Strategy as the “OneTwo-Three-Four-Five Strategy,” which is an extended and Our Mission: deeper version of our previous “One-Two-Three Strategy.” ey Areas Become an industry role model in terms of innovative technology, resource consumption, and environmental protection; Five K Become a strong pillar that supports China’s energy and agricultural security as well as the development of chemical technologies; Become a company with a strong sense of social responsibility that commands respect and influence worldwide. “One Ability”—the ability to develop in a sustainable way; “Two Fundamentals”—inter nal management and exter nal o Fundamentals expansion; Fou “Three Links”—resources, technology and the market; r Path w a Tw “Four Pathways”—innovation, integration, M&A, and collaboration; One Ability Corporate Governance Structure: “Five Key Areas”—energy, agriculture, chemicals, finance, and real Sinochem Group continuously upgrades operational mechanisms, rules, and regulations according to modern system estate. ys requirements so as to improve our corporate governance and facilitate the company’s sound and steady development. Sinochem Group adheres to the principles of collective decision-making and democratic centralism to improve decisionT h re e Li n k s making mechanisms and to promote scientific and democratic decision-making within the organization. Our top executives at the group level are responsible for different segments of our business and different functional departments; we also fully leverage and continuously improve the Party Committee Meeting system and President’s Meeting system. The Party Committee Meeting is responsible for deciding on major company issues concerning political requirements and the key changes in our business and key managers; the President’s Meeting makes decisions for and supervises the implementation of the company’s strategic moves and major operations management work. We also have specialized Committees in charge of specific areas of work that make proposals and suggestions for big events or projects. Strengthening Overall Risk Management Sinochem Group strongly emphasizes risk management and continues to build a comprehensive risk management Sinochem Group Organizational Structure system by improving risk management organizational systems, reporting, information systems, and by cultivating Saochem Group a culture of risk awareness. We embed risk management philosophy into the whole process of accident prevention, Sinochem Communist Party of China accident control, and post-accident evaluations. President’s Meeting (CPC) Committee In 2010, guided by the Key SOEs Risk Management General Human Financial CPC Work Discipline and Business Business Business Gove Administration Resources Department Department Inspection Division I Division II Division III Guidance published by SASAC as well as the targets em rna yst nce Office Department Department of Sinochem Group’s “Third Long March,” we have na lS Sy st established three systems, including the Annual Risks Org em an Human Resources Recognition and Evaluation System, Daily Monitoring iza Sinochem Corporation LLC Committee tio System on Major Risks, and the Reporting and Evaluation Strategic Planning and Board of Supervisory Committee System on Overall Risk Management. Our company Overall Risk nt Culture Directors Panel centered on strategic targets and operational plans to Repor Budget Planning and eme Management Evaluation Committee identify the major risks that affect the implementation of nag Factors ting System Board of Directors our strategies and our business development, categorized a Investment Committee M Office the risks into nine types such as M&A risks, project sk Management Auditing and Examination Committee management risks, and HSE risks. We then monitor and nit Ri ori Risk Management assess these risks accordingly. Sinochem Group has studied o ng Committee M President’s HR Strategic Treasury Accounting Analysis Department Investment Project Risk and set up a key indicators monitoring system to regularly HSE Committee Info Office Department Planning Department Department and of Finance and Management Management monitor major risks, and then applies these monitoring rmation System Committee Evaluation Development Department Department Department Department Science and Technology results to risk management decision-making processes. By Committee so doing, we have improved our risk management capacity as well as early warning and analysis. Our overall risk Science and Audit Legal IT Department CPC Discipline Retired Sinochem HSE management has become more systematic, responsive, Technology Department Department Department of Members Inspection Cadre Management Department Department Administrative Organization Department Department School and effective, which continues to ensure our operational Services quality and protect our assets. Grade Ⅲ risks Grade Ⅱ risks Grade Ⅰ risksG rade Ⅰ risks Grade Ⅱ risks Grade Ⅲ risks 10 Overdue accounts receivable risks Credit risks Customer credit risks Macroeconomic cyclical Operational risks fluctuations risks Macroeconomic risks Price deflation risks Macroeconomic policy risks Stop-loss mechanism Strategic management risks Deposit and loan market risks failure risks Insufficient due diligence risks Old stock risks Inaccurate market forecasts risks Investment decision-making risks Warehousing and Competitive risks freight-forwarding risks Logistics risks Property in goods risks Target selection risks Cargo loss risks Hazardous materials risks Valuation and pricing risks M&A and integration risks Strategic risks Product quality risks M&A management risks Compliance risks Basis risks Internal integration risks Operational risks Futures and other financial Liquidity risks derivatives risks Market risks Technical risks Technological R&D risks Process management risks Scheduling risks Brain drain risks Quality risks Technological achievement failure risks Investment risks Regulatory Project management risks approval risks Industry cyclical fluctuation risks Operational risks Management risks Industrial policy adjustment risks Industrial risks Evaluation risks Supply-demand imbalance risks Market risks Key managers’ performance risks Competitive risks Recruitment quality risks Market demand risks Internal security service risks Resource risks Performance management Credit policy and market risks HR risks procedure risks Short-term loan for long-term Incentive/contribution mismatch investment risks risks Financing risks Labor dispute risks Debt maturity structure risks Employee training risks Credit and debt renewal risks Financial repayment default risks Sinochem Risk Tree HSE risks Occupational health risks Tax legislation risks Safe production risks Tax levy risks Environmental protection risks Tax calculation risks Taxation risks Information security risks Tax design risks Confidentiality risks Ethics/honest practice risks Budget management risks Internal auditing risks Financial structure risks Financial risks Non-operational fixed asset risks Financial guarantee risks Disaster risks Settlement risks Capital management risks Intellectual property right risks Liquidity forecast risks Liquidity risks Compliance risks Liquidity cost risks Contract signing risks Contract management risks Contract implementation risks Legal risks Litigation risks Exchange rate exposure risks Exchange rate and interest rate risks Disclosure risks Interest rate exposure risks Confidentiality risks Financial product management risks Information disclosure risks Accounting risks Financial reporting risks Information inadequacy risks Legal risks Due diligence risks Developed efficacy supervision programs. W h e r e v e r S i n o c h e m G r o u p ’s s t r a t e g i e s g o , o u r a n t i c o r r u p t i o n We have cooperated with and completed the CPC Central Committee’s Discipline Inspection Conducted anti-corruption training for new employees. measures follow. We closely combine our anti-corruption measures work. By centering on promoting the sound and rapid development of the company, we have with our need for company development. We have built up four strengthened the anti-corruption system, which has earned high recognition from the inspection defenses through education, an institutional “firewall,” monitoring team. systems, and legal restrictions, focusing especially on strengthening Group-level executives signed 2010 CPC Anti-corruption Letter of Responsibilities. We have enhanced internal inspection. We have formulated Responsibilities of Commissioned Conducted anti-corruption and self-discipline training and education across the Group. the monitoring of the abuse of power in key areas. We have Key managers signed 2010 CPC Anti-Corruption and Self-Discipline Commitment Letter. Enhance Anti-Corruption Education and tighten antiInspectors and Discipline Inspection Work Flow based on the Central Government Discipline Inspection gradually established a comprehensive prevention system to control Ordinance to carry out inspection on our subsidiaries. General managers of Sinochem subsidiaries signed 2010 CPC Anti-Corruption Letter of Responsibilities. operational risks, management risks, ethics risks, and political Sinochem Group’s Major Anti-Corruption Measures and Results in 2010 We have expanded our inspection coverage to bring our anti-corruption education and inspection risks. We continue diversifying our anti-corruption education, and work to overseas branches and joint ventures. Discipline Inspection Department of Sinochem Group gave opinions on the appointment and removal of key managers. integrate it with production operations, monitoring and supervision, We invited prosecutors and administrators of the Beijing Xicheng District People’s Procuratorate to as well as corporate culture to increase all employees’ antivisit the Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical project site to conduct anti-corruption training. This corruption awareness and to provide strong support for Sinochem’s 21 44 12 39 Sustainable Development Report 2010 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 117 218 corruption measures 1,266 activity was the first of its kind for Sinochem Group. “Third Long March” and sustainable development. 11 12 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 13 CSR Management Sinochem [I translated this section]is a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Starting in 2010, Sinochen has started delivering its statement of progress toward the UNGC principles. In August of 2010, given the CSR Management System important nature of the company’s CSR report in communicating stakeholder information and progress toward meeting CSR Strategy UNGC principles, Sinochem’s 2009 CSR Report won the 2010 UNGC “Chinese CSR Model Report Special Style” award. Ｓｉｎｏｃｈｅｍ Ｇｒｏｕｐ ａｔｔａｃｈｅｓ ｇｒｅａｔ ｉｍｐｏｒｔａｎｃｅ ｔｏ ＣＳＲ ｗｏｒｋ， Ｓｉｎｏｃｈｅｍ Ｇｒｏｕｐ ｃｏｎｓｉｄｅｒｓ ＣＳＲ ｔｏ ｂｅ ｐａｒｔ ｏｆ ｔｈｅ ａｎｄ ｈａｓ ｓｅｔ ｕｐ ａ ＣＳＲ ｍａｎａｇｅｍｅｎｔ ｓｙｓｔｅｍ ｔｈａｔ ｃｏｖｅｒｓ ｃｏｍｐａｎｙ’ｓ ｇｅｎｅｓ． Ｗｅ ｉｎｔｅｇｒａｔｅ ＣＳＲ ｉｎｔｏ ｏｕｒ ｖａｌｕｅｓ， Ｓｉｎｏｃｈｅｍ ｈｅａｄｑｕａｒｔｅｒｓ ａｎｄ ｏｕｒ ｓｕｂｓｉｄｉａｒｉｅｓ， ｗｈｉｃｈ ｍｉｓｓｉｏｎ， ａｎｄ ｖｉｓｉｏｎ， ａｓ ｗｅｌｌ ａｓ ｉｎ ａｌｌ ｂｕｓｉｎｅｓｓ ｏｐｅｒａｔｉｏｎｓ ａｎｄ ａｔｔｅｍｐｔｓ ｔｏ ｉｎｃｏｒｐｏｒａｔｅ ＣＳＲ ｍａｎａｇｅｍｅｎｔ ｉｎｔｏ ｏｕｒ ｄａｙ－ｔｏ－ ｅｍｂｅｄｄｅｄ ｉｎ ｃｏｏｐｅｒａｔｉｏｎ ｗｉｔｈ ｏｕｒ ｓｔａｋｅｈｏｌｄｅｒｓ， ａｌｌｏｗｉｎｇ ｄａｙ ｏｐｅｒａｔｉｏｎ． ｕｓ ｔｏ ｒｅａｌｉｚｅ ａｎ ｏｒｇａｎｉｃ ｃｏｍｂｉｎａｔｉｏｎ ｏｆ ＣＳＲ ａｎｄ ｂｕｓｉｎｅｓｓ ｍａｎａｇｅｍｅｎｔ． Ｓｉｎｏｃｈｅｍ ｈａｓ ｅｓｔａｂｌｉｓｈｅｄ ａ ＣＳＲ Ｃｏｍｍｉｔｔｅｅ ｔｏ ａｄｍｉｎｉｓｔｅｒ Progress on Sinochem’s Implementation of the UN Global Compact ｏｖｅｒａｌｌ ＣＳＲ ｗｏｒｋ ｏｆ ｔｈｅ ｗｈｏｌｅ ｇｒｏｕｐ， ｓｕｃｈ ａｓ ｒｅｖｉｅｗｉｎｇ Items Principles Sinochem’s Progress gh ＣＳＲ ｐｌａｎｓ ａｎｄ ｍａｎａｇｅｍｅｎｔ ｍｅｃｈａｎｉｓｍｓ， ａｎｄ ｄｉｓｃｕｓｓｉｎｇ orou Integr ｍａｊｏｒ ＣＳＲ ｉｔｅｍｓ． Ｔｈｉｓ Ｃｏｍｍｉｔｔｅｅ ｃｏｎｓｉｓｔｓ ｏｆ ｓｅｎｉｏｒ Th at Principle 1: Businesses should Sinochem protects female employees’ rights, continuing to increase their e Thre ion s ｅｘｅｃｕｔｉｖｅｓ ａｎｄ ｈｅａｄｓ ｏｆ ｆｕｎｃｔｉｏｎａｌ ｄｅｐａｒｔｍｅｎｔｓ． Ｕｎｄｅｒ ｔｈｅ support and respect the comprehensive capabilities, organize an activity called “Sinochem Women Model Sinochem’s Ｃｏｍｍｉｔｔｅｅ， ｔｈｅｒｅ ｉｓ ａ ＣＳＲ Ｏｆｆｉｃｅ ｉｎ ｃｈａｒｇｅ ｏｆ ｍａｎａｇｅｍｅｎｔ Human protection of internationally Employees,” and enhance the development of the women’s union; CSR Genes ｓｙｓｔｅｍｓ， ｍａｋｉｎｇ ＣＳＲ ｗｏｒｋ ｐｌａｎｓ， ｏｒｇａｎｉｚｉｎｇ ＣＳＲ Rights proclaimed human rights; Adopts many measures to protect employees’ personal safety and property in ａｃｔｉｖｉｔｉｅｓ ａｎｄ ｅｘｔｅｒｎａｌ ＣＳＲ ｅｘｃｈａｎｇｅ ａｎｄ ｃｏｍｍｕｎｉｃａｔｉｏｎ， Principle 2: Make sure that they are not overseas business operations; complicit in human rights Has never been complicit in human rights abuses. ａｎｄ ｃｏｍｐｉｌｉｎｇ ａｎｄ ｐｕｂｌｉｓｈｉｎｇ ｔｈｅ Ｓｉｎｏｃｈｅｍ Ｓｕｓｔａｉｎａｂｌｅ abuses. Ｄｅｖｅｌｏｐｍｅｎｔ Ｒｅｐｏｒｔ． Principle 3: Businesses should uphold Sinochem continues to optimize its democratic management mechanisms, makes Fi v e C G o als the freedom of association public its business operations, and protects all employees’ rights. Sinochem makes SR and the effective sure employees are informed and participate in major operational decision-making, Ｓｉｎｏｃｈｅｍ ｐａｙｓ ｈｉｇｈ ａｔｔｅｎｔｉｏｎ ｔｏ ｃｏｍｍｕｎｉｃａｔｉｏｎ ｗｉｔｈ ｏｕｒ Sinochem’s CSR Genes recognition of the right to targets, and goals, as well as big programs that are directly related to employees’ Three Thorough Integrations : ｓｔａｋｅｈｏｌｄｅｒｓ． Ｔｈｒｏｕｇｈ ｓｅｔｔｉｎｇ ｕｐ ａ ＣＳＲ ｃｏｌｕｍｎ ｏｎ ｏｕｒ collective bargaining; rights. Sinochem works to enhance employees’ sense of belonging to increase the Integration with our values, mission, and vision; ｃｏｍｐａｎｙ ｗｅｂｓｉｔｅ ａｎｄ ｒｅｌｅａｓｉｎｇ ｔｈｅ Ｓｉｎｏｃｈｅｍ Ｓｕｓｔａｉｎａｂｌｅ Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of cohesion of the company; Ｄｅｖｅｌｏｐｍｅｎｔ Ｒｅｐｏｒｔ， ｗｅ ｈａｖｅ ｅｎｈａｎｃｅｄ ｔｈｅ ｄｉｓｃｌｏｓｕｒｅ Labor forced and compulsory labour; Strictly follows national and local labor laws and regulations, and standardizes labor Integration with our five business operations; Integration in Sinochem-stakeholder cooperation. ｏｎ ｏｕｒ ＣＳＲ ｗｏｒｋ， ｔｒｙｉｎｇ ｏｕｒ ｂｅｓｔ ｔｏ ｂｕｉｌｄ ｐｏｓｉｔｉｖｅ ａｎｄ Principle 5: The effective abolition of management; Five CSR Goals: ｉｎｔｅｒａｃｔｉｖｅ ｒｅｌａｔｉｏｎｓ ｗｉｔｈ ｏｕｒ ｓｔａｋｅｈｏｌｄｅｒｓ． Ｂｙ ａｎａｌｙｚｉｎｇ child labour; Treats every employee equally, upholds the principle of equal pay, and prevents To provide good returns and generate value for our shareholders ｔｈｅ ｓｉｇｎｉｆｉｃａｎｃｅ ｏｆ ＣＳＲ ｉｔｅｍｓ ｆｏｒ ｏｕｒ ｃｏｍｐａｎｙ ａｎｄ ｏｕｒ Principle 6: The elimination of issues like child labor and forced labor; and the State; ｓｔａｋｅｈｏｌｄｅｒｓ， ｗｅ ｃａｎ ｉｄｅｎｔｉｆｙ ｋｅｙ ｉｔｅｍｓ ｔｏ ｂｅｔｔｅｒ ｍｅｅｔ discrimination in respect of Diversifies our team with a rational gender, geographic, and ethnic structure of To win the trust of clients by conducting mutually-beneficial employment and occupation. employees working in harmony, which strongly supports our company development. cooperation; ｓｔａｋｅｈｏｌｄｅｒ ｅｘｐｅｃｔａｔｉｏｎｓ． To become a company that people love to work for by caring for our Principle 7: Businesses should support a Sinochem is actively building an HSE system with Sinochem characteristics. We employees and growing with them; precautionary approach to have rolled out the system from the top managers, conducted HSE training, and To achieve sustainable development by protecting the environment Ｗｅ ａｒｅ ａｌｓｏ ａｃｔｉｖｅｌｙ ｐｒｏｍｏｔｉｎｇ ｏｕｒ ｓｕｂｓｉｄｉａｒｉｅｓ’ ＣＳＲ environmental challenges; established and optimized our safety culture, which help us to maintain our record of and conserving energy; ｗｏｒｋ． Ｓｉｎｏｃｈｅｍ Ｉｎｔｅｒｎａｔｉｏｎａｌ ａｎｄ Ｓｉｎｏｆｅｒｔ ｈａｖｅ ｂｅｅｎ Principle 8: Undertake initiatives zero major production accidents; To command respect from society by adhering to laws, valuing ethics to promote greater Combines climate change action with our business, and takes the initiative to ｐｕｂｌｉｓｈｉｎｇ ｔｈｅｉｒ ＣＳＲ ｒｅｐｏｒｔｓ ｆｏｒ ｍａｎｙ ｙｅａｒｓ， ａｎｄ ｗｉｌｌ and working for the greater good. environmental responsibility; promote the development of the fluorine chemical industry; ｃｏｎｔｉｎｕｅ ｔｏ ｄｏ ｓｏ ｉｎ ｔｈｅ ｆｕｔｕｒｅ． Ｏｔｈｅｒ ｓｕｂｓｉｄｉａｒｉｅｓ ａｒｅ Environment encourage the Advocates “Green Real Estate,” and adopts many green technologies such as ground ｐｒｅｐａｒｉｎｇ ｔｏ ｃｏｍｐｉｌｅ ｔｈｅｉｒ ＣＳＲ ｒｅｐｏｒｔｓ． source heat pumps and central ventilation system. Principle 9: Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Sinochem CSR Committee Principle 10: Businesses should work Sinochem has built up four defensive lines against corruption, including education, against corruption in all its systems, monitoring, and legal restrictions, especially strengthening monitoring of CSR Office forms, including extortion the abuse of power in key areas. We have gradually established a comprehensive Antiand bribery. prevention system to control operational risks, management risks, ethical risks, and Corruption political risks; Continues diversifying anti-corruption education to integrate it with production President’s HR Strategic Treasury Accounting Analysis Department Investment Project Risk Office Department Planning Department Department and of Finance and Management Management operations, monitoring and supervision, as well as our corporate culture to increase Committee Evaluation Development Department Department all employees’ anti-corruption awareness; Department Department Has formulated Responsibilities of Commissioned Inspectors and Discipline Inspection Work Flow and conducted internal inspections. Science and Audit Legal IT Department CPC Discipline Retired Sinochem HSE Technology Department Department Department of Members Inspection Cadre Management Department Department Administrative Organization Department Department School Services CSR Offices of Sinochem Subsidiaries 14 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 15 Sinochem’s CSR Matrix Key CSR Items Related to Our Stakeholders Responsibilities Serve the National Provide ValueConduct HSE Value People’s Talent Participate in Socially CSR Goals Stakeholders Expectations and Demands Communication and Action Economy and People’s Added Services Management to Reach to Develop with Beneficial Activities Areas Livelihoods for Mutual to Develop with Harmony with Nature Employees to Facilitate Social Serve the National Economy Government Comply with laws, promote fair Tax compliance; Prosperity Clients Progress and People’s Livelihoods for competition; Report our work regularly; Mutual Prosperity Serve the development of China’s Participate in policy research and Sinochem serves the Sinochem creates Sinochem regards human Sinochem views HSE Sinochem abides by economy and people’s livelihoods; government planning making; national economy, helps value for clients by resources as the most as an important part laws and business ethics, realize state-owned providing valueimportant resource, of the company’s aims to serve the greater Shareholders Increase profitability; Hold general meetings of asset preservation and added services, and protects employees’ rights, CSR work, and is the good, actively participates Optimize the corporate governance shareholders; The Group growth, and creates becomes a reliable keeps our employment foundation for the in socially-beneficial structure; Report our work regularly; value for shareholders to company by having system in accordance company’s sustainable activities, upholds the Fulfill information disclosure obligations; Publish annual reports; become what the State mutually-beneficial with labor laws, and development; win-win principle to Ensure value preservation and increases regards as a satisfactory cooperation with our upholds the principles of grow with our partners, of state-owned assets; company; clients; equality and democratic and facilitates society’s management so as to harmonious progress Provide Value-Added Services Clients Abide by business ethics; Collect clients’ advice and allow employees to grow with its own sustainable to Develop with Clients Improve service quality; suggestions; with the company and development; Provide marketing support services; Address clients’ complaints; become a company loved Meet diverse demands; Conduct client satisfaction surveys; by its employees; Ensure the national Expand the service Build an international Highlight HSE in Help spur regional Partners/Suppliers Promote industry technology upgrading; Enhance R&D capacity; Energy energy supply; coverage of our oil business team with production and economic development; /Industry Improve industry management levels; Conduct supply chain Shoulder the responsibility business; people coming from transportation; Support the Extend the industrial chain and explore management and collaboration; to build the national Diversify the oil different areas and Protect the environment; development of overseas service areas; Participate in industrial strategic oil reserve; business portfolio; backgrounds serving for communities; development forums; local benefit; Conduct HSE Management to Employees Offer fair remuneration and employee Hold Staff Congress meetings; Agriculture Ensure fertilizer supply; Optimize the system Provide an environment Protect the agricultural Help to increase farmers’ Reach Harmony with Nature benefits; Organize employee training and Develop and promote serving agriculture, for employees to have environment; incomes; Highlight career development and collect feedback; environmentally-friendly the countryside, and professional development; Facilitate agricultural training; Collect and study employees’ pesticides; farmers; Optimize the HR training development; Create a good working environment; advice and suggestions; Safeguard the security mechanism that covers Facilitate the of the national seed recruitment, appointment, construction of the New Value People’s Talent to Environment Make the best use of resources; Keep in touch with environmental Chemical industry; cultivation, and Socialist Countryside; Develop with Employees Conserve energy and reduce emissions; protection authorities and NGOs; preservation processes; Develop the low-carbon economy; Study and exchange good Optimize HSE management; practices inside and outside China; Serve basic necessities of Become a specialized Provide tailored training Ensure HSE throughout Promote the development people’s life; comprehensive and development for our product life cycles; of our partners; Participate in Socially The Public/ Participate in socially-beneficially Keep in touch with related Finance chemical products employees; Facilitate the circular/ Lead the development Beneficial Activities to Communities activities; government departments and marketer and service recycling economy; and transformation of the Facilitate Social Progress Serve community development. important NGOs. provider; industry; Real Estate Improve the quality of Build goodwill and Educate employees to Promote environmental Promote industrial people’s livelihoods by provide efficient have professional ethics; protection and energy development and serving health care and financial services; conservation; upgrading; education causes; Beautify city landscapes. Build a premium Cultivate the core Green construction; Promote the high-end commercial competitiveness of our Green property development of our property business. employees. management. partners. 16 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 17 Safeguard National Energy Security As the fourth largest national oil company, Sinochem Group is accelerating strategic Serving the National Economy and People’s Livelihoods we have accumulated in both domestic and foreign markets. We have been strengthening our capability for resource acquisition, ensuring oil and gas supply, for Mutual Prosperity and trying our best to develop our refining business, making our contribution to building a diverse supply system for crude oil and oil products for China, as well as the construction of China’s national strategic oil reserve. Sinochem Group has continuously dedicated itself to creating value for the country and society, vigorously developing its five major business segments, including energy, agriculture, chemicals, finance, and real estate, seeking a bigger and stronger market presence, and making contributions to improving people’s livelihoods while safeguarding national energy and agricultural security. We have continuously upheld the goal of “becoming an SOE that satisfies the State” as one of our CSR goals, and combined the company’s development needs with the demands of the State and society. We are trying to develop new breakthroughs in our strategic transformation process while continuing to enhance our core competitiveness and play a backbone role as an SOE in China’s national economic development and social progress. Exploration & Oil Trading Oil Refining Storage and Logistics Distribution and Retail Production The Group: We have been consistently serving the national economy, helping to realize state-owned asset preservation and growth, and creating value for shareholders; Energy: We have been consistently constructing our energy industrial chain, ensuring market supply, and promoting the implementation of the national strategic oil reserve; Agriculture: We have consolidated our fertilizer production capacity and built a strong distribution network and strategic alliance of suppliers; we research and develop efficient, low-toxicity and low-residue pesticides; we have set up the China Seed Life Science and Technology Center; Chemical: We have been enriching our product portfolios to meet people’s demands for daily basic necessities and set Major Indicators for Sinochem Group’s Energy Business up a global anti-infective medicine joint venture, serving healthcare industry development; Finance: We have been consistently serving county-level hospitals and the healthcare system and promoting healthcare 2007 2008 2009 2010 development in areas that lack medical care while serving educational development needs, such as helping to improve the conditions of middle schools and elementary schools’ in poverty-stricken areas. 36.84 37.46 48.02 52.88 Crude oil trading volume (million metric tons) Real Estate: We have built high-quality buildings and helped to beautify the city landscape. Equity crude oil production (million barrels of oil equivalent) 7.27 9.77 13.74 1773 Light oil sales (million metric tons) 3.82 3.08 4.61 1.52 Oil storage capacity (million cubic meters) 1.93 2.50 2.91 4.34 Oil refining capacity (million metric tons) ___ ___ ___ 5.00 18 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 19 Complete the Energy Industrial Chain Shouldering the Responsibility of Building Sinochem Group has sped up the completion of its oil Hongrun Petrochemical to become the controlling the National Strategic Energy Reserve industrial chain, creating coordinated development among shareholder of the Shandong Hongrun Petrochemical Building the national strategic oil reserve is an important different links in the industrial chain, and continued through capital injection. These steps helped us to Case: Phase Ⅰ of Zhoushan National Oil Reserve Passed part in the national energy security system. Enjoying to enhance its capacity to safeguard national energy complete key links in our oil industrial chain. the State’s Acceptance Exam the advantages of practicing international trading and security. We have actively extended our oil industrial chain having a large petrochemical storage capacity as well as Zhoushan National Oil Reserve project is the one of the first batch of to the upstream and downstream areas, and realized Regarding our warehousing and logistics business, we the national oil reserve bases. NDRC (National Development Reform a complete warehousing and logistics system, Sinochem Commission) commissions Sinochem Group to build and manage the synchronized development between our industrial scale enhanced our project development and construction Group makes efforts to provide purchasing services for project. During its construction, Sinochem applied the latest-developed and the economy and society, playing a more and more processes. We launched new projects or started the national crude oil reserve and offer storage and technologies and met the State’s demands on project management, important role in China’s energy sector. renovations and expansion projects in Zhuhai of replacement services for the national refined oil reserve. safety, schedule, and budget control through close cooperation with Guangdong Province, Yanghzou of Jiangsu Province, the design, construction, and quality monitoring and inspection units. We also actively participate in research and planning Since the commissioning of the project, it enjoyed a safe and sound In terms of oil exploration and production, we have been Tianjin Port, and Quanzhou of Fujian Province, which for China’s energy development, providing advice and operation with all its economic and technological indicators meeting vigorous in new oil and gas assets acquisition, which has marked the completion of the initial layout of our suggestions on the national oil reserve and giving our the design requirements. Therefore, it got the Silver Medal for National rapidly expanded our oil and gas reserve and asset base. petrochemical warehousing and logistics network along support for national energy policy making. High-Quality Projects. We have achieved a major leap from being a non-operator the coastal and riverside areas. to becoming deeply involved in the industry, covering In 2010, Phase Ⅰ of the Zhoushan project passed the acceptance areas from oil production to exploration, from oil to gas In 2010, Phase Ⅰ of Zhoushan National Oil Reserve passed exams conducted by NDRC, National Energy Bureau, Ministry of the State’s acceptance exam, while Phase Ⅱ is progressing Finance, Ministry of Land and Resources, as well as Ministry of fields, from onshore to offshore capacity. In 2010, the Environment Protection. This project has further completed the national Sinochem Group signed an agreement with Statoil ASA well. It further enhanced the company’s ability to protect oil reserve system, and made contribution to protecting the national to acquire 40% equity of its Peregrino oil field in Brazil, the national oil security. energy security. which has not only expanded and enhanced our strategic presence in South America, and also increased our oil and gas output and reserve remarkably. In the area of oil trading, Sinochem Group uses the Currently, counting both existing facilities and projects under benefits its integrated foreign and domestic operations construction (including Zhoushan National Oil Reserve Facilities), as well as “the two markets and two resources” at Sinochem Group has a total storage capacity of approximately 13 home and abroad to set up good cooperation relations million cubic meters. Our petrochemical storage network covers the Yangtze River Delta, with oil producing countries and large oil companies. Pearl River Delta, and the Bohai Bay Area, as well as other coastal and Through increasing our footprint inside and outside China, riverside regions in China. strengthening our long-term cooperation with worldThis storage and logistics network is served by a network of ports and renowned oil products producers, and combining longjetties whose handling capacity range from 3,000 to 300,000 metric term contracts and spot trading, we have shaped stable tons. Phase I of the Tianjin Storage Project was put into operation, becoming and extensive global purchasing channels. By so doing, a top-notch international commercial petrochemical storage base in we have enhanced our capacity to acquire oil resources the Bohai Bay Area. and made our contribution to protecting China’s national Phase II of the Zhuhai Project was completed, creating the largest oil energy security. product storage and transportation base in southern China. In 2010, Sinochem Group achieved several breakthroughs in oil refining: Sinochem’s Quanzhou Petrochemical Refining Project progressed well, which provided favorable conditions for production to begin in 2013; Sinochem As to distribution and sales, we actively explore the endGroup signed a cooperation agreement with Shandong use market and stabilized market supply. Sinochem continued to construct its refined oil distribution network, and initially formed a network covering northern China, eastern China, and southern China; cooperated with the Total Group to develop gas stations in the Bohai Bay area and eastern China, with part of the distribution network taking shape; and vigorously promoted the construction of our own gas station network in Fujian Province. Case: Stabilizing Market Supply In the fourth quarter of 2010, China suffered from an acute shortage of diesel. In order to balance the market supply and demand and meet the urgent energy need in parts of China, Sinochem Group took swift action by coordinating its supply resources and getting more import quotas, and promptly imported 130,000 metric tons of diesel, which greatly eased the tension of diesel shortages in many areas of China. 20 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 21 Developing and Promoting Environmentally Safeguarding National Seed Security Safeguarding National Agricultural Security Friendly Pesticides By implementing the “One-Two-Three-Four-Five” strategy, Sinochem Group consolidates and draws upon R&D the China National Seed Group (hereafter referred to as resources both home and abroad to develop more China Seed), a Sinochem Group subsidiary, continues Agricultural security is a foundation of national security. Stabilizing the Supply of Fertilizer Products China’s agricultural industry has a rather weak foundation efficient and environmentally-friendly pesticides. We try to increase its core competitiveness in every link of the and competitiveness, so its agricultural security is facing Sinochem Group’s fertilizer business takes “distribution” to achieve coordinated development among different seed industrial chain. It has laid a solid foundation for many challenges. Sinochem Group fully supports China’s as its core, while extending our industrial chain to both links in the pesticide industrial chain, strengthen the China Seeds to become the “Number one seed company agricultural development by increasing R&D input, and upstream and downstream areas. We try to develop commercialization of R&D results, and promote the in China, and a top-notch player in the world,” while building an integrated agricultural inputs (including diverse purchasing channels across the globe, take the application of safe, efficient, and environmentallyprotecting national seed security. fertilizers, pesticides, and seeds) business model. Sinochem initiative to participate in the development of domestic friendly pesticides, aiming at serving China’s agricultural has made significant contributions to enhancing China’s mineral fertilizer resources, continue improving our development. agricultural competitiveness and protecting China’s fertilizer industrial chain, provide quality products for our national agricultural security. customers, and ensure supply for China’s fertilizer market. Seed Industrial Chain Specific Steps Taken We have set up the China Seed Life Science Technology Center, brought in high-caliber researchers, and built a high-end seed-breeding R&D platform; Completed two key projects of the Twelfth FiveYear Plan’s technology support plan, including a R&D “key technology and industrialization crop scoping seed preparation project” and “key vegetable plant sterile breeding key technology and good seed industrialization project.” We also led organization and completion of a seed industry technology innovation strategy alliance in the Twelfth FiveYear Plan, including program reporting work. Pesticide Specific Steps Industrial Chain We have set up four major production bases in northwest, southwest, south, and central China; The Key National Laboratory for New Pesticide The first phase project of the Yunnan Shilin Seed Production Processing Center was put into production, which Development has passed the acceptance test of the Ministry of Science and Technology; has strengthened our breeding, production, and R&D We have developed highly-efficient, low-toxicity, processing capacity for crop seeds; Fertilizer Specific Steps and low-residue environmentally-friendly Industrial Chain pesticides, reducing negative impacts on soil and We have sped up the establishment of provincialensuring the quality of agricultural products; level distribution centers, and have set up four We own three provincial-level business technology centers, and are preparing to set up two more centers, namely, the R&D companies in Chengde, Henan, Jiangxi, and Engineering Research Center for Phosphate Compound Fertilizers, and the Crop Nutrition and Protection Technology Center. We have three pesticide production bases in Yunnan; Shenyang, Nantong, and Lianyungang, with total We have enhanced the supporting role of We have established the Compound Fertilizers Operation Center, consolidating compound fertilizer production companies; Production Distribution Production production capacity exceeding 100,000 metric acquisition, demonstration and promotion, and completed work entrusted by Sinochem’s eastern and Shandong Province units. tons, which ensures pesticide supply; technological service, customer management, and production sales. We signed long-term proxy agreements with international major fertilizer suppliers, such as the Potash Corporation of We have over 4,100 distribution outlets across Distribution Saskatchewan, so as to make contributions to stabilizing the potash supply; China, covering major agricultural provinces, Our distribution network covers the major agricultural provinces in China. The network gives us advantages for enhancing Distribution allowing us to meet pesticide demand for supply capacity. agricultural production. Case: Accelerating the Consolidation of the Seed Industry Major Indicators for Sinochem Group’s Fertilizer Business Operation China National Seed Group has specified the orientation of its M&A Case: Key National Laboratory and Safety Assessment targets, and conducted cooperation with colleges and research Center Passes Government Tests institutes to promote win-win collaboration among companies, Year 年份（年） 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 colleges, and research institutes. In 2010, it acquired Guangdong In May, 2010, the Safety Assessment Center of the Shenyang Research Jindao Seed Co., Ltd. and Hunan Dongting High-tech Seed Co., Ltd.; Institute of the Chemical Industry was approved by the Ministry of it also signed strategic cooperation agreements with the Academy of Total capacity (millions of metric tons) 3.03 7.85 10.16 10.34 10.34 1034 Agriculture to become one of the first six “Pesticides Good Practice Agricultural Science of Guangdong Province and Yueyang Agricultural Model Laboratories.” In June, the Shenyang Institute’s Key National Research Institute of Hunan Province respectively; at the same time, it Total sales volume (millions of metric tons) 12.57 15.16 16.22 15.23 15.51 1551 Laboratory for New Pesticides Development passed the Ministry of became the second largest shareholder of the Anhui Wanken Seeds Science and Technology’s acceptance test. Company by capital injection. Total distribution outlets 1,375 1,672 2,010 2,036 2,106 2106 22 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 23 Sinochem is Beside You Serving to Improve Chinese People’s Livelihoods Sinocem Group’s core businesses are closely related to people’s livelihoods. For meeting people’s demands for basic necessities and improving the infrastructure of health care and the education system, Sinochem draws upon different characteristics of different businesses to make contributions to bettering people’s livelihoods. Clothing: Chemicals: our products such as PTA, MEG, AN, and caprolactam are raw materials for making polyester, acrylic, and raw material for dyestuff Polyester, acrylic, nylon nylon, which are all key clothing components products Our dyestuffs are extensively applied in textile and apparel manufacturing. Food: enriching rice and Agriculture: plentiful rice, multiple varieties of vegetables; our food additives help improve food quality. vegetable varieties Clothing Housing: providing Chemicals: our polyurethane products can improve the energy efficiency of construction materials; plastic raw material advanced such as PP and PVC are applied in making pipes, doors, windows, etc. education Real estate: we aim at building high-quality buildings, which become beautiful urban scenery and inject vitality into cities. facilities major plastic raw Education Food material for food package Transportation: Chemicals: every year, we provide plastic raw materials as well as rubber products for tire manufacturing for around three million cars in China, meeting demands of the automotive industry. Energy: we have sped up the building of our gas station network, providing stable diesel and gasoline to satisfy people’s food additives to transportation needs. improve food quality Healthcare: helping county-level Finance: we have helped county-level hospitals improve their infrastructure and promote healthcare development in Healthhospitals to improve those regions lacking healthcare systems. By the end of 2010, Far East Horizon had provided services for 1,089 hospitals. Housing care infrastructure Chemicals: Sinochem Group established a global anti-infective medicine joint venture with Royal DSM N.V., aiming at improving the technology of the anti-infective medicine industry and serving healthcare development. reducing the energy consumption of Education construction material TransFinance: we provide advanced education facilities, improve the elementary and middle school conditions in poor regions, portation and help to narrow the gap between developed regions and less developed regions. By the end of 2010, we helped to set up global anti-infective improve the education conditions in 76 universities, 133 vocational schools, and 42 high schools. joint-venture high-quality buildings providing rubber products accelerating the building of gas for tires manufacturing stations and providing stable diesel and gas supply 24 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 25 Promoting Technological Innovation Strengthening Information Systems Processes Create the Highest Value for Shareholders Sinochem Group put forward the philosophy of “don’t Sinochem Group promotes technological upgrading in a comprehensive manner, aiming to achieve strategic create information systems just for the sake of creating As a state-owned enterprise, Sinochem Group shoulders the responsibilities of preserving and growing state-owned transformation through technological progress. We have information systems,” changed our information system assets, and creating satisfactory returns for the State. By implementing lean management, technological innovation, and formed a top-down technology management system approach, and continues to uphold the principle that information systems, we try to create the highest value for our shareholders. In 2010, both our operating revenue and net and governance structure. Our Twelfth Five-year Plan “wherever the company’s strategy goes, our IT services profit achieved historical highs according to major operations indicators. By the end of 2010, Sinochem Group has been includes technological development. We have earmarked will follow” to closely match information systems with named a Grade-A Enterprise for six consecutive years by SASAC ever since SASAC began conducting these performance capital for technology upgrading and launched a reward our strategic development. We have consolidated and assessments on key state-owned enterprises. scheme for technology development. We have also further improved our current IT system, and set up a new standardized the centralized management of intellectual management system, providing valuable information and property rights (IPR). services for company executives and business departments, so as to create value by using IT. Major Operations Indicators of Sinochem Group (Unit: billions of RMB) In 2010, Sinochem Group actively participated in the government’s “Pilot Innovation-Based Enterprise Plan.” Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 For the first time, Sinochem promoted assessments and rewards for technological breakthroughs. The We have adjusted working units in charge of information systems, Operating revenue 184.79 229.73 308.98 243.03 335.33 expanded the scope of working members, set up an Information company focused on investing and building nationalSystems Office, and specified the responsibilities of each unit; level technology innovation projects such as the National Net profit 3.73 5.75 6.45 5.22 7.35 We have developed a “Plan for Information Systems Strategy,” Engineering (Technology) Research Center and the which includes the Headquarters and five major business units of National Key Laboratory. Sinochem earmarked RMB 558 Sinochem Group; Total assets 69.61 108.74 135.50 171.60 211.46 million for technological progress. We were responsible We have set up an Information and Knowledge Management for 57 provincialor-above level projects, filed 131 Platform as well as our HR Management System to strengthen the Shareholders’ equity 26.43 40.76 47.86 66.72 76.38 supportive role of IT system in improving corporate strategic decision patent applications, and were granted 17 awards at making and internal controls. the provincial level of above. Sinochem attaches great importance to brand cultivation and IPR protection, and Every unit under Sinochem Group established lean projects in was named a “Model Company for IPR Protection in Implementing Lean Management alignment with their strategic tasks and business goals. We have China” and a “Model Company for Trademark Strategy completed 203 group-level projects, over 2,300 subsidiary-level Implementation.” Sinochem Group implements lean management, and projects, and reduced expenditures by approximately RMB 293 cultivates lean mindsets and habits in all its employees. million during the year. We continuously improve our lean culture to increase the We followed through with the Economic Value Added (EVA) company’s competitiveness, and create more value for assessment method, and broke down EVA assessment indicators shareholders through cost reduction, quality enhancement, to embed them in evaluating subsidiaries and branches, enhancing and improving capital inputs. awareness of the cost of capital and value creation. We successfully fulfilled our performance targets based on EVA assessment In 2010, continued exploring our potential in every aspect indicators. of our operations management, reduced our cost and At the point when the yield rate of American national debt hit 57 131 expenditures, and received favorable results particularly historical lows, we sold USD 1.5 billion in five-year overseas bonds in purchasing and production cost reduction, energy and USD 0.5 billion in 30-year overseas bonds, providing sufficient conservation, and cutting logistics and project construction capital for our business development and reducing our financing costs. expenditures. In 2010, we were responsible In 2010, we actively participated The Sinochem Oil Center started a project called “Controlling Gas for 57 provincial-level or higher in the government’s “Pilot Station Losses” by adopting measures to control and reduce losses projects. Innovation-based Enterprise from gas station operations. We effectively reduced losses by 43% Plan,” and filed 131 patent 203 2.300 per metric ton of oil. applications in total. Sinochem International launched a project called “Saving Electricity 17 in the Production Process of the Jinghong Rubber Plant.” By applying a series of methods, we cut electricity consumption by 16.31% per In 2010, 203 group-level lean In 2010, around 2,300 subsidiarymetric ton of product. projects were completed. level projects were completed. In 2010, we received 17 provincial-level or above awards. RMB 293.000.000 In 2010, we cut total expenditures by 293 billion RMB. 26 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 27 Expanding Our Oil Business Service Portfolio Providing Value-Added Services to Develop with Clients By leveraging the advantages of our complete industrial chain in the petrochemical field, Sinochem Group enriches its oil business service portfolio, keeps expanding the oil business scope, and makes efforts to provide premium oil reserve services and services for end consumption of refined oil products. Provide Reliable National Oil Reserve Services Complete Sales Service Network for End Based on conditions, Sinochem Group has summarized Customers its experiences in national oil reserve services, clarified the In 2010, Sinochem Group sped up the development of its work in every link of the national oil storage, standardized petrochemical products distribution and retail business. We operational flows, done its best to ensure the quantity set up distribution networks in the major petrochemical and quality of the oil in the national reserve, and provided markets in China to cover provinces in north, east, central, reliable service. and south China, and formed stable distribution channels. We provided our domestic end customers a complete range of services, including a stable refined oil supply, We have real-time supervision on the national oil reserve, regularly distribution agency service, and after-sales service. We check the inventory, test and compare the quality of the oil, and complete a national reserve oil report on a regular basis; have also continued to improve our gas station operations, We provide remote network services to monitor and check enhancing gas station capacity to serve end customers. information such as the temperature, size, and quality of the cargo in the national reserve oil tanks for supervision units; We establish and keep a complete specialized log book and information documentation for the cargo to accurately record such information as the sources, quality control reports, invoices, warehouse entries, etc. Through providing value-added services, Sinochem Group creates value for clients, wins trust from clients, and achieves common development with clients. We implement a “client-centered” marketing and service model. Through international trading, professional marketing, and lean management, we have realized the transformation from trading-based company to a marketing and service-based company that meets the demands of both upstream and downstream clients, increases core competitiveness by building and improving its service system, and offers comprehensive professional services through differentiated business segments. Sinochem Group: a “client-centered” marketing and service model Energy: providing reliable national oil reserve service Agriculture: establishing professional agro-technology promotion teams Chemicals: offering green resources for our clients Finance: abiding by business ethics and upholding the principle of “Clients First” Real estate: serving the World Expo 28 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 29 Case: Providing Value-Added Service on Soil Testing Onsite Instructions on the Scientific Establish a Service System for “Agriculture, the Countryside, and Farmers” By making use of our soil testing laboratory and our professional Application of Pesticides advantages, and according to the “Soil Testing Formula Recommended Expert System,” Sinochem Group provided soil testing services for Sinochem International has continuously provided longAiming at serving Chinese agriculture and farmers, and drawing upon its business advantages, Sinochem Group is grass-roots distributors and farmers. By the end of 2010, we offered term grassroots technological services, popularizing cropmore than 50,000 soil tests and advised farmers on fertilizer types, enhancing the development of its technological service system, and building a Service System for “Agriculture, the quantity, and fertilization methods according to the testing results and protection technology and environmental-protection Countryside, and Farmers.” the fertilizers available in the local areas, thus better meeting farmers’ knowledge. Sinochem International has a team of around demands for soil testing, fertilizer purchases, and fertilization processes. 100 people for sales and crop-protection technology promotion. The team members have expert knowledge of Offering Scientific Fertilization Services pesticides and the crop situations in different regions of Sinochem Group is promoting the scientific use of fertilizer China. They go to rural areas to get firsthand information among farmers through many channels such as onsite and popularize pesticide knowledge among retailers and lectures, radio broadcasts, TV programs, and newspapers, farmers through distributing the Pesticides Application meeting the demand of farmers at different levels. Manual and holding lectures. They also teach farmers pesticides application skills through text messages, In 2010, we organized 3,500 events, including instructing them on scientific ways to use pesticides. agrochemical lectures and technology promotion fairs to disseminate agrochemical knowledge, benefitting over 40 million farmers. Additionally, we also provided a free telephone hotline service and invited experts to answer farmers’ online questions. By the end of 2010, the hotline program had received over 1.7 million phone calls, with more than 1.2 million farmers directly benefitting. We also rolled out an event called the “Gold-Quality High-Tech Farmer 2010 Sinochem Agricultural-Use Potash Benefit”, providing services for farmers according to their specific technological and knowledge needs. Case: Fert-Mart Extended Our Agrochemical Services Since its opening in June, 2010, Fert-Mart has adopted many ways to popularize agrochemical knowledge among farmers. Every month, we held three to four agricultural lectures based on the farming season and gave farmers responsive information on farming. Our professional agricultural technicians answered farmers’ questions on planting and farming twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week through free 40 3,500 service hotlines. Fert-Mart solved farmers’ problems face to face and one by one, which showcased an expansion and refinement of our service as well as the materialization of our philosophy on serving agriculture, the countryside, and farmers. We organized 3,500 events, including agrochemical lectures and We disseminate agrochemical knowledge, benefitting 40 million technology promotion fairs. farmers. Major Projects and Cooperation for Agrochemical Knowledge Dissemination in 2010 Cooperation Partners Cooperation Projects Content Ministry of Agriculture Provided agro-technology services Printed and distributed 12,000 copies of our Technical Instruction for 1,108 Sinofert Pilot Villages for Manual; Scientific Fertilization; Distributed 910,000 “Premium Membership Cards for Adopting Agriculture Technology;” Major agricultural Started special agrochemical service media such as Farmer’s columns to disseminate fertilization Published agrochemical experts’ articles on popular science to teach Daily, and Agricultural knowledge, etc.; farmers about scientific fertilization; Guide CCTV-7 Agricultural Broadcasted a program named Delivered major policies, news, and information on new agricultural Channel “Sinofert Agricultural Express;” products and technologies to farmers; The Central People’s Cooperated on a program called Invited agricultural experts in China to teach farmers how to fertilize Broadcasting Station “Sinochem Agricultural Classroom.” scientifically; Broadcasted 248 episodes of the series and had a total of 400 million views. 30 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 31 Providing Satisfactory Seed Sales Services Provide Comprehensive Chemical Business Service China National Seed Group has enhanced its service system and variety demonstration strength. It has organized various new seeds variety demonstration events, Sinochem Group upholds the management philosophy of “taking quality as its core” and strengthens quality control and provided farmers with free demonstrated seeds. It in day-to-day business operations, aiming at providing high-quality products and services and achieving win-win also explored new cooperation models for seed ordering, development with our clients. making efforts to give clients satisfactory seeds services. Through its toll-free customer hotline, they answer customer questions on seeds purchasing and product Professional Chemicals Distributor and Service Rubber Business: Wherever Business Extends, verification, and settled customers’ complaints, resulting in Provider Services Follow positive responses from customers. Sinochem Group’s service model and business strategy are In terms of rubber, Sinochem Group’s strategy makes highly client-oriented with tailored R&D and production. distribution its business locomotive to drive the planting We continuously improve our distribution network, and purchasing of upstream resources as well as the distribution teams, operations systems, and technological processing of final products. We have been consistently We held technology demonstration events, which included 21 Case: Building a Comprehensive Base for the Development varieties of corn, and had 1,456 technology application households platforms. We provide the distribution services for liquids, improving product quality to meet the differentiated of Better Crip Varieties gases, and solid chemical raw materials for end customers, that could enjoy free demonstration seeds. demands of customers, and to provide green resources for We held new seeds varieties exhibitions. Our rice business arm On Jun 21st, 2010, China Seed’s Flagship Exhibition Center for and offer prompt, comprehensive, and thoughtful customers. organized exhibitions of new varieties in different cities based on Vegetable Varieties was unveiled. This is a comprehensive development chemical services. different characteristics of the planting regions they were in and base, whose functions include new variety introduction, seed breeding, existing varieties they were growing. By doing so, we introduced experimentation, exhibition, and demonstration. As an innovative We invited international tire manufacturers to make these new varieties to grassroots distributors and farmers. model for new variety promotion, the exhibition center has effectively Case: Sinochem Lantian’s Annual Client Meeting quality assessments in our processing plants. Then our The “Clients to Clients” strategy. China Seeds set up a cooperation solved the disconnect between variety promotion, R&D, and testing In 2010, Sinochem Lantian held its first annual client meeting after its technical department would record clients’ opinions and model by asking our downstream company clients to direct orders caused by the fragmented industrial landscape. While providing an reorganization, reporting its operation results for year 2009 to business requirements for sample testing processes. Our production to our farmer clients so as to help our farmer clients find buyers. efficient variety testing and selection platform, the Center also offers partners, focusing especially on introducing its sales plan, industrial distributors and farmers a new channel to choose good varieties. and testing departments would make formulations for For example, we asked downstream food processing companies to layout, fluorine chemicals production development strategy, and at direct orders to our farmer clients on sunflower seeds. We gradually the same time having face-to-face exchange with clients on market improvements based on client requirements. We would explored this procurement model with more companies. This kind of trends and the sales of refrigerants. The meeting deepened mutual also revisit our key clients on a regular basis, solve their “Finding Clients for Clients” practice helped solve farmers’ concerns understanding and trust between Sinochem Lantian and its clients. problems within two days, and collect their feedback in a about selling their products. While helping farmers, we also timely manner. facilitated the sale of our own products, realizing a win-win result. 32 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 33 Developing Reliable and Efficient A Trust Business that Puts Clients First Developing High-quality Commercial Financial Services Real Estates Services Sinochem Group adheres to the philosophy of “Clients First” by providing comprehensive financial services, helping them Sinochem Group’s financial services cover financial leasing, to analyze their financial needs, and offering tailored financial World-Class Service for the Shanghai World trusts, security investment funds, life insurance, finance Expo companies, and financial futures, which constitute a rather solutions, gradually realizing a transformation from a product complete non-banking financial business development seller to a wealth management service provider. We combine During the Shanghai World Expo, several Franshion framework. Through our diversified products and our wealth management with China’s traditional Five Element Properties hotels provided high-quality accommodations professional market operations, we create greater value Theory. While we grow our financial investment service, we and information services. By setting up two volunteer for our clients. also give our clients thoughtful service in terms of health, service stations for the World Expo, we provided children’s education, investment collections, as well as highinformation services in over 5,000 instances. As a end sports. “Designated Accommodation Hotel for the 2010 Shanghai A Financial Leasing Business that Serves Industrial Development World Expo,” Grand Hyatt Shanghai received 34 batches Throughout the year, we issued collective trust products of VIP visitors from across China and all over the world, Sinochem Group uses a business model that combines worth of RMB 31.2 billion, up 872% compared with and provided services for 66 large events related to the financial leasing services with industrial development, 2009. Among these products, the products issued on World Expo for over 19,450 people. Due to its good focuses on serving China’s basic industries, and provides our own exceeded RMB 2.8 billion, triple the amount of service and performance during the World Expo, the customized client solutions such as financial leasing, 2009. Our qualified investment clients reached over 1,700, Shanghai Jin Mao Group was named as an “Outstanding consultation, trade agents, etc., meeting clients’ diversified increasing 74% compared to the end of 2009. Thus, our Service Provider for the World Expo” by SASAC, with and differentiated needs. ability to serve clients was remarkably enhanced. one of its staff given the title of “Outstanding Individual Serving the World Expo.” While providing financial leasing services, we try High-Quality Tendering Service to understand clients’ needs, provide a high-level By drawing upon our business advantages and complying Premium Property Management communications platform to drive exchange among with business ethics, Sinochem Group provides tendering Franshion Properties attaches great importance to better different industry areas, help clients increase their agent services. We have in-depth cooperation with our satisfying clients’ needs, and upholds a client-centered competitiveness, and enhance the whole industry’s clients in areas ranging from tendering agents, supplier philosophy throughout its service operations. Focusing development and competitiveness. selection, and project management. On the one hand, we on the “preservation and increase of property value” and help our clients to purchase the highest-quality products “improving clients’ degree of satisfaction,” Franshion and services at reasonable prices; on the other, we offer Properties fully draws upon its experience in the highsuch value-added services as auditing and documentation. end hotel business to increase its properties’ operational efficiency, establishing a set of service standards for its Sinochem International Tendering Company has compiled residential property business. a unified quality reference manual with supporting procedures covering the tendering business, import and Case: Chemsunny World Trade Center Won the Title of export agents, and project cost management. In 2010, we “Five-Star Unit among Beijing Office Building Management conducted a customer satisfaction survey, and summarized Pilot Projects” experience through clients’ complaints and advice so as to In order to comply with property service criteria and improve its improve our services. service quality, Franshion Properites follows Beijing Office Building Management Standards in its day-to-day operations. In the 2010 Contest for Beijing Office Building Management Pilot Projects, Chemsunny World Trade Center was labeled as a “Five-Star Unit.” 34 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 35 Further Improving Our HSE Management System Organize HSE checks Based on HSE achievements over the past few years, and use PDCA management in dealing Conduct internal Sinochem Group has integrated advanced HSE concepts, with problems audits on HSE work Conduct HSE Management to Reach Harmony with governance, and measures introduced from both home and accidents at least once a year and abroad into its business diversity, and formulated the Make annual HSE plan and targets Nature Guidebook for the Sinochem HSE Management System (hereafter referred to as the Guidebook), which provides guidance for all Sinochem subsidiaries and branches to set up a standardized HSE management system. By Set up a complete adopting a top-down approach to implement risk controls, HSE documentation precautionary measures, systematic management, and system to record HSE work progress continuous improvement, we have a scientific HSE The Guidebook stipulates management, thus setting up an HSE management system eight basic elements in establishing the HSE that matches Sinochem’s industrial position and with management system Sinochem characteristics. Identify and assess System Building and Improvement HSE risks In 2010, Sinochem improved its HSE management system at three levels, including the group, tier-two subsidiaries, Create HSE and all grassroots companies. Based on the Guidebook organizational structure, and their own business characteristics, Sinochem’s tierpersonnel constitution, and internal and external two subsidiaries issued their own HSE management communications Enhanceexecutives’ Create HSE policies HSE awareness, and planning handbooks to direct their HSE work, and conducted HSE responsibility, and HSE monitoring, management, control, and assessment on management the establishment and operations of their subsidiaries’ assessment HSE systems. All the grassroots production entities Sinochem Group has taken occupational health, production safety, and environmental protection as important parts follow the Guidebook. On the one hand, they set up and of its corporate social responsibility, and an integral constituent of its sustainable development strategy. Through optimize their own HSE management systems according implementing systematical, professional, and lean HSE management, Sinochem is aiming at building a safe, green, to their own conditions; on the other, they regularly and energy-conserving company, and realizing harmonious development with nature. check their HSE system based on the Guidebook to make improvements accordingly. HSE System Establishment and Improvement of Sinochem’s Key Tier-two Subsidiaries for the Year 2010 Group: introduced the Guidebook for the Sinochem HSE Management System Gas Stations Sinofert Sinochem International Franshion Properties Energy: marked the 1,000th day of safe production in its offshore oil fields Agriculture: continued to improve its HSE management system Completed HSE Adjusted the Optimized HSE management structure; Initiated an HSE management Chemical: produced ODS substitutes and reduced ozone depleting gas emissions by 27,224 metric tons management systems; organizational structure system for its real estate business; Real Estate: held an “Environmental Protection, Energy Conservation, and Emission Reduction” Forum and personnel; Enhanced the capacity of the HSE Increased operational management team; Issued its HSE Management efficiency of its HSE Set up HSE Quarterly Manual and 21 HSE management management system; Meeting system to Set up a comprehensive HSE procedures; provide a platform for management system, and improved the Increased employees’ HSE experience exchange; HSE performance assessment system; Published Document Compilation awareness; Guidebook for Real Estate Introduced job hazard Enhanced the company’s ability to cope Company HSE Systems; Promoted production analysis (JHA) and hazard with emergencies; safety standardization. and operability analysis Established HSE Working Meeting (HAZOP) management Held frequent and regime; measures and techniques; comprehensive onsite HSE checks and technological support for industrial Improved its HSE team’s capacity; organized HSE training. subsidiaries and ships; Enhanced safety Participated in HSE sector work supervision over contractors. exchanges and industry standard setting. 36 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 37 Full Lifecycle HSE Management Safe Production Standardization Occupational Health and Safe Sinochem Group implements multidimensional, complte Production Sinochem Group promotes safe development and lifecycle HSE management for its business operations, conducts safe production standardization to eliminate or which includes HSE management in its decision making, Centering on the principles of “Putting Safe Production reduce accidents related to production safety. In 2010, we production, as well as all links in its industrial chain. First, Prioritizing Precautionary Measures, and reviewed and assessed Promoting Comprehensive Governance,” Sinochem 11 subsidiaries on employee operations and equipment Group emphasizes safe production obligations for all standards compliance. We supervised non-compliant management levels,,takes firm precautionary measures, subsidiaries to ensure improvement plans, addressed Acquired companies and ensures the safety of employees and production. issues, then tracked their follow-up work accordingly. In 2010, we had zero major accidents attributable to Newly-established Divested Companies companies production safety issues. Case: The 1,000th Day of Safe Production for the UAE HSE management Offshore Gas Field in the decision Occupational Health In the UAQ project located in a United Arab Emirates offshore gas making field, Sinochem Group continuously optimized the safe production Raising Awareness and Capacity In 2010, Sinochem enhanced the building of the employee management system and emergency response mechanisms. We strictly occupational health management system, and set up followed offshore operation rules, set up a preventive maintenance Sinochem emphasizes the enhancement of employees’ system for the platform facilities, and determinedly implemented an occupational health management accountability Full lifecycle HSE awareness, and improves their safe production safe production accountability measures. By January 27th, 2010, this structure. We have designated specific people to take project had been safely operating for 1,000 days, reaching a 100% HSE design operating abilities through training. In 2010, the company management charge of occupational health management, identified operational rate in 2010. procurement organized activities to strengthen all employees’ HSE HSE transportation the key companies and posts with hazardous resources management HSE legal compliance and risk awareness. By compiling and management production and accordingly made improvements to eliminate the in industrial publishing the Sinochem Employee HSE Manual as well as chain in production hazards. We organized health checks for our employees organizing various HSE promotion activities, we promoted 1,000 100% ahead of taking posts, during service at posts, and after clients suppliers HSE concepts in a comprehensive manner and through leaving, as well as building occupational health files. We contractors many channels to enhance employees’ HSE awareness. also conducted occupational hazard assessments during due diligence processes in M&A projects as well as in new In 2010, we also enhanced HSE training on management project construction and existing project renovation and Safe production for 1,000 days The gas field’s operational rate teams by conducting training for managers at all levels on the offshore gas field reached 100% expansion. in areas of HSE management philosophy; laws and regulations; due diligence; and crisis and emergency management, etc. The domestic operations center implemented HSE management in its M&A projects. It conducted HSE due diligence on potential M&A targets by inviting professional third-party agencies to systematically identify HSE risks and obligations of the M&A target companies in order to avoid acquiring a company with huge HSE risks. Sinochem International paid attention to the HSE work in companies it divested from. During the transfer and handover period, Sinochem took the initiative to have prompt communication with the employees to stabilize their situations, helped ensure the successful handover of their work, and also took interim measures to guarantee the continued normal operations of facilities and prevent HSE accidents. Sinochem Plastics integrated the whole supply chain into their HSE management system, clarified the management structure, enhanced staff awareness, enhanced HSE supervision on their logistics service providers, and strengthened their HSE service capacity in the whole supply chain, including shipping, storage tanks, transportation, and receiving and unloading. In 2010, Sinochem Plastics realized its target of zero annual HSE accidents. Sinochem Lantian conducted HSE management in its production processes, integrated environmental-protection concepts into its R&D and product designs, purchased green raw materials, reduced impacts on the environment from production, and explored green logistics methods. While supplying environmentally-friendly products to society, it realized a transformation towards a low-carbon production model. 38 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 39 Management to Eliminate Hidden Hazards Emergency Management Environmental Protection Sinochem Group has made hidden hazard inspection Sinochem Group has adopted active emergency and elimination a systematic task. In 2010, we set up management and established and contiuously improved a Production Safety Inspection Board to monitor our our emergency rescue system. We set up emergency Sinochem Group focuses on developing an energychemical subsidiaries, mines (tailing reservoirs), and Sinochem Gas Stations conducted a lean management study on tank response command organizations at multiple levels conserving and environmentally-friendly company. We cleaning, which effectively reduced the need for cleaning frequency labor-intensive locations in terms of their accountability and had them take precautionary measures, draw are developing and adopting low-energy-consumption as well as the water consumption and wastewater discharge for each systems for safe production, safe production training, as up contingency plans, organize emergency response and green technologies, developing a recycling economy, cleaning. well as their safe production management systems and trainings, conduct emergency drills, set up emergency and working to reach international level in terms of emergency management systems. Through subsidiaries’ rescue teams, and improve emergency information Sinochem Fuling renovated its power generation plant as a clean environmental protection, energy consumption, and development mechanism (CDM) project, creating waste heat from its own self-inspections, spot checks by managing units, and management platforms to ensure a swift response and material consumption, so as to realize coordinated 4×300kt per annum sulphuric acid production. supervision by the Group, we found and eliminated a efficient management of all kinds of emergencies, and to development between the company’s profitability and total of 10,541 hidden hazards, effectively lowering the reduce personnel and economic losses and improve social environmental protection and energy conservation. Sinochem International continued improving its fuel and shipping likelihood of production accident risks. impacts. structure and strengthened its fuel system maintenance, which reduced its energy consumption per ten thousand nautical miles from Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction 500.70t to 478.00t. In 2010, we held a total of 561 emergency drills, with 49,940 people involved. Sinochem attaches great importance to energy conservation and emissions reductions, and continues increasing investments in building a better monitoring Case: “Tiger” Emergency Drill and assessment system as well as the application of 2.04 In 2010, Sinochem for the first organized a group-level emergency energy conservation technologies, experience exchange, drill code named “Tiger.” The drill involved an accident scene with headquarters reacting. The drill simulated a hydrogen fluoride leak and internal publications and knowledge dissemination situation causing personnel injury and death. By the joint reaction of . Based on our lean management philosophy, we have the Group, the tier-two subsidiaries, and the grassroots companies, optimized our techniques and procedures, production In 2010, Sinochem’s industrial subsidiaries’ total consumption of we promptly transported rescue teams and equipment to the accident processes, and operational efficiency, and reduced standard coal scene, and evacuated people in an orderly and safe way. Through the energy consumption used in production. In 2010, the drill, we improved our “three-level” (the Group, the tier-two subsidiaries, and the grassroots companies) emergency response the industrial companies under Sinochem consumed 718.30 command organizations, amended the emergency management energy totaling 2.04 megatons of standard coal, saving structure and responsibilities in the Group’s contingency plan, added energy equal to 781.30 kilotons of standard coal. emergency response offices, public relations functions, financial Through adopting advanced techniques and equipment, functions, logistics functions, legal and insurance functions, and improving management, and recycling, we promoted personnel rehabilitation functions to stipulate responsibilities in detail. clean production in our operations, and greatly reduced In 2010, Sinochem’s industrial subsidiaries reduced energy or avoided waste production and discharge throughout consumption by a total of 718.30kt of standard coal our production process. In 2010, we conducted clean production reviews on our 23 subsidiaries. 40 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 41 Resource Use Green Offices Sinochem Group adopted numerous technologies and Sinochem advocates green offices. We encourage staff to Tackling Climate Change measures to enhance resources use. Sinochem Exploration conduct video meetings and print on both sides of paper, and Production Company recycles natural gas during oil installed sensor faucets, and have encouraged staff to Climate change impacts every country in the world, and has attracted universal attention from the international E&P, which increases energy supply and at the same time cultivate such good habits as turning off the lights when community. Sinochem Group has combined the work to tackle climate change with our own business, and is taking the reduces the air pollution from natural gas emissions. It built a leaving the room. Through improving the Office Automation initiative to promote the development of the fluorine chemical industry as part of a recycling economy so as to reduce natural gas power generation plant in its Yemen project, with (OA) system, we are promoting a paperless office. We have the negative impacts on our climate. the annual power generation volume reaching 570 million also formulated rules on car use for company business, and kwh, meeting the electricity demand of the oil fuel E&P as enhanced the management of fuel use and car maintenance Facilitating Progress of Environmental Leading Green Real Estate Development well as the surrounding communities. At the Zhaodong oil to reduce exhaust emissions. Protection field, they built a natural gas pipeline, which can deliver 0.15In our real estate development, Sinochem actively 0.20 million cubic meters of natural gas every day, reducing In 2010, through conducting video meetings, we reduced Sinochem has focused on developing its fluorine chemical promotes green buildings. Franshion Properties takes full carbon discharge by more than 100kt per year. flight mileage by 1.10 million km, and cut CO2 emissions by business, with products covering everything from ODS consideration of environmental protection factors during around 193.80 kt. substitutes, fluoride polymerization, and other fluoridebuilding design, adopts advanced techniques to reduce Franshion Properties adopted advanced technologies such as related chemicals, among which ODS substitute represents the impact on the environment when a building is under a ground source heat pump system, which can retrieve heat a green refrigerant to replace ozone-depleting substances, construction, and also takes the initiative to use bio-fuels from underground heat-exchanging pipes for household greatly reducing ozone damage. Through cultivating and renewable energy to replace power generation from water heating. In the winter, the heat retrieved from the heatan environmental protection philosophy, enhancing coal and natural gas, constructing zero-emission buildings. exchanging pipes is transported to houses; every one kwh of management, and injecting capital, Sinochem Group has power can generate heat equaling three kwh. In the summer helped Sinochem Lantian become a company with the Franshion Properties applied ground source heat pump most extensive range of ODS substitutes in China, and and capillary network technologies to reduce energy 1.10 time, the system transfers the heat back to the soil through a closed water cycle; by doing so, it saves 30-40% of the energy taken the lead in the world in terms of production and consumption and CO2 emissions, adopted rainwater used in normal air-conditioning. sales capacity, among which its HFC-based substitutes recycling systems to effectively reduce water waste; capacity ranks highest in Asia and third in the world. cooperated with Shanghai Tongji University on the “Chongming Low-Carbon Economic and Industrial Ecological Protection In 2010, we reduced flight mileage by 1.10 million km through Developing a Recycling Economy Development Model and Key Technology Research and conducting video meetings. Sinochem Lantian uses a green philosophy to develop Application” project, which won high recognition from mines. It set up a rational value system for its mine Sinochem has facilitated the development of a recycling the Ministry of Science and Technology, and receive a resource development. During the fluorspar mining economy, and reduced CO2 emissions. Sinochem Plastics green earmark of RMB 5 million. process, it pays attention to the protection of plants and uses a “resource-production-product-consumption-waste193.8 animals. After mining, they bury the ores and rehabilitate recycling-renewable resource-product” recycling economy In 2010, Franshion Properties held its “Environmental the ecosystem, which aligns their mining development concept. It recycles and reprocesses plastic waste bottles Protection, Energy Conservation, and Emissions Reduction with ecological protection, and helps them realize their to reproduce new materials, and uses recycled bottle Forum,” calling on real estate developers and their goal of being a green mining operation. polyester chips for manufacturing new bottles. suppliers to take action together. The Forum put forward In 2010, we cut CO2 emissions by around 193.80 kt. the idea that while implementing green standards and Sinochem International Tendering participated in urban In 2010, Sinochem Plastics sold 30 kt of such chips, and green procurement, real estate developers should take ecological protection activities. Drawing on their own directly reduced CO2 emissions by 160 kt. “Environmental Protection, Energy Conservation, and business strengths, they sped up wastewater treatment Emissions Reductions” as important indicators to assess and solid waste treatment plant construction projects, and and select their suppliers, building an environmentallyenhanced the city’s capacity to dispose of trash. friendly supply chain, and facilitating the green development of the real estate industry. professional sorting Yingchuang’s use diverse recycling and packaging deep cleaning deep purification recycled-bottle grade polyester chips’ recycling industrial chain recycled-bottle waste bottles grade chips into the filled at beverage blown at preformed at consumer market plants blowing plants preform plants, original ester chips 42 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 43 Protecting Employee Rights Sinochem Group pays great attention to protecting employees’ rights, abides by labor laws, ensures employees’ rights in equal employment and democratic management, and promotes diverse development for employees, thus providing solid support for the company’s sustainable development. Rights Protection Sinochem Group strictly follows the labor laws and Sinochem treats all our employees equally regardless regulations of China and wherever our business of their nationality, race, or gender. The company also operations take us. We regulate our labor management, adheres to the principle of “equal post, equal pay” and clarify employment types, respect employees’ wills, and has never used child labor or forced labor. Nor has the protect employees’ privacy, all to provide comprehensive company brought about labor disputes. We attach great employee rights protection. In 2010, we received no importance to protecting female employees’ rights, administrative penalties for labor law breaches. We especially those during pregnancy, on maternity leave, adopted a labor contract system for employment and and during breast feeding periods, creating a good signed labor contracts with 100% of our employees. environment for female employee development. Employee Age Structure Valuing People’s Talent to Develop with Employees 31% 50 or above 40 to 49 7.4 % 18.9 % Sinochem totally has 43,780 employees, among which 31% are female. Sinochem Group adheres to the philosophy that “the human resource is the NO.1 resource, and a company’s value should grow with that of its employees,”. As such, it treats employees as our most valuable resource, as the support 30 to 39 31.8 % pillars for our business development, and the driver for our “Third Long March.” Our caring for employees penetrates our entire process, from the first day when they join Sinochem until the day they retire, thus realizing common Below 30 41.9 % 5.3% development between the company and our employees. Employees’ Education Structure Group: awarded the “Outstanding Company for Business Transparency” title three times in a row Female managers Post-graduate or above 6.0 % Energy: facilitating the integration of diverse cultures in its overseas operations Agriculture: building an employee development platform through diverse training opportunities Bachelor’s degree 17.3 % Chemical: conducting tailored employee training and education Occupational training degree Finance: protecting employees’ physical and psychological health in a comprehensive way 17.5 % 17% Real Estate: advocating frank communication and cooperation, and regularly collecting employee comments Below occupational training degree 59.2 % Employee Post Structure Foreign employees Management and professional technicians 18.8 % Production workers and By the end of 2010, Sinochem had a total of 43,780 employees, with an average age of 33, among which 31% others 81.2 % were female employees, 5.3% were female managers, and 17% were from foreign countries. 44 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 45 Democratic Management Realizing Employee Value Sinochem Group continues to improve our democratic management mechanisms and promote business transparency. We fully guarantee our employees’ rights Sinochem has been enhancing the training and education for our employees to improve their business capabilities, to be informed and participate in the company’s major explore their career development potential, and maximize their value. business decisions as well as the plans directly related to their rights, to make them feel a sense of ownership of the Diverse Training Optimizing Development Channels process. Business transparency enhances democracy at the grassroots level, improves internal monitoring mechanisms, We believe in that “employee quality determines Sinochem continues to provide more and more opportunities and strengthens the company’s cohesion. Through the business quality.” Sinochem highlights the improvement for employee career development, and set up a two-way Key Managers Meeting, Sinochem Today newspaper, the of employees’ professional skills and comprehensive choice system between employee and Party post, exploring Sinochem LAN, publicity kiosks, and ERP, we make our capacities, in order to help them grow with the company. employees’ potential to the maximum extent. business more transparent, which has helped us win the title of “All-China Outstanding Company for Business We provide different training according to employees’ We continue to strengthen the compilation of professional Transparency” three years in a row. different needs. For newcomers, we prepare corporate information to help employees decide on which of culture training to help them rapidly join the new work the three development channels to choose, including environment; for grassroots-level workers, we have management, sales, or technical, based on their own professional skills training to help them enhance their experience, capacity, and preferences. Case: “Good Life, Good Health” Project Organized by the Business Transparency Measures skills; for managers at all levels, we conduct leadership Labor Union of Far East Horizon training to help them to improve and make the best We also promote internal recruitment, and have made Requirements Measures The labor union of Far East Horizon organized the “Good Life, Good of their leadership capacity. In 2010, 183 people from it a standard HR mechanism. In 2010, based on internal Health” project to protect their employees’ physical and psychological health. Through cooperation with relevant institutes, the labor union Sinochem headquarters participated in various kinds of recruitment organized by Sinochem headquarter, 17 One Take employees’ satisfaction degree as our leadership training, with an average training time of 16.5 employees received new assignments. “standard” introduced H-EAP, which was an employee health management standard; program that includes a health hotline service, psychological hours for each. consultation, medical care services, etc. They care about their We continue to optimize our management system with Ensure published business information is true employees, starting from identifying and tracking employee health Two “ensures” and reliable; The Sinochem Management School is a corporate college senior experts. We select senior experts in such areas as hazards, easing their life and work pressure, and satisfying their various Ensure employees to get information in a kinds of needs for health, which has become a pioneering pilot for established rather early among China’s large SOEs. It is energy, agriculture, and chemicals, and provide them with timely manner, and participate in company responsible for training key managers and backup talent. more favorable benefits in terms of rank, payment, and protecting employee health. work; The School leverages both internal and external teaching working conditions, offering employees more professional Major business decisions, guidelines, and goals Remuneration and Employee Benefits System resources to provide training on corporate culture and development channels. must be reviewed and approved by the Staff management philosophy. It has set up a complete Congress before they are adopted; Based on job evaluations and performance assessment system of training from grassroots managers to groupMajor plans directly related to employees’ results, Sinochem has set up a market-oriented and level executives, and designed corresponding training rights must be reviewed and passed by the competitive remuneration system, which fully reflects the Staff Congress before they are adopted; activities for managers at all levels. It has made significant Six “musts” value of employees. contributions to preparing leaders for our corporate The study of major items and projects must have the participation of employees; transformation as well as capacity enhancement for key Procurement and project tendering must have In 2010, we conducted a survey on all employee managers. the supervision of the functional departments; remuneration, and analyzed the payment of 17 benchmark High-ranking managers must be evaluated by posts in 33 subsidiaries. Based on the results, we employee representatives; established an HR cost analysis model for 21 subsidiaries The results of major projects must be published to all employees. in the five major business sectors, which improved our remuneration system and standards. Case: Diverse Employee Training Programs We complied with government regulations on social Unit Training Highlights welfare and employee benefits, providing basic employee Sinochem Provided tailored training programs, requiring executives and employees to have performance training and feedback benefits such as social insurance, providence fund, International on a regular basis, and provided specific guidance and help accordingly, which facilitated a sound development of and paid annual leave, based on which we have a their teams; We continue improving the democratic management comprehensive employee benefit package. We also provide employees with commercial insurance, additional Conducted diverse employee training, had morning training every day, themed training regularly, collective training system of our Staff Congress, enriching the content Sinofert annually, as well as field experiments, E-learning, experience training, book reading and reports, etc., which covered and inventing new structures for the Staff Congress, medical care insurance, and property and life insurance, as various content, including industrial development trends, business knowledge, and common skills; and making the best of the Staff Congress in our daily well as setting up an insurance fund for major illnesses. democratic management. We highlight the protection Organized employee training on business ethics and self-discipline. On the one hand, it helped employees to transform their knowledge on business ethics into their own business ethics beliefs; on the other, it taught employees of employees’ rights, improvement of their capacity, and Sinochem to comply with laws and regulations when dealing with stakeholders; stress common development between the company and International From 2008 to 2010, eight sessions of new employee training were completed, with 83 employees participating. In Tendering employees. We listen to employees’ voices, care about 2010, they organized two batches of new employees to visit the Anti-Corruption Base in the suburbs of Beijing. their lives, and try our best to solve their problems. 46 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 47 Care for Retired Employees Increasing Employee Sense of Belonging We developed the first system for retired cadres. The system specifies Sinochem Group appreciates the great contributions the basic principles for our management on retired employees, and that retired employees have made to the company’s provides guidance from things like service management to living Sinochem Group upholds the philosophy of “Putting People First,” enhances corporate culture building, shows full care growth; therefore, we take many measures to share our conditions improvement management. development fruits with them based on our business We convened the first special meeting on retired cadre issues. The for employees, and works to increase their sense of belonging. meeting provided a platform for participants to exchange their performance. We continue giving retired employees experience in managing retired employee work and expanded their Corporate Culture Building thoughtful care and support and organize various forms horizons in this area. Case: Employee Assistance Plan (EAP) of cultural activities, such as a singing competition, the For the first time, we organized retired employees to visit our Sinochem Group has strengthened the corporate culture Sinochem Oil Center has made an Employee Assistance Plan (or EAP for “Sinochem and Me” party, and Chinese painting and subsidiaries and shared with them Sinochem’s achievements in the of being “Honest, Cooperative, and Good at Learning; short), aimed at solving employees’ problems and easing their pressure, calligraphy exhibitions. In 2010, our work on caring for past few years. Diligent, Innovative, and Pursuing Excellence,” gradually and helping them to face their work in the best possible state. EAP retired cadres had three firsts. helped around 290 employees in and around Beijing, as well as 100 integrating its corporate culture into every part of Case: Shenyang Research Institute for Chemical Industry employee family members. production and management. Solved the Pension Benefit Issue of Employees Retired The EAP Program Mainly Includes: before the Institute’s Reform Care for Employees’ Daily Lives Visiting employees every month to make work improvements Before the reform of Shenyang Institute, the retired employees’ pension accordingly; benefit was based on the uniform standards of Ministry of Finance. Sinochem tries to create a harmonious working Sending gifts to employees at their birthdays, weddings, children’s After Ministry of Technology and Science released the detailed rules environment for our employees, and gives them all kinds births, and retirement; giving relief funds to those employees whose of the subsidy standards and fund allocation for retired employees, of care and support so as to enhance company cohesion. families were hit by disasters; Shenyang Institute promptly granted supplementary subsidies to its Improving annual health checks for employees, and inviting experts to For example, we celebrate big festivals and employee have lectures on health to enhance their health care awareness; retired employees. birthdays, extend a helping hand to employees in need, Offering a “Parents-Children Activity Card” to employees with children help employees obtain park visitors’ cards and movie under 17 years old, recommending good parent-children activities, Case: China National Seed Group Showed Their Care for cards, and organize English speaking contests, football and providing special funding for them to take part in those activities; Retired Employees matches, and basketball games to enrich their lives. Paying visits to the family members of employees dispatched to other China National Seed Group created a mechanism for the management places, providing emergency assistance, organizing summer camps for of retired employees by maximizing retired people’s abilities to take their children, and offering assistance to their aged parents. care of themselves when they can and helping them when they cannot. The company shared their business results with retirees, and provided them subsidies based on the company’s business performance. They regularly had phone calls with or paid visits to retired employees, and also held meetings with them. The company offered particular care for Case: Assistance to Employees in Need retirees with illnesses or living in hospitals, and sent condolences after the death of retirees. Far East Horizon upholds a principle called “assist those in need, and help each other.” It has set up the “Far East Horizon Labor Union Charitable Fund” to provide assistance to employees in need. It has organized many events to help its employees, including “Leave Your Love,” “Upload Your Smile,” and others. In 2010, the Fund raised a total of RMB 220 million and assisted seven employees. Case: Various Corporate Culture Development Events Unit Events Sinochem Promoted diverse cultural development in the company by organizing foreign employees from UAE and Columbia to Exploration and Production visit our Beijing headquarters, to let them experience our corporate culture in person; Upheld the philosophy of “Gentle but Perseverant; Humble but Courageous,” emphasized that “talent speaks,” and Far East Horizon the importance of “agreeing to disagree,” “fair rewards and punishment,” and “equality and justice.” In the past ten years, it has focused on team building, and has built a high-caliber and innovative team that is good at learning; Advocated a corporate culture based on honest communication. It encouraged harmonious and simple personal Franshion relations as well as effective communication between employees and the company and between employees. Through Properties anonymous surveys, it collected employees’ feedback on business, management, and the HR system on a regular basis to gain knowledge of employees’ degree of satisfaction. 48 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 49 Participating in Socially-Beneficial Activities to Poverty Alleviation Facilitate Social Progress Sinochem Group is active in poverty alleviation causes, and continuously improves forms of assistance and expands assistance channels, trying to change from “providing assistance” to “helping them to develop” when we extend Sinochem Group abides by laws, complies with business ethics, and serves the greater good by actively a helping hand to areas in need. We also undertake work to improve farmers’ production and living conditions and participating in socially beneficial activities. Upholding the win-win principle and aiming at common facilitate the economic and social progress of local areas. development with our partners, we promote social harmony and progress with our own sustainable development. Fixed-Point Poverty Alleviation Sinochem attaches great importance to poverty alleviation work in specific areas, and adheres to the guideline of “work close to farming areas, focus on the farming industry, and serve farmers” to help the local people alleviate poverty and create wealth. Since 2002, we have contributed a total of RMB 53.50 million to help Qingshuihe County and Helinger County of Inner Mongolia. In 2010, we sent out assistance teams and injected RMB three million to carry out a project combining economic help, technological support, and educational assistance. The money went to improving electricity facilities, drinking water, and transportation, and also helping with crop planting and livestock care, which helped the local economy to grow. Group: changed from “providing assistance” to “helping them to develop” while extending a help hand to areas in need Energy: vigorously participated in socially-beneficial activities for overseas communities and helped them to develop Sinochem’s Assistance to Qingshuihe County and Helinger County of Inner Mongolia for 2010 Agriculture: took active part in the building of the Socialist New Countryside program Project Location Social Benefit Capital Input Chemical: actively supported health care development (million RMB) Finance: facilitated industrial upgrading Migration Qingshuihe Helped 87 households with 267 people to migrate, and improve their living 1.5 Real Estate: worked with contractors to show care for migrant workers County conditions; Migration and Helinger Helped poor households to migrate from backward hinterlands to the project 0.7 Poverty Alleviation County location, improved their electricity, drinking water, and transportation conditions, and helped them to develop crop planting and livestock care techniques; ， Potato Technology Helinger Helped poor households to migrate from backward hinterlands to the project 0.5 Demonstration County location, and helped them to develop crop planting and livestock husbandry, Project increased their per capita income by over RMB 2,000 annually; Helinger 0.3 Migration County Helped poor households migrate to improve their living conditions. 50 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 51 One-to-One Assistance Sinochem stresses the importance of its one-to-one Charitable Donations assistance and effective delivery of our commitments. Since 2002, we have provided one-ton-one assistance to Three foci In the aftermath of great disasters, Sinochem Group, as a key SOE, bears the duty of helping the State and the Gangba County in Tibet. In 2010, we continued improving people to get through hardships. At the same time, through donations we also make contributions to medical care our assistance to Tibet, adhering to the “one core, two mbination development and projects like “Technology Rejuvenates the Country.” o co s combinations, and three foci” guideline. Tw We have dispatched four assistance teams to Tibet since Disaster Relief Donations for Medical Care and Educational 2002, and contributed a total of RMB 45 million, including One core When natural disasters such as the Southeast China Development RMB 6.5 million in 2010. We helped the local people to draught, Qinghai Yushu Earthquake, and Hainan flood We are very attentive to China’s medical care and foci improve irrigation, education, health care, transportation, hit China in 2010, Sinochem Group extended aid and education development. We take the initiative to make and housing conditions. We also enhanced technological ree Thr Th Tw ee organized employees to donate to the disaster-struck oc o m b i n a ti o n s fo donations to help poor regions improve their medical care training to help them improve economic development in ci regions, helping the local people to overcome difficulties system, and educational infrastructure. line with their own characteristics. This assistance greatly and get through hardships. improved local farmers’ production and living conditions Helping to Build Village Medical Care Stations and facilitated the growth of the local economy. Case: Assistance to Yushu Sinochem International participated in the “Red Cross After a severe earthquake hit Yushu in Qinghai, Sinochem extended Angel Program” launched by the Chinese Red Cross Fund. help to the area and donated RMB 20 million. Our employees also took Whenever we sold one bottle of pesticide, we would action to support Yushu, and made contributions to the rehabilitation donate one cent to the program, thus helping to build ten and recovery of the disaster-hit people. One core: we take increasing farmers’ income as the core issue and village medical care stations in poverty-stricken regions, deliver our assistance to farming regions and to the most-needy areas, including Chenzhou of Hunan; Hongan, Macheng, and helping the local economy to take off. Two combinations: we combine our assistance with project Xiangfan of Hubei; Shangrao and Yichun of Jiangxi; construction and intellectual investments; we combine our help with Xuancheng, Huainan, and Bozhou of Anhui; as well as a goal of changing the thinking of the local people. Yuping of Guizhou. The first phase of donation reached Three foci: based on the actual conditions, we focus on improving RMB 0.55 million. By the end of 2010, the ten stations infrastructure to upgrade farmers’ production and living conditions, had been completed and put into use, which greatly focus on holding training projects to enhance farmers’ ability to increase their income, and focus on demonstration projects that help improved medical care in these regions. to change farmers’ thinking. Donations to Elementary School in Huangjun City In 2010, Sinochem Exploration and Production Company’s Zhaodong Project team made donations to the Paihe Elementary School at the location of Zhaodong Project, Huangjun City, to help the school maintain and renovate their teaching buildings and dormitories. They also donated school supplies and stationary to the students, Key Sinochem Projects for 2010 One-to-One Assistance helping them to improve their infrastructure and overall conditions for education. Project Assistance Area Results Capital Input (million RMB) Education Service Center of Infrastructure Improved their office conditions for education services Gangba County 1.38 Grassland Building and Improved the environment and protected the ecological Wetlands Protection for Infrastructure system 0.86 Gangba County Jiru Pond Improvement for Improved the water facility’s efficiency, as well as the Gangba Town Infrastructure infrastructure of the farming areas to help them enhance 0.78 their own development capacity Muxiong Pond Improvement Infrastructure Expanded irrigation areas, increased crop and livestock 0.77 for Zhike Town production, and improved the environment Water Infrastructure Improved the administrative condition for the water Improvement Project for Infrastructure service work 0.82 the Water Service Center of Gangba County 52 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 53 Volunteer Activities Win-Win Cooperation Contributing to Community Development Sinochem Group regards each employee’s participation as an important part of delivering the company’s CSR While delivering our own CSR goals, Sinochem Group Spurring Industrial Progress Sinochem Group actively organizes and participates in commitments. Therefore, we encourage and support also helps our cooperation partners fulfill their CSR various events for community development, helping to employees to take part in volunteer activities, and view this By drawing upon our own advantages, Sinochem Group as an important part of enhancing the company’s cohesion commitments, promote industrial progress and local facilitate our contributions to community growth. views service targets as being related to people’s basic and for guiding employees to have a life of responsibility, development, and realize win-win results with our needs, thus actively providing a communication and gratefulness, and contribution. Our volunteer activities stakeholders. exchange platform for our clients so as to facilitate industrial Contribution to Community Development have received good responses from society. progress. Sinochem sticks to the philosophy of “win-win Enhancing Our Contractors’ CSR development” and takes the initiative to fulfill our CSR Commitments commitments wherever our business is located. We actively promote our CSR philosophy to our Case: Far East Horizon Spurring Industrial Progress contractors, join hands with them to care for migrant Far East Horizon understands the needs of its clients and promotes Case: Sinochem Exploration and Production Company’s workers, and firmly work to increase contractors’ CSR exchange and communication in many areas so as to promote the Help to Overseas Community Development awareness and capacity. progress of the entire industry. Sinochem E&P conducted numerous activities to help overseas communities grow. In 2010, they increased their input for local development. In Yemen, the company gave USD 1.7 million to help develop local Case: Joining Hands with Contractors to Care for Migrant communities, of which USD 0.75 million went to an agricultural Workers rehabilitation project mainly including introducing improved goat Set up the “Far East Horizon Education Experts Alliance” to give advice varieties and drilling wells for irrigation. USD 0.70 million went toward With the assistance of the Franshion Properties’ Jinmao Mansion Project and suggestions on China’s educational development; setting up scholarships and making donation to students in need. The team, contractors provided a ground heat pump air-conditioning Organized the “Far East Horizon High-Level Forum for Ship-Building rest (USD 0.25 million) was earmarked for sustainable development system for workers in their living areas. This was the first project to and the Shipping Industry,” helping to train high-caliber financial projects. have such a system for construction workers, which provided summer experts for China’s shipping and ship-building industries; In Ecuador, the company donated a total of USD 0.3 million to set up air conditioning and winter heating for migrant worker, and offered Set up the Mingliu Club and the Shijia Alliance to create a “Mutual a social welfare fund to help children suffering from brain disabilities them a nicer living environment. Trust, and Win-Win” industrial exchange environment. In the areas of gain both in-classroom and virtual education. The company also helped medical care facilities and industrial equipment, they joined hands foster economies of scale and develop the market for crop planting with major manufacturers inside and outside China to set up a such as cocoa, as well as providing micro-loans for aboriginal women. manufacturers’ alliance that helps to facilitate industry progress. In Syria, the company gave a total of USD 0.77 million to set up a social fund to provide assistance to disabled people. It also built bridges Case: Help 450 Poverty-Stricken Senior Citizens Regain and roads in Columbia to help develop the local transportation system. Their Sight Since 2004, Sinochem-Manulife Insurance organized “Care for Society” Case: Singapore GMG Company’s Overseas Community activities. In 2010, they launched a program called “37 Degrees Warm” Development Programs together with the Disabled People’s Welfare Fund of Sichuan Province. Singapore GMG, controlled by Sinochem International, is developing With the efforts of nearly ten thousand company employees, they sold rubber businesses in African countries like Cameroon. It employed around 30,000 “love nightlights” and donated the money collected 5,500 workers according to the local laws and UN practices. It not to help 450 senior citizens in Guangan, Guangyuan, Nanchong, only ensures workers’ safety and security, but also provides them with Mianyang, and Suining of Sichuan Province have cataract surgery to occupational training that has worked to increase their employment regain their sight. opportunities. Since 2008, GMG has injected USD 2.20 million every year for local community development, including providing assistance to hospitals and schools. It made donations in total to 17 schools, including kindergartens, elementary schools, and high schools; it also set up medical care stations in 15 villages where it had business operations. After it introduced information on the AIDS virus to the local areas in 2002, it once again helped to organize activities to raise local communities’ awareness on malaria and cholera, benefiting many local people through these programs. 54 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 55 Case: Co-building the Ducuo Seawall and Realizing WinCSR FEATURE REPORT win Cooperation When designing the project’s pipe enclosure, Quanzhou Petrochemical, completion of the project, it will be able to produce nearly together with the local government and local villagers visited the Ensuring the Energy Supply 9mt of gasoline, diesel, and aviation fuel, which would construction site many times. Through discussions, we decided to coEndeavoring to Be a World-class be a great supplement to the supply volume and supply build a seawall in Ducuo Village. After the construction for the Ducuo Petrochemical Company channels in the domestic refined oil market. Seawall is completed, the Quanzhou project’s pipe will pass through the land side of the seawall. This design is safer and more convenient for maintenance than a pipe directly built over the sea, and this design Sinochem Group aims at building the Quanzhou also cut construction costs by around RMB 27 million. The seawall also Project Review Petrochemical project into a “domestically-leading and brings convenience to local villagers, for the land side of the seawall Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical Co., Ltd. (hereafter internationally-advanced” refining project. By drawing forms space of nearly 40,000 square meters, providing extra place upon the experience of utilizing similar units and for fishermen to fix their boats and dry their fishing nets. The local referred to as Quanzhou Petrochemical) was established in government also remade their plans for Ducuo Village’s development, September, 2006. It is building Sinochem Group’s 12mt/y benchmarking with petrochemical leaders at home and and built a four-lane 15m-wide two-way road in the backfilled area on oil refining project in the Huiquan Petrochemical Industrial abroad, we are taking the lead in the industry in terms the land side of the seawall, creating convenient transportation access Park in the Meizhou Bay Petrochemical Base of Fujian of single-train unit capacity, for example the 12mt/ for the local people. “Because of the seawall, we are not worried about typhoons and high Province. The project takes up an area of 266.67 hectares y atmospheric and vacuum unit, 3.75mt/y liquid-phase waves any more. It not only makes us live more peaceful, but also hydrogenation unit, 3mt/y residue hydrotreating unit, brings convenience.” and consists of two systems: those inside the plant area and those outside the plant area, which includes storage and 2.6mt/y hydrocracking unit. The diesel/gasoline ratio and transportation. The 19 major process units in the can be flexibly adjusted within a range of between 1.2 interior area include atmospheric and vacuum distillation, and 2.4. Our diesel and gasoline quality will meet Euro IV standards, with parts of the products reaching Euro V Clean Production and Harmonious residue hydrotreating, hydrocracking, catalytic cracking, standards. The project will propel industrial upgrading for Coexistence with Nature continuous catalytic reforming, aromatic extraction, delayed coking, sulfur, and polypropylene. Meanwhile, China’s petrochemical industry. Sinochem Group is actively exploring new models for the environmental-friendly technology in the world, which can the storage and transportation facilities are composed sustainable development of a large oil refining company. reduce the emissions of SO2, NOX, and smoke to a level of jetties, crude oil and refined oil tank farms, and oil When the Quanzhou Petrochemical project is put into In terms of environmental protection management, we much lower than that of other advanced units in China, pipelines. The project is expected to be completed and put production, its tax contributions to the State and local have integrated the philosophy of clean production into and at the same time eliminate the alkali residue produced into production in 2013. government will amount to RMB 11.5 billion. Apart from the whole Quanzhou project, from production control by traditional processes. In order to reduce sulfur taking Fujian province as the major distribution market, to the products’ whole lifecycle, including “planning, emissions to the air, the project increased its capital input we will also distribute our products in the surrounding Ensuring the Energy Supply, and Propelling the design, production, and end product.” We are continuing to purchase the world-leading Claus sulfur recovery unit, provinces and on the international market. While making to improve our management to cut pollution from the Economy of the Western Taiwan Strait Region thus increasing the sulfur recovery rate to 99.8%. In terms contributions to China’s economic development, our very beginning, reduce energy use and emissions in the of water treatment, the project has a domestically-leading The Quanzhou Petrochemical project aims to ensure the business will also strongly support Fujian’s development production process, increase the efficiency of resource wastewater treatment plant to treat the oily wastewater energy supply through market-based instruments and by into a large modern petrochemical base in China, use, reduce or avoid pollution production and discharge in and salty wastewater produced by production units and making the best use of international oil resource. Its process and facilitate the growth of the western Taiwan Strait production and service processes, and reduce or eliminate supplementary systems, as well as the ballast water for route is based on the world-class process scheme of “residue region. For the construction of the project, Quanzhou damage to local people and the environment. ships, with the wastewater recovery rate reaching over hydrotreating + delayed coking + hydrocracking,” with its Petrochemical has hired many local people to manage the 80%. For railway and highway loading, the project has hydrogenation capacity reaching 11.50mt per annum. The transportation, property, and dining after receiving preAs to environmental protection and energy conservation, advanced oil and gas recovery systems to recover the oil ratio of hydrogenation capacity to the primary crude oil job training; all the construction contractors also hired Quanzhou Petrochemical insists that the design, and gas evaporated in the loading process, with a recovery process capacity is the highest in China. The project has a great amount of local labor, which promotes the local construction, and commissioning of environmentalrate reaching over 95%. great capacity for processing heavy and low-grade crude oil, economy and has enhanced local people’s labor market protection facilities and processing units are developed and is able to make full use of crude oil resources. Upon the competitiveness. in parallel. In order to enhance clean production, the Quanzhou Petrochemical project’s units and facilities project has injected over RMB 2 billion for environmental for environmental protection maximize reuse of four protection technology and unit improvement, which resources, including water, gas, byproducts from oil amounts to approximately 7% of the total capital input. refining, and solid resources, thus transforming the The project also uses a series of clean techniques in its economic model from the conventional “resourceprocess design that increase product quality and deepen product-pollutant discharge” to an advanced “resourcethe processing of crude oil, and reduce pollution to the product-renewable resource” model. maximum extent. The fuels used in the project are all clean gas fuels with desulfurization treatment, making Quanzhou Petrochemical a petrochemical company that uses clean energy throughout its production, thus realizing an air pollutant concentration rate much lower than the national emissions standard. For four of the 19 units in the 12mt/y refining project, we have brought in internationally advanced technology; the remaining 14 units’ capacity and technologies are leading in China. In order to reduce pollutant discharge, the project has adopted the most 56 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 57 Chart 1: Indicators of Project Resource and Energy Use FUTURE OUTLOOK Grade-1 Grade-2 Grade-3 Grade-4 Grading In the year 2011, the first year for China to implement its We will accelerate the building of our HSE management Comprehensive energy consumption ≤ 80 ≤ 85 ≤ 95 62.83 Reaching grade-1 standard Twelfth Five-year Plan, Sinochem Group will center on the system, and create a healthier, safer, and greener working (kg standard oil/t crude oil) environment. Based on the reality of the continuous goals, tasks, and requirements of its “Third Long March,” Water intake (t water/t crude oil) ≤ 1.0 ≤ 1.5 ≤ 2.0 0.45 Reaching grade-1 standard integrate CSR philosophy into our development strategies expansion of our industrial scale, we will enhance our and production operations, improve the company’s ability management of production safety, highlighting safe Reuse rate of treated water (%) ≥ 65 ≥ 60 ≥ 50 68.9 Reaching grade-1 standard to develop sustainably, and do our best to create more management on key areas and links. We will also improve value for our stakeholders. our capacity to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, doing our best to meet SASAC’s binding We will enhance our management system and increase targets. our corporate governance capacity. We will continue Chart 2: Indicators of Project Pollutant Production optimizing management systems at all levels, along with Treasuring talent and helping our employees to develop management efficiency, so as to meet our operations with the company. We take the refinement of leadership Grade-1 Grade-2 Grade-3 Grade-4 Grading targets. as our core goal, the introduction of high-caliber people as our guidance, and institutional innovation as our guarantee Oil type (kg/t crude oil) ≤ 0.025 ≤ 0.2 ≤ 0.45 0.024 Reaching grade-1 standard We will strengthen our capability to safeguard China’s to building a high-quality team with rational structure and energy and agricultural security, and help to improve size, the required capabilities, and is comprised of energetic Sulfide (kg/t crude oil) ≤ 0.005 ≤ 0.02 ≤ 0.045 0.004 Reaching grade-1 standard members. We will fully utilize the value of our employees people’s livelihoods. Aiming at becoming a company that satisfies the State, we will combine the company’s growth and try to achieve the goals of our “Third Long March” Volatile phenol (kg/t crude oil) ≤ 0.01 ≤ 0.04 ≤ 0.09 0.003 Reaching grade-1 standard together with them. with the demand of the country and society, promote national economic development and social progress, and COD (kg/t crude oil) ≤ 0.2 ≤ 0.5 ≤ 0.9 0.19 Reaching grade-1 standard make even greater contributions to the improvement of We will actively participate in socially-beneficial Chinese people’s lives. activities based on our own business. We combine the Industrial wastewater production ≤ 0.5 ≤ 1.0 ≤ 1.5 0.43 Reaching grade-1 standard characteristics of our five main business segments, including by processing pure crude oil (twater/t crude oil) We will increase our capacity to innovate, to market, energy, agriculture, chemical, finance, and real estate with and to serve our clients. By adhering to the marketing our ability to undertake socially-beneficial activities, making Strictly Conducting Process Control and service model that takes clients as our core, we will do our contribution to social harmony and progress. and Implementing Comprehensive Risk our best to create more value for our clients, meet clients’ Management demands, and achieve common development with our clients. Quanzhou Petrochemical project involves large capital In addition, the Quanzhou Petrochemical project integrates investment, a long construction cycle, extensive the management of suppliers, discipline inspection, professional outlays, and many uncertainties. In order auditing, and internal system building into the risk to deliver our commitments to the State, environment, management system to have a continuous and dynamic and community, Sinochem Group is implementing monitoring of project risks. a comprehensive risk management during project construction so as to manage the uncertainties in a In the management of the four major areas of the project, comprehensive, scientific and systematic manner, trying to including progress, quality, cost, and HSE, Quanzhou reach a balance between risk control and work efficiency, Petrochemical enhanced their ability to identify risks, and guarantee a successful completion of project made corresponding measures for each item, and construction. relied on information systems to strengthen their risk management capacity. For example, for HSE management, In 2010, Quanzhou Petrochemical further improved the during the construction period, the ratio of Quanzhou company charter, basic rules, special rules, and detailed Petrochemical project’s HSE management budget to implementation rules; made 42 company management the entire construction budget leads among domestic rules, published an engineering pamphlet (including projects. They also took measures to control wastewater 24 management rules) an HSE pamphlet (including treatment, smoke prevention, and solid waste disposal, 26 management rules) of the Project Management effectively reducing the impacts of the construction upon Manual, issued Risk Management Requirements and Risk local people and the environment. At the same time, Management Procedure Guidance, and improved the they enhanced contractor HSE management, and worked Quanzhou Petrochemical Project Risk Checklist for 2011. with the local authority to urge the contractors to make These measures were aimed at meeting the demand for improvements on HSE matters. In 2010, the accident rate system risk management and governance, as well as the per million working hours of the contractors for Quanzhou operations and management requirements in different Petrochemical project was 0.15, a leading level in the phases of project construction. industry. 58 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 59 Third Party Commentary Third Party Commentary This is Sinochem Group’s first edition of its Sustainable Development Report (hereafter I have read through the Sinochem Group 2010 Report on Sustainable Development referred to as the Report) after releasing four CSR reports in a row. The Report (hereafter referred to as the Report), and made the following comments: demonstrates the features of a conglomerate in realizing CSR targets, and is a model for Chinese enterprises that run diverse businesses in disclosing their performance on This is the first time Sinochem has issued its sustainable development report after achieving sustainable development. The Report has the following highlights: publishing its CSR report for four consecutive years. Generally speaking, the Report has the following features: First, the content of the Report is very informative. It discloses that facing all stakeholders, including the State, clients, environment, employees, and society, how Sinochem Group Firstly, it is in line with the disclosure requirements of COP (Communication on Progress) understands CSR concepts, and translates the concepts into specific measures that yield Policy of the United Nation Global Compact (UNGC). The Report has fully published results, which is evident in the extensive coverage of the Report; it also has an in-depth Sinochem’s progress on the UNGC’s Ten Principles in 2010, particularly disclosing progress report on Sinochem’s CSR highlights in response to each stakeholder’s concerns. For in the following aspects: the company’s compliance with state and local labor laws and example, the “client-centered” marketing and service model, Sinochem’s continuouslyenhancement of labor management; its business operations transparency and protection optimized HSE management system, and the caring scheme for retired employees of employees’ rights; its particular protection of the rights of female employees and all demonstrate the depth of its information disclosure. The report includes a Feature improvement of female employees’ capacities; a top-down Sinochem HSE system; its Report on the outstanding CSR practices in constructing the company’s key project—the tightened supervision on key areas and the abuse of power, and its comprehensive Quanzhou Petrochemical Refining Project -which reflects Sinochem’s CSR focus. corruption prevention system; and education on employees to have self-discipline and business ethics, all of which are aligned with UNGC’s COP disclosure requirements. Second, the Report builds a Sinochem CSR Matrix Chart that systematically demonstrates Sinochem’s CSR practices in each of its five main business sectors. Based on Sinochem’s Secondly, the philosophy of sustainable development runs through the Report. diverse business operations, the Report builds this CSR matrix to summarize the key According to the Report, Sinochem integrates sustainable development philosophy into content of the five business segments’ practices in CSR. On the one hand, it responds to its corporate operations and governance, which is reflected in Sinochem’s day-to-day the expectations of all stakeholders; on the other, it is convenient for each stakeholder to business operations and the daily work of every employee. It has established a responsible understand Sinochem’s work to fulfill CSR targets. corporate image that has a harmonious coexistence with the economy, society, and the environment, and endeavors to pursue sustainable development. Third, the Report has particular disclosure on how Sinochem’s involvement improves people’s lives, which is also a demonstration of Sinochem’s service to society and the Thirdly, the Report has a wide range of content with distinct characteristics. It discloses people. It reports on Sinochem’s contributions to providing people a happier life by that Sinochem has combined CSR with its five core business segments, including energy, meeting their demands for basic necessities, and by improving their medical care, agriculture, chemical, finance, and real estate. The Report shows Sinochem’s understanding education, and infrastructure. For instance, the Report shows how the company’s and practice on CSR both at the group level and in the five main business sectors, which plastics products and dyestuffs diversify people’s clothing and how the development fully demonstrates the company’s highlights and features in meeting CSR requirements. of its agricultural products improve people’s livelihoods, all of which are highlights of Sinchem’s CRS practices. Comment on the Report The Report is informative, logical, and highly readable. It meets UNGP’s latest requirements We are looking forward to seeing how Sinochem will integrate CSR into its daily business on annual communication on progress, and is a well-made report. operations during its “Third Long March” period; fulfill its mission of “becoming a great company that abides by its corporate social responsibility and commands respect Advice on Improvement worldwide;” enhances its sustainable development capacity; and builds a continuously I have the following advice to give Sinochem in terms of further improvement on the sustainable business. Report: First, the company may enhance its disclosure on the inner connection between the content of each chapter and Sinochem’s realization of sustainable development, highlighting the practice of sustainable development philosophy in Sinochem’s day-to-day operations; Second, it may enhance its disclosure on both internal and external stakeholders’ comments on Sinochem’s CSR work, so as to further increase the credibility of the Report; Third, Sinochem may make best use of its international platform and enhance its participation in both the domestic and international CSR matters to increase its right to speak in international operations, and improve the company’s soft power. Yin Gefei Vice President, China WTO Tribune Director, International Research Center for Social Chen Ying Responsibility & Sustainable Development, Peking Former Director of the Board of the United Nations Global Compact University Director of Beijing Rong Zhi Institute of Corporate Social Responsibility Director of Global Compact Network China May, 2011 May, 2011 60 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 61 全球报告倡议组织（GRI）指标索引（G3.1 版） 说明：披露程度一栏中，● 表示完全披露，○ 表示部分披露，○ 表示没有披露，N 表示不适用。 编号 GRI 指标内容 披露程度 在报告中的位置 编号 GRI 指标内容 披露程度 在报告中的位置 战略及分析 4.8 机构内部订定的使命或价值观、行为守则及关乎经济、环境及社会绩效的原则，及其实施现况 ● P8 1.1 机构最高决策者就可持续发展与机构及其战略关系的声明 4.9 最高管治机构对汇报机构如何确定和管理经济、环境及社会绩效（包括相关的风险、机遇）， ● P35 1.2 主要影响、风险及机遇的描述 ● P4-5 以及对机构有否遵守国际公认的标准、道德守则及原则的监督程序 机构简介 ● P4-5 4.10 评估最高管治机关本身绩效的程序，特别是有关经济、环境及社会绩效 ○ 2.1 机构名称 4.11 解释机构是否及如何按谨慎方针或原则行事 2.2 4.12 机构对外界发起经济、环境及社会约章、原则或其他倡议的参与或支持 ● P9-11 主要品牌、产品及（或）服务 ● P6 2.3 4.13 机构加入的一些协会（如业界联会）及（或）全国 / 国际倡议组织 ● P13 机构的营运架构，包括主要部门、营运公司、附属及合营机构 ● P6-7 2.4 机构总部的位置 ○ 4.14 机构引入的利益相关者群体清单 ● P13 P9 2.5 机构在多少个国家营运，在哪些国家有主要业务，哪些国家与报告所述的可持续发展事宜特别相关 4.15 界定及挑选要引入的利益相关者的根据 ● P15 2.6 ● P6 4.16 引入利益相关者的方针，包括按不同形式及组别引入利益相关者的频密程度 所有权的性质及法律形式 ○ 2.7 ○ P18,P53 4.17 利益相关者参与的过程中提出的主要项目及关注点，以及机构如何回应，包括以报告的回应 机构所供应的市场（包括地区细分、所供应的行业、客户受惠者的类型） ● P15 2.8 汇报机构的规模 ● P6 经济 ● P15 2.9 汇报期内机构规模、架构或所有权方面的重大改变 ● P7 EC1 创造和分配的直接经济价值，包括总收入、利润、营运成本、员工薪酬、捐助和其它社会投资、 2.10 ○ 汇报期内所获得的奖项 ● P6 留存收益、向政府和资本提供者支付的资金 EC2 机构因气候变化而采取的行动所带来的财务成本及其它风险和机会 ● P24,P51 报告规范 ○ P18,P21 3.1 信息汇报期（如财政年度 / 西历年） ○ EC3 机构固定福利计划的覆盖范围 P13 3.2 上一份报告的日期（如果有的话） EC4 政府给予机构的重大财务支持 ○ 3.3 汇报周期（如每年、每两年一次） EC5 在主要经营场所，按性别划分的工资的标准起薪点与当地最低工资标准的比率范围 ● P44 3.4 ● P1 EC6 在主要经营场所对从当地供应商采购的政策、制度和比例 查询报告或报告内容的联络点 N 3.5 ● P1 EC7 在主要经营场所雇用当地员工的程序和聘用当地高级管理人员的比例 界定报告内容的过程 ● P44 3.6 报告的界限（如国家、部门、附属机构、租用设施、合营机构、供应商） ● P1 EC8 通过商业活动、提供实物或免费专业服务而开展的主要面向大众福利的基础设施投资与服 3.7 ● P41 指出有关报告范围及界限的限制 ● P64 务及其影响 3.8 EC9 对其间接重大经济影响的理解与说明，包括该影响的程度和范围 ○ 根据什么基础，汇报合营机构、附属机构、租用设施、国外采购业务及其它可能严重影响不同 ● P14 环境 ● P51 汇报期及（或）不同机构间可比性的实体 ● P1 3.9 数据量度技巧及计算基准，包括用以编制指标及其它信息的各种估计所依据的假设及技巧 EN1 按重量或体积细分的原料总用量 3.10 ● P1 EN2 解释重整旧报告所载信息的结果及原因（例如合并 / 收购、基准年份 / 年期有变、业务性质、 所用原料中可循环再生材料的百分比 ● P52 ○ EN3 计算方法） 使用一次能源资源的直接能源消耗 3.11 EN4 使用一次资源的非直接能源消耗 报告的范围、界限及所有计算方法与以往报告的重大分别 ● P39-40 3.12 表列各类标准披露在报告中的位置 ● P1 EN5 通过采取节能措施和提高利用效率而节省的能源 3.13 EN6 ● P41 在可持续发展报告附带的认证报告中列出机构为报告外寻求外部认证的政策及现行措施。如没 ○ 为运用节能或可再生能源的产品和服务所进行的倡议活动，以及由于这些活动带来的能源 ● P39-40 有列出，请解释任何外部认证的范围及根据，并解释汇报机构与验证者之间的关系 需求减少量 ○ EN7 减少间接能源耗用的措施，以及措施所取得的成效 ● P39-40 管治、承诺及参与度 4.1 EN8 按源头划分的总耗水量 ● P39-41 4.2 机构的管治架构 ● P60-63 EN9 指出最高管治机关的主席有否兼任其他行政职位 因耗用水而严重影响到的水源 ● P40-41 4.3 ○ EN10 如机构属单一董事会架构，请指出最高管治机关中独立及（或）非执行成员的人数及性别 可循环再利用水所占的百分比和总量 4.4 EN11 机构在环境保护区或保护区毗邻地区及保护区之外生物多样性丰富的区域拥有、租赁或管 股东及雇员最高管治机关提出建议或经营方向的机制 ● P40-41 4.5 理的土地地理位置和面积 对最高管治机关成员、高层经理及行政人员的赔偿（包括离职安排），与机构绩效（包括社会 EN12 ○ P39 及环境绩效）之间的关系 ● P9 描述机构活动、产品和服务对保护区内及保护区之外生物多样性价值高的地区的生物多样性的 4.6 ○ 避免最高管治机关出现利益冲突的程序 ○ 重要影响 4.7 ○ EN13 受保护或已恢复的栖息地 ○ P39 如何决定最高管治机关及委员会成员应具备什么资格及经验，包括对性别及其它多元化因素的考虑 N ● P15 ○ ● P40-41 ● P9 ○ ● P8 62 ２０１０ 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2010 63 编号 GRI 指标内容 披露程度 在报告中的位置 编号 GRI 指标内容 披露程度 在报告中的位置 EN14 管理影响生物多样性的战略、当前采取的行动和未来的计划 ● P35-37 人权 EN15 按照生物濒临绝种的风险，依次列出处于受机构经营活动影响的、被列入国际自然及自然资源 ○ HR1 包含关注人权的条款或已经通过人权审查的重要投资协议与合同的总数及比例 保护联盟濒危物种红色名录（IUCN Red List）和国家保护名录的物种数量 HR2 已通过人权审查的重要供应商、承包商和其它商业伙伴的比例，及机构采取的行动 N EN16 按重量计算的直接或间接温室气体的排放 HR3 员工在工作所涉人权范围的相关政策及程序方面接受培训的总时间，包括受培训的员工比例 N ○ P40 EN17 按重量计算的其它相关间接温室气体排放 HR4 歧视个案的总数，和机构采取的改正行动 N EN18 减少温室气体排放的措施，以及其成效 ○ P41 HR5 已发现可能严重侵犯、危害结社自由和集体谈判权的运营活动及重要供应商，以及保障这些权 ● P43 EN19 按重量计算的臭氧消耗物质的排放量 ○ P40 利所采取的行动 N EN20 按照类型和重量计算的氮氧化物、硫氧化物以及其它对环境有重大影响的气体排放量 ○ P41 HR6 已发现可能会发生严重危害童工的运营活动及重要供应商，以及有助于消除使用童工的措施 EN21 按质量和目的地统计的总排水量 ○ P40 HR7 已发现可能会导致严重的强迫或强制劳动的运营及重要供应商，以及有助于消除所有形式的强 EN22 按种类和处理方法统计的废物总量 ○ P43 ○ P39 迫或强制劳动的措施 EN23 重大溢漏的总次数及漏量 HR8 保安人员在作业所涉人权范围的相关政策及程序方面接受培训的比例 ○ P43 ● P40-41 EN24 按重量计算的根据《控制危险废物越境转移及其处置的巴塞尔公约》附录 I、II、III、VIII 条款被 HR9 涉及侵犯土著人包括本地员工权利的个案总数，以及机构采取的措施 ● P36-37 视为危险废弃物的运输、进口、出口或处理数量，及国际范围内运输废弃物的百分比 HR10 取决于人权评审及 / 或影响评估的运营活动比例和总数 N EN25 受报告机构排放水和径流严重影响的水体以及相关栖息地的特征、规模、受保护状态和生物多 ○ HR11 通过正式不满处理机制被提及并解决的人权方面不满情况数 N 样性价值 社会 N EN26 减轻产品与服务对环境影响的措施及影响减轻的程度 ○ P39 SO1 实施了本地社区参与项目、影响评估与发展项目的运营活动比例 N EN27 可分类回收的售出产品及其包装材料 SO2 已作腐败风险分析的经营单位的总数和比例 EN28 因违反环境法律法规所受到重大经济罚款的数额和非经济制裁的次数 ● P40-41 SO3 已接受机构的反腐败政策及程序培训的员工比例 EN29 机构经营活动中的产品、其它货品和原材料运输和劳动力运输对环境造成的重大影响 SO4 ● P49-51,P53 ○ 回应腐败所采取的行动 EN30 按类型计算的环境保护的总支出和总投资 SO5 对公共政策的立场，以及参与公共政策的制定及游说的情况 ● P11 ● P36-37 劳工措施和合理工作 SO6 按国家划分，对政党、政治家和相关组织做出财务及实物捐献的总值 ● P11 LA1 ● P40-41 SO7 按雇用类型、雇用合同、地区及按性别划分的员工总数 涉及反竞争行为、反托拉斯和反垄断措施的法律诉讼的总数及其结果 ● P11 LA2 按年龄组别、性别及地区划分的新员工及员工流失总量和比例 ● P35-36,P39-41 SO8 因违反法律及法规而被严重罚款的总额，以及非罚款的制裁总数 N LA3 按主要业务划分，提供给予全职员工的而临时或兼职员工享受不到的福利 ● SO9 对本地社区具有重大潜在或实际负面影响的运营活动 N LA4 受集体谈判协议保障的员工比例 ● P43 SO10 在运营活动中为预防和减轻对本地社区产生的重大潜在或实际负面影响所采取的措施 LA5 ○ 向员工通报重大业务变化的最短通知期，包括指出该通知期是否在集体协议中订明 ○ 产品责任 LA6 在协助监管和咨询职业健康与安全计划的正式的管理劳资健康与安全委员会中，劳方代表的 PR1 ○ ● P44 为改良而评估产品及服务在其生命周期各阶段对安全和健康的影响，以及必须接受这种评估的 比例 ○ ● P44 重要产品和服务类别的比例 LA7 按照地区、性别划分的工伤率、职业病率、误工率（损失工作日比例）、缺勤率，以及工伤事 PR2 按结果划分，在产品和服务的生命周期中，在健康和安全方面违反法规和自愿性守则的事件总数 ● P40 ○ P44 PR3 故和职业疾病死亡人数 按照程序要求的产品及服务的信息种类，以及属于此类信息规定的重要产品和服务的比例 LA8 为帮助员工及家人或社区成员而推行的，关于严重疾病的教育、培训、咨询辅导、预防和风险 ○ P37 PR4 按结果划分，违反产品及服务信息和标签的法规及自愿性守则的事件总数 ● P31 控制的项目 PR5 客户满意度管理措施，包括客户满意度的调查结果 LA9 与工会达成的正式协议中涵盖的健康与安全议题 ○ P37 PR6 为符合与市场沟通（包括广告、推销和赞助）相关的法律、标准和自愿性守则而开展的措施 LA10 PR7 ○ 根据性别、员工类别划分，每位员工每年接受培训的平均时数 按结果划分，违反与市场沟通（包括广告、推销及赞助）相关的法规和自愿守则的次数 LA11 支持员工提高继续受聘能力，以及帮助员工处理好退职事宜的技能管理和终生学习计划 PR8 ○ P28 ○ P46 已被证实的关于侵犯客户隐私权及遗失客户资料的投诉总数 LA12 按性别划分的接受定期绩效和职业发展考评的员工比例 PR9 ○ 违反涉及产品和服务的提供与使用的相关法律及规定所受到的重罚金额 LA13 按照性别、年龄组别、少数族裔成员及其他多元化指标划分，说明各管理机构的成员和每类员 ● P32 ○ 工的组成细分 ● P32 LA14 按员工类别、重要运营地划分，男性与女性员工的基本工资比例 ● P45 ○ LA15 按照性别划分的育婴假后员工返岗率 ● P45 ○ ○ P44 ○ ● P43 ○ ○ 64 FEEDBACK FORM In order to improve Sinochem Group’s CRS work, we look forward to your feedback, which will be an important basis for our improvement. We hope to receive your valuable advice on our Report and our work. Your Information: Name: Company: Telephone: E-mail: Your Comments: In your opinion, the Report is: □ Very Good □ Good □ Medium □ Bad □ Very Bad In your opinion, the disclosure in the Report’s is: □ Very Informative □ Informative □ Medium □ Somewhat Informative □ Not Informative In your opinion, the quality of the information disclosure in the Report is: □ Very High □ High □ Medium □ Low □ Very Low In your opinion, the structure of the Report is: □ Very Good □ Good □ Medium □ Bad □ Very Bad In your opinion, the layout design of the Report is: □ Very Good □ Good □ Medium □ Bad □ Very Bad Your thoughts and suggestions on Sinochem Group’s CSR work as well as on the compilation and publication of its sustainable development report: Contact: General Administrative Office Sinochem Group Address: Central Tower F11, Chemsunny World Trade Center, Fuxingmennei Street 28, Beijing, China Post Code: 100031 Telephone: +86 10 59568926 Fax: +86 10 59568890 E-mail: songyang02@sinochem.com
