Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader leading green power for a cleaner tomorrow 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Report Overview Purpose • This is the second Sustainability Report of KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, Inc (hereinafter referred to as “KEPCO E&C”). The report contains progress and achievements KEPCO E&C has made so far in terms of economic, social and environmental responsibilities. In particular, a new chapter, “KEPCO E&C Highlight” is added to this report to reflect key concerns of interested parties and shareholders. Great efforts have been made to improve reliability of this report compared with its previous report through third parties’ verification. Guidelines • This report is based on the G3 Guidelines of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the GRI Index table is appendix. Period and Scope • The reporting period spans from January 1 2008 to December 31 2010 based on fiscal years, and the data is presented sequentially for the last three years for easy comparison on the three year’s achievements. For some non-measurement achievements, the report covers some progress that has been made when the 2011 report is published. This report is mostly based on the data of KEPCO E&C headquarters in Youngin (including annex building) and NSSS Division in Daejeon. Currency units used in this report are both Korean won (￦)”and “American dollar (US＄)”. For 3 2 measurement units, the metric system which encompasses kW, MW, Ton, m , m and kg is used. This report is published every other year. Method and Verification • This report was developed by allowing major insiders of entire areas to gather important information, and to be involved in its development process. The report is approved by the management. More importantly, third party’s verification was made in a bid to improve this report’s fairness and reliability, and the verification results are attached as an appendix. Distribution and Contacts • Opinions and feedback about this report from all kinds of interested parties can reach us in various channels such as website, postal service, email, mobile phone and so on. For further information or comments, please contact us through one of the following ways. • Homepage: www.kepco-enc.com • Department: Management Planning Team of Management Planning Division • Tel: 82-31-289-3103 • Fax: 82-31-289-4419 • E-mail: yumeeko@kepco-enc.com c o n t e n t s 08 CEO’s Message 49 Economic Value 10 KEPCO E&C Highlights 50 Financial Performance 12 Company Overview 53 Prospect for Global Power Plant Market & Exploration of New Business 19 Sustainability Management 55 Improvement of Management Efficiency 20 KEPCO E&C's Vision and Structure 58 Customer Satisfaction 21 Risk Management 27 Ethics Management 59 Special Report: Design Safety 30 Innovative Management 31 Quality Management 61 Social Value 34 Communication with Stakeholders 62 KEPCO E&C’s Employees 74 Win-Win Policy with Partners 35 KEPCO E&C's Technology Development & 78 KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management Business Performance 36 KEPCO E&C’s Technology Management 81 Environmental Value 39 Effort and Performance of Eco-Friendly 82 Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management System Technology Development 86 Eco-Friendly Office Management Activity 41 Status on Eco-Friendly and New & Renewable Energy Business 89 Appendix 46 Progress on Main Construction of Nuclear and 90 Third Party’s Assurance Report Thermal Power Plant 92 GRI Index 96 UNGC 97 ISO 26000 98 Organization and Association 99 Awards Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader leading green power for a cleaner tomorrow 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Let us share a cleaner and purer world along with our customers and interested parties. KEPCO E&C is willing to carry out our responsibility to the fullest from the economic, environmental and social perspectives by taking a sustainable management mechanism, while at the same time becoming a Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader taking the lead in a global energy market on the basis of superior technical skills. CHALLENGE KEPCO E&C is the future of the global energy market KEPCO E&C will raise its corporate values through technology development and exploration of new markets, ranging from NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS TO THERMAL POWER PLANTs AND ECO-FRIENDLY & renewable BUSINESS, taking the lead in pursuing technological development both in Korea and abroad, and laying the foundation for creating an ideal place where the present generation and the next generation can prosper in harmony. 2 3 EXCELLENCE KEPCO E&C’s sustainable growth stands shoulder to shoulder with all stakeholders KEPCO E&C will continuously pursue a stakeholder-oriented, sustainable management to give the greatest satisfaction to our customers, the deepest reliability to our employees, quality innovation and development to our partners, and charity and caring to our community. 4 5 creative sustainable management will be based on a corporate ideology of HUMANEERING, HARMONY OF HUMANITY, the ENVIRONMENT and ENGINEERING KEPCO E&C will be a Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader that pursues a progressive corporate philosophy by developing ecofriendly technologies that enhance our economic, social, and environmental values and by sincerely fulfilling our responsibilities as corporate citizens. 6 7 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report CEO's Message We will take the lead in sustainable growth of human beings by meeting customer values with the best technology. Distinguished families of KEPCO E&C! We would like to express our deepest appreciation for your continuous support and encouragement shown to KEPCO E&C. We are very happy to be able to present the second report of 2010 Sustainability Management Report. The past two years have been a stepping stone for KEPCO E&C to take off. To prepare for another ten years, KEPCO E&C is establishing mid-and-long term management plans based on its strategic directions for 2020, and setting up its 2020 NEW VISION as a “Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader” to become a world-class enterprise. And, KEPCO E&C’s excellent technologies, stability and price competitiveness have been recognized in the global market by winning a contract for the UAE nuclear power plants. In addition, KEPCO E&C was awarded the grand prize of the Most Admired Corporation in Korea, with record high sales of KRW 580 billion. All of which lay the foundation for a driving engine to becoming an internationally-recognized company. The world economy’s response to climate change has become the talk of the town and is pursuing sustainable growth for human 8 beings, and efforts to fulfill companies’ social responsibility are being made. 9 To live up to global expectations, KEPCO E&C, on the basis of our corporate philosophy of Humaneering , Harmony of “Humanity, the Environment and Engineering”, will do its part to comply with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and become a world-class enterprise. First of all, we will do our utmost to improve the quality and safety of the design of our nuclear and thermal power plants. Catastrophic natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis continuously occur all over the world. It is true that people cannot perfectly respond to such calamities. In that regard, KEPCO E&C, as a company responsible for designing nuclear power plants, will endeavor to put high quality and safety of plant design as its top priority, and encourage all interested parties and stakeholders to do their parts when it comes to the company’s recognition of excellent technology from all around the world. Second, we will enhance corporate values by securing our own driving force based on sustained reform and innovation. KEPCO E&C has made great progress on its management level, for example, by winning the UAE nuclear power plant contract, accomplising record high sales; by strengthening management efficiency based on encouragement from company-wide innovation activities such as cost management; by TDR (Tear-Down & Redesign), etc. Most important of all, KEPCO E&C will definitely commit to increasing global sales by enhancing the capability of executives and the company’s structural system itself, and by strategically focusing on the export of technology for the Korean Standardized Nuclear Plant, EPC Business Projects and so on. Third, we will take the lead in resolving environmental issues by developing eco-friendly technologies. KEPCO E&C is putting the wheels in motion to develop eco-friendly technologies in order to enrich human’s future lives with a corporate belief of ‘Humaneering, Harmony of “Humanity, the Environment and Engineering’. Particularly, we spent 3 years developing a Hybrid SCR deNOx system, and applied the system to Unit 6 of Ulsan Thermal Power Plant, thereby bringing about an import substitution effect of KRW 200 billion; an economic saving of about KRW 330 billion per year; and a reduction in green house gas emissions of 5,600 tons. KEPCO E&C will never stop making efforts to pursue activities for environmental protection; and will join global efforts to protect the environment as a leader in eco-friendly management. Fourth, we will become a reliable company that all interested parties and stakeholders can rely on by sincerely fulfilling social responsibilities. Being awarded the Grand Prize of “The Most Admired Corporation” for two consecutive years shows that KEPCO E&C has lived up to its ideal of customer satisfaction and respect for humans as a responsible member of the society. Furthermore, we will do our part to become a reliable company respected by all interested parties and stakeholders by improving the quality of life of all employees. This is one of the core values a company should pursue by building cooperative labor relations based on solid trust; by cooperating with partners and suppliers; and by contributing to the development of local communities and national economic growth. KEPCO E&C is open to opinions and comments from all interested parties and people concerned, and will become a leading company in the world, while at the same time sustaining growth. We look forward to your continuous interest, support and encouragement. Thank you very much. JULY, 2011 KEPCO E&C President & CEO An, Seung-Kyoo 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report K EPCO E & C H i g h l i g h t s 1. 2020 NEW VISION Declaration • In commemoration of the 34th anniversary of KEPCO E&C’s foundation on October 2009, KEPCO E&C declared its 2020 NEW VISION of a “Global Power EPC Company realizing customer values based on top-notch technology.” KEPCO E&C established mid and long term strategies for becoming one of the 5 major companies in the power plant sector in the world targeting a sales objective of KRW 5 trillion by 2020. In addition, KEPCO E&C presented its clear management objectives and strategies to executives and employees. 2. IPO on KOSPI Market • KEPCO E&C was listed in the KOSPI market on December 2009 in order to secure core technologies earlier than others and to improve management transparency by allowing private and nongovernmental bodies to participate in KEPCO E&C’s management process in accordance with the public institution advancement plan. KEPCO’s shares of 20%, the largest shareholder, were sold in the KOSPI market. With nuclear power becoming one of the most reasonable alternatives as oil prices and environmental problems are on the rise, domestic institutional investors forecast bright views on the IPO. And first and most importantly, thanks to the news about scheduled plans for construction of as many as 300 nuclear power plants over the next 20 years, its initial public offering price was set at KRW 21,600 as soon as the market was opened, and the price has since been increasing continuously. 3. UAE Nuclear Power Plant Contract • As KEPCO won the project for nuclear power plants ordered by UAE (United Arab Emirates) on December 2009, KEPCO and KEPCO E&C, who participated as one of the members of the consortium, have signed a contract for UAE Nuclear Power Plant’s Architecture Engineering, and KEPCO E&C has signed a contract for provision of UAE Reactor System Design with Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction Co. Therefore, their total worth of the contracts regarding the UAE Nuclear Power Plants amounts to approximately KRW 831.2 billion. This project is about the construction of four Advance Power Reactors (APR 1400), and their expected schedule for completion of the construction is by 2020. 4. Development of ‘Hybrid SCR deNOx System’ • ‘Hybrid SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction) deNOx System’ developed by KEPCO E&C was applied to Unit 6 of the Ulsan Thermal Power Plant, and as a result, on July 2010, a completion ceremony was held in the headquarters of Ulsan Thermal Power Plant of Korea East-West Power Co., LTD. The system, an R&D project for power generation led by the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy, was a great accomplishment by spending KRW 10.5 billion over the past 3 years since August 2007 in order to supplement facilities in accordance with tightened regulations on the discharge of nitrogen oxides and to resolve problems raised during low-load operation of the SCR system. 5. New CI Declaration • On July 2010, the company name in English was changed to KEPCO E&C during a general meeting of stockholders, and a new CI was declared. Its previous English company name of ‘KOPEC (Korea Power Engineering Company, Inc.)’ used since 1982 was changed to ‘KEPCO E&C (KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, Inc.)’ while the company name in Korean will remain unchanged. The name change aims to reaffirm its commitment in the aspect of visualization for strong commitment to EPC business’ facilitation, enhancement of reputation at home and abroad, giving motivation to employees, and strengthening global competitiveness through integration of all brands engaged in generation and power plants in accordance with its NEW VISION of a ‘Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader’ declared in October 2010. 10 11 6. Completion of Research Project for Verification of Korean Standardized Desulfurization Plant for Boryeong Units 1 & 2 • This research project for verification of Korean standardized desulfurization plant was one of the national initiatives led by the Korean government in an effort to gain independent technologies for facilities to prevent environment pollution. Its capability was great. Dust and sulfates (SOX) which are the major atmospheric pollutants of coal-fired power plants were significantly reduced by 95% or more as a result of performance tests conducted before the completion ceremony was held. Therefore, our desulfurization technologies could stand shoulder to shoulder other advanced countries. By taking this critical opportunity, we will make contributions to strengthening national competitiveness based on strict willingness for environment preservation and gradually-increasing exports. For such an accomplishment, we will put our every effort into exploring sophisticated technologies. 7. Award of Grand Prize for the Most Admired Corporation in ‘2010 Korea Management Grand Prize’ • ‘Korea Management Grand Prize’, a great award presented by national authority, is awarded to companies that are considered to be reliable and respectful on society-wide level by satisfying customers based on excellent quality and productivity, respecting people, and fulfilling social responsibilities as corporate citizens. In particular, ‘Grand Prize for The Most Admired Corporation’ is the most honorable award which is presented to special companies who highly enhance values of interested parties and stakeholders through continuous activities when it comes to management innovation. KEPCO E&C will put its shoulder to the wheel to be a respectful company by getting global competitiveness through sustainable management innovation and quality enhancement, and by putting corporate social responsibilities into practice through social contribution, win-win management and eco-management. 8. Award of Grand Prize for Project of This Year 2010 • KEPCO E&C was awarded a grand prize for ‘Project of This Year’ in its area of “Development and Support for Implementation Program for Maintenance Regulations” in the 2010 Regular Symposium organized by Korea Project Management Association (KPMA). The ‘Project of This Year’ is awarded to companies who made great accomplishments and progress through proactive, systematic project management (PM) after developing project management systems that are commensurate with the organization. This award is one of the internationally-renowned prizes along with ‘Project of the Year Award’ presented by Project Management Institute, USA. 9. Agreement for Project of the Biggest Offshore Wind Power Pilot Project with Jeju Island • KEPCO E&C agreed on specific details about the Offshore Wind Power Pilot Project including feasibility study, commencement of basic study, financing, and utilization of the site in the signing ceremony held in Jeju Provincial Government Office on December 2010. When this project is completed, 298,000 MWh can be generated per year, which accounts for approximately 9% of total electricity consumption. And it is expected that sales revenue of KRW 64.9 billion can be made. In addition, KEPCO E&C plans to obtain greenhouse gas credits of 207,210 tons per year by reporting the reduction effect to the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) of the United Nations. Management Performance (Unit: KRW 1million) 10. Accomplishment of Record High Management Performance 2010 Net Income Operating Income Sales • KEPCO E&C has made record high performance in 2010 since its foundation thanks to winning 580,154 contracts worth of KRW 1.2 trillion, total sales of KRW 580.154 billion which is a 31.2% increase year-on-year, 442,324 347,292 operating income of KRW 170.373 billion which is a 76.1% increase year-on-year, and net profit of the year 170,373 of KRW 114.258 billion which is a 70.9% increase compared to the previous year. To achieve these integrated 141,258 96,725 82,648 results, many factors were combined such as a sales increase in design business for nuclear power plants, 27,462 20,112 and newly-initiated projects as well as reduction in business costs. Without any delay, KEPCO E&C will exert every effort to speed up global business initiatives from a sustainable growth perspective to demonstrate the 2010 2009 2008 superiority of our technical capability. 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report C o m pa n y Ov e r v i e w G e n era l KEPCO E&C, was founded in 1975 for the purpose of obtaining independent plant engineering technologies, mostly focusing on business with regard to construction of nuclear plants, thermal plants, environment & new renewable energy business, O&M for in-service plants, and Project Management/Construction Management (PN/CM). For engineering projects for domestic power plants and project management & construction management, KEPCO E&C has independently conducted design engineering works ordered by Korea Hydro Nuclear Power (KHNP). For overseas nuclear power plants, KEPCO E&C engages in projects in the form of technological support. When it comes to thermal power plant design, KEPCO E&C concentrates on design and engineering for thermal and combined-cycle power plants. It also participates in the design process organized by not only KEPCO E&C’s subsidiaries but also private companies. As for overseas business regarding thermal power plants, KEPCO E&C either signs exclusive contracts or comes to an agreement by cooperating with major companies in Korea and Korea Electric Power Corporation Group. Sales from design business for nuclear and thermal power plants account for the vast majority of KEPCO E&C’s revenue. According to the public institution advancement plan on December 2009 by the Korean government, KEPCO E&C was listed in the KOSPI market in a bid to secure core technologies earlier than others, and to strengthen management transparency, 20% of KEPCO’s shares were sold. Additionally, KEPCO E&C was declared the new vision of a ‘Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader’. And in 2010, it changed its company name in English from KOPEC (Korea Power Engineering Company, Inc.) to KEPCO E&C (KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, Inc.) for the first time in 28 years for the purpose of raising reputation and global recognition, and to boost competitiveness to expand into overseas markets. As of late of December 2010, record high performance has been accomplished ever since its foundation with total assets of KRW 587.8 billion and net profit for the year of KRW 141.2 billion. K E P C O E & C ’ s H i stor y 1970s 1990s 2000s 1975  1995  2000  Founded Korea Atomic Burns & Roe (A joint venture 1995 Completion of new headquarters in Youngin, and Awarded CNS John S. Hewitt Team Achievement between KAERI and Burns & Roe) relocation to Youngin Award in Canada (Wolsong Units 2 4) Awarded “The World Best Project” by Power EngineerObtained the patent for Low Temperature NeNOx Cataing, USA (Youngkwang Units 3 & 4) lyst technology 1980s 1996 2001  1982  Awarded “The World Excellent Power Plant” by Electric Awarded “The World Best Project” by Power EngineerReorganized into Korea Power Engineering Co., Ltd. Power International, USA (Boryeong Units 3 & 4) ing, USA (Dangjin Units 1 4) Founded R & D Center for Electric Technology Awarded “The World Best Project” by Power Engineer2003 ing, USA (Taean Units 1 & 2) Received government-issued certificate of New Tech1987  nology (NT) for Low Temperature NeNOx Catalyst techSelected as Prime Contractor for Architect Engineering 1997 nology of Youngkwang Units 3 & 4 Acquisition of Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS) business area from Korea Atomic Energy Research Ranked the first in the evaluation of execution of conInstitute struction management (CM) 1999  Selected Low Temperature NeNOx Catalyst technology Acquired certificate for ISO 9001 Quality Management as “The World Best Next Generation” System 2005 Acquired Nuclear Safety Mark of SAREX® 2006 Registered patent for source technology of Low Temperature NeNOx Catalyst 12 13 (As of December 31, 2010) Company Name KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, INC. President & CEO An, Seung-Kyoo Foundation October 2, 1975 Address 2354, Yonggudaero, Guheung-gu, Youngin-si, Gyeonggi-do Design Engineering of nuclearㆍthermal power plants/Environment & Renewable Energy Main Business Plants in operation’s O&M/Project and Construction Management (PMㆍCM) Total Assets KRW 587,798 million Total Sales KRW 580,154 million Net Income for the Year KRW 141.258 million Workforce 2,041 Persons KEPCO (77.94%), Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute (2.06%), Shareholder Employee Stock Ownership Association (3.23%) Others (16.77%) IPO KOSPI (2009, KRX) Credit Rating AA (Korea Ratings Corporation) KEPCO E&C’s Role KEPCO E&C has undertaken, based on the efforts and passion of our employees over a period of 36 years, the core business of domestic power plants by conducting activities including design of nuclearㆍhydroelectricㆍthermal power plants, development of new engineering technologies, and technical support for plants in operation. Moreover, KEPCO E&C specializes in both Architect/Engineering (A/E) and Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS) design for nuclear power plants, making it the first such enterprise in the world. Based on its accumulated design and engineering technologies and years of experience in the power sector, KEPCO E&C is expanding into such diverse areas of new business as green projects like Energy Service Company (ESCO) as well as government-led construction management projects including high-speed railroad and new airports. Awarded Grand Prize for “Corporate Social Responsicategory of Research and Development Completed development of Hybrid De-Nox SCR System bility” Awarded Grand Prize for “Customer Satisfaction ManAcquired certificated for OHSAS 18001 Safety Health Acquired ISO 14001 Environment Management System agement” and “Productivity” in Korea Management Management System Certficate Awarded Grand Prize for “Corporate Social Responsi2010 Awarded Grand Prize for “The Most Admired En2007 bility” (in the area of Volunteering) terprise” Joined UN Global Compact 2009 2010 Selected as Best Enterprise for Quality CompetiAwarded Grand Prize in the category of Management Selected as Best Enterprise for 2009 Quality Competitiveness Innovation of Vision 2007 Korea Innovative Enterprise tiveness 2010 Awarded Grand Prize for “This Year's Best ProjAwarded Grand Prize in the category of Productivity Declared ‘2020 New Vision’ ect” in the category of Research and Development Selected as Best Enterprise in the category of Quality Awarded Grand Prize for “The Most Admired EnterCommenced Test Bed Project for Korea Standardized Competitiveness prise” in Korea Management Flue Gas Desulfurization Facility (Boryeong Units 1 & 2) Awarded Grand Prize for “Corporate Social ResponsiCompleted building of NeNOx Catalyst Plant in GangSigned a contract on Architect Engineering Service for bility” (Volunteering) neung UAE Nuclear Power Plant Awarded Grand Prize for Labor-Management Culture Listed on KOSPI Signed a supply contract of NSSS for UAE Nuclear Power Plant 2008 Won contract for UAE nuclear power plant Registered as New Renewable Energy Enterprise Changed company name in English to KEPCO E&C 2010 Awarded Grand Prize in National Environment Manage2010 Opened KEPCO E&C Human Resources Development presented by the Minister of Environment Ministry ment Institute Selected as Best Enterprise for Quality Competitiveness Completed construction of ESCO Project for thermal power plant in Youngdong and Combined-cycle power Awarded Grand Prize for “This Year Best Project” in the plant in Ilsan 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report C o m pa n y Ov e r v i e w O rga n i z at i o n Headquartered in Youngin, KEPCO E&C has 3 functional divisions with their respective senior executives, as well as 1 NSSS Division located in Daejeon. Executive Auditor President & CEO Auditing Department Quality Assurance & HSE (Health, Safety & Environment) Department Planning & Marketing Division Nuclear Division Plant Division NSSS Division Management Planning Dept. Business Dept. Business Dept. Business Dept. Administration & Finance Dept. Nuclear Engineering Dept. EPC Business Dept. Nuclear System Engineering Dept. Technology Strategy Dept. Mechanical Engineering Dept. Mechanical & Plant Design Engineering Dept. Mechanical System Engineering Dept. Marketing Dept. Plant Design Dept. Electrical, Instrumentation & Control Engineering Dept. Instrumentation & Control System Engineering Dept. Human Resources Dept. Electrical Engineering Dept. Civil & Architectural Engineering Dept. Civil & Architecture Technology Dept. IT Strategy & Planning Dept. Instrumentation & Control Engineering Dept. Environmental Technology Group Safety Analysis Dept. Subcontract & Procurement Dept. Civil & Architecture Engineering Dept. New & Renewable Energy Group 00 Project KEPCO E&C Power Engineering Project Management Dept. 00 Project Training Center Engineering IT Dept. 00 Project Power Engineering Research Institute 00 Technical Research 14 15 B u s i n ess A rea Domestic Name Address Headquarters 2354, Yonggudaero, Guheung-gu, Youngin-si, Gyeonggi-do, 446-713 Bundang Office Bundang M-Tower, , 8 Gumi-ro, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, 463-870 Jukjeon Offfice 3rd and 4th Floor, Daou Digital Square, 23-7, Jukjeon-dong, Sugi-gu, Youngin-si, Gyeonggi-do, 448-160 NSSS Division 989-113, Daedeokdae-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, 305-353 Overseas Category Name Address Representative Office KEPCO E&C Representative Office 3905 National DR STE 410 Brutonsville, MD 20866, U.S.A Emirates Tower Building 1st floor-wing A, The Avenue Business Centre, Branch Office KEPCO E&C UAE BRANCH PO Box 33763, Hamdan Street, AbuDhabi, U.A.E KEPCO E&C Branch Office Acaria Plaza Building #305, Olaya Street, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia Branch 28 Floor, Three Pacific Place, Affiliate KEPCO Asia International Ltd. 1 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong A ssoc i ated C ompa n y Company Name Main Business Homepage Address Remarks Korea Electric Power Corporation Electricity Supply www.kepco.co.kr Listed Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Power Development and Power Generation www.khnp.co.kr Unlisted Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd. Power Development and Power Generation www.kosep.co.kr Unlisted Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. Power Development and Power Generation www.komipo.co.kr Unlisted Korea Western Power Co., Ltd. Power Development and Power Generation www.westernpower.co.kr Unlisted Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. Power Development and Power Generation www.kospo.co.kr Unlisted Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. Power Development and Power Generation www.ewp.co.kr Unlisted KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Co., Ltd. Operation and Maintenance www.kps.co.kr Listed KEPCO Nuclear Fuel Nuclear Fuel Design and Manufacturing www.knfc.co.kr Unlisted KEPCO Knowledge, Data & Network Co., Ltd. Electric Power IT Services www.kdn.com Unlisted 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report C o m pa n y Ov e r v i e w M a i n B u s i n ess Business 1 KEPCO E&C holds core technologies for Nuclear Power Plant Architect Engineering (A/E) and Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS) design based on independent design techniques and abundant experience, and provides design and engineering services that are proven to be safe and economical for a variety of customers at home and abroad with sophisticated skills and know how about world-class design of nuclear power plants. For Kori Units 1 & 2, which are the first nuclear power plants in Korea, KEPCO E&C participated in a limited area by depending on foreign design technologies. However, Korean standardized nuclear power plant of OPR 1000 was developed in 1995 through strenuous efforts to get independent design technology . OPR 1000 design has been applied to Ulchin Units 3 through 6 and Yonggwang Units 5 & 6, and they are still being operated. Afterwards, Korean standardized nuclear power plant of OPR+ was developed with improved safety and economical efficiency. Currently Shin-Kori Units 1 & 2 and Shin-Wolsong Units 1 & 2 are being built using the OPR+ design. In addition, Advanced Power Reactor of APR 1400, which is regarded as the next-generation reactor that can contribute to national competitiveness, was developed in 2002, and Shin-Kori Units 3 & 4 and Shin-Ulchin Units 1 & 2 are under construction using the APR 1400. APR 1400 also was exported to UAE’s first nuclear power plant. KEPCO E&C is fully committed to develop APR+ (Improved APR 1400). Yonggwang 3 6 Optimized • Improved Safety OPR1000 Ulchin 3 6 Power • Improved Construction, Operation and Maintenance Shin-Wolsong 1 & 2 Improved • Optimized Design for Building Layout OPR+ Shin-Kori 1 & 2 Power Reactor • Optimized System Design and Facility Capacity Shin-Kori 3 & 4 • Large Capacity of 1400MW Advanced APR1400 • Unique model with dramatic improvement of economical efficiency and safety Shin-Ulchin 1 & 2 Power Reactor • Strategic reactor for export UAE Nuclear Power Plant 1 2 APR+ Improved APR • Newly improved light water reactor of 1500MW 16 17 Business 2 KEPCO E&C has dedicated itself to providOperation & Maintenance ing comprehensive technological support in order to improve safety and capability, operability and maintainability have been upgraded for 21 units currently in operation in Korea. As part of such a vast task, KEPCO-E&C carries out evaluation of Probabilistic Safety Assessment (PSA), a method of assessing the total safety of nuclear power plants on the probabilistic mechanism, for the nuclear units to ensure safety and to provide costbenefit analysis on life extension of the units. Business 3 KEPCO E&C has managed to hold worldThermal Power Plant class design and engineering technologies in the field of coal-fired thermal power, combined cycle power and cogeneration power plants, as a result of combined efforts of development of various design technologies about thermal power plants and systemization of power generation business based on differently-applicable customizing structure. In 1987, KEPCO E&C developed architect technology for Korean standardized coal-fired thermal plant of 500 MW through which 34 standard coal-fired power plants are in operation. Its next, the 800MW model, was developed, followed by ultra-super-critical architect engineering technology for thermal power plants of 1000MW in 2007, units of which are now being designed in Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Units 9 & 10, Shin-Boryeong Units 1 & 2, and Samcheok Thermal Power Plant Units 1 & 2. Donghae 1 & 2 Coal-Fired • CFBC Boiler 200MW Yeongwol 3 Plant • Improved Compatibility of Fuel Use (Used Korean Anthracite) Boryeong 3 8 Korea Standard • Ultra Super Critical Steam & High-Efficiency Operation 500MW Taean 1 8 Coal-Fired • Eco-Friendly Design & Engineering Plant Dangjin 1 8 Yomghung 1 4 Korea • Use of Advanced Super-Critical Steam Standard 800MW • Enhanced Fuel Efficiency with higher Steam Temperature Coal-Fired • Designed with 3D CAD Model Plant Dangjin 9 & 10 Korea • High Efficiency of Ultra Super-Critical Pressure Standard 1000MW • Large Capacity of 1000MW Shin-Boryeong 1 & 2 Coal-Fired • Completed its Development in 2007 Plant Sancheok 1 & 2 KEPCO E&C has been involved in construction of cogeneration power plants in new cities of metropolitan areas with an aim of minimizing negative impact on the environment, making contributions to national economic development and upgrading benefits for citizens. As such, KEPCO E&C has participated in the construction of a total of about 30 Cogeneration and Combined-Cycle Power Plants, starting from the Seoincheon Combined-Cycle Power Plant. When it comes to expanding into overseas markets, big strides are still being made by providing services; technical support toward owner’s engineering of the Illijan Combined Cycle Power Plant in the Philliphines; and design and engineering services in the electrical area for the Fujairah Water and Power Plant in UAE; AFAM VI (650MW Combined Cycle Power Plant), Nigeria; Misurata & Benghazi Power Plants, Libya and so forth. 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report C o m pa n y Ov e r v i e w Business 4 KEPCO E&C is sincerely setting in motion Eco-Friendly and NEW & conservation of the environment. In parRENEWABLE Energy ticular, KEPCO E&C holds world-renowned technologies, particularly in the area of air pollution control facilities. It also designs and constructs innovative facilities such as ‘Flue Gas Denitrification System’, which is designed to remove sulfur oxides (this is one of the main causes of acid rain and respiratory-related diseases) from the atmosphere, and ‘Flue Gas Denitrification System’, which removes nitric oxide (this is one of main causes of photochemistric smog). Those systems have been applied to thermal power plants in Korea. On the one hand, Low Denitrification Systems of KoNoxⓇ was developed and its patent registration process has been initiated. On the other hand, KEPCO E&C has never stopped investing in doing environmental protection activities including conducting environmental impact assessment, installation of water pollution control facilities and waste treatment facilities, and pursuit of business for greenhouse gas emissions reduction, while in turn accumulating millions of hours of execution and experience. All of these endeavors are part of the company’s response to a global market expansion with regard to environmental changes, specifically in preparation for the Climate Change Convention, Carbon Emission Credits, and so on. It is also essentially to recognize that KEPCO E&C, as one of leading enterprises specialized in new recycling energy, is moving forward to do research on how to manage energy efficiency especially in line with wind, solar, water, and waste energy sectors, and to do business in a strategic manner. All of such efforts are being done from a broad perspective in order to actively respond to an ever-changing paradigm in the international energy industry. Therefore, when new & renewable energy expands, KEPCO E&C’s engagement in the market will be expanded. Business 5 KEPCO E&C has expanded its business Project and Construction areas since early 1990’s ranging from Management (PM·CM) general construction (civil engineering, architecture, etc.), electrical works, and environmental pollution controlling activities (air and water quality, etc.) to new & renewable energy sectors. To do that, it acquired business licenses and has successfully been conducting its business in such areas. In particular, KEPCO E&C participated, as a project management consultant, in the Seoul-Busan High Speed Railway Project and Incheon International Airport Project, the largest and biggest infrastructure projects ever in Korea. By carrying out such huge national projects, in particular, in the area of construction management, procurement control, and supervision, KEPCO E&C accumulates its own technologies to secure every resource and capability to enhance international competitiveness, and earns widespread global recognition at the same time. *PM: Program/Project Management *CM: Construction Management SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 18 ● 19 Sustainable performance will be Carried out in the areas of economy, environment and society by pursuing Development along with our shareholders. KEPCO E&C will put an improvement of corporate values in place, and live up to a sustainable management which is one of new standards in international society to become a world-class power plant major enterprise combining the concepts of humanity, environment and technology. KEPCO E&C will redefine our corporate values and we will try to implement a sustainable management practice to be in line with the new international standards. By combining the values of humanity, environment and technology, we hope to become a world-class power plant enterprise. S U S T A IN A B ILI T Y M A N A G E M E N T KEPCO E&C’s Vision and Structure • KEPCO E&C declared“2020 NEW Vision”on October 1, 2009 as a steppingstone on its way to become a world-class power plant EPC enterprise. To realize this goal, KEPCO E&C set up three major mid-long term plans; “Strengthening Total Solution Business”; Business Expansion to Global Markets; and Sustainable Technology Development.”KEPCO E&C, by pursuing such strategical plans, will take the lead in becoming one of the world five major power EPC companies for which it has specific objectives of total sales of KRW 5 trillion, sales in EPC of KRW 4 trillion, and overseas sales of KRW 3 trillion by 2020. 2020 NEW VISION and Strategy 2010 VISION Global Top5 Power EPC Leader Strategic Goal Sales of KRW 5 trillion EPC Sales of KRW 4 trillion Overseas Sales of KRW 3 trillion Strategic Directions Sustainable Strengthening Total Expansion into Technology Solution Business Global Market Development 2020 Roadmap for Management Goal in Mid-Long Term (Unit: KRW 1 trillion) Global Sales EPC Sales KRW 5.1 trillion Sales owth times gr 10 3.9 3.3 2.9 1.8 1.5 0.58 0.12 0.04 2010 2015 2020 20 KEPCO E&C’s Vision and Structure 21 Risk Management 27 Ethics Management 20 30 Innovative Management 31 Quality Management 21 34 Communication with STAKEHOLDERS Risk Management Enterprise Risk ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT[ERM] SYSTEM Management System (ERM) • KEPCO E&C has established ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) system in 2010 in the face of ever-changing global economic circumstances since the financial crisis in 1997 aiming at achieving two pbjectives; one is to enhance stability and transparency; the other is to strengthen capacity for company-wide risk management as part of a successful takeoff to become an EPC company in the future. The ERM provides a framework for company-wide risk management, which typically involves identifying particular events or circumstances relevant to the organization's activities (for the purpose of managing risks), job description, risk management policies and its procedure, a framework for project risk management which involves securing projects and guiding how to pursue such projects, and a framework for operational risk management in terms of determination of response strategies, and monitoring progress on the company’s ordinary affairs. Systemization of ERM Work Flow of Project Risk • KEPCO E&C has institutionalized regulations and procedures for risk management to Management facilitate activities related to its company-wide risk management. Regulations and rules about risk management are added to the company’s internal policies. A Risk Management Committee is Start formed to review policies regarding company-wide risk management, and regulations about the policies are made by the Committee. In addition, procedures for project risk management and opEnter basic erational risk management are included in the regulations for risk management. Job descriptions data for project and work process are clearly defined between the general risk management department and its relevant departments. Check checklist Project Risk Management Project Identify risks Risk Self • KEPCO E&C, with regard to expected problems with contract, technology, client/country, Assessment (PRSA) Confirm risk stakeholder and fund risks with execution of projects including EPC project, investment business, profile and company-led important initiative, minimizes possible risks by identifying internal and external potential risks; evaluating them; and bringing about response plans. Project Risk Management Assess risks is executed in two stages; ordering stage and project’s implementation stage. These processes Establish are conducted by specifically categorizing into Project Risk Self Assessment (PRSA), Project Risk countermeasure Index (PRI) Management, Project Cash Flow Management (PCM) and Project Loss Management against the risks (PLM), respectively. Project Risk Enter risk Index (PRI) index data Corporate Risk Management Confirm basic cashflow • The scope of risk management covers 10 areas; Audit, Legal, Marketing, Human Resources, IT, Prokect Cashflow Calculate Contract, Technology, Strategic Planning, General Affairs, and Financial Accounting. A person responsible Management risk-based (PCM) cashflow for operational risk indicators sets up the risk indicators for each area and monitors the indicators on a regular basis to come up with appropriate countermeasures in case risk warnings on certain indicators Complete occur. As such, the operational risk management based on indicator monitoring process is done. S U S T A IN A B ILI T Y M A N A G E M E N T Introduction of Progress and Strategy of IFRS Introduction International Financial Reporting • The world is introducing IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) initially beStandards (IFRS) cause of a dramatic change in international financial environment triggered by the most serious accounting scandals ever by Enron and WorldCom in the US. Therefore, as a means of protecting investors and strengthening transparency of financial information, it is generally expected that IFRS adoption worldwide will be beneficial to investors and other users of financial statements. In line with the international trend, KEPCO E&C fully established IFRS reporting over a four year long period to introduce an IFRS-based financial system to the power generation of KEPCO. KEPCO E&C will become a company that can give more satisfaction and create new values to all stakeholders around the world by preventing potential risk factors that could cause distortion of financial information in advance and by providing transparent financial statements for investors. 2007 2008 2009 ~ Sep. 2010 2010 2011 Analysis on IFRS Establishment of Establishment of IFRS Execution of Duel Successful Impacts Applicable Plan for Accounting Policy and Settlement of Accounts Introduction of IFRS Tangible Asset to IFRS System Improvement Standardization of Accounting Commencement of IFRS Implementation Policy and Diagnosis on and Stabilization (from of Simulteneous Announcement of IFRS Introduction (Execution Execution of service to January 1, 2011) Settlement based on Plan for Introduction of Joint Service among all establish an Integral Current Standard/IFRS power companies) (Sep. 2007 of IFRS Information System by 4 ~ Mar. 2008 by SAMIL PwC) power companies (KEPCO (Mar. 2007 by FSC) E&C, South-East, South, Establishment of and West) (Sep. 2009 ~ Applicable Plan for Tangible Sep. 2010, Bearing Point Asset to IFRS (Nov. 2008 ~ Consortium/SAMIL PwC) Mar. 2009 by SAMIL PwC) Corruption Risk • KEPCO E&C runs a corruption control system to remove Pre-Control System: corruption/absurdity-related risk elements which could lead e-Audit System to problems in internal and external management activities. The E-Audit System, an IT-based real-time monitoring system, which was introduced in 2010, is designed to monitor indicators of business projects with high risks, and other management activities. Once risk factors are detected using real-time surveillance, all audit capability is focused on vulnerabilities to prevent them from becoming problems. It is naturally expected that occurrence of corruption risks will be minimized by monitoring countermeasures that are taken based on the previously accumulated audit data. Category Main Features Establishment of Audit General •Systematic management of audit DB IT-based integral audit •Tracking unsolved items to be measured system for •Continuous monitoring in vulnerable areas Regular Audit practical internal •Constant sharing system about audit information controlling •Constant data on integrity and ethics Ethics and Integrity •Voluntary system about report/monitoring 20 KEPCO E&C’s Vision and Structure 21 Risk Management 27 Ethics Management 22 30 Innovative Management 31 Quality Management 23 34 Communication with STAKEHOLDERS Transparent Shareholders Governance • KEPCO E&C has been classified into the category of other public agencies in accordance No. of Shares Outstanding with Act on the Management of Public Institutions. Twenty percent of stock owned by KEPCO, the largest shareholder, was listed on KOSPI on December 2009, and an extra 20% of its shares will 6,410,958 also be sold by 2012. As of December 31, 2010, the number of share outstanding is 38,220,000, 1,233,042 and 77.94% of them are owned by KEPCO. 787,500 Board of Directors 29,788,500 • KEPCO E&C’s board of directors is the highest decision-making body that examines and  KEPCO determines vital matters related to corporate management.  Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute  Employee Stock Ownership Association The board of directors consists of executive directors and non-executive directors. Among them  Others four executive directors are inside directors including the CEO while the number of non-executive directors who have special knowledge of their own special area is 6 persons. The chairman of the board is the CEO who takes charge of authorization to convene a general meeting. Profiles of each director and minutes about the general meeting are open to KEPCO E&C’s homepage at www.kepco-enc.com. Shares Appointment of Executive Directors & Remuneration 16.08% • In line with electing qualified directors through transparent and fair procedures, the 3.92% CEO is selected during the General Meeting of shareholders on the recommendation of the 2.06% President Nomination Committee, while executive and non-executive directors are drawn from the ranks of government officials in the fields of nuclear power plant industry and its po77.94% lices along with KEPCO’s executives and consultants on business administration, and experts who are expected to make contributions to the company’s managerial development with the  KEPCO aim of enhancing professionalism of decision-making process.  Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute  Employee Stock Ownership Association  Others • Remuneration for directors includes basic annual salary, performance-based salary, and severance pay. It can be paid in connection with the company’s managerial performance within the maximum limits of compensation that was approved in shareholder meeting. the CEO needs to accomplish annual goals that are described in his managerial contract in accordance with the Article 39 of the Article of Incorporation, and his performance is subject to evaluation on which the CEO’s performance-based salary is paid. Compensation for executive directors is also paid depending on the company’s managerial performance in accordance with Article 43 of the Article of Incorporation. In other words, goals to be attained are set every year, and managerial contracts are signed based on the goals, and additional salary is paid accordingly. For non-executive directors, a pre-determined amount of money allotted for official activities is paid every month. S U S T A IN A B ILI T Y M A N A G E M E N T Operation of Board of Directors • KEPCO E&C’s board of directors meetings are held with a majority of directors in attendance and decisions are made with the approval of the majority. In addition, the number of nonexecutives among directors is more than that of the majority to prevent management level executives from making sole decisions on matters in their own area of responsibility. Furthermore, special regulations are made in the Article of Incorporation so that directors who are interested in agendas do not participate in the voting process, basically to prevent conflicts of interest among directors. Consequently, a Self-Evaluation System for an efficient operation of each director was established to gather information and diagnose its operational status and vulnerabilities so that the board of director’s reputation is substantially recognized. Self-Evaluation System for Board of Director’s Operation Category Criteria Result •Directors’ attendance and number of agenda •High attendance rate and increased numbers of agenda raised in the board •Faithful compliance on the meeting date (on average 11 days) Measurement •Notice of the meeting date •Dramatic increase compared with its previous year (on •Frequency of non-executives’ remarks average 19 times, 90%↑) •Strengthening roles due to specific guidelines on Non•Strengthening roles of the board of director proposed decisions measurement •Managerial specialty and check & balance •Increased number of agenda items proposed by nonexecutive directors Efforts to Strengthen Role of Board of Directors • In a bid to facilitate the operation of the board in an independent and practical fashion such as feedback-based opinion expression, KEPCO E&C’s board runs a ‘Pre-Clarification System’ through which non-executive directors can get supplemental information on the agenda in advance, and ask questions. The agenda that is reported to the board includes matters about economic, environmental, and social performance. Efforts are being made in various ways, such as extension of time for examination on agenda items and a diversified range of agenda, to strengthen the roles of the board as a decision-making body. No. of Agenda Examination time Notification to Category Frequency Report Resolution Total per agenda convene (Increase Rate) (Increase Rate) (Increase Rate) 2008 9 14 minutes Before 7 days 10 24 34 2009 10 17 minutes Before 8 days 11 (10%) 29 (20%) 40 (17%) 2010 8 19 minutes Before 11 days 13 (18.22%) 32 (10.3%) 45 (12.5%) Pre-Clarification System Organizing Dept. of the Board of Director Non-Executive Director Pre-Briefing Distribution of Agenda Question about Agenda in Advance Question and Answer Additional Question Prepareness of Answers Questionnaire Active Expression of Opinions Provide Supplementary Data in Advance Statement Additional Explanation at the Board Board of Directors 20 KEPCO E&C’s Vision and Structure 21 Risk Management 27 Ethics Management 24 30 Innovative Management 31 Quality Management 25 34 Communication with STAKEHOLDERS Effort to Practice Corporate Disclosure Transparent Management • KEPCO E&C, as one of the public institutions by ‘Act on the Management of Public Institutions’, publicizes its wide range of information through ALIO System, which is a public institution management information system. And ‘Management Disclosure’ and ‘Information Disclosure System’ are published on KEPCO E&C’s homepage. Periodic disclosure like DART (Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System) business disclosure and timely disclosure on managerial status published to provide investors and the public with useful financial/non-financial information, and more importantly to allow them to enjoy their right to know. All of such efforts are for the sake of making a transparent management possible. Category Disclosure Items Performance •Main business and managerial performance Since 2006 •Salary and remuneration ALIO Integral Disclosure Periodic Disclosure (Quarterly), •Research report and recruiting Timely Disclosure (If necessary) information A total of 27 items •Management objective Since 2004 •Executive and operational personnel Business Disclosure Periodic Disclosure (Quarterly), •Budget for labor budget and its execution Timely Disclosure (If necessary) A total of 28 items DART •Shareholders Since 2009 Business Group Status Disclosure •Transaction with subsidiaries Periodic Disclosure (Quarterly), (Fair Trade Commission) A total of 21 items Timely Disclosure (If necessary) •Financial information (including DART Business Disclosure financial statement) Quarterly submission of report (The Financial Supervisory •Non-financial information on company since listed on December 14, 2009 Service) overview and projects •Individual requests through bulletin Operated since 2008, information board at the homepage disclosure rate of 89% Information Disclosure System •Official requests from government (8 cases for disclosure/a total of agencies and bodies (excluding non9 cases) public information) S U S T A IN A B ILI T Y M A N A G E M E N T Implementation of Regular Job Rotation • With regard to official positions and official duties with high possibilities of corruption and irregularities, KEPCO E&C prevents such possibilities in advance by implementing a ‘Regular Job Rotation’ system. In particular, the system of job rotation has been institutionalized since 2009 in order for office employees to maximize productivity; not to allow personnel for financial/ accounting affairs to get involved in corruption. By comprising a pool of human resources by position, 30 persons (three of them from finance/accounting) in 2009; 38 persons (two of them from finance/accounting) in 2010 have worked in the job rotation, which in turn has contributed to giving vitalization and transparency to the organization. Internal Accounting Control System • KEPCO E&C, in accordance with requirements from society and laws towards a transparent management, has established an internal accounting control system and allowed employees to report crucial matters to its board of directors and audit committee every fiscal year. By operating the internal accounting control system, efforts to find potential risks and to prevent intentional distortion of accounting information are being made. According to the evaluation result in 2010, good scores have been made to all 449 items, which means no deficiencies and vulnerabilities have been found in accordance with standard regulations of the internal accounting control system. E-Bidding System • KEPCO E&C is implementing an E-Bidding System for all contracts except some private contracts when it comes to purchasing/construction/outsourcing services. The portion of contracts (based on the number of cases) won through the E-Bidding System is approximately 80% for the recent 2 years. Likewise, KEPCO E&C is committed to securing transparency across the company by minimizing person-to-person contact, especially with regard to huge projects that could cause corruption risks, but also implementing the E-Bidding System in a transparent and fair way. 20 KEPCO E&C’s Vision and Structure 21 Risk Management 27 Ethics Management 26 30 Innovative Management 31 Quality Management 27 34 Communication with STAKEHOLDERS Ethics Management Result of Survey on Integrity Ethics Management System by KEPCO 9.72 • KEPCO E&C is implementing the Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct for Employees (enacted in 2003) to use as a judgment criteria on behaviors of executives and employees and 9.57 responsibility to customers and society, company and job position. In particular, KEPCO E&C has 9.38 joined the UN Global Compact in 2007 to completely align its operations with the ten principles including Human Rights, Labor Standards, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. More importantly, KEPCO E&C puts together resources and energy to create a transparent corporate culture through 08 09 10 internal/external evaluation on integrity, and self-inspection on ethics management. System for Ethics Management Code of Ethics Operational Regulation on ContractCode of Conduct Contract Regulations based Integrity Initiative of Employees Responsibility for Customers Responsibility for the Employees’ Basic Ethics and Communities Company and Job Code of Ethics Employees’ Basic Ethics • Based on trust and sincerity, we shall establish the right job ethics and values, perform jobs honestly KEPCO E&C espouses a phiand fairly, and fulfill duties and responsibilities. losophy based on ethics and has established a culture of fairness, Responsibility for Customers and transparent ethics in a bid to • On the understanding that the company’s value lies in creating customer values, we shall respect the morality of business, observe the relevant laws and regulations, and do our best to satisfy customers. become a world-class company • We shall refrain from accepting entertainment and gifts from partners when making business deals that puts customer values first. To with them, make fair and transparent deals, establish mutual trust to pursue mutual development. that end, KEPCO E&C implements the Code of Ethics for Employees. Responsibility for the Company and Jobs • We shall respect all members of the company, evaluate and treat them fairly according to their competence and achievements and do our best to exercise creativity. • Based on continual self-development and a challenging spirit, we shall abolish all inefficient or irrational work practices. • We shall observe all the laws and regulations, establish good work etiquette and work discipline, strictly distinguish between official and private affairs, and promote a culture of honor and dignity. • Based on trust and reconciliation between labor and management, we shall pursue mutual prosperity and develop partnership afresh. Responsibility for Society • We shall continuously innovate technologies, and grow into a world-class technology company, thereby contributing to the conservation of the environment and development of society. • We shall create jobs, and do our best to play a corporate citizen’s role in serving the nation and communities. S U S T A IN A B ILI T Y M A N A G E M E N T Committee for Ethics Management • KEPCO E&C advocates ‘BEST Ethics Management’ as one practical strategy to realize a sustainable management, and performs diverse activities for pursuing good ethics management. In that regard, the Committee for Ethics Management was formed with the CEO acting as its Chairman, and heads of each division/department as members of the committee. Executives’ aggressive commitment to ethics management and ethical leadership were established, and strong drive engines for employing the ethics management have been secured; for example, in terms of resolution of pending issues about ethics management and setting policy directions. Additionally, efforts are being made to internalize a corporate culture of ethics management by assigning Ethics Directors to each division and department; and by identifying assignments that can be carried out by each individual without any enforcement so that the basic foundation for the ethics management can be laid. Organization of Company-Wide Ethics Management Support Committee for Ethics Management by Division (Dept.) Operating Committee for Ethics Management Chairman (CEO) Ethics Directors by Division (Dept.) Ethics Execution Group Execution Group on Management in Office the Site Committee Members of the Cordinator Committee (Heads (Head of Human of Divisions Resource Dept.) & Dept.) Consideration of main agenda on ethics management including Headguarters: Planning Marketing/Nuclear Power/Plant/NSSS establishment of strategies and selection of progressive measures Site: Plant construction sites including Kori/Wolsong/Ulchin/Yeonggwang Practice and Effort for Ethics Management • KEPCO E&C makes efforts to embed an ethical mind across the company; by designating “IntegrityㆍEthics Campaign Day” and “Integrity Day”; and by operating ethical contents at the company’s portal sites. It also runs programs for company-wide ethical education and self-assessment ethics management; and carries out a survey on integrity levels towards suppliers, thereby obtaining their assessment of the processes of each department. KEPCO E&C also encourages employees to voluntarily execute activities and to freely give feedback. Based on their engagement and participation, praise and rewards are given. • KEPCO E&C has, since 2005, provided a wide range of ethics education opportunities for the sake of enriching the ethics management mind for all employees. For instance, cyber ethics education, which is a required course for all employees, has been taken by each employee 1.97 times on a 3-year average. 20 KEPCO E&C’s Vision and Structure 21 Risk Management 27 Ethics Management 28 30 Innovative Management 31 Quality Management 29 34 Communication with STAKEHOLDERS Campaign for Awareness of Corruption • As interested parties and stakeholders, including executives and partners’ employees, recognize the importance of ethics management, KEPCO E&C designated the 1st day of each month as “Integrity Day” to put in an integrity-based mindset in place. Therefore, employees voluntarily practice various activities with campaigns such as “Don’t Give and Take Presents and Flowers”, “Sharing the Message about Ethical Integrity”, etc. In addition, the “Internal Auditor for Ethical Integrity”, in charge of promoting ethical integrity in the company and of re-establishing official discipline, was assigned so that control over cracking down on corruption and irregularities is continually performed. Feedback about such activities is periodically checked through a survey on self-integrity. Thanks to a series of efforts, the survey on integrity index from 2008 to 2010 conducted by an external organization showed that the index has increased 3 years in a row. KEPCO E&C has an Integrity Reporting System, a reporting channel, in which executives and interested parties can easily have access to the system in the event of non-ethical behavior or corrupt practices occur. Once irregularities happen, no one then can get out of a strict punishment. Integrity Reporting System • The Integrity Reporting System, as part of the company’s ethics management, is designed to allow all interested parties including executives and employees to offer constructive suggestions and to report improper and unfair practices, such as demands for bribes, gifts, and favors. Corruption-related complaints reported in the Integrity Reporting System are investigated and deliberated through strict and fair procedures by the Audit Team and the Personnel Committee determines whether to make discipline punishment against the person about whom the complaint was made. Whistle blowers and external reporters are completely protected by keeping their privacy confidential except when their legal statements are needed. In that case, the reporters’ identification opens to only relevant organizations so as not to impose on them. Disciplinary Punishment System • KEPCO E&C has established a code of conduct for ethical management and operational rules about occupational integrity agreement of executives to regulate the practice of integrity ethics by means of rules and regulations. Those who violate such rules and regulations get punished on the basis of disciplinary standards such as dismissal, suspension, salary reduction and reprimand. For the sake of awareness of prevention against corruption, and enhancement of integrity, statute of limitation for the punishment against acts of fraud and corruption and such as money and valuables, bribery or favors was extended from two years to five years in 2009. Thanks to such efforts, no disciplinary actions or dismissal punishment due to corruptive behaviors has occurred from 2008 till now, 2011. S U S T A IN A B ILI T Y M A N A G E M E N T Innovative Management • KEPCO E&C is actively improving management efficiency by pursuing changes and innovative strategies living up to a rapidly changing management environment. Advancement of • In line with the following policies proposed by the government to overcome the global Management financial crisis in late 2008, and to recover from the economic slowdown, KEPCO E&C has pushed forward plans for the advancement of management to improve management efficiency and to focus on its core business activities. Major Advancement Plan Progress Future Plan [ Privatization ] [ In Progress ] Additional 20% will Sold shares owned by KEPCO – 20% by 2009, 20% by 2012 Dec. 2009: Listed on KOSPI, sold shares of 20% be sold by 2012 [ Introduction ] ( Management Efficiency ) Jan. 2009: 2 divisions, 5 departments and Efficiency of Organization 15 teams were reduced TDR • KEPCO E&C, for the sake of widening executives’ views and perspectives for radical changes and an innovative way of thinking, has introduced the TDR System that is a tool for the pursuit of management innovation. Through such practice-oriented innovation, KEPCO E&C will not only enhance management performance and productivity, but also reduce costs. TDR Progress and Status • Final results from as many as 17 tasks including pilot assignments in 2009 and 2010 were implemented to correct the existing system, thereby showing consistency in pursuing KEPCO E&C’s management innovation strategy. As of today, June 2011, four tasks are being carried out. • Establishment of Performance-Based Remuneration System in HR/Salary System 2009 Pilot Tasks • Improvement of EPC Execution Capability • Establishment of Efficient Business Operation System • Foundation and Operation of Human Resource Development Institute • Establishment of Plans for Expansion into Overseas Markets and for Securing International Competitiveness The 1st • Establishment of Integral DB for Purchasing Data on Equipment • Establishment of Plans for Expansion of Subcontractors (1st Stage) • Establishment of Foundation for Expansion of Subcontractors (2nd Stage) • Strengthening Security System to Prevent Information Leakage The 2nd • Improvement of Technological Assessment for Equipment and Suppliers • Establishment of DB for Basic Data for Engineering & Utilization of Design Computerization 2010 • Enactment of Operation Guidelines on Domestic and Overseas Site Offices The 3rd • Reduction in Engineering Period through Bidding Procedure for Engineering • Development of Standard Modual-Based Programming • Establishment of Plans for Optimization of How to Use IT Resources The 4th • Automatic EDB Design Data Input System based on 3D Model • Analysis on Obstacles and Countermeasures regarding NSSS Execution 20 KEPCO E&C’s Vision and Structure 21 Risk Management 27 Ethics Management 30 30 Innovative Management 31 Quality Management 31 34 Communication with STAKEHOLDERS Technological • KEPCO E&C’s top priority is to pursue technological innovation by fully striving to explore Innovation technologically innovative items while putting improvement of technological competitiveness first to accomplish a goal of “NEW VISION 2020”. Specifically, sustainable technology development is being pursued to facilitate the project progress on the export of nuclear power plants and its corresponding technological strategies. To do that, the infrastructure for technological management such as re-arrangement of strategies for technology development has been established to effectively manage invested resources. Quality Management Quality Management • From its foundation in 1975, KEPCO E&C was the first to introduce and operate nuclear System quality systems. The company establishes and operates quality management systems reflecting the nuclear quality requirements as per business sector, based on the requirements of ISO 9001 Quality Management System on a corporate level. Process of Quality Management System Market Customer Requirement Project Process Project Initiative Project Planning Project Execution Project Project • Managenent/Supervision Completion & • Design Development Post-delivery • Procurement Service Project Management • Construction • Construction Management Support Process Management Planning Human Resources Financial Resources Purchasing Cooperation Customer Support Quality Management Technical Management Customer Satisfaction Market S U S T A IN A B ILI T Y M A N A G E M E N T Activities for Quality Operation and Improvement of Quality Management System Management • KEPCO E&C establishes and implements quality policies and quality objectives to meet applicable statutory and regulatory requirements related to quality at home and abroad including customer requirements. Moreover, the company operates and continuously improves quality management systems through corrective and preventive action, and mangement reviews. continual Improvement of Quality Management System Management Responsibility • Customer Focus Quality Management • Responsbility, Authority and Communication • Quality Management Review Resource Quality Management Measurement, Management System Analysis, and Improvement • Provision of Resources • Customer Satisfaction • Human Resources • Planning • Quality Audit • Technical Resources • Process • Monitoring of Engineering Service • Infrastructure and Work • Documentation Structure and Process Environment • Subcontract • Control of Nonconforming • Control of Document Engineering Service • Control of Quality Record • Analysis of data • Continual Improvement • Corrective & Preventive Action Product Realization • Customer-related Process • Design and Development • Procurement • Producing and Provision of Technical Services • Control of Monitoring and Measuring Eguipment • Project Completion and PostDelivery Service 20 KEPCO E&C’s Vision and Structure 21 Risk Management 27 Ethics Management 32 30 Innovative Management 31 Quality Management 33 34 Communication with STAKEHOLDERS Quality Assurance and Training • KEPCO E&C is conducting planned and systematic quality assurance activities for entire business areas of design, procurement, and construction by establishing and implementing project quality assurance system to fulfill both quality requirements (ASME NQA, KEPIC QAP, etc) requested by customers of each project and characteristics of them based on the corporate Quality Management System. Particularly, KEPCO E&C is continuously improving the level of project’s quality assurance through operation of Design Improvement Control System (DICS) built with the purpose of overall controlling over both empirical data and efforts to prevent reoccurrence of same problems raised by execution of previous projects in succeeding units. In addition, KEPCO E&C is providing quality training on its corporate level to bring quality management into practice and raise awareness of quality. Performance of • KEPCO E&C has continuously upgraded the quality system by obtaining an ISO 9001 CerQuality Management tificate in 1996, a KEPIC Certificate in 1999, and an ASME N Certificate in 2009. As a result of such strenuous efforts, KEPCO E&C has been selected as an “Excellent Quality Competitiveness Enterprise” for four consecutive years and won the “National Quality Award” in 2008 in the public sector. 01 ISO 9001 Certificate 02 ASME N Certificate 03 KEPIC Certificate of Nuclear Machinery (MN) 04 KEPIC Certificate of Nuclear Structure (SN) 01 02 03 04 S U S T A IN A B ILI T Y M A N A G E M E N T Communication with STAKEHOLDERS • KEPCO E&C recognizes customers, executives, employees, shareholders, investors, local communities, partners and the government as major interested people and stakeholders, and listens to their opinions and comments about important business issues through diverse channels. Technology Development and Business Performance Responsibility Communication Channel • Survey on Customer Satisfaction • Quality Management • Brochure, Homepage and etc. Customer • Eco-Friendly Safety Design • ALIO (Management Information Sharing System • Transparent & Ethical Management for Public Organizations) KEPCO E&C • Survey on Employee Satisfaction • Balance between Work and Life • Labor Consultation Committee, and Gathering • Fair Performance Assessment and Incentive • Training Program for Vision Sharing and Employee • Improvement of Employee Satisfaction Communication • Capacity Building • ALIO (Management Information Sharing System for Public Organizations) • Online Ombudsman • Fair and Transparent Transaction • Seminars, Workshops and Official Gathering • Cooperative Management Partner • Conference among SMEs and Large Enterprise • Support for Professional Capability • ALIO (Management Information Sharing System • Reliable Relationship for Public Organizations) • Board of Directors • General Meeting of All Shareholders Shareholder • Distribution of Management Performance • Corporate Presentation and • Sustainable Growth and Development • Management Assessment Investor • Sustaining Financial Soundness • Electronic Disclosure System • ALIO (Management Information Sharing System for Public Organizations) • Online Ombudsman • Volunteering in Community • Social Contribution • Complaint Handling for Residents Community • Job Creation • Sisterhood Relationship with Local Communities • Eco-Friendly & Safety Design • ALIO (Management Information Sharing System for Public Organizations) • Portal sites of the Ministry of Strategic Planning • Transparent Ethics Management and Finance, and the Ministry of Knowledge• Faithful Taxation based Economy Government • Eco-Friendly Safety Design • Seminars, Workshops and Official Gathering • Response to Climate Change • ALIO (Management Information Sharing System for Public Organizations) KEPCO E&C‘s Technology Development & Business Performance ● as a driving force of national growth Our core values lie in the development of innovative technology. KEPCO E&C will make contributions to a strengthened national energy competitiveness based on the advantages of independently developed power plant technology, future-oriented environment projects, new & Renewable energy initiatives, cutting-edge technologies, and a spirit of putting customer values first, with an ultimate goal of protecting future generations. KEPCO E&C’s TeCHNOLOGY Management System of Technological • KEPCO E&C, in a bid to accomplish a goal of ‘NEW VISION 2020’ and to strategically Management for develop a sustainable technology as one of its long-term objectives, is striving to secure differSustainable Technology entiated technological competitiveness in the global market; to upgrade technological capability Development through selection and concentration of investment resources for technological development; and commercialization of developed technology based on specific strategies in which the result of technological development brings about practical management performance. Strategy for Technological Development • KEPCO E&C has established its strategic business directions for sustainable technological development by taking a strategy of selection and concentration of resources for investment in core technologies to secure differentiated global competitiveness and original technologies with regard to a ‘Low Carbon and Green Growth’ and ‘Nu-Tech 2012 Policy’ pursued by the government. A Long-Term Road Map for technology development and R&D projects for the technological commercialization were sought out in that regard. In particular, a Short-Term Road Map and tasks for scheduled technological development were also created to control the way that the longterm management plan needs to be done based on a Top Down Method. At the same time, a Bottom Up Method is used to keep flexibility of development. Process of Strategy for Technology Development Technology Verification Committee • Review on Technological Propriety/Marketability/Feasibility • Review on Specific Implementation Method Sustainable Short-Term Road Map Technology Long-Term Road Map for Execution of Tasks for Technology and Tasks for Technology Top Down Development Technology Development Development Development Long-Term Management Plan R&D Projects ▶12 Critical Initiatives (Technology KEPCO E&C Tech Pool Bottom Up Commercialization) Government Policy Other Technology Development ▶Nu-Tech 2012/2030 -Component Technology, etc. Continuous Investment in Technological Development and Increased Application of Intellectual Property Rights • KEPCO E&C has invested more than 7% of sales every year, in research and development to develop design and engineering technologies in export & existing models of nuclear power plants; and to obtain source technologies that have not yet been secured. The amount (upward of 7% of total sales) for the investment in R&D will increase continuously. • In addition to that, with the government R&D grants, KEPCO E&C is conducting 17 R&D projects aimed at boosting economical efficiency of nuclear power plants and securing safety of the plants, as well as preventing environmental pollution. In this way, KEPCO E&C joins forces with the government’s Low Carbon and Green Growth initiatives. KEPCO E&C‘s Technology Development & Business Performance 36 KEPCO E&C’s TeCHNOLOGY Management 36 39 Effort and Performance of Eco-Friendly Technology DEVELOPMENT 41 Status on Eco-Friendly and New & Renewable Energy Business 37 46 Progress on Main Construction of Nuclear and Thermal Power Plants Grants for Technology Registration of Patent and 2020 Roadmap for Management Goal in Mid-Long Term Development (Unit: KRW 1 million) (Unit: KRW 1 trillion) Status on Application Sales 3,283 Technology Development Expense Registration of Patent Investment Rate Domestic Overseas Sub-total 2,956 63 24 87 2,749 5,802 9.1% Patent Application 10.7% 4,423 7.5% Domestic Overseas Sub-total 3,473 27 33 60 Total 08 09 10 372 402 436 147 Remarks Investment in Technology Inventions Development for Environment • Application of 37 Patents (Unit: KRW 1 million) 08 09 10 • Registration of 63 Patents 5,220 • As of the end of December 2010, KEPCO E&C held 87 patents and another 60 are in the 3,832 process of examination. 3,425 Infrastructure of Technological Management for Decision Making 08 09 10 • KEPCO E&C endeavors to manage the whole process of technology exploration in an efficient and systematic way by establishing an infrastructure for technology management including management tools (related to technological management) such as a Technology Development Task Management System, a Technology Commercialization Operation Management System, and a Technology Management Information System as basic data for decision-making on R&D strategies. Operating & Management Technology Management System System for Technology Management of Tasks for Technology Commercialization Information Development System Road Map for Long-Term Performance Technology on Technology Development Development Sustainable Check Technology Status on Technology Development Investment for Level and Technology Scope Development Management of Tasks for Operating & Management for Technology Management Technology Development Technology Commercialization Information System A comprehensive management system A comprehensive technology POOL A system in which understands general for evaluation on tasks for technology management system (such as factors necessary for decision-making for development and work in process technological level of projects about major technology management tasks for technology development 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Technological • KEPCO E&C has the engineering capability to design thermal power plants 100% inDevelopment Based dependently, while the engineering level of nuclear power plants is about 95% when it comes to on Basic Strategy of OPR 1000. In the meantime, KEPCO E&C is trying to secure a technological level for the nextGovernment and generation nuclear power plant of APR1400 between 90% and 95% compared with advanced naPower Groups tions by 2012. To obtain source technologies that are not yet independent in the area of nuclear power plants, KEPCO E&C was sufficient in terms of technological independence of engineering for nuclear power plants, for example, by participating in the government-led Nu-Tech 2012 Business. Acquiring Original Technology for Nuclear Power Plants • KEPCO E&C’s goal for 2012 is to develop a core code for engineering of nuclear power plants, core technology for Man-Machine Interface System (MMIS), and localization technology of Reactor Coolant Pump (RCP). All of these are source technologies regarding Nu-Tech 2012 through which technological sublicenses of source technologies that are not yet independent are secured. KEPCO E&C is now developing APR+ of 1500MW through which safety and efficiency are dramatically improved based on source technologies that have no restrictions on exports. KEPCO E&C is also focusing on developing basic design technologies about APR1000 to export to developing countries like South-East Asia; and a model of EuAPR1400 to European countries, Africa and the Middle East whose countries follow regulatory conditions about nuclear power plants required by Europe. Acquiring Plant and Green Source Technology • KEPCO E&C is striving to secure source technology to improve main steam conditions and the management method of coal-fired power plants through development of engineering of ultra super critical coal-fired power plant (1,000 MW). In addition, KEPCO E&C is focusing on developing green source technology about Wind Power Generation and Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC), and also connecting the company’s strategic business to new & renewable energy industry by revising its business portfolio reflecting the national energy fundamental plans. Effort and Performance of Eco-Friendly 38 Technology DEVELOPMENT 39 Technology for • KEPCO E&C is actively pursuing deReduction in velopment of CCS (Carbon Capture and StorGreenhouse Gas age) technology necessary to respond to a global climate change and to accomplish the national goal of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (30% against BAU). CCS technology consists of CO2 capture technology, transport technology and storage technology and KEPCO E&C is developing CO2 capture technology among them applicable to coal-fired power plants based on extensive experiences in the power plants engineering. KEPCO E&C began the development of amine based CO2 capture technology im 2008. The construction of 0.1MW CO2 capture plant has been completed and is in operation now. It can remove CO2 more than 90%, reducing energy consumption of 15% or more as compared to the existing CO2 capture technologies. Additionally, according to the national CCS initiatives, KEPCO E&C participates in 10MW amine based CO2 capture plant project in Boryeong power station and in 10MW dry sorbent based CO2 capture plant project in Hadong power station. KEPCO E&C will complete the demonstration of 300MW CO2 capture plant by 2018, and the commercialization will be made from 2020. Road Map for Development of CO2 Capturing Technology Test Bed Pilot Plant Massive Demonstration Plant Commercial Plant 0.1~0.5MW 10MW 100~300MW 500MW ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21 0.1MW Wet Type Test Bed 10MW Wet Type Pilot Plant Task 100~300MW Verification CommercialAssess(In connection with Storage) ization ment Selection of only one task among Dry/Wet Type 0.5MW Dry Type Test Bed 10MW Dry Type Pilot Plant 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Water Pollution [ELECTRO-DIALYSIS REVERSAL & ELECTRO-CHEMICAL TREATMENT PROCESS FOR Prevention NITROGEN COMPOUNDS IN WASTEWATER] TECHNOLOGY Technology • KEPCO E&C has developed a new combined treatment process method which removes nitrogen compounds metric oxides in wastewater using Electro-dialysis Reversal (EDR) & ElectroChemical Decomposing Wastewater Treatment System. The process removes both Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and Total Nitrogen (T-N), which are caused by non-degradable components of ethanolamine (ETA) in wastewater. More importantly, the process separates wastewater containing nitrogen compounds into product water and concentrated water in EDR, and then the COD/ T-N accumulated in the concentrated water is decomposed into nitrogen and carbon dioxide in the Electro-Chemical Decomposing System (ECDS). This COD/T-N simultaneous removal process is an eco-friendly method in light of the wastewater treatment process without secondary pollutants. Relevant patents are obtained as a result of KEPCO E&C’s independent technology development. [PHYSICOCHEMICAL TREATMENT & EDR PROCESS USING INTEGRATED MEMBRANE SEDIMENTATION TANK] TECHNOLOGY • KEPCO E&C has developed technology for physicochemical treatment & EDR process using an integrated membrane sedimentation tank and applied for a patent. This is an ecofriendly technology, which installs an “Integrated Membrane Sedimentation Tank” by combining each individual process into one (through which physiochemical wastewater is treated in power plants and general industry), which brings about diverse effects such as reduction of installation area, construction period and saving construction costs. Further, it is possible to provide active responses to strengthened environmental criteria while maximizing the extent of improvement of treated water quality at the same time. [ORGANISM TREATMENT AND Equipment USING COMPOSITE ELECTROLYTIC METHOD] TECHNOLOGY Pilot for Organic Processing based on • KEPCO E&C has developed a technolMultiple Electrolytic Method ogy and applied for a patent for organism treatment and equipment using composite electrolytic method. This is designed to treat organic matters containing recalcitrant organic substances. There are two stages; in the first stage, catalysts accelerating creation of OH-Group in wastewater are injected; and in the second stage, the wastewater containing the catalysts is electrolyzed. This organism treatment system is also eco-friendly technology. As electric current density is selectively controlled depending on density of organism during electrolysis, the treatment rate of the organism against energy consumption is relatively high. Status on Eco-Friendly and 40 New & Renewable Energy Business 41 • KEPCO E&C has designed eco-friendly power plants with high efficiency, in which it provides diverse services regarding the convention on climate change including development of CO₂ Reduction Technology and businesses of Emission Credit Trading and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). In particular, when it comes to up-to-date eco-friendly air pollution prevention facilities, Korea Electric Power Absorption Reactor (KEPAR) and De-nitrification Facility (deNOx System) are designed and constructed by KEPCO E&C to reduce sulfur oxides and nitric oxides that are produced from thermal power plants. Furthermore, KEPCO E&C has years of experience in execution of diverse projects on top of design capability and construction skills for water pollution control facilities, waste treatment facilities, etc. Flue Gas • A flue gas desulfurization technology Desulfurization is designed to remove sulfur oxides in exhaust Business gas which can cause acid rain, respiratory and skin diseases. KEPCO E&C is equipped with independent techniques and construction capability necessary for building innovative air pollution prevention facilities including the KEPAR FGD System which was independently developed on the basis of extensive experience and technology accumulated in the execution of various projects. KEPCO E&C has proved its technical capability in recognition of the successful completion of the Turnkey Businesses for as many as 9 power plants, including the FGD facilities in Unit 2 of the Yeongdong Thermal Power Plant (200 MW), which was constructed for the first time in Korea, and Units 1 & 2 of the Boryeong Thermal Power Plant (500 MW). The FGD business for Units 1 & 2 of the Boryeong Thermal Power Plant, which was completed on August 2010, was an R&D project about power generation (Korea Electric Power Absorption Reactor, KEPAR) led by the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy. The KEPAR has highly-efficient capability with more than 95% of sulfur oxides removed from exhaust gas, and its actual emission rate is less than 50ppm. After the completion of the facility, a stable power supply was available thanks to its sustained performance of capability. When demands for even in the winter and summer season peaked, continuous power supply was available in a stable manner. Flue Gas • KEPCO E&C has focused on technology development of deNOx facilities which can reDenitrogenization move nitrogen oxides naturally emitted in the process of combustion of waste and fossil fuel such Business as coal, petroleum and natural gases. The first operation of the deNOx facility started in Units 1 & 2 of the Youngheung Thermal Power Plant in 1993. Since then, verification and feasibility studies on deNOx facilities, of most thermal power plants being operated in Korea, have been successfully performed. In addition to KEPCO E&C’s original business area of design and engineering, a deNOx system (brand name: KoNOx®) and ‘Catalyst’, which was basis for the development of the system, have been. The ‘Catalyst’ developed by KEPCO E&C has proven excellent deNOx performance even at the temperature of less than 250℃, which is comparable to existing SCR deNOx catalysts that show optimal ability when temperature of exhaust gas is between 300℃ and 400℃. In other words, deNOx at a lower temperature than that of the existing catalyst is possible so that 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report amounts of catalysts to be installed can be reduced, and fuel amounts for reheating device of exhaust gas like duct-burner can also be reduced. Therefore, it goes one step further to upgrade its economic efficiency. KEPCO E&C has successfully developed a deNOx catalyst for very high temperature (more than 500℃) to overcome the existing catalysts’ problems partly occurring due to deterioration of catalysts. The technology is expected to apply to a wide range of industrial areas in the future. A hybrid SCR facility installed in Unit 6 of the Ulsan Thermal Power Plant is based on a system where both SCR and SNCR are interfaced. It can solve problems with low deNOx efficiency in SCR due to low temperature of exhaust gas during low load operation. Additionally, KEPCO E&C has performed various projrcts including a deNOx facility in Unit 6 of the Bundang Combined-Cycle Power Plant developed with Korea’s first own deNOx technology; deNOx catalyst business of Incheon Airport; and a SCR facility (Turnkey) in Sithe Co-generation Power Plant. In recognition of its outstanding performance, the deNOx catalyst and its facilities were sold to overseas like Co-op City Power Plant and Helco Power Plant in the USA. KEPCO E&C’s overseas business is expanding with the recent signing of a supply contract for deNOx-related equipment with Rabigh Power Plant (4 Units of 700 MW), Saudi Arabia. 01 Ⓡ KoNOx Catalyst 02 Hybrid SCR (Ulsan Thermal Power Plant Unit 6) 03 Sithe Co-generation Power Plant 01 02 03 Water Pollution • KEPCO E&C has performed design and engineering for water treatment facilities, Control Business waste water treatment and water waste recycling systems over 30 years, and has also involved in projects for design and construction for of government-funded excreta & livestock waste water treatment equipment. When it comes to design and engineering, KEPCO E&C is pursuing businesses ranging from nuclear power plants in Korea and abroad including Shin-Kori Units 1 through 4, Shin-Wolsong Units 1 & 2, and UAE BNPP Units 1 & 2 to thermal power plants, specifically with regard to water treatment, waste water treatment and water waste recycling systems. KEPCO E&C has installed advanced treatment facilities of sewage and waste treatment plants in Gwangju, Docheok, Namhansanseong, and Boryeong, and is now installing public treatment facilities for livestock manure in the city of Hwaseong. 01 Installation of Waste Water Recycling Facility 02 Gwangju Sewage Treatment Plant 03 Construction for Installation of Waste Water Treatment Facility 01 02 03 KEPCO E&C‘s Technology Development & Business Performance 36 KEPCO E&C’s TeCHNOLOGY Management 42 39 Effort and Performance of Eco-Friendly Technology DEVELOPMENT 41 Status on Eco-Friendly and New & Renewable Energy Business 43 46 Progress on Main Construction of Nuclear and Thermal Power Plants Clean Development • Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is one of the Kyoto mechanisms to accomMechanism (CDM) plish a greenhouse gas reduction target in a cost-effective way. KEPCO E&C is also parBusiness ticipating in the CDM business. Beginning in 2005, KEPCO E&C has performed the task for technology development to prepare the CDM’s commercialization. In 2006, The first CDM consulting service was conducted as a common project with Eco-Frontier Co., Ltd for landfill gas generation pursued by Sudokwon Landfill Site Management Corp. In 2008, KEPCO E&C was awarded the single-handed contract which is the CDM consulting service for new & renewable energy project of Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. KEPCO E&C for Yonggwang solar power generation and Kori wind power generation project successfully completed the registration of CDM business and issuance of certified emission reduction by United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UN FCCC). KEPCO E&C was able to establish its capability in the CDM business area. In that regard, KEPCO E&C continuously joins projects for a greenhouse gas reduction, and becomes an internationally-recognized eco-friendly enterprise that contributes to an accomplishment of the national goal of a 'Low Carbon, Green Growth', and to policies on climate change. 01 Bird's-eye View of Kori Wind Power Plant 02 Yonggwang Photovoltaic Power Plant 01 02 Environmental • After an environmental impact assessment system was introduced in 1982, KEPCO Assessment & Site E&C was the first company to conduct an environmental impact assessment in Korea. KEPCO Selection Business E&C has performed its environmental impact assessment for hydroelectricㆍthermal power plants, nuclear power plants, transmission lines, and other industrial facilities. For such activities, KEPCO E&C has professional personnel in areas ranging from meteorology, geology, marine, ecology, environmental engineering and IT. In particular, customer-oriented optimal services are provided using specialized technologies such as a Method of Air Quality Impact Assessment using a 3-D numerical diffusion model, Thermal Plume Analysis using a 3-D numerical model, and 3-D landscape simulation. A ITSS (Interactive Tower Spotting System) program which is registered as New Excellent Technology (NET) in the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy allows designers and engineers to select the location of a transmission tower using high-resolution image data so that selection of work location and technical calculation is possible simultaneously. This has also allowed real-time simulation because it is interfaced with a 3-D landscape simulation program. And, it lays a foundation for improvement of efficiency of design, objective feasibility in terms of routing and construction of eco-friendly transmission line. 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Radioactive • Project for a disposal facility of low & intermediWastewater ate level radioactive waste being operated by KEPCO Management Business E&C is being pursued to dispose of a total of 800,000 drums in the Ilwon site (approximately 2.1 million m²) of Yangbuk, Gyeongju. Currently, the first stage of the project is in operation based on a Cavern Disposal Method. Six disposable tanks will be constructed at EL. (-) 80 m (-) 130 m based on sea level, and each tank will handle 16,000 drums. This construction will be completed in December 2012. Currently, construction of the basement is being carried out. In the foreseeable future, KEPCO E&C will successfully complete the first stage of this project and has plans to make a system for export by securing its national technological power about multiple repositories inside one site for the first time in the world after winning a contract for the second stage of business. NEW & RENEWABLE • KEPCO E&C, as an energy service company (ESCO), is pushing forward projects for reEnergy Business search and technology commercialization in nearly all areas, in particular, areas of new & renewable energy including solar lighting, solar heat, wind power, bio-energy, waste energy, coal gasification and liquid energy. By doing so, KEPCO E&C is able to propose future energy alternatives and respond to paradigm changes in the international energy industry. Wind Power Business • In 2004, KEPCO E&C gained extensive experience in design and engineering of wind power plants in Jeongseon and Pyeongchang, and Gangwon-do, as well as second stage engineering services for the Jeju Hangyeong wind power plant. KEPCO E&C provides useful support for clients and excellent design services to create an economical wind power generation complex with high reliability on the whole process of an integrated completion including building an onshore wind power generation complex, model selection of an optimal wind power generation, basic & detail engineering, design of transmission lines, and support for start-up operation. KEPCO E&C is now carrying out EPC business (based on Build-Transfer-Operate, BTO) for the Jeju Offshore Wind Power Farm. This EPC project is being done on the basis of previous experience in basic engineering of the “Mid-sized Offshore Wind Farm on the Southwest Coast in the Korean Peninsula”, which was one of the government led projects. KEPCO E&C‘s Technology Development & Business Performance 36 KEPCO E&C’s TeCHNOLOGY Management 44 39 Effort and Performance of Eco-Friendly Technology DEVELOPMENT 41 Status on Eco-Friendly and New & Renewable Energy Business 45 46 Progress on Main Construction of Nuclear and Thermal Power Plants Waste to Energy Business • With increased interest in strengthened regulations (such as bans on direct land filling of organic waste and ocean disposal), and increasing interest in energy recycling, producing advanced bio-fuels from waste on a commercial scale is revitalizing. KEPCO E&C is striving to do business as a professional energy company and to perform relevant technology development at the same time. KEPCO E&C conducted engineering services for the Wonju Green Co-generation Power Plant by developing a boiler for Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF); and it also performed RDF business for the Iksan Cogeneration Power Plant, including conducting feasibility assessment. Excellent business performance and technology knowledge has been obtained in a short time period; KEPCO E&C is now conducting services of technical supports for a wood chip biomass generation project, and a feasibility review on a GS EPS wood chip project working with businesses turning biomass into fuels. Progress has been made when it comes to fuel commercialization of biogases (using methane gas generated when anaerobic decomposition of organic waste is done) and technological development. KEPCO E&C, in a bid to respond to government strategies, for instance, the widespread use of waste energy, proposes profitable business items regarding waste treatment in metropolitan area, and also projects about fuel’s commercialization/generation which can be pursued in connection with small or medium-sized cities. ESCO (Energy Service Company) Business • KEPCO E&C, listed as an Energy Service Company (ESCO), provides a range of professional services. ESCO project performs energy-related activities; comparison & analysis on operational status of facilities in operation; diagnosis & assessment on energy consumption; research & development of optimal facilities and systems that minimizes wasted energy; and reduction in energy & efficient facility operation for energy consumers. Costs required for such tasks are offset by reduced energy costs in the facility operation, reducing costs energy that consumers need to pay as well. From the energy reduction project perspective, KEPCO E&C’s reduced amount of energy is approximately 117,369 TOE per year, and reduced amount of CO2 is 321,899 TOE per year. KEPCO E&C is carrying out ESCO projects in such various areas as coal-fired power plants, co-generation power plants, combined-cycle power plants, installation of energy economizers in nuclear power plants as well as certain industries where energy saving is required. *TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent) 01 Waste to Energy Business 02 Wind Power Plant Business 01 02 Progress on Main Construction of Nuclear and Thermal Power Plants 1. Shin-Kori Units 1 & 2 Architect Engineering Service • Business Area: Nuclear Power • Client: KHNP • Project Period: Aug. 2002 Dec. 2011 • Overview: This is an architect engineering service for a nuclear power plant which is composed of two units of a pressurized water reactor (1,000MW) that is constructed in the vicinity of both Gijang-gun, Busan Metropolitan City and Ulju-gun, Ulsan Metropolitan City. This business applied the Optimized Power Reactor 1000 (OPR1000 for the first time in Korea. The OPR1000 was developed by upgrading the quality of technique, constructability and economic efficiency of the Korea Standard Nuclear Power Plant (KSNP). By accomplishing self-supporting technology by 2011, KEPCO E&C will design ungraded nuclear power plants with internationally-recognized higher performance, which in turn will have positive impacts on its expansion into overseas markets. 2. Architect Engineering Service in ShinWolsong Units 1 & 2 • Business Area: Nuclear Power • Client: KHNP • Project Period: Aug. 2002 Jan. 2013 • Overview: This is an architecture engineering service for ShinWolsong Nuclear Power Plant Units 1 & 2 with the intent of signing a contract for two units of a pressurized water reactor (1,000MWe) that is constructed at Bonggil-ri, Yangbukmyeon, Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do. The Optimized Power Reactor 1000 (OPR1000) is also applied to this project. 3. Architect Engineering Service in Shin-Kori Units 3 & 4 • Business Area: Nuclear Power • Client: KHNP • Project Period: Aug. 2006 Sep. 2014 • Overview: This the first Advanced Power Reactor (APR1400) that was developed by adopting site characteristics, sophisticated engineering techniques, conditions for licensing & permits, and items found to need improvement during the operation of previous units on the basis of standardized design techniques upgraded through a technology development project for a next generation nuclear reactor. KEPCO E&C will put energy into developing new technologies in the future to provide upgraded architect engineering services with guaranteed safety and efficiency. 4. Architect Engineering Service for UAE BNPP 46 • Business Area: Nuclear Power 47 • 2nd Client: KEPCO • 1st Client: ENEC • Project Period: Mar. 2010 May. 2020 • Overview: This is the first construction project for nuclear power plants launched in Korea. In this project (about the construction of 4 units of PWR of 1,400 MW), KEPCO E&C will make its high-level design capability known throughout the world. By doing so, many positive aspects are expected; establishment of a task force team for overseas business; improvement of experience and technological strength, and enhancement of project management capability, as well as laying the foundation for execution of overseas projects in the future. 5. Development Service for APR+ Standard Detail Engineering • Business Area: Nuclear Power • Client: KHNP • Project Period: Aug. 2007 Dec. 2015 • Overview: APR+ is one of the government-led core projects of Nuclear Reactor Technology Development Initiative (Nu-Tech 2012). It has outstanding engineering factors both at home and abroad based on APR1400 standardized engineering for the purpose of securing original nuclear reactor engineering skills (1500MWe). By 2012, the Approval for Standard Design for domestic area will be completed, and it will be fully optimized by 2015. KEPCO E&C’s own technology for an original nuclear reactor (1500MWe) will be obtained and its stabilization level will be upgrade. 6. Architect Engineering Service for SMART • Business Area: Nuclear Power • Client: KAERI • Project Period: Sep. 2009 Dec. 2011 • Overview: The SMART Reactor is a small to medium size reactor used for multiple purposes such as power generation and supply of energy through sea water desalination using heat generated from the reactor. The SMART Reactor is perfect for nations with a small electrical power grid, and nations that are developing dispersed generation system. KEPCO E&C will obtain an approval for domestic standard design structure; will push forward optimization of design capable of meeting diverse demands and requirements from customers; and will expand the business scope of System-Integrated Modular Reactor. 7. Engineering Service for Co-generation Power Plant in Multifunctional Administrative City • Business Area: Plant • Client: KOMIPO • Project Period: Aug. 2010 Feb. 2014 • Overview: The purpose of this business is to conduct basic and specific engineering tasks which are able to guarantee load follow capability, Daily Start & Stop Operation, and reliability on long period operation by constructing co-generation power plants based on basic plans and technological data provided by KOMIPO. It is expected that KEPCO E&C will not only contribute to balanced national development and strengthened competitiveness but also will receive recognition of its technological strength around the world. 8. A  rchitect Engineering Technical Service for Construction of Shin-Boryeong Thermal Power Plant Unit 1&2 • Business Area: Plant • Client: KOMIPO • Project Period: Jan. 2011 Sep. 2017 • Overview: This project is to provide Architecture Engineering service for the construction of 1,000MW coal-fired thermal power plants in Boryeong, Chungcheongnam-do in Korea. KEPCO E&C will carry out basic and detail design for the plant from site preparation to commercial operation such as procurement support of main and auxiliary equipment, basic and detail design of BOP (Balance of Plant) system, client support for construction and commissioning, etc. This is a project to develop and commercialize the 1,000MW USC thermal Power Plant for the first time in Korea. It has world-class excellent performance with the highest pressure and temperature steam conditions. 9. Architect Engineering Service for Samcheok Green Power Units 1 & 2 • Business Area: Plant • Client: KOSPO • Project Period: Sep. 2009 Mar. 2016 • Overview: This project for the construction of the Samcheok Green Power Units 1 & 2 (1,000MW) Hosan-ri, Wondeok-eup, Samcheok-si according to the Fifth Basic Plan for Power Generation from 2010 to 2024 supported by the government. For the preparation for changes in coal markets and climate change in the next 20 years, and construction of low calorie & eco-friendly power plant, Super Critical Circulating Fluidized Bed Combustion (CFBC) is adopted. KEPCO E&C will successfully conduct CFBC operation on a massive scale plant so that preparation for firing low calorie & low cost coal can be possible, while at the same time serving as a good opportunity to be able to secure technological superiority. 10. Engineering Technology Service for Coal-Fired Thermal Power Plant in Jorf Lasfar, Morocco • Business Area: Plant • 2nd Client: Daewoo Corporation Engineering & Construction • 1st Clien: JLEC • Project Period: Jun. 2010 Apr. 2014 • Overview: KEPCO E&C participates in this project as a technical partner of Daewoo Corporation Engineering & Construction, a main contract of Turn Key of construction project for the Coal-Fired Power Plant Units 5 & 6 in Jorf Lasfar, Morocco. Through this, KEPCO E&C will participate in the design process for a coal-fired power plant overseas and also obtain an opportunity to expand its business scope, for instance, EPC project, into overseas markets. 11. Architect Engineering Service for Dangjin Thermal Power Units 9 & 10 • Business Area: Plant • Client: EWP • Project Period: Oct. 2007 Sep. 2016 • Overview: This project is designed to perform basic & specific engineering and client supports for Dangjin Thermal Power Plant 9&10 which will be the first Ultra Super Critical Thermal Power Plant (capacity of 1000MW above) in South Korea. Also, Dangjin Thermal Power Plant is constructed according to necessity of massive increasing domestic power demands. KEPCO E&C will be an independent power company and will be capable of more than 98% of engineering technological independence by 2016. Therefore, KEPCO E&C is securing technological strength and global competitivenesss necessary for making inroads into foreign markets. ECONOMIC VALUE 48 ● 49 KEPCO E&C pursues harmony of growth and stability for further development. We will satisfy customers greater values by responding to ever-changing market trends; accomplishing economic performance through enhanced financial structure, and efforts to bring about customer satisfaction. Financial Performance • KEPCO E&C has made great strides for the past three years from a financial performance perspective. Sales for 2010 were KRW 580 billion, which is an increase of about 67% compared with the year of 2008. Furthermore, as a result of strengthening the internal structuring system, the operating income rate increased to 29.37% in 2010, up from 5.79% in 2008, thereby indicating KEPCO E&C’s higher healthy profitability than the standards of about 4 to 5% on average in the same industry. Therefore, KEPCO E&C was successfully able to step forward to accomplish the 2020 NEW VISION of a “2020 Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader”. As such, KEPCO E&C’s quantitative and qualitative growth is much more valuable because they achieved this at a critical period of a global economic slowdown, which also in turn contributed to national development. Sales Operating Profit and Net Income (Unit: KRW 1 million) (Unit: KRW 1 million) Operating profit Net Income for the Year 170,373 141,258 580,154 96,724 82,648 442,323 347,292 27,462 20,112 08 09 10 08 09 10 ECONOMIC VALUE 50 Financial Performance 53 Prospect for Global Power Plant Market & Exploration of New Business 50 55 Improvement of Management Efficiency 58 Customer Satisfaction 51 59 Special Report: Design Safety Income Statement Unit: KRW 1 million Category 2008 2009 2010 Sales 347,292 442,324 580,154 Cost of Sales 254,305 274,507 330,150 Gross Profit 92,987 167,817 250,004 Selling, General And Administrative Expenses 72,875 71,092 79,631 Operating Income 20,112 76,725 170,373 Non-Operating Income 19,034 20,136 19,680 Non-Operating Expenses 1,055 7,343 4,573 Income Before Income Tax Expenses 38,091 109,518 185,480 Income Tax Expenses 10,629 26,871 44,223 Net Income 27,462 82,647 141,257 Balance Sheet Unit: KRW 1 million Category 2008 2009 2010 Current Assets 283,225 419,502 480,044 Non-Current Assets 69,920 76,277 107,754 Total Assets 353,145 495,779 587,798 Current Liabilities 89,384 156,084 129,466 Non-Current Liabilities 18,514 20,039 38,735 Total Liabilities 107,898 176,123 168,201 Equity 7,644 7,644 7,644 Retained Earnings 237,603 312,012 411,953 Total Equity 245,247 319,656 419,597 Total Liabilities & Shareholders’ Equity 353,145 495,779 587,798 Distribution of Financial Ratio Economic Performance • KEPCO E&C tries to both accomplish an economic growth and to protect rights and interests of shareholders and people concerned. KEPCO E&C secured a current ratio of approximately 370%, reduced the debt ratio to 40.09% in 2010, and achieved this with no borrowing. KEPCO E&C is continuously committed to responding to ever-changing global financial circumstances and to maximizing values for the interested parties and stakeholders so that the company will maintain its financial soundness and will strike a balance between growth and stability at the same time. Safety (Unit: %) Profitability (Unit: %) Current Ratio Operating Profit Margin Debt Ratio Net Return On Sales 38.22 Net Return On Equity 370.79 29.37 316.86 29.26 268.77 21.87 24.35 44.00 55.10 11.73 18.68 40.09 7.91 5.79 08 09 10 08 09 10 Activity (Unit: %) Growth (Unit: %) Total Asset Turnover Ratio Sales Growth Inventory Turnover Ratio 211.77 Growth Rate of Operating Income Growth Rate of Net Income 380.93 200.95 68.09 43.49 76.14 55.61 27.36 70.92 1.04 22.99 0.97 1.07 31.16 12.5 08 09 10 08 09 10 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Distribution of Financial PERfORMANCE Unit: KRW 1 million Category Details 2008 2009 2010 Governmemt and Corporate Tax 9,771 24,372 32,674 local authoroties Other Tax 858 2,498 11,549 Employees Salary and Benefits 169,729 159,880 192,509 Investors Dividend 8,239 41,316 70,592 Distributed Outsourcing & Economic Value Partners 96,804 96,231 130,117 Purchasing Investment in Local Donation (for exCommunity (Social ample, The Neediest 257 298 330 Contribution) Cases Campaign) Governmemt and local Partner authoroties 44,223 130,117 96,804 96,231 26,870 10,629 08 09 10 08 09 10 Investor Community Employee 70,592 330 192,509 298 41,316 159,880 257 169,729 8,239 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 Prospect for Global Power Plant Market & 52 Exploration of New Business 53 Prospect for Global • The power plant market in the world is expected to reach an average growth of 1.9% Power Plant Market each year by 2030. In line with the composition of the power generation industry around the world, it is likely to increase a proportion of new & renewable energy sources (from 18% to 30%) using solar, wind, and geothermal power generation by 2030 thanks to strengthened carbon restriction and an increase in oil prices. Having said that, nuclear power is also likely to sustainably grow as a source of clean energy resource. The proportion of thermal power plants using fossil fuels such as coal and petroleum, however, is expected to decrease gradually. Prospect for Global Power Supply by Each Source 30,187 (Unit: TWh) Nuclear 26,311 4,166 Coal Petroleum 3,746 Natural Gas 18,921 Renewables 9,757 2,793 10,066 674 7,756 865 6,429 1,095 5,116 3,807 9,161 6,518 3,470 Source: IEA, World Energy Outlook 2008 2006 2020 2030 Market Share • KEPCO E&C does exclusive business in the domestic design market for nuclear power plants; its market share is 100%. For engineering of thermal power plants, especially for largescale construction of coal-fired and combined cycle power plants, KEPCO E&C has approximately 80% of the market share. However, for small-sized thermal and combined-cycle power plants in accordance with the government’s policies so as to encourage private sectors to enter into the market, KEPCO E&C is inevitable to compete with private companies. Reputation and • KEPCO E&C is considered to be positioned itself as 18th in the world for Power Design Recognition in Global and Contractor sectors as a result of calculation on the basis of the total sales in 2009 with referMarket ence to data released by a globally-recognised construction magazine of Engineering News Record (ENR). To that end, KEPCO E&C created a vision of being ranked among top 5 largest Power EPC corporations in the world. KEPCO E&C is making great effort to realizing the vision by 2020. Among 5 Largest in 2020 Current 18th in the World 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Exploration of New • For the purpose of accomplishing the goal of 2020 NEW VISION, KEPCO E&C is thorBusiness [EPC Project] oughly preparing for expanding into new business areas beyond the current focus on engineering business. An ultimate goal of KEPCO E&C is to successfully transfer its business structure into a new business area called Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) businesses which would cover a broad scope of works for power plant construction ranging from engineering, purchasing, to construction. North America Asia EU Middle East The Atlantic Africa The Pacific South America The Indian Oceania Progress • KEPCO E&C in 2009 started exploring local agents concentrating on countries with high potential for power generation, and has attempted to participate in EPC projects while at the same time it is establishing and maintaining collaborative relations with local companies in order to explore new EPC projects. As a result, KEPCO E&C made a pilot bid for EPC business in the Bahamas and in Thailand in 2009. It handed in bids in earnest in 2010 and 2011 for business in South Africa, Saudi Arabia, and Ghana. Among them, KEPCO E&C was listed as one candidate for the EPC project in South Africa and Ghana, which has various opportunities to show off KEPCO E&C’s greatest potential to the world. Along with this, KEPCO E&C has, since 2010, established cooperative relationships as a means for laying a strong foundation for EPC business development; for example, with major equipment manufacturers including AE&E and GE, as well as general trade companies like Marubeni and Mtsui who have abundant experience in EPC business so as to secure concrete eligibility requirements for international bidding. Region Nation Business Name Co-Participant Bid Year North America Bahamas New Providence Power Expansion Doosan Engine (Korea) 2009 Thailand Wang Noi CCPP ITD/ITE (Thailand) 2010 Asia Thailand Amata Cogeneration SK Construction (Korea) 2009 Thailand Bang Pa-In SPP MPS (Japan) 2010 Middle East Saudi Arabia Qassim Gas Generation SSEM (Saudi Arabia) 2010 South Africa Lesedi CFBC Keongnam (Korea) 2010 Africa Ghana Takoradi Add-on Mitsui (Japan) 2011 Improvement of Management 54 Efficiency 55 Effort to Secure Financial Soundness Long-Term Financial • KEPCO E&C established in 2008 a financial forecasting system with the help of external Forecasting System experts in accounting and software systems in an attempt to advance its existing system into a more sophisticated mid and long term financial forecasting system. In 2010, KEPCO E&C finally improved the new financial forecasting system as one of the catalysts and stepping stones to accomplish the 2020 NEW VISION. Improvement of Predictability and Reliability through Rolling of Long-Term Financial Forecasting System Current Improvement • Excel-based VBA program • Oracle-based Java program • Strategic simulation by change in management • Program Algorithm-based financial forecast environment due to application of data table • Fixed 10-year-basis forecasts • Reduction in rolling period • Complex connectivity with organizational reform for long-term financial planning Giving Goals for Intensification of Consolidation of Facilitation of Vision Organizational Commitment to Goal Financial Stability Attainment Performance Achievement Accelerating vision Giving motivation to Setting specific goals Consolidating financial attainment by specifying employees based on of sales target by each stability based on exact financially strategic 2020 Vision Rolling division and department financial predictability assignment based on financial forecasting Establishment of Financial Strategy Establishment of Long-Term Financial Strategy by Specifying Financial Goals and Focusing on their Goal Orientation • KEPCO E&C, in connection with its Vision 2020 of the ‘Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader’, establishes and implements its step-by-step financial strategy to prepare for a possible shortage of money in the long run, and to raise funds on time. Category Short (2012) Medium (2015) Long (2020) Total Sales of KRW 1.3 trillion Total Sales of KRW 2.9 trillion Total Sales of KRW 5.1 trillion Profit Analysis EPC Sales of KRW 0.6 trillion EPC Sales of KRW 1.8 trillion EPC Sales of KRW 3.9 trillion Operating Income of 9.4% Operating Income of 7.2% Operating Income of 8.5% Per Capita Value Added of Per Capita Value Added of Per Capita Value Added of Productivity KRW 160 million KRW 200 million KRW 300 million Sustaining sound financial Maintaining appropriate debt Recovery of sound financial Financial Flow structure ratio structure Procuring funds for construcCash Flow Maintaining stable cash flow Maintaining stable cash flow tion of new headquarters 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Introduction Background and Overview of Management Innovation Information • As KEPCO E&C’s management environment is expected to change (for example, the System (ERP) introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in 2011, a sustainable expansion into overseas markets and so on) KEPCO E&C has introduced an Advanced Commercial Accounting System for the purpose of dealing with management information in a prompt, precise and transparent manner. The system will be interfaced with various internal information systems to promptly provide information so that KEPCO E&C will configure into a single comprehensive information system. Scope • KEPCO E&C established a financial management accounting system using SAP in 2010 as the first stage of ERP Implementation, and a business development system which manages business development and its execution. Based on such systems, an Executive Information System was developed to provide management-related information on time for executives. Currently, as the second stage of ERP Implementation, KEPCO E&C is establishing a Procurement and Construction Management System in order to implement EPC business. Business Information Newly-Established System ›› Management & Control Information About 400 Small Projects PMS ERP KEPCO Project Information Project Financial & Financial & (Schedule & Costs & Development Accounting Accounting System Labour) Project Control System [Information on Realization of Schedule & Personnel] Interface Interface Consolidated Financial Statements ECS IPIMS MIS Engineering Control DDMS, etc. T/C, Salary, ‹‹ Existing System (Approximately 40 Technology Large Projects) Development and etc. • PMS (Integral Business Management): Development by Outsourcing (Basic Engineering by KEPCO E&C) • ERP (Financial + Accounting): Introduction of ERP Package • BI (Business Information): Introduction of ERP or Specialized Commercial S/W ECONOMIC VALUE 50 Financial Performance 53 Prospect for Global Power Plant Market & Exploration of New Business 56 55 Improvement of Management Efficiency 58 Customer Satisfaction 57 59 Special Report: Design Safety Expectation • Company-wide working process’ simplification, consolidation and informatization will increase the company’s management level, and management resources will be effectively utilized, which will also contribute to KEPCO’s sustainable management system. Cost Saving Before ERP After ERP Strategic Decision-Making (20%) Strategic Decision-Making (80%) ERP Introduction Routine & Administrative Affairs (80%) Separated DB Routine & Administrative Affairs (20%) Improvement of Productivity & Efficiency • Advancement of Work Process: Advancement of working process through application of Global Standard & instruction of advanced management methods • Improvement of External Reliability: Securement of Financial Transparency & Reliability through application of IFRS • Response to Internationalized Management: Strengthening foundation for efficient project control capability & expansion into overseas markets • Cost Reduction: Reduction in installation period & coats through integral information system by 4 major power companies together • Advancement of Utilization of Information Technology: Establishment of basic system of system management & sustainable control system of Master Data Asset Management • As KEPCO E&C continuously pays attention to controlling the exchange rate with regard System to inflow/outflow of foreign currency, it uses strategies for exchange rate management such as Matching, Leading and Lagging. In 2010, for the preparation for inflow of massive amounts of foreign currency resulted from the UAE nuclear power plant contract, KEPCO E&C signed a basic agreement on foreign exchange derivatives trading with financial institutions, while at the same time doing foreign exchange hedge by executing forward transactions. As such, KEPCO E&C will accordingly secure much more operating profits from business which have to deal with foreign currency such as overseas EPC business. Forward Transaction of UAE Nuclear Power Plant Converted amounts (KRW) Received amounts (KRW) Transaction Amounts Profit and Loss against exchange rate for through forward transaction (Oct. 2010 ~ Dec. 2011) (B-A) contract (A) (B) USD 13,265,951 KRW 14,592 KRW 14,943 KRW 350 *Exchange rate for contract: KRW 1,100.00/USD, Average exchange rate for forward transaction: KRW 1,127.02/USD Upward Credit Rating • KEPCO E&C receives a regular credit rating on unsecured bonds every year from Korea Ratings and NICE Investor Service. According to the 2010 regular credit rating, KEPCO E&C rating was upgraded from AAto AA, mainly thanks to outstanding financial soundness, sole & exclusive positioning in the engineering sector of nuclear power plants, as well as expansion into overseas markets caused by exportation of nuclear power plants and strategies for entering into EPC business area. Such good credit rating is used as a reference in an assessment of performance capability (for winning a contract); investment review from institutional investors; credit review from financial institutions; and guarantee waivers in case of subcontract for construction. Customer Satisfaction Effort to Satisfy • KEPCO E&C classifies its customers into clients, internal customers (employees), local Customer community and partners. Based on such diverse classification, KEPCO E&C conducts customized CS strategies, according to different perspectives of each customer, and is making progress on getting results and visible performance including increase in productivity (internal customers); revenue growth (clients); quality innovation (partners); and brand value creation (local communities). Quality Innovation Partners Strategy for Creation of Productivity Customer Brand Value Internal Customers Satisfaction Local Community (Employees) Sales Increase • Diverse types of effort to realize customer satisfaction management are being made; operation of systems like a customer satisfaction center on site, emergency task force teams and a customer-specific counseling program by each division and a department through which KEPCO E&C listens to voices of customers, and gathers their opinions for KEPCO E&C. Additionally, Technology Transfer Seminars and Site Visit Presentations, which are totally customized for customers, are being held approximately 100 times every year, serving as a channel for us to exchange up-to-date technologies and to collect good suggestions. Furthermore, our customer information project is computerized to establish a Customer Information System. KEPCO E&C is introducing company-wide, a Customer Satisfaction Management System, which will respond to all requests and complaints from customers. A case in point is the VOC System that is operated at our homepage. It is designed to accept questions, comments and complaints in a real time, and then all such matters are handled and shared among project teams. Customer Satisfaction • KEPCO E&C internally conducts customer satisfaction surveys for its employees, clients Feedback Program and partners’ employees. Based on the results, KEPCO E&C comes up with countermeasures, and the entire process is reviewed by the Customer Satisfaction Management Committee on a quarterly basis, thereby strengthening a feedback system that is aimed at meeting customers’ needs. As a result of all such efforts, the customer satisfaction index towards public organizations has gradually shown a higher level on average of 16% or more since the survey was first conducted in 2005. And according to its internal survey on customer satisfaction conducted in 2010, the result was 91.9 points, which is relatively high compared with that of relevant organizations and other public bodies and services. S p e c i a l R e p o r t Design Safety 58 59 • Safety of Nuclear KEPCO E&C recognizes safety of nuclear power plants as the top priority when it comes Power Plant to engineering and design of the plants. To prevent people and the environment from being exposed to radioactivity, KEPCO E&C engineers add a concept of safety in nuclear power plants to the existing typical design concept. • Basic Principles of KEPCO E&C performs engineering and design processes according to the following Safety Design of principles regarding safety design of nuclear power plants in a thorough manner. Nuclear Power Plant First, do not malfunction while in operation. Second, even if malfunction occurs, do not let the problem become an accident. Third, even if an accident happens, do not let it affect its peripheral areas. • Gradual Objectives and Design Philosophy Precaution Prevention for Safety Design against Prevention against leakage against accident malfunction & of radioactive & its expansion accident material 1st Stage 2nd Stage 3rd Stage KEPCO E&C applies the most conservative standards in plant design to prevent unexpected malfunction and accidents, and uses facilities exclusive for blocking mistaken operation as well as for automatic systems to protect safety issues at Stage 1. At Stage 2, KEPCO E&C is able to detect symptoms earlier when abnormalities in equipment and devices are likely to occur, and to quickly stop the operation of the plant in order not to let a real accident happen. And last Stage 3 is designed by utilizing a defense-in-depth concept in order not to let radioactive materials to be released, even if the equipment malfunction develops into a real accident. Besides, various efforts to guarantee safety are being made by applying engineering safety features to our design process, such as emergency core cooling systems. 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report • Characteristics of Facilities and equipment with regard to safety in nuclear power plants developed by Design for Safety KEPCO E&C comply with the following principles so that serious disastrous accidents can be Facility and System completely prevented even if mistakes made by operators or malfunction on equipment occur. — Multiplicity KEPCO E&C establishes more than two facilities with the same function, to keep one of them operating, because even if there are problems in one of the facilities, the other can work completely without any further problems. — Independence KEPCO E&C installs more than 2 systems or facilities with same function in order not to lose their functions at the same time caused by the same reason so that the original features and function of safety facilities can be maintained at all times. — Diversity KEPCO E&C installs more than two systems or facilities with different characteristics to keep their own function working with no problem. • Reliability of Safety KEPCO E&C stipulates types of material, conditions for use, and stress limits to secure Facility and Safety much higher reliability in terms of engineering, design, procurement and construction of safety Guarantee of Nuclear facilities, and requires seismic design and environment resistance verification at the same time. Power Plant In addition, it strongly recommends that nuclear power plants secure safety even against severely extreme climate disasters. Particularly, multiple barriers should be constructed to prevent radioactivity from leaking. Plants are built on hard rock bed verified through a series of geological surveys when the site is selected as preparation against earthquake. It’s important to note that concept of seismic design is applied to maintain structural soundness against severe earthquake with Richter Magnitude Scale of 7. 01 Action Pledged Convention for Improvement of Design Reliability and Spread of Awareness about Safety Culture 01 01 SOCIAL VALUE 60 ● 61 For the achievement of KEPCO E&C’s Peoplebased goals Communication and harmony are prerequisites. KEPCO E&C will endeavor to make a difference for our employees to enthusiastically work, for our partners to build reliable partnerships, and for our community to share with those in need. KEPCO E&C’s employees People We Need • KEPCO E&C embraces people with reliability and a challenging spirit. Our basic mottos are [Reliable Partner & Pioneer with Challenging Spirit]. KEPCO E&C is committed to hiring and fostering talented; who are creative, self-motivated, cooperative, responsible, honorable, moral, globally-minded, future-oriented and qualified, whose values fall in line with the Age of Information. People We Need Reliable Partner Pioneer with Challenging Spirit Partner who understands needs of customers and Pioneer who constantly challenges based faithfully performs them on the best speciality Employees • As of the end of 2010, KEPCO E&C employs 2041 people including 2004 regular workers, and 37 non-regular workers. Seventy eight percent of the total workers in the Seoul Youngin headquarters where direct department and three functional divisions are located, 16% in Daejeon where the NSSS team is stationed, and the rest 6% in construction sites (Kori, Yonggwang, Ulchin, and Wolsong) and overseas. KEPCO E&C officially imposes ban on child labor, and no case for child labor was reported during the reporting period. Employees by Year and by Location Workplace 2008 2009 2010 Youngin Headquarters (Including detached offices) 1,377 1,368 1,579 NSSS (Daejeon) 298 304 326 Construction Sites in Seoul 2 20 21 Construction Sites in Uljin, Wolsong, Kori, and Yonggwang 86 99 85 Overseas 39 15 12 Others 64 25 18 Total 1,866 1,831 2,041 Personnel by Academic Background, Occupational Category, and Certificate of Qualification (As of December 31, 2010) Personnel by Qualification & Personnel by Educational Personnel by Occupational Certificate Background Category 34% 14% 10% 5% 2% 0.2% 11% 10% 24% 4% 26% 61% 77% 22%  Professional Engineer  Doctor  Executive  PE/PMP  Master  Researcher  Industrial Engineer  Bachelor  Technician  Other Certificates  Others  Office  Others (no certificate)  Privileged SOCIAL VALUE 62 62 KEPCO E&C’s employees 74 Win-Win Policy with Partners 63 78 KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management Fair Recruiting • KEPCO E&C promotes the Youth Internship System through which 98 people were hired System in 2009, and 59 people for the internship and 229 new regular employees in 2010. Category 2008 2009 2010 Total Personnel by Year 1,866 1,831 2,041 New Employees 229 Internship Employees 98 59 • In hiring, KEPCO E&C does not discriminate candidates based on gender, academic background, physical handicap or cultural difference. Based on such standards, KEPCO hired 64 people from non-metropolitan areas in 2010. Moreover, additional points by each stage of screening tests are given to those who either are veterans or disabled when they apply for job openings. Therefore, the total percentage of the disabled working in KEPCO E&C in 2010 is 3.00%, which is higher than the mandatory stipulated in the Act on Employment Promotion for the Disabled (the law requires mandatory employment rate of 2.0%). Category 2008 2009 2010 No. of Employees Required (2%) 37 36 40 No. of the Disabled hired by KEPCO E&C 45 49 59 (Employment Rate) 2.42% 2.68% 3.00% No. of Permanent Employees 1,866 1,828 1,966 *When the required number of the disabled is calculated, 1 individual with a severe disability is equivalent to 2 capita. Rate in • Eighty eight percent of personnel working in KEPCO E&C graduated from colleges or No. of Women the proportion of universities specializing in Science and Engineering. The current workforce structure is inevitable Personnel total No. 2008 given the fact that the number of women whose major was science or engineering was too low in 119 6.4% the 1980’s and 1990’s. However, due to dramatic changes in social trends women whose specialty 2009 was science and engineering are expected to increase in the future. In fact, the percentage of 0.1% 119 6.5% was increased to 7.4% in 2010, up from 6.4% in 2008. 2010 152 7.4% • KEPCO E&C is seeking out a variety of perspectives to come up with ways to prevent outstanding employees from leaving the company. In that regard, executives on the management level try to resolve grievances their employees are facing, and more critically, they are leaving no stone unturned to improve welfare conditions for employees and to improve their working environment. In particular, KEPCO E&C also utilizes retirees’ abundant experience and expertise by allowing them to work for the company as contract workers, especially in sectors of regarding handling Drawing & Document Control Center (DDCC), and execution of comprehensive engineering project for UAE nuclear power plant. Category 2008 2009 2010 Total No. of Personnel by Year 1,835 1,800 1,999 Turnover 17 7 19 Retirement 33 36 34 Turnover Rate 0.93% 0.39% 0.95% *Based on Regular Personnel (Excluding executives and those in privileged positions) 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Development and Training of Human Resources Human Rights • KEPCO E&C, as a public organization, lays stress on carrying out its responsibility when Protection it comes to human rights protection, especially for the socially disadvantaged, in compliance with the Labor Standard Act. In addition to that, KEPCO E&C complies with the ILO’s regulations concerning the ban on child labor and forced labor. No violation has occurred. The company implements maternal protection policies; by allowing women to take 90 days off works including before and after child birth as a means of maternity leave; temporary retirement or curtailed labor to assist the raising of infants younger than three years; care facility in workplaces; and convenient medical checks for pregnant women and unborn children. All these benefits are specified in the collective labor agreement. Frequency of Maternal or Childcare 2008 2009 2010 total Leaves 4 4 11 19 • As shown above, good results have been made in terms of encouraging childbirth and maternity protection. The number of applicants for maternal childcare leaves was just four in 2008 but it has increased to eleven in 2011. And operation of a child care center is partly contributing to giving encouragement and morale to female employees. For the past 3 years, 3 employees working in the headquarters in youngin were suspended from duty due to occupational injuries. Human Rights Education • Education about human rights including sexual harassment prevention is offered to all employees, including non-regular workers. To consult and support victims from sexual harassment, sexual harassment consultancy staff has been designated from 2006 and special education is provided to sexual harassment consultancy staff to enable them to effectively conduct their duties. In particular, newly-employed personnel receive education about sexual harassment prevention for 1 hour during training curriculum for new employees. • For personnel in charge of managing facilities and their beautification, safety education about occupation is given once a month. For security guards, education about working processes, occupational duties, and provisions stipulated in constitutional law, criminal law, and acts on human rights is provided once a month by Security Instructors. In addition, training about prevention against fire is given once a quarter to all employees. • Twenty eight people in charge of security, including 22 people in the headquarters (plus those in the annex building), and 8 in construction sites NSSS Division are responsible for security and fire prevention affairs 24 hours a day. Regarding working procedure and tips that they should follow; possibility of human right infringement is prevented through continuous internal training. S O C IA L V A L U E 64 62 KEPCO E&C’s employees 74 Win-Win Policy with Partners 65 78 KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management 01 Training for Vision Communication 02 Marine Corps-Type of Workshop for New Employee 03 Introduction Training for New Employee 02 01 03 Training Program KEPCO E&C’s Training System • KEPCO E&C has established a refined and strategic system for fostering human resources by analyzing capabilities required at each occupational position. To accomplish the vision of becoming a ‘Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader’, KEPCO E&C dedicates itself to producing talented people who have capability as a global workforce. In the meantime, KEPCO E&C utilizes an Education Credit Program to provide equal educational opportunities for all employees, and the assessment results are reflected to evaluate a division's performance and promotion process. Not only is much more attention being paid to nourishing talented workforce but also concrete foundation for a self-oriented learning culture is laid. Training Period per Person, and Training Status Total Training Costs (Unit: Hour/Person, KRW 1 million) • KEPCO E&C conducts a variety of training according to each area of occupational funcEducation Time Per Person Total Education Costs tion and in addition to intensity builds up technological specialty. 94 KEPCO E&C’s training curriculum is categorized into; Technical Sector; Administrative Sector; 90 2995 and Common Competency Development. 66 1892 1742 2008 2009 20010 No. Personnel No. Personnel No. Personnel Technical 683 8,514 715 10,119 517 7,131 Administrative 109 208 114 202 92 216 08 09 10 Common Competency 5 2,750 12 5,567 30 8,194 Development Total 797 11,472 841 15,888 646 15,441 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report • In addition, training of Life Planning for those who are going to retire has been provided since 2009 to help them adopt a new environment after their retirement and encourage them to make their plans for the rest of the life. The training opportunities about life planning are given 3 years before they retire in a variety of areas ranging from self-assessment, carrier management, adaptation to changes, financial management and start-ups; so, the retired can finalize their long working life while at the same time making themselves comfortable psychologically. Thirty three people participated in such training in 2009, and thirty two in 2010. Establishment of • KEPCO E&C on July 5, 2010 established its Power Engineering Training Center (PETC) KEPCO E&C power in a bid to foster human resources in a systemic way. The PETC, on the basis of its vision of “Global Engineering training Top EPC Training Center” and a mission of “The Best Talented Education for Future Leader”, procenter vides diversified trainings, living up to demands of trainees from all walks of life, by securing fulltime and concurrent professors, and professional instructors, and by creating training rooms so that the best qualified leaders in such areas as nuclear, plant and new technology can be nourished. A systemic training system by each stage of curriculum has been set up by reflecting results of occupational analysis by each technological area. Its goal by 2012 is to be a global training organization to produce professionals specialized in design engineering for nuclear power plants and technical specialists for generation power plants. Organization of KEPCO E&C Power Engineering Training Center President of KEPCO E&C Power Engineering Training Center Faculty • Full-Time Professor: 5 Persons • Concurrent Professor: 11 Persons Administrative Team • Professional Instructor: Around 100 Persons SOCIAL VALUE 66 62 KEPCO E&C’s employees 74 Win-Win Policy with Partners 67 78 KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management Training System of KEPCO E&C Power Engineering Training Center Best Human Resources for Future Leaders Total Solution Special Training Global Human Resources Training Customer-Oriented Training Technology-Focused Training Advanced Course • Target: 7 years or more experience after joined the company • Time: Open course for the year Experts in Experts in Experts in • Contents: Special areas focusing on technology A Area B Area C Area Individual Course Training System Training System Training System • Target: 5 years or more experience after joined the company Intermediate Course • Time: Open course for the year • Contents: Special Areas focusing on technology • Target: Completed occupational introductory training Intensive Introductory Course • Time: Open course for the year Course • Contents: Special areas focusing on technology • Target: All new employees Occupational Introductory Training • Time: 6 months after joined the company • Contents: Occupational introductory training • Target: All new employees New Employee Training • Time: Right after joined the company • Contents: Unification & Integration training Specialist System • KEPCO E&C has had a specialist system since 2005 by selecting 65 special areas for the purposes of gaining superiority in engineering technology around the world and of cultivating key personnel qualified with highly-skilled knowledge and experience, and of gaining knowledge of distinctive advantages around the world. The specialists receive higher salary than employees (non-specialists). And attractive incentives are given to them; such as facilities and systems for independent research activities. In particular, priorities are given to the specialists including opportunities for obtaining advanced overseas training, participation in overseas academic conferences and other similar opportunities. By doing so, as much as 30% of their time is focused on activities regarding their knowledge of special sectors and technological research. Roles and Expectation about Specialists • Specialists play a role in resolving problems in specific technological areas faced by the company, which in turn gives those opportunities to accumulate special technologies and elevate their specialty. Eventually, KEPCO E&C expects that this role will enhance further the intensity and scope of specialty required for technology advancement and excavation of new technologies. 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Employee Salary Salary System • KEPCO E&C introduced an Annual Salary System for all employees in 2009 as a result of labor-management consent according to government policies for management advancement. The salary payment system consists of competitive basic annual salary, additional salary for job title, bonus pay, other employee benefits, salary for performance, and retirement grants. To successfully put the performance-based annual salary system in place, KEPCO E&C gradually introduced the performance-based annual salary system and transferred the existing system to the new one in 2011, starting from top executives. Average salary for executive directors except for the President in 2010 was KRW 92 million, and KRW 62 million for employees. In addition, there is no difference in basic annual salary depending on gender; initial salary for new employees who just graduated from universities was approximately KRW 24 million, which is much higher (about 230%) than that of statutory minimum wage. Employees’ Average Salary in 2010 Rate of Salary for Performance in Category Average Salary (KRW 1 million) proportion of Total Salary (%) President & CEO 105 54.5% Auditor 84 50.0% Executive Director 91 47.0% Employee 62 25.4% *Excluded Salary for Performance Employees’ Salary for Performance for the past 3 years Unit: KRW 1 million Category 2008 2009 2010 Salary for Performance 26,641 27,370 39,506 • Retirement grants are paid to employees who worked for at least 1 year when they are retired. In order to guarantee the safety of the grants, KEPCO E&C has joined retirement insurance (trust) of as many as 7 financial institutions. As of the end of December 2010, approximately KRW 76.5 billion has been deposited. In addition, KEPCO E&C plans to introduce a retirement Reserved Amounts for Allowance for Employee Retirement pension system within 2011, according to the “Employee Retirement Benefit Security Act” pubBenefits for the past three years lished in 2005. (Unit: KRW 1 million) 25,008 • In the meantime, irregular employment, as an employment type of period-based contract, is hired by officially announcing job openings, especially in the specific areas where manpower is extremely short such as supervision on construction sites. After the announcement, 15,586 containing salary, working conditions and other, a series of examination and screening steps are 10,270 taken accordingly. With regard to salary, payment on a monthly basis is given by considering individual career, qualifications and experience. The monthly salary includes allowances, excluding legal benefits (overtime pay, and compensation for annual leave), welfare benefits, and so on. 08 09 10 SOCIAL VALUE 68 62 KEPCO E&C’s employees 74 Win-Win Policy with Partners 69 78 KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management Employee Performance Assessment Performance • KEPCO E&C establishes an optimized performance-based management system reflectManagement System ing characteristics of the engineering-oriented work process, so as to improve executive power of the company’s mid-and-long term management strategies, and to accomplish its management goals in an effective way. In circumstances where project-specific work characteristics, emphasizing cooperation by each technical area are required, and project-focused matrix system exists, a shared growth of each individual and organization is required to both secure quality of business execution and achieve the company-wide management goals. For such objectives, KEPCO E&C consolidates and manages all evaluation results of its entire group’s management performance, internal assessment about the organization, and individuals’ performance to build up its competitiveness among internal members in a productive way, and at the same time to improve its management efficiency further. KEPCO E&C’s Strategic Map for Performance Management GLOBAL POWER EPC ENTERPRISE, PLEDGES TO EMBODY CUSTOMER VALUE WITH IT'S WORLD-CLASS TECHNOLOGY Maximization of Financial Corporate Value Productivity Performance Improvement Cost Saving Business Expansion Customer Expansion into Global Strengthening Total Orientation Market Solution Business Quality Improvement of Business Project Innovation of Improvement of Management System Establishment of Internal Process Transparent Ethics Management Efficiency Infrastructure for Management Management Strategy Leader in Technology Future Capability Development of Nurturing Sustainable Technology Global Talents • As part of pursuing a sustainable management efficiency and productivity, KEPCO E&C focuses on its company-wide capabilities; holds diverse workshops on major pressing issues; operates a collegiate body; establishes a management system dealing with management matters organized by our CEO; monitors the company’s performance on a regular basis; and shares all kinds of information on pending issues. 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Performance • KEPCO E&C’s performance-based evaluation system uses the organization standards Management System of Balanced Score Card (BSC), and the individual performance evaluation system of Management By Objectives (MBO). Through mutual management interfaced among these two systems, KEPCO E&C effectively cascades its management objectives in each stage, and establishes performancebased evaluation in which monitoring and assessment are being done. • Performance Monitoring Encouragement of Performance Improvement Performance management through regular check and monitoring • Utilization of Performance Result Performance Utilization of Operational Monitoring Performance Result Establishment of performance-based Establishment of Guidelines on Analysis on corporate culture based on differential Goal for Annual Performance Performance compensation Performance Diagnosis of Management • Diagnose on Assessment System Improvement Activity Assessment System Analysis and reflection of improvement measures through diagnose in assessment system Reflection of Assessment Result • Additionally, to secure fairness of the operation of the evaluation system, opinions gathered through the performance-based system are publicized and objections against individual evaluation results can be posed. In the meantime, in order for employees to accept the results and to get their feedback, a satisfaction survey & questionnaire on the evaluation results and on the validity of the system are taken. Such final feedback is reflected in setting up the next operating system, while at the same time interests in the operation of employees’ evaluation system are kept. Furthermore, by reviewing the system’s validity by an external auditing body every year, much more objective evaluation data is collected within the scope of universally-accepted extent. As a result, BSC performance management system inside the company’s Portal was established in 2009 so that various functions like performance inquiry, analysis, performance management and relevant information are effectively utilized. It serves as a good opportunity for the company to be able to improve work efficiency and give encouragement to employees at the same time by clearly presenting roles of the company; to identify the company’s current status; and to accomplish its widespread objectives. Screen on Organization Performance Inquiry in Performance Management System Establishment of performance-based management system Creation of Assessment focusing Performance Growth of company environment on performance and management based on good pursuing good capability by system performance performance Screen on Performance Analysis by Index in Performance Management System SOCIAL VALUE 70 62 KEPCO E&C’s employees 74 Win-Win Policy with Partners 71 78 KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management Employee Welfare Benefit • KEPCO E&C is striving to enhance the level of welfare benefits by running diverse welfare systems such as the introduction of a selective welfare system in 2008, and it is also focusing on building up welfare systems for women and motherhood such as by operating workplace childcare facilities since 2009. KEPCO E&C’s Welfare System Category Description •Operation of medical clinic (The headquarters and annex buildings) •Implementation of physical check-up test for employees and their spouses Health Management once a year •Provision of health consultation depending on monthly check-up results •No-smoking clinic, posting useful information at internal portal site •Grants of school expenses to employees’ children (middleㆍhigh school) Child Education •Provision of interest-free loans for employees’ children (college) Operation of Workplace Childcare Operation of 23 workplace childcare facilities in areas where large numbers of Facility employees live Operation of Selective Welfare Support for self-development and cultural education System Support for accommodations such as company housing on construction sites Stabilization of Residential Life and rooms for single men and women Support for Social Security National pension, health insurance, unemployment insurance, accident Insurance insurance and etc. Operation of Condominium and Allowing employees to use condominium and resorts in Korea Resort Support for Culture and Physical Support for athletic meetings, associations and club activities (for example, Activities support for participating fees, prizes/reward and etc.) Provision of Gift in Commemoration Provision of gifts to celebrate the company’s foundation every year of Foundation Support for celebrations & condolence, subsidy for childhood education, loan Internal Employee Welfare Fund for livelihood stabilization etc. Operation of commuting buses linking subway schedule, fitness center, sauna Others club, table tennis room, rest room for women and so on. 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Execution of Welfare Benefit for the past 3 years Unit: KRW 1 million Category 2008 2009 2010 Welfare Benefit Expense 27,805 29,081 20,439 Expense per head 15 16 11 *Included 4 Major Insurances Open Dialogue Channel between Labor and Management • KEPCO E&C has strived to form the basis for mutual trust and consensus between labor and management through active communication and diverse channels of dialogue. In particular, the Labor-Management Joint Committees such as our Labor-Management Consultative Council are one of the best channels for labor and management to discuss pending issues. Other meetings to boost mutual consensus include the Unofficial Committee between Labor and Management, ‘Time for Building Friendship.' Organization of Labor • KEPCO E&C’s Labor Union, which was launched on December 7, 1987, and its superior Union organization are the Korea Federation of Public Services and Transportation Workers’ Unions, under the control of the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions. According to Union Shop article of collective agreement, all employees must be members of the union except managers and higherranking officials. As of the end of 2010, 1,345 employees were unionists. The union consists of a General Assembly, a Board of Representatives, a High-Ranking Committee, a Chairman, officials of a permanent execution committee, and sub-committees such as working-level bureaus and departments. SOCIAL VALUE 72 62 KEPCO E&C’s employees 74 Win-Win Policy with Partners 73 78 KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management Labor-Management • The Labor-Management Consultative Council, which is composed of six members each Consultative Council from labor and management, handles an agenda on welfare benefits and productivity enhancement on a quarterly basis, thereby not only promoting collaborative relationships but also serving as a dialogue channel between them. Major Progress of • The collective agreement was revised on November, 2009 to comply with government Collective Agreement policies for the advancement of labor-management relations on the basis of mutual collaborative labor relations. Major accomplishments as a result of the updated collective agreement in 2009 include expansion of the annual based salary system for all employees in an effort to strengthen performance-based salary as well as to make sure union members can do legitimate activities related to the labor union. KEPCO E&C complies with Protection Convention (No. 87 and 98 of ILO Convention) on Freedom of Association, Right to Organize, and the Right of Collective Bargaining. The collective agreement will be revised every other year, and the contents will be applied to all employees. In addition, if there are significant changes in business activities, notification should be made to the labor union at least 90 days before, according to Article 10 of the collective agreement. Communication Time for Building Friendship • ‘Time for Building Friendship’ is a system performed in order to expand mutual consensus between management and labor through regular communication. The meeting of ‘Time for Building Friendship’ is held for one hour every Tuesday and Thursday. The meeting encourages working-level managers and union officials to share their opinions on pending issues. As a result, it contributes to establishment of sound labor relations based on trust. Suggestion Program • KEPCO E&C pursues a ‘Suggestion Program’ in which an ever-changing managerial environment can be accepted through mutual solidarity and consensus of both the organization and individuals in a horizontal manner. This system plays a crucial role in not only accomplishing cost savings, quality improvement and productivity enhancement, but also encouraging all employees to do proactive communication. Results of suggestion for the recent 3 years 2500 2,034 1,947 2000 1500 1,202 1000 500 0 08 09 10 Win-Win Policy with Partners Characteristics of • KEPCO E&C implements a partnership system under which cooperative agreements Partners are signed according to each partnering area for the sake of effective business with both domestic and overseas companies. Specifically, such areas include design engineering, specific building & construction, manufacturing & purchasing, and others. Various types of cooperation based on cooperative agreements are being done with partners; by which KEPCO E&C conducts joint design engineering and construction projects, mutual technical support, and information exchange and sharing. Criteria for Partner • In the process for evaluation of partners, certain levels of evaluation items and specific Selection and Post standards are applied to assess qualifications and capabilities of the partners. The evaluation reManagement sults are converted into scores. Such a process ultimately enhances transparency when it comes to managing the partnering system. Criteria for partner selection, including operational status, quality, reliability, performance on business execution and product delivery, are submitted for the examination process for legitimacy of human rights. SOCIAL VALUE 74 62 KEPCO E&C’s employees 74 Win-Win Policy with Partners 75 78 KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management Criteria for Partner Selection Engineering and Construction Manufacturing and Purchasing Others Point Area Item Special Item Point Item Point Engineering Construction Management Credit Rating 40 40 Credit Rating 40 40 40 Workforce 30 10 Delivery Performance 20 Workforce 30 Business Performance 10 Technology (Manufacturing) 20 Execution Capability Capability Construction Capability 30 Business Performance 30 Quality Assurance Quality Assurance 20 20 20 Capability Capability Performance of Contract Performance of Contract Performance of Contract 3.5 ~ -11 4 ~ -14 4 ~ -11 3.5 ~ -11 A. Deficiency Points Implementation Implementation Implementation Other (+2) (+2) Other (+2) Other (+2) Total 100 100 100 100 *Qualifying Criteria: Total Score of 70 points or more, More than 80% points in Quality and Safety/Environment Activity Assessment • By doing effective business through fair and substantial competitiveness, KEPCO E&C is trying to guarantee quality as much as possible. Therefore, there is no limitation on the numbers of partners. By conducting an open bidding scheme every 3 years regularly and occasionally, qualified partners are selected and registered. Status on Registered Partners Design and Engineering Special Construction Manufacturing and Purchasing Others Technology Cooperation Construction Cooperation Operation Cooperation Cooperation No. of Company Architecture 2 Areas (9 Companies) 1 Area (31 Instrumentation 1 Area (11 Companies) Electricity Companies) Nuclear 5 Area Logistics/ Machinery 2 Areas (17 Companies) 6 Companies power (78 Companies) Transportation Piping Line 1 Area (15 Companies) Business Management 2 Areas (16 Companies) New and 1 Area Nuclear power 2 Areas (11 Companies) Renewable Energy (3 Companies) Electricity 1 Area (10 Companies) Information 1 Areas (9 Companies) 6 Areas Plant Insurance 2 Companies Civil Engineering 9 Areas (52 Companies) (273 Companies) Building 16 Areas Quality 1 Area (5 Companies) Construction (89 Companies) Environment 4 Areas (10 Companies) • For its existing partners and suppliers, regular evaluation, which is an assessment whether to implement each contract, is taken every year. Non-regular evaluation is done when construction is complete. Such evaluations gradually lead to enhancement of business efficiency partially by increasing quality of design done by partners, and strengthening business competitiveness. 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Preferred • In a bid to promote mutual growth of the power industry by taking the lead in public Procurement System procurement, KEPCO E&C proactively implements the Preferred Procurement System, on which for SME (Small Medium products made by small and medium size enterprises are preferably purchased. In 2010, it proEnterprise) s cured products manufactured by SMEs amounting to 85.4%, or KRW 97.5 billion of its total purchased amounts of KRW 114.2 billion. For the sake of encouragement of R & D activities by SMEs, KEPCO E&C will continuously place a great deal of weight on purchasing products of SMEs for which it reflected the article about ‘Preferred Procurement System’ in its corporate policy. Training Program for • KEPCO E&C entered into strategic partnership with partners based on the President’s KEPCO E&C Partners strong commitment to a shared growth and win-win partnership, and is striving to realize sustainable corporate values by consolidating mutual competitiveness through technological collaboration. • As an engineering company, KEPCO E&C holds technical seminars throughout the year to disseminate useful technological knowledge to its partners, and conducts technology training customized for partners on the basis of the result of survey on ‘Demand for Training’ as a means of improving technological capability of SMEs. Notably, Basic Training about Comprehensive Engineering, which is one of training programs for KEPCO E&C’s new employees, has been given to employees of partners since 2006. Therefore, partners’ employees can also take the training curriculum consisting of as many as 60 subjects in areas of nuclear power plant, thermal power plant or common fields. In addition to this program, KEPCO E&C provides specific training upon requests from partners with an aim of giving them a chance to receive specifically customizing programs for an individual enterprise; KEPCO E&C welcomes visits of employees from partners to allow them to look around the sites of power plants. This tour program gets a lot of attention, and numerous employees participated in the tours. Additionally, KEPCO E&C concluded an agreement for Academic-Corporate Partnership Program with MyungJi University to provide occupational training for KEPCO E&C‘s partners by dispatching instructors to them. All of such efforts from every aspect are for productivity improvement of SMEs. Training Program • Comprehensive Engineering Courses (License, Reliability Analysis, Radioactive Waste Management, for KEPCO E&C’s and Resistant Analysis & Design) • Power Plant Protective System using FPGA & Protective Method Partners • Engineering for Prevention Device of Reverse Valve and Assessment on Control Mode’s Cavitations • Nuclear Power Plant System and Main Feed Control System • Hardware and Software of Various Protective Systems • Introduction of Engineering for Improved Nuclear Pump • Function and Configuration of Power Plant’s Protective System • Assessment for Engineering and Impact of APR 1400 MOV • Requirement for Engineering of APR 1400 MOV • Information Courses; AutoCAD BasicㆍAdvanced, 3D Concept-Engineering Skills • Performance Planning & Occupational Improvement for SMEs Employees (Piping Line, Civil Engineering, Architect, etc.) SOCIAL VALUE 76 62 KEPCO E&C’s employees 74 Win-Win Policy with Partners 77 78 KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management Communication with • KEPCO E&C engages in dialogue with its employees’ partners through diverse chanPartners nels of communication, including the Internet Cyber Support Center of Customer Consultancy Room, the RINGO Service, and the 3-Phone-Calls-A-Day Campaign, as well as through frequent working-level meetings by each division, and technical workshops. By conducting such diverse activities, grievances facing partners, recommendations and opinions are gathered to seek out effective solutions. Moreover, conferences for a mutual growth of large corporations and smallmedium size enterprises are being held so that KEPCO E&C, partners’ CEOs, and executives discuss pending issues and come up with cooperative measures in the mid and long term. Additionally, surveys are conducted annually to gauge partners’ satisfaction with KEPCO E&C’s supporting efforts and to gather their recommendations and suggestions to the effect that a mutual growth between KEPCO E&C and its partners means that support for each other should not be made unilaterally. It should be just one of the prerequisites for strengthened corporate competitiveness. KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management 01 01~04 KEPCO E&C True Love Volunteer Group Activites 02 04 03 SOCIAL VALUE 78 62 KEPCO E&C’s employees 74 Win-Win Policy with Partners 79 78 KEPCO E&C’s Sharing Management • KEPCO E&C’s True Love Volunteer Group, which was launched on August, 2005, pursues fulfillment of corporate social responsibility on the theme of realizing the sharing of ‘Happiness, Hope, Love and Life’ in a bid to provide technology for customers, and sharing and love for neighborhood. The True Love Volunteer Group is dedicated to practicing real charity. The Group raises funds based on a Matching Grant System by donating twice the amount of the employees’ voluntary donations after collecting the employees’ donations from the employees’ monthly salaries. Various voluntary activities are carried out by signing sister relationships with as many as 14 welfare facilities in and around the Headquarters, offices in Daejeon, and in the vicinity of power plants as well as two villages. Sharing Management Happiness Sharing Hope Sharing • Volunteer services at community welfare facilities • Support for needy neighbours such as orphanages, • Activities focusing on self dedication child headed family and the elderly • Fundraising for Disability Organizations Love Sharing Life Sharing • Activities for sister relationships with villages in • Regular blood donation campaign rural area • Organ donation campaign and meal serving event • Helping farmers during farming season, and purchasing of agricultural products KEPCO E&C ‘True Love Volunteer Group’s Engagement and Donation Category 2008 2009 2010 Average for 3 years Voluntary Time (MH) 7,716 5,336 5,406 6,153 Donation (KRW 1 million) 124 116 115 119 • In 2010, the total number of participants in the True Love Voluntary Group was 864 people, and the frequency of the participants was about 4.2 a month. Activities that they were involved in include fixing up old welfare facilities, bathing the elderly, giving a hand in community farming, support for the elderly and families with disabled children, provision of free meals for the homeless, support for a community child center serving orphans, and children with a single parent. As such, KEPCO E&C is fully committed to facilitating a sharing culture on a company level. 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 01 Campaign for Organ Donation of Love 02 International Campaign for 1 to 1 Child Sponsorship 01 02 • An organ donation campaign was started based on sisterhood with Korean Organ Donor Program in 2007, and the company has been involved in activities for ‘Life Saving’ through a blood donation campaign two times a year. In particular, a street campaign of ‘Organ Donation Awareness’ was carried out with the local community in 2011. Above all, as many as 516 which is about 30 % of all employees, the company proactively took the lead in signing a donation pledge. In addition, KEPCO E&C pushes forward the ‘Life Sharing’ campaign to promote the campaign of ‘Organ Donation of Love’. • Furthermore, KEPCO E&C has been involved in activities to sponsor 1 to 1 sisterhood relationships with 178 children living overseas for the sake of fulfilling social responsibility worldwide, and it also spreads its scope as part of social contribution to overseas, for example, by donating as many as 100 PCs to BattamBang University in Cambodia, 200 PCs to Baseco, Philippines, and so on. Thanks to such variety of voluntary engagements and efforts from all employees, KEPCO E&C’s True Love Voluntary Group was awarded ‘Grand Prize for Voluntary Corporate Contribution to Society’ organized and presented by the Korea Economic Daily for 3 consecutive years, thereby recognizing KEPCO E&C as a company who practices both Social Voluntary Activity’ and ‘Sharing Management’. Communication with • KEPCO E&C is trying to do its best to maintain close relationships with reflecting feedLocal Community back received from local communities after identifying grievances facing them through diverse channels such as the Customer Care Center at our homepage, RINGO Service, 3-Phone-Calls-ADay Campaign, etc. ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 80 ● 81 KEPCO E&C Regards People and the Environment as Priorities At All Times. KEPCO E&C, as a Global Power EPC Enterprise, following customer values with world-class technologies, will fully commit to creating a healthy and clean environment by utilizing eco-friendly technologies combined with sophisticated, systematic and safe management. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management System • KEPCO E&C recognizes harmonizing Humans, Environment, and technology as a core value for business management to promote human welfare. It strives to be a Global Power EPC Leader initiating HSE culture by establishing, executing, and continuously improving integrated HSE Management System to meet international requirements. ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 82 82 Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management System 83 86 Eco-Friendly Office Management Activity HSE POLICY Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy The KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company (KEPCO E&C), based on its business idea of promoting the happiness of mankind through harmonization of Humanity, Environment and Technology and in an effort to embody the visions of a global electric power EPC business entity realizing customers’ values, promotes the following principles under a motto of “Settlement of its Advanced Organization Culture” Prioritizing health, safety and environment”. 1. Establish, implement, and continuously improve a HSE Management System in compliance with the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems and ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Requirements. 2. Accustom to observance of all of the health, safety and environmental rules and regulations that the company agrees to comply with. 3. Exercise for all employees preventive activities that identify and take a necessary action for risks related to health and safety and environmental aspects in a volunteer manner. 4. Set a target for a goal of achievement, measure performances, and continuously seek for improvement for the HSE Policy. We, all employees of KEPCO E&C, recognize that effective HSE Management System can enhance an integral part of the company competitiveness and shall do all that are possible to achieve global HSE culture. President & CEO An, Seung-Kyoo HSE Management • KEPCO E&C has established the advanced HSE Management System, integrated with System Health, Safety, and Environment management systems to identify impacts on Health, Safety, and Environment aspects, manage them, and continuously improve the results. KEPCO E&C has carried out corporate-wide HSE activities in order to achieve Global top level of HSE management system. Policy & Objectives Action Plan Check Do 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Health and Safety Strengthening Capability for Health and Safety Activities • KEPCO E&C has successfully improved its HSE Management System after benchmarking the HSE management systems of leading overseas companies. In addition, KEPCO E&C has enhanced Project Health & Safety performances and improved Project Health & Safety System by taking advanced Health & Safety best practices. KEPCO E&C is going to nurture health & safety professionals by providing special trainings from domestic and abroad, and it is going to employ additional Health & Safety specialists and continuously reinforce HSE organization to develop and execute overseas EPC projects. PROMOTION OF INCIDENT AND INJURY FREE (IIF) PROGRAM • KEPCO E&C is driving forward the IIF Program in order to prevent employees from doing unsafe acts as well as to take proactive safety activities to build a safe working environment. HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT TRAINING • KEPCO E&C has provided a series of training courses such as HSE introduction for new employees, basic and special HSE trainings. Furthermore, KEPCO E&C has developed and conducted various efficient HSE training courses such as HSE leadership training, HSE management system awareness, and safety rules for hazardous works so that all employees including subcontractors and vendors enable to perform proactive HSE activities voluntarily. ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 84 82 Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management System 85 86 Eco-Friendly Office Management Activity SAFETY AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT ON THE PROJECT SITE • KEPCO E&C prevents all kinds of accidents through wearing proper Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and installing safety facilities in accordance with local HSE regulations. In particular, hazardous works such as working at height, lifting operation, confined space work, scaffolding work, and temporary electric work are conducted with Permit to Work (PTW) system and under the supervision. KEPCO E&C will endeavor to prevent accidents by conducting internal and third party HSE Audits to point out and eliminate risk factors for working site. CERTIFICATION OF HSE • KEPCO E&C has held the certificate of ISO 14001 environmental management systems Management System (2006) to lead environment-friendly business. In the meantime, KEPCO E&C has also held the certificate of OHSAS 18001 health and safety management systems (2010) to improve human welfare and provide a safe working environment to employees and stakeholders in line with the corporate mission. [ISO 14001 Environment Management [OSHAS 18001 Health and Safety System] Management System] Eco-Friendly Office Management Activity • KEPCO E&C is pushing forward a series of actions to reduce consumption of energy and resources by meeting the demands for national regulations and international requests at the same time. Direct Energy Consumption (Unit: GJ) Total Energy consumption per person 16,312 16,119 15,025 8.64 8.21 7.99 08 09 10 *Included data on Youngin only • Direct energy that KEPCO E&C uses, includes city gas, or referred to as town gas which is consumed in producing steam and hot water for heating in buildings of the headquarters, and fuels for vehicles such as diesel oil, gasoline, and LPG. Electric Power Consumption (Unit: KWH) Total Electric Power consumption per person 6,213,000 5,863,000 5,708,000 3202.1 3804.7 3044.1 08 09 10 *Included data on Youngin only • Indirect energy of electricity used in KEPCO E&C is categorized into several purposes; heating for building in the headquarters, industrial purpose to operate sewage treatment facilities, and general usage for electric heat. In that regard, KEPCO E&C perseveres in its exertion to decrease the amount of energy consumption by taking diversified actions according to each season. ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 86 82 Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management System 87 86 Eco-Friendly Office Management Activity Efforts to reduce • No neckties in summer, casual working clothes electricity • Office’s cooling temperature in summer: keep between 26 to 28℃ consumption • Office heating temperature in winter: keep between 18 to 20℃ • Minimum operation of heating system only to prevent freezing destruction after work • Use of low-power outlets and power-saving controller for fluorescent lamps (artificially intelligent power-saving device) • Putting out lights in offices during lunch, and 3 hours (18 pm, 19 pm, 21 pm) of lights-out in offices after work • Effective use of elevators (2 out of 6 elevators for basement, the rest of 4 for ground) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Unit: tCO2) Direct Emissions Indirect Emissions 2897.25 2733.76 2661.66 912.16 938.23 854.17 1.49 1.43 1.42 0.49 0.47 0.46 08 09 10 *Included data on Youngin only • Direct dischargers from KEPCO E&C stem from city gas used for heating in the headquarters, and indirect dischargers from electricity used for lighting, office appliances, and elevators in buildings of the headquarters. KEPCO E&C conducts diagnosis on whether to work energy management and strives to cut down green house gas emissions through various channels. And we are hoping that such untiring efforts will prevail in terms of preservation of the environment. Efforts to reduce • Implementation of ‘No Vehicle Day’ (this measure asks public sector employees to keep their cars greenhouse gas at home at least once a week), and operation of commuting buses emission • Use of vehicles only for business (a total of 27 vehicles) including eco-friendly vehicles (a total of 5 hybrid and small cars) • Reduction in the frequency of business trips, and introduction of a video conference system 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Water Consumption (Unit: M3) Total Water consumption per person 59,376 58,006 50,934 32.4 31.1 25.0 08 09 10 ※ Included data on Youngin only • KEPCO E&C does not use water resources for production. Rather, KEPCO E&C endeavors to preserve the environment by reducing the water amount employees consume inside the company. Moreover, KEPCO E&C strictly complies with laws and regulations on sewage and purification facilities dealing with organic wastewater. According to the decrees, they require the company to discharge a maximum of 20 ppm (cut-off level). KEPCO E&C, however, discharges 15 ppm in the end, and the total is 200 tons a day. Household Waste Quantity (Unit: kg) Total Waste per person 261,000 216,000 140 162,000 118 79 08 09 10 • KEPCO E&C produces 162 tons of municipal waste per year, and 132 tons of wastepaper which are treated by consignment recycling companies by recycling or incineration. In the meantime, KEPCO E&C pulls out all the stops to reduce organic wastewater by raising the recycling rate through a method of separate collection. Fortunately, no industrial waste such as significant hazardous materials is produced in KEPCO E&C. Appendix 90 Third Party’s Assurance Report 92 GRI Index 96 UNGC 97 ISO 26000 98 Organization and Association 99 Awards 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report T h i r d Pa r t y ’ s A ss u r a n c e R e p o r t Dear Readers of 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Foreword • The Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) had been engaged by KEPCO E&C to verify the contents of its 2010 Sustainability Report (the Report). KEPCO E&C is responsible for the collection and presentation of information within the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out assurance activities on specific information in the verification scope stipulated below. Our independence • With the exception of providing third party verification services, KMAR is not involved in any other KEPCO E&C business operations that are aimed at making profits in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. Verification scope • KEPCO E&C described its efforts and achievements of its sustainability activities in the Report. The verification process was designed to provide readers with the following information; Verification of the economic section: Review whether financial performance data has been extracted appropriately from KEPCO E&C’s 2008, 2009 and 2010 Financial Statements Audit Reports and Annual Reports as defined in the Report’s performances and conclusion sectors Verification of environmental and social section: Review whether environmental and social information included in the Report is presented appropriately. ”Appropriately Presented” means that the actual data and the original information are appropriately reflected in the contents of the Report with consistency and reliability. For the economic sector, we based our evidence gathering procedures on reasonable assurance. It is a higher level of assurance than the limited verification in terms of characteristics and the extent of performed tasks. Verification standards • KMAR performed the review based on our own verification. We also used the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board-issued “International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” as additional guidelines. Verification process and conclusion • In order to form our conclusion, KMAR undertook the steps outlined below to assess KEPCO E&C’s internal processes for reviewing the sustainability reporting practices. Surveyed KEPCO E&C’s sustainability related media information during the reporting period Reviewed systems and processes used in producing data Assessed internal documents and materials Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances 90 91 Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, related department visits and interviews, we held several discussions with KEPCO E&C on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm whether our recommendations for improvement and revisions have been reflected. Economic performance We compared the Report with KEPCO E&C’s 2008, 2009 and 2010 Financial Statements and found that the financial data presented in the Report has been appropriately derived from 2008, 2009 and 2010 Financial Statements. Environmental and social performance We observed that the information contained in the environmental and social sections has been appropriately presented. We did not discover any significant errors. Recommendation for improvement • We hope KEPCO E&C’s publication of the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. Conduct the materiality test process by understanding stakeholder’s expectations and reflecting them Develop the manual to manage and report sustainability performance data June 23, 2011 Korea Management Association Registrations & Assessments Inc. CEO Ki Ho Park 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report GRI I n d e x STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART: Profile Disclosures  Fully ◐Partially  Not reported Profile Description Page Reported UNGC Disclosure 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 8-9  1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-9  2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 13  2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 12  2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 13  2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 13-14  Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or 2.5 14  that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 12  2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) 53  2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 61  2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 9, 11  2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 90  3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided Report Overview  3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Report Overview  3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Report Overview  3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Report Overview  3.5 Process for defining report content Report Overview  Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI 3.6 Report Overview  Boundary Protocol for further guidance 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope) Report Overview  Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that 3.8 Report Overview  can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 3.9 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions Report Overview ◐ not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such 3.10 N/A  re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report N/A  3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 92-95  3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Report Overview  4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible 4.1 23  1-10 for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 23  1-10 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance 4.3 23  1-10 body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 23  1-10 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental 23  1-10 performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 23  1-10 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for 4.7 23  1-10 guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, en4.8 26  1-10 vironmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 23  1-10 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 23  1-10 environmental, and social performance *3.10: Data for 2008 is redescribed in comparison with the past 3 years. (No additional description) *3.11: There is no significant change in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods compared with previous periods. 92 93  Fully ◐Partially  Not reported Profile Description Page Reported UNGC Disclosure 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 25  7 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 32, 33, 42, 83, 96  1-10 organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organiza4.13 tions in which the organization: *Has positions in governance bodies; *Participates in projects or committees; 93  1-10 *Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or *Views membership as strategic 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 33  4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 33  4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 33  Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 33  responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART: Management Approach & Performance Indicators  Fully ◐Partially  Not reported DMA/ Description Page Reported UNGC Indicator Economic Disclosure on Management Approach EC 50-57 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, EC1 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and 49, 50, 51  governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 9, 40, 41  7 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 67  EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 36  EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 67  6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locaEC7 61 ◐ tions of operation Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily EC8 17  for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 49, 50, 51 ◐ Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach EN 83, 84 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume N/A  8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 87 ◐ 8, 9 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 85, 86  8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 85, 86  8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 86 ◐ 8, 9 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy EN6 9, 42, 43  8, 9 requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 85 ◐ 8, 9 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 87  8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A  8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 87  8, 9 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN11 N/A  8 biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas EN12 N/A  8 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas N/A  8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity N/A  8 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by EN15 N/A  8 operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 86  8 *EN1, EN11, EN12, EN27: These are not available because KEPCO E&C is not a manufacturing company. *EN11, EN12: There is no business workplace within protected areas. 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report GRI I n d e x  Fully ◐Partially  Not reported DMA/ Description Page Reported UNGC Indicator EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 86 ◐ 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 42  7-9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight N/A  8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight N/A  8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 87  8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 87  8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills N/A  8 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN24 N/A  8 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by EN25 N/A  8 the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 42  7-9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category N/A  8, 9 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with EN28 N/A  8 environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 86 ◐ 8 organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 36  7-9 Social_Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach LA 62-73 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 61  LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 62  6 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations 67  LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 72  1, 3 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective LA5 72  3 agreements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees LA6 N/A  1 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region 64  1 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, LA8 70 ◐ 1 their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 70, 83, 84  1 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 64  Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and LA11 65  assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 68  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, LA13 23, 61, 62  1, 6 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 67  1, 6 Social _ Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach HR 63, 73 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have HR1 N/A  1-6 undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken 74 ◐ 1-6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to HR3 63 ◐ 1-6 operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken N/A  1, 2, 6 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant HR5 72  1-3 risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the HR6 62  1, 2, 5 elimination of child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to HR7 63 ◐ 1, 2, 4 the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR8 63  1, 2 that are relevant to operations *EN23: There is no spill during the reporting period. *EN28: There is no violation during the reporting period. *HR1: There is no relevant practice. *HR4: There is no event about discrimination during the reporting period. 94 95  Fully ◐Partially  Not reported DMA/ Description Page Reported UNGC Indicator HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken N/A  1, 2 Social _ Society Disclosure on Management Approach SO 27-29 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on SO1 42  communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 21 ◐ 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 27  10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 21, 28  10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying N/A  1-10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. N/A  10 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. N/A  SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations N/A  Social _ Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach PR 59, 60 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage PR1 59 ◐ 1 of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of PR2 N/A  1 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services PR3 N/A  8 subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information PR4 N/A  8 and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 57  Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including PR6 58, 96 ◐ advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 N/A  communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. N/A  1 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of PR9 N/A  products and services *SO1: These practices are legally prohibited. *SO8: There is no penalty and punishment during the reporting period. *PR3: This is not available because KEPCO E&C is an engineering company. *PR9: There is no penalty during the reporting period. GRI Application Level Table KEPCO E&C self-declares that this report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G3 Guideline and it meets 'A+' level of GRI Application Level. A third party institute, KMAR (Korea Management Association Registration) has also verified that this report complies with the 'A+' level of GRI G3 Guideline Application Level. Report Applicaiton Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Level B 1.1 Level C plus: G3 Profile 2.1~2.10 1.2 Disclosures 3.1~3.8, 3.10~3.12 3.9, 3.13 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured 4.1~4.4, 4.14~4.15 4.5~4.13, 4.16~4.17 Standard Disclosures Not Required Management Approach Management Approach OUTPUT G3 Management Approach Disclosures disclosed for Disclosures for each Indicator Category each Indicator Category Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Respond on each core G3 and G3 Performance Performance Indicators, including Performance Indicators, at least Sector Supplement* indicator Indicators & at least one from each of: social, one from each of: economic, with due regard to the materiality Sector Supplement economic, and environment. environment, human rights, labor, Principle by either: a) reporting on Performance Indicators society, product responsibility. the indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission. *Sector supplement in final version 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report UNGC UNGC(United Nations Global Compact) is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption and etc. On July 17, 2007, KEPCO E&C joined UNGC and will continue to support and comply with the 10 Principles. You can find our polices and activities related to the Principles in the table and the corresponding pages as shown below. The 10 Principles of UNGC and Supporting Rules and Regulations at KEPCO E&C  Reported ◐Partially Reported  N/A(Or No Case) UNGC Principles Supporting Rules and Regulations at KEPCO E&C GRI Index Page Human Rights HR1 HR4 ◐HR7 1. We support and respect the protection of internationally Code of Ethics/Collective Agreement, Article 99/Employ◐HR2 HR5 HR8 63, 70, 83, 84 proclaimed human rights ment Rules, Article 4 ◐HR3 HR6 HR9 2. We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights Code of Conduct for ethics management, Article 29/ColHR1 ◐HR2 HR8 63, 72 abuses lective Agreement, Article 99/Employment Rules, Article 5 Labor Standards 3. We uphold the freedom of association and the effective Collective Agreement, Articles 2, 5 and 6/Employment HR5 LA4 LA5 72 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Rules, Article Collective Agreement, Articles 34, 35 and 37/Employment 4. We eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor ◐HR7 63 Rules, Article 16 Collective Agreement, Article 99/Employment Rules, 5. We effectively abolish child labor HR6 62 Article 6. We eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and Code of Conduct for ethics management, Article 5/CollecHR4 LA10 LA14 23, 61, 62, 64, 67 occupation tive Agreement Article 25/Employment Rules, Article 4 LA2 LA13 Environment 7. We support a precautionary approach to environmental Environmental Policy/ISO 14001 Certification/Environ4.11 25 challenges mental Management Manual EN2 EN13 EN22 EN5 EN14 EN26 8. We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environmental Policy/Environmental Management 9, 36, 40, 42, EN6 EN18 EN27 responsibility Manual 43, 87 ◐EN7 EN21 EN30 EN10 EN2 ◐EN7 EN26 9. We encourage the development and diffusion of environEnvironmental Policy/Management Policy EN5 EN10 EN27 9, 42, 43 mentally friendly technologies EN6 EN18 Anti-corruption Code of Conduct for ethics management, Article 16/Col10. We work against corruption in all its forms, including lective Agreement, Article 99/Employment Rules, Article ◐SO2 SO3 SO4 21, 27, 28 extortion and bribery 9/Pledge of Moral Management Forum of CEOs ISO 2 6 0 0 0 96 97 ISO 26000 is a guidance on the underlying principles of social responsibility, recognizing social responsibility and engaging stakeholders, core subjects and issues pertaining to social responsibility and on ways to integrate socially responsible behavior into the organization. Core subjects Issues Page Organizational governance Decision-making processes and structures 8, 9, 13, 23, 25, 33, 93 Due diligence 74 Human rights risk situations Not reported Avoidance of complicity 63 Resolving grievances Not reported Human rights Discrimination and vulnerable groups 63, 67, 74 Civil and political rights 70, 72, 83, 84 Economic, social and cultural rights 71, 72 Fundamental principles and rights at work 72, 73 Employment and employment relationships 70 Conditions of work and social protection 71, 72 Labour practices Social dialogue 72, 73 Health and safety at work 84 Human development and training in the workplace 65, 66, 67 Prevention of pollution 87 Sustainable resource use 85, 86, 87 The environment Climate change mitigation and adaptation 86 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats N/A Anti-corruption 21, 27, 28 Responsible political involvement Not reported Fair operating practices Fair competition Not reported Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 74 Respect for property rights Not reported Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices Not reported Protecting consumers' health and safety 82 Sustainable consumption N/A Consumer issues Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 58 Consumer data protection and privacy N/A Access to essential services N/A Education and awareness N/A Community involvement 78, 79, 80 Education and culture N/A Employment creation and skills development 62, 63 Community involvement Technology development and access Not reported and development Wealth and income creation 52 Health N/A Social investment 79 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report O r g a n i z at i o n a n d A s s o c i at i o n KEPCO E&C takes the lead in the power generation industry through a sustained communication by joining the following organizations and associations. The American Concrete Institute (ACI) Architecture Institute of Korea American Society of Testing Materials (ASTM-D33 Technical Committee) The Korean Structural Engineers Association International Electrical Research Exchange(IERE) Korean Society of Steel Construction The Institute of Electronics Engineers of Korea Korea CCS Association (Korea Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage Association) Project Management Institute (PMI) Earthquake Engineering Society of Korea International Systems and Automation (ISA) The Geological Society of Korea International Council of Large Electric Power Network (CIGRE) Korea Water Resources Association Institute of Electrical and Electronics Egineers (IEEE) The Korean Society of Engineering Geology World Nuclear Association (WNA) Korean Nuclear Society Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) The Korean Radioactive Waste Society Korea Construction Engineers Association Korean Association for Radiation Protection Korea Electric Engeneers Association WiNK, Women in Nuclear-Korea Korea Electric Association Korea Academy of Nuclear Society Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Korean Society of Pressure Vessels & Piping Korea Industrial Technology Association The Corrosion Science Society of Korea Korea Energy Foundation (WEC Korea Committee) Korea Forum of Chief Information Officers Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers The Society Of Air-Conditioning And Refrigerating Engineers Of Korea Korea Institute of Fire Science and Engineering Korea Smart Grid Association Korea Association of Nuclear Equipment Qualification Computational Structural Engineering Institute of Korea Korea Project Management Association (KPMA) Korea Green Building Council Korean CM Association Korean Geotechical Society Korean Institute Of Construction Engineering and Management Korean Association of Environmental Impact Assessment The Ergonomics Society of Korea Korea Environmental Industry Association The Korean Society for Noise and Vibration Engineering Korea Institute of Plant Engineering & Construction The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Studies Association Power Standard Operating Council Korea Institutes of Information Security and Cryptology Korean Society of Civil Engineers Korea Wind Energy Industry Association Korea Concrete Institute Korean Institute of Landscape Architecture Chamber of Commerce and Industry in YoungIn Korea Institute of Registered Architects Korea Suggestion Activity Council Korea Plant Engineering Association Korean Accounting Association Korea Productivity Center Ethnic Management SM Forum Korea Management Association Korea Institute of Quality Management ISO 9000/14000 Council The Construction Association of Korea Energy Service Company (ESCO) Korea Fire Construction Association Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Electrical Contractors Association Korea Information & Communication Contractors Association Korea Special Library Association KAITS Korean Institute of Auditors CNP Management Institute The Korea Listed Companies Association Ethnic Management CEO Club UN Global Compact – Korea Association Korea International Trade Association Korea Personnel Improvement Association The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies – Brand Forum The Korea Construct Consulting Engineers Association Korean Standards Association Korea Plant Industries Association Korea Engineering & Consulting Association Korea New & Renewable Energy The International Contractors Association of Korea Awards 98 99 Year Award Organizer 2008 National Environmental Management Award The Ministry of Environment/The Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy Grand Prize for 2008 Corporation Contribution to Society – 2008 Korea Economic Daily In the category of voluntary serving 2008 Excellent Quality Competitiveness Enterprise The Ministry of Knowledge and Economy KATS/Korean Standards Association Korea Management Grand Prize 「The Most Admired Company」 2008 The First Prize in the category of customer satisfaction Korea Management Association Consultants Inc. National Productivity Award Grand Prize for Project of This Year 2008 Korea Project Management Association Grand Prize in the category of research and development 2009 Excellent Quality Competitiveness Enterprise The Ministry of Knowledge and Economy KATS/Korean Standards Association Korea Management Grand Prize 「The Most Admired Corporation」 2009 Korea Management Association Consultants Inc. The First Prize in the category of ethic management 2010 Excellent Quality Competitiveness Enterprise The Ministry of Knowledge and Economy KATS/Korean Standards Association Korea Management Grand Prize 「The Most Admired Corporation」 2010 Korea Management Association Consultants Inc. Grand Prize in the category of enterprise Grand Prize for Project of This Year 2010 Korea Project Management Association Grand Prize in the category of research and development 2010 National Green Tech Award The Ministry of Environment Contact Information For more information or inquiries, please contact us. Duties Original Post Contact E-mail Contact Numbers General Management Planning Dept. sustainability@kepco-enc.com 82-31-289-3103 About KEPCO E&C Management Planning Dept. sustainability@kepco-enc.com 82-31-289-3103 Sustainable Management Management Planning Dept. sustainability@kepco-enc.com 82-31-289-3103 Economic Performance Administraion & Finance Dept. seokhyun@kepco-enc.com 82-31-289-3184 Human Resources Dept. KO40643@kepco-enc.com 82-31-289-3168 Social Performance Technology Strategy Dept. 40701@kepco-enc.com 82-31-289-3939 Subcontract & Procurement Dept. ckm1214@kepco-enc.com 82-31-289-5854 Environmental Performance Quality Assurance & HSE Dept. kimdw@kepco-enc.com 82-31-260-1205 2010 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report R e a d er F ee d b a ck S u r v e y We are looking forward to your valuable opinions. We will use them to improve KEPO E&C operations and let you know the results. Your opinions will be reflected in reports to be published later. Please fill out the following feedback questionnaire and send it to us by mail or fax. To: From: Management Planning Department, Name: Occupation: 257, Yonggudaero, Giheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyuenggi-do, 446-713, Korea Tel +82-31-289-3103 Fax +82-31-289-4419 1. Which of the following applies to you?  Investor/Shareholder  Consumer  Creditor  Financial agency  Business partner  NGO  Local community  Academia  Government  Local government  Press  Employee  Other ( ) 2. How do you plan to use this Report? 3. What are your areas of interest? (Multiple answers possible)  Sustainability Management  KEPCO E&C Technology Development & Business Performance  Economic Value  Social Value  Environmental Value 4. What areas or issues need to be addressed or further explained in the Report? 5. H  ow would you rate the overall quality of this report in the following aspects? A. The Report’s design and layout are helpful in understanding the contents (Readability). (very poor) 1 2 3 4 5 (very good) B. The contents are credible (Reliability). (very poor) 1 2 3 4 5 (very good) C. The Report fully explains the important issues (Materiality). (very poor) 1 2 3 4 5 (very good) D. The sentence structure and terminologies are appropriate (Clarity). (very poor) 1 2 3 4 5 (very good) 6. Please feel free to describe any comments or suggestions regarding this Report. 100 101 2 0 1 0 K E P C O E & C S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R epor t Recycled papers and soy ink, certified by Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), were used to print this report. leading green power for a cleaner tomorrow 2354 Yonggudaero, Giheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea 446-713 Tel 82-31-289-3114 www.kepco-enc.com
