Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 2 – COP report 2010 COP report 2010 – 3 Welcome to the NNE Pharmaplan 2010 Communication on Progress (COP) report. NNE Pharmaplan became a member of the UN Global Compact in 2008 and this is our second official report. It was an obvious choice for us to sign and support the UN Global Compact. It is already a natural part of our way of management and for many years we have integrated social responsibility, concern for human rights, environmental and climatic considerations as well as anti-corruption measures into our business. NNE Pharmaplan operates globally and we therefore work with sustainability in accordance with internationally recognised principles and guidelines. This is why we have also incorporated Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) in our COP as indicators for measuring and explaining our financial, environmental and social performance. The Global Compact is an opportunity not only to support this commendable global initiative but also to foster a transparent dialogue with our stakeholders as part of our corporate citizenship. NNE Pharmaplan’s overall reason for being is ’Engineering for a healthier world’. We cannot claim to save lives or cure diseases. We do not produce any medicine, but we put all our engineering and consulting capabilities behind the companies that do – our customers. And by supporting our customers, we play our part. From a sustainability perspective ’Engineering for a healthier world’ implies concern for people and the earth in a wide sense. Sustainable measures in our own company are of course necessary and important, but NNE Pharmaplan’s sustainable engineering and consulting services also have considerable impact on our customers’ environmental footprint and employee working conditions. The 2009 report was issued in November 2010. For 2010 and on, we prepare and publish our COP report together with the annual report. Morten Nielsen, CEO 4 – COP report 2010 COP report 2010 – 5 Table of contents 6 About NNE Pharmaplan 7 Sustainability in the NNE Pharmaplan context 13 Sustainable engineering services 19 Principles 1 & 2: Human rights 23 Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6: People (labour) 33 Principles 7, 8 & 9: Environment 39 Principle 10: Business ethics (anti-corruption) 42 Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context 45 Audit of the NNE Pharmaplan COP report 45 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 46 GRI Indicator Table 2010 6 – COP report 2010 About NNE Pharmaplan Who we are NNE Pharmaplan is the world’s leading engineering and consulting company in the complex field of pharma and biotech. NNE Pharmaplan covers all segments from biopharmaceuticals and vaccines to medical devices and helps our customers develop, establish and improve their product manufacturing. We combine engagement in global health issues with a holistic approach focusing on our customers’ need for total solutions. NNE Pharmaplan employs close to 1,700 people at more than 25 locations around the world. To learn more about our company, please visit nnepharmaplan.com What we do Our competencies span all technical disciplines relating to engineering, construction, validation, start-up, optimisation and reconstruction of facilities for product development, production plants, pilot plants and laboratories. We work in a flexible and integrated organisation where engineers, architects and pharmacists work closely together and continuously share experience, knowledge and expertise. Our engagements encompass everything from short-term staffing to expert consulting and from greenfield projects to turnkey. COP report 2010 – 7 Sustainability in the NNE Pharmaplan context The best-known definition of sustainability and sustainable development is that of the Commission of the United Nations of March 20, 1987: “Sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs”. Other definitions of sustainability often refer to the ’three pillars’ of people, planet and profit. Within these definitions NNE Pharmaplan sees sustainability as our umbrella concept for environment, energy and climate, health and safety, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Global Compact in our business context. This section describes how we integrate sustainability and the Global Compact principles into our way of management, organisation, quality management system, groups and tools. See figure 1 and the overview of all documents in the section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’. Figure 1 Sustainability in the NNE Pharmaplan context Our Way Our mission Our vision Our values Our commitments QMS Management systems • ISO 9001 • ISO 14001 • OHSAS 18001 Our working conditions Our policies Our code of conduct Please see matrix: The ten • Business Ethics policy Please see Matrix: principles in the NNE Pharma• Quality policy The ten principles in the plan context • Security policy NNE Pharmaplan context • Communication policy • Purchasing policy • Human Resource policy • Environmental & Climate policy • Working Environment policy Supported by Our groups Our Tools • Environmental Committee • Our Model • Sustainability group in NP • Performance & Development Process (PDP) • Working Environmental Council • Employee survey • Cooperation Committee • Business Ethics – e-learning programme • Community of interest: Energy • Whistleblower Efficiency & Sustainable Solutions • Our Academy • Community of interest Sustainability • Our Book & Environment Offering • Our Wiki UN Global Compact 8 – COP report 2010 OUR WAY The culture and identity of NNE Pharmaplan are founded on a set of sound business principles that applies to all employees worldwide. We call it the NNE Pharmaplan Way – or in everyday speech simply Our Way. The NNE Pharmaplan Way gives the direction we want to follow as a company, our very reason for being and the goals we set for our future. But the end does not justify the means. More than anything Our Way is about how we do it – our way of thinking, behaving and working in our pursuit of success and growth. As an ethically responsible company, NNE Pharmaplan wants to be known and perceived as a socially and environmentally sustainable company with unbiased integrity in our human relations. Key extracts from Our Way: Our vision: • To be the leading international supplier of projects, engineering and consulting services to the pharma and biotech industries • To achieve competitive and sustainable business results • To be an exciting and rewarding place to work” Our company values regarding responsibility: • We shall conduct our business in a socially and environmentally responsible way and contribute to the enrichment of the communities in which we operate. Our commitments define NNE Pharmaplan’s obligations towards our stakeholders and to global society in general. Our commitments reflect the ethical standards that we have imposed on ourselves: Financial responsibility We will work to continuously improve our financial performance by setting high objectives for growth and value creation and deliver competitive performance in these areas. We will maintain an open dialogue with our stakeholders and comply with international reporting standards. Environmental responsibility We will work to continuously improve our environmental performance by setting high objectives and integrating environmental and bioethical considerations into our daily business. We will maintain an open dialogue with our stakeholders and report annually on our environmental performance. We subscribe to the International Chamber of Commerce’s Business Charter for Sustainable Development and we support the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity. COP report 2010 – 9 Social responsibility We will work to continuously improve our social performance by setting high objectives and integrating social, human rights and health and safety considerations into our daily business. We will maintain an open dialogue with our stakeholders and report annually on our social performance. We support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2008, NNE Pharmaplan carried out a worldwide identity creation process to establish our way of management after the merger of Danish NNE and German Pharmaplan. The internal project included the following activities: • Introduction of the NNE Pharmaplan identity and the NNE Pharmaplan Way of Management at an international integration meeting in Copenhagen • K ick-off and train-the-trainers seminar for local management, and roll-out in local offices involving workshops in all departments • Collection of inputs from employees and feedback from top management on the process • Revision of the NNE Pharmaplan Way of Management into the NNE Pharmaplan Way, also called Our Way The process gave every employee at NNE Pharmaplan a unique opportunity to understand and actively work with company values and identity. In 2011 – following a major organisational and managerial restructuring – Our Way will be replaced under a business oriented, corporate NNE Pharmaplan culture initiative, where the fundamental guiding principles and desired behaviour in the future NP organisation will be defined. Every two to four years, NNE Pharmaplan is subject to a worldwide audit performed by our owners, Novo Nordisk A/S, to make sure that we live up to our vision, values, commitments and fundamentals and that we document our performance systematically and satisfactorily. The audit is based on interviews with employees from all levels of the organisation and carried out by a team of experienced facilitators from Novo Nordisk A/S. The audit results and findings are reported to Executive Management and the Board of Directors. The most recent audit was in 2009. Quality management system NNE Pharmaplan has implemented three internationally recognised standards. Two of these systematise our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) processes: The OHSAS 18001 for working environment management and the ISO 14001 for environmental management. Although only NNE Pharmaplan’s Danish offices are officially certified, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 have been integrated into our corporate HSE management concept. All NNE Pharmaplan business units are certified according to ISO 9001, which covers quality management. All three standards have been integrated into our common quality management system (QMS). 10 – COP report 2010 Policies, codes of conduct and working conditions are part of our QMS, which also includes complementary documents to guide NNE Pharmaplan employees on responsibilities and objectives in relation to customers, shareholders, communities and other stakeholders. Policies for focus areas selected by Executive Management apply to NNE Pharmaplan worldwide. Codes of conduct vary from location to location due to local legislation and culture. Codes of conduct establish how we manage our business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate. They also provide information about our standards of integrity and state our legal and ethical responsibilities. Working conditions also vary according to local legislation and culture. Our working conditions policy provides detailed information about our standards of integrity and explains what we do to meet our policies and achieve our objectives. Our tools At NNE Pharmaplan we have a series of global tools which support our business and global cooperation, including: • Our own Facebook and Wikipedia-inspired sites which we have named Our Book and Our Wiki respectively. They support internal communication also regarding sustainable issues, e.g. via blogs and groups. • Our Model, a global engineering execution model which ensures our engineering activities, including HSE management, are implemented and conducted in projects in a common and efficient way. • A global Performance and Development Process (PDP) that supports several people (labour) issues. • On-line employee surveys on various people (labour) issues. • Our Academy, which is an internal forum for competence development. • E-learning programme on business ethics as described in the business ethics (anti-corruption) section. Our groups A number of groups and committees support sustainability issues such as the: Sustainability group Our sustainability group has representatives from quality system management, working environmental committee, environmental committee, human resources, purchasing, sales, marketing, communication, legal, finance and the Health, Safety and Environment consulting department, whose manager is also the project manager of the group. This group has been appointed by and report to the Environmental Committee (EnvC), which is headed by our CEO. The purpose of the sustainability group is to follow-up on the Global Compact, to ensure that the ten principles are integrated into our daily activities and to coordinate initiatives on sustainability in NNE Pharmaplan. COP report 2010 – 11 Working Environment Council and Environmental Committee Both management and employees are represented in these groups. The two bodies develop and strengthen the HSE work at NNE Pharmaplan and act as ambassadors and key players to create ongoing improvements, share better practices and secure maintenance, operation and further development of the management system in accordance with ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001. Cooperation Committee NNE Pharmaplan in Denmark has a Cooperation Committee, composed by up to four management representatives and four employee representatives. The purpose is to further good cooperation between employees and management at the workplace. Employee representatives are heard in all significant matters regarding employment. Energy Efficiency & Sustainable Solutions COI In 2010 we continued our global, online interdisciplinary so-called ’community of interest’ (COI) within ‘Energy Efficiency & Sustainable Solutions’. Members of the COI are NNE Pharmaplan employees with experience and interest in energy efficiency and sustainable solutions in the pharma and biotech industries. Sustainable actions On 30 October 2010, 40 female NNE Pharmaplan employees volunteered for the Danish Cancer Society’s Breast Gala Show. As was the case in 2008 and 2009, we manned the call centre during the show, which was broadcasted on Danish national TV. On 11 November 2010 NNE Pharmaplan hosted its first Annual Charity Golf Tournament at the Brier Creek Country Club in Raleigh, North Carolina. The tournament was played in the spirit of what we’re all about – ’Engineering for a healthier world’. The beneficiary was North Carolina Children’s Hospital, a major referral centre for children with complex medical and surgical conditions. 12 – COP report 2010 COP report 2010 – 13 Sustainable engineering services NNE Pharmaplan engages in professional engineering and consulting services all over the world including: • business strategies on sustainability • climate management and carbon footprint • energy-efficient process design • energy savings and process optimisation • environmental planning and regulatory requirements • working environment (authorised consultant) • chemical and risk assessment • health, safety & environment management (HSE) • HSE conscious design in projects (certified) • management systems in organisations (ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001/DS 2403) • sustainable technology/cleantech These services are integrated into engineering projects or supplied as individual services. NNE Pharmaplan is committed to integrating health, safety and environment considerations into all our services and business processes. Thus, it is our declared policy to carry out an initial HSE evaluation when we prepare our proposals and start up projects (see the detailed description in the section on Principle 8). 14 – COP report 2010 HSE project management Our customers in the pharma and biotech industries often have ambitious HSE requirements. Through the application of OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 standards, we have developed a HSE management concept that can help our customers meet their HSE goals using costeffective systems. Once we have agreed on the project’s HSE goals with the customer, we outline the procedures that will turn these goals into actions – and an NNE Pharmaplan HSE manager will be made responsible for all aspects of the HSE project, from concept to validation. To date, we have provided HSE management in more than 200 large, medium and small projects of varying complexity and scope. See the section regarding Principle 8 for a detailed description. Energy-efficient process design save up to 30 percent on specific processes or equipment, and around 10-15 When planning and designing a new percent in total on your future energy factory or production facility, you can expenses. Energy-efficient design is esperealise substantial savings – and reduce cially relevant if your processes are valiemissions – by taking future energy dated and performed according to GMP consumption into account. It is considerrequirements, because alternations are ably cheaper and easier to implement expensive when revalidation is needed. energy-efficient solutions right from the At NNE Pharmaplan, we have extensive start, instead of after commissioning. experience of incorporating energy efficiency into our designs, either as an inAs well as reducing your future energy tegral part of engineering and execution expenses and greenhouse gas emissions, of investment projects, or as individual this approach can also reduce your initial services. investment. In fact, you can expect to COP report 2010 – 15 Sustainable design with focus boiler as an alternative to conventional on LEED Gold natural gas furnace – Combined Heat and Power (CHP). As for ventilation, free When a customer asked us to design a cooling is a must. This can be achieved new pharmaceutical facility for tablet by improving the design of the cooling production, one of their aims was to baffles, and possibly also by using the reach LEED Gold certification. We looked lower night temperatures. carefully at the sustainable solutions available, and found that the following Access by public transport areas gave the highest LEED point score: This customer plans to introduce a company bus to transport employees to and Optimise energy performance from the facility. We suggested optimising energy performance by striving towards the highest Development density and community energy class. The building’s facades connectivity will be highly insulated, and the buildWe considered site access, via public ing placed to ensure it gains maximum roads and railways, when selecting the benefit from solar heat in winter and final site. intelligent solar shading in the summer. And because the building will be located Reduced water use in a continental climate, we recommendWe suggested to consider the supply of ed using glass on the facades and roof drinking and cooling water, electricity with a very low U-value or triple layers to and gas thoroughly in order to further reduce energy loss. optimise the facility’s LEED score – and will also map additional ways to reduce Onsite renewable energy water consumption during the basic We suggested using groundwater or disdesign phase. trict cooling. Another option is a biomass Solar heating system integrated on roof Sedum roof (green roof) Thermo-active Needs-based/demandRecycling of excess wall element driven ventilation heat from server room Passive solar energy Thermo-active floor / thermo-floor (Selection of) eco-friendly materials Solar shading Daylight admission to reduce the need for artificial lighting Effective Energy-efficient lighting No toxic Energy efficient glass façades insulation (Needs-based/demand-driven) emission from interior Terrestrial heat Reuse of rainwater 16 – COP report 2010 Sustainable business tainability Reporting Framework provided strategies by the UN Global Compact and Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI). As a global In order to be socially responsible, a comcompany, this enabled the customer pany’s business strategy and business to work with CSR in accordance with activities must take into account concern internationally recognised principles and for human rights, social conditions, guidelines – and the report was attested corruption and the environment and by the company’s accountant. climate. Doing so can give the company many advantages. For example, it helps At NNE Pharmaplan, our process consultimprove the company’s image, brand ants work with customers to strengthen and reputation, and offers consistency in their CSR work by implementing certified risk and supplier management as well as ISO management systems for environfinancial investments. ment, quality, working environment and energy. These management systems NNE Pharmaplan is a member of the UN offer a systematic and documented way Global Compact and we advise compato continually improve your working nies on CSR issues and ISO management environment, reduce consumption and systems. We always tailor our advice to associated costs and build a stronger your company and our process consultbrand. ants can customise your systems and help you set appropriate ambition levels. Our goal is to help you achieve the most value from your CSR work and ISO management, so you can continually improve over the years. For example, we recently worked with a vaccine company to prepare its first CSR report as an appendix to its financial accounts. We created the report through weekly brainstorms, debates and meetings, and structured it by using the SusCOP report 2010 – 17 Safety and accidents at construction sites The responsibility for safety management at construction sites lies with the building owner. We have experienced that more and more of our customers appoint a consultant as health and safety officer during the construction and commissioning phases of a project. The accident frequency is recorded for the NNE Pharmaplan projects where construction site health and safety management has been managed or supervised by NNE Pharmaplan. In 2010 NNE Pharmaplan managed projects in Denmark, China and India. Table 1: Accidents recorded on construction sites in 2010 (NNE Pharmaplan employees and contractors) Country Sites Working hours Accidents w/absence Frequency (1000) China 6 3,700 1* 0.3 Denmark 9 237 2 8.4 India 2 505 1 2.0 Total 4,442 4 * One fatality occurred at one of our Chinese construction sites in 2010. Method used Accident frequency is equivalent to the number of accidents per one million working hours. The total number of working hours for all employees and contractors is recorded for each project. Furthermore, the number of accidents that cause absence from work (defined as more than one day of absence due to injuries or near misses) is recorded, as well as accidents that do not cause absence from work. Site safety officers compile the data regularly based on information that all contractors on site are requested to submit. Accident frequency in 2010 The frequency of onsite accidents on recorded sites was low in all countries. Safety focus areas NNE Pharmaplan is continuously striving to optimise our safety management at construction sites as more and more customers request us to comply with a zero injury policy. In 2010 we intensified the cooperation between our international offices, in particular between the Chinese, Indian and Danish offices. In 2011, we plan to develop a global NNE Pharmaplan standard for HSE management of construction projects including country-specific guidelines. COP report 2010 – 19 Principles 1 & 2: Human rights Human rights and freedom are an integral part of our business and we support the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The section ‘Sustainability in the NNE Pharmaplan context’ illustrates how we address the human rights aspect for instance in our vision, values and commitments. Our sphere of influence covers not only our employees, but also our suppliers and – not least – people who need health care. Health and human rights go hand in hand as expressed in this extract from the WHO Constitution: “…the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being...” and in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 25: “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care …” ‘Engineering for a healthier world’ is our role in an industry that can actually make the world a healthier place for millions of people. This is in line with our mission: “We improve the lives of people by enabling pharma and biotech companies to bring products to market with fast, innovative and reliable services”. For more information please see our corporate film at: nnepharmaplan.com/ and our offerings at nnepharmaplan.com/NP/en/What-we-do. 20 – COP report 2010 Businesses should support and respect Principle 1 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Obligations “As an ethically responsible company, NNE Pharmaplan wants to be known as a socially and environmentally sustainable company with unbiased integrity in our human relations”. This obligation is included in Our Way, in which sustainability plays a central part. The human rights aspect is also contained in our purchasing policy where we state that: “NNE Pharmaplan will ensure that purchase shall be executed at best terms balancing price with quality and risk as well as social, environmental and ethical responsibility according to the current risk classification”. In our purchasing policy we also state that: “NNE Pharmaplan plans to • interact with our suppliers in a competent and proactive way in line with the NNE Pharmaplan requirements as well as our customers’ requirements. • encourage selected suppliers to a quality, environmental, socially responsible and business ethical behaviour” Systems We use our quality management system to evaluate if we live up to internationally proclaimed human rights. The system is audited worldwide both by internal and external auditors who report any findings or breaches to Executive Management. Furthermore, we have a responsible sourcing programme, which enables us to identify suppliers that match our social, environmental and ethical responsibilities stated in our responsible sourcing standard. This standard comprises issues that relate to all 10 principles. Our main focus is the suppliers on our list of preferred suppliers. See section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’ for an overview of systems and documents that support Principle 1. 2010 highlights In 2010, NNE Pharmaplan’s responsible sourcing programme was revised and the focus is now on local suppliers in high-risk countries. This risk based approach ensures the optimum benefit of our resources. The main focus was on approved suppliers on our list of preferred suppliers. In 2011, the revised programme will be implemented in all subsidiaries globally. Figures and targets See Appendix 1 ’Global Report Initiative (GRI)’ items HR2, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, LA4, LA6, LA7, LA8, LA10, LA12, LA13 and LA14 COP report 2010 – 21 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit Principle 2 in human rights abuses Obligations Please refer to the preface of this chapter for our general approach regarding human rights and the section on Principle 1. Systems Please refer to the ‘Systems’ paragraph under Principle 1. Also, see section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’ for an overview of systems and documents which support Principle 2. 2010 highlights See Principle 1 Figures and targets See Appendix 1 ‘Global Report Initiative (GRI)’ items HR2, HR4, HR5, HR6 and HR7. 22 – COP report 2010 COP report 2010 – 23 Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6: People (labour) To NNE Pharmaplan, labour represents our employees whose knowledge and skills form the cornerstone of our business. Therefore, part of our vision is “to be an exciting and rewarding place to work”, and it is crucial for us to “attract, develop and retain the best people in the industry” as stated in our human resource (HR) policy. Compliance with labour standards is only one step in that direction. NNE Pharmaplan is committed to maintaining a stress-free, healthy and safe working environment. Our applied working environment standard is described in the section on quality management system in ‘Sustainability in the NNE Pharmaplan context’. Our human resource, working environment and purchasing policies all support the principles in this section. Besides our employees, our sphere of influence comprises our suppliers, who are subject to certain requirements, and employees in our customers’ organisations. 24 – COP report 2010 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the Principle 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Obligations Our obligation to this principle is expressed in our working conditions under the topic of local unions and cooperation: “NNE Pharmaplan accepts the employee’s right to be organised and encourages the setting up of professional unions and clubs, which, via representatives, can operate as cooperative and contractual parties in relation to management. NNE Pharmaplan respects the general contractual system in the labour market, hereunder labour legislation, which the company, via a contract, or contract of acceptance, has obligated itself to adhere to.” Also, in our human resource policy we address the subject: “NNE Pharmaplan wants to: • encourage freedom of discussions and emphasise that all employees feel free to discuss any aspect of their job with management or HR. • be dedicated to a fair and consistent treatment of all employees, providing each with the opportunity to succeed with the company.” All NNE Pharmaplan employees have the right to collective bargaining with management. Systems Systems vary from country to country and are adapted to local legislation. For instance, in Denmark and Germany, we have a Workers Council where representatives from management and the unions/employees meet regularly. In the other EU countries, employers must follow EU’s Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Framework Directive, which states that: “The employer shall inform and consult workers and allow them to take part in discussions on all questions relating to safety and health at work”. In relation to our suppliers, this principle is covered by our responsible sourcing programme (please refer to the section under Principle 1). See section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’ regarding systems and documents that support Principle 3. 2010 highlights We did not introduce any specific initiatives in 2010. Figures and targets See Appendix 1 ‘Global Report Initiative (GRI)’ items LA4, HR2 and HR5. COP report 2010 – 25 Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Obligations Our obligations concerning Principle 4 are stated in our working environment policy and our human resource policy respectively: From our working environment policy: “NNE Pharmaplan will: • create a safe, healthy and developing working environment for all •  ensure that working environment considerations are not pushed aside in favour of economic and productivity related interests” From our human resource policy: “NNE Pharmaplan plans to: • be an attractive place to work, where well-qualified employees wish to take an active part in the development of the company. • aim at having an open and honest business practice to protect the integrity of the company and the employees. • encourage free, open and direct communication among employees at all levels and establish formal communications programmes, where necessary, to ensure that such interaction takes place.” Please also refer to the section on Principle 1 on our overall approach to supporting human rights. NNE Pharmaplan does not have forced and/or compulsory labour. Accordingly we comply with the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) convention on working hours: “Employees shall not be required to work more than 60 hours a week, including overtime, on a regular basis (or the maximum legal working hours if this is less than 60).” Systems All employees have individual contracts stating terms and conditions for their employment and terms of notice. All contracts are in accordance with international and national legal requirements. Overtime must comply with local legislation and in general be limited. Overtime is generally compensated for non-managerial employees. All employees are required to fill out timecards which must be approved by their managers. The line managers are responsible for following up on working hours to secure an appropriate work-life balance for all employees. 26 – COP report 2010 Several systems facilitate the elimination of forced and compulsory labour and support our human resource and working environment policy as well as the overall employee satisfaction, for instance: • Twice a year we conduct performance and career development meetings and reviews • Twice a year an online employee survey is carried out across the entire global organisation requesting all employees to give constructive feedback to management. This ensures fast, up-to-date and focused feedback from the organisation on job satisfaction and working conditions including work-life balance issues. The employees are ensured anonymity when participating in the survey. In the ‘Figures and targets’ section below we provide a few examples of the survey results. In relation to our suppliers, this principle is covered by our responsible sourcing programme (please refer to the section under Principle 1). See section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’ regarding additional systems and documents which support Principle 4. 2010 highlights To facilitate the annual performance and career development meetings, NNE Pharmaplan continued the implementation of our global, IT-based Personal Development Plan system in 2010. In 2011, the system will be implemented worldwide in NNE Pharmaplan. Figures and targets Two global online employee surveys were carried out in 2010 to measure the level of engagement, satisfaction and loyalty among our employees. The response rate increased to 84% compared to 82% in 2009. The total average score for 2010 regarding employee satisfaction was 7.6 (on a 1-10 scale), equal to the result for 2009. Results ≥ 7.3 are considered good, scores between 7.0 and 7.3 are considered average, while < 7 is not acceptable COP report 2010 – 27 Table 2: Employee Survey 2010 rating on engagement, satisfaction and loyalty 9 8,5 8 7,5 Score 7 6,5 6 5,5 Russia India Switzerland US China Denmark France Sweden Malaysia Total Germany Table 3: Work-life balance rating in employee survey 2009 Survey question 2010 2009 able to keep an acceptable balance “I’m 7.4 7.4 between my work life and my private life” Please also refer to items HR2 and HR7 in the GRI index in Appendix.1. 28 – COP report 2010 Businesses should uphold the effective Principle 5 abolition of child labour Obligations NNE Pharmaplan does not have child labour, and our overall approach is that ”with the exception of apprentices, trainees or others undergoing training, employees under 18 years of age are not normally taken on. Employees below 15 years of age are never taken on”. Systems The employee age is monitored worldwide via our integrated HR management and reporting system. Employees under 15 years would be detected by the HR administrator. In relation to our suppliers, this principle is covered by our responsible sourcing programme (please refer to the section under Principle 1). For an overview of systems and documents which support Principle 5, please see the section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’. 2010 highlights NNE Pharmaplan did not introduce any specific initiatives in 2010 regarding child labour, but the issue is part of our responsible sourcing programme, which was revised in 2010. Figures and targets Please refer to HR2 and HR6 in the GRI index in Appendix 1. COP report 2010 – 29 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination Principle 6 in respect of employment and occupation Obligations It is stated in our Code of Conduct on Discrimination that: “NNE Pharmaplan wants to work determinedly at creating a safe and sound working environment which strongly opposes discrimination in connection with sex, age, ethnic or religious background, race, political orientation, sexual orientation or handicap.” Systems Employees always have the possibility to raise questions and concerns regarding discrimination, promotion, job content, personal development, etc. to the management or the Human Resource department. The annual Performance and Development Process described under Principle 5 is also an ideal platform for dialogue with the line manager. In connection with our code of conduct on discrimination, we have also implemented a procedure on how to file a complaint if a case of discrimination should occur. In our employee surveys, all employees are asked questions regarding equal opportunities (see the ‘Figures and targets’ section below). In relation to our suppliers, this principle is covered by our responsible sourcing programme (please refer to the section under Principle 1). All systems and documents which support Principle 6 are showed in the section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’. 2010 highlights In 2010 we continued our Greenhouse programme to accelerate selected employees personal and professional development. The Greenhouse 2010 programme involved 21 candidates with 6 different nationalities. 10 participants came from our business units outside Denmark. In continuation of our talent acceleration programme in 2009, we conducted a China Leadership Programme for 18 new Chinese managers in 2010. The training provided newly appointed managers with a theoretical foundation on leadership and management competences through practical usage of management tools, cases and classroom discussions. The overall design parameter was the eight leadership competences laid down in ’Our Way’ – the general business values and principles that apply to NNE Pharmaplan employees worldwide. NNE Pharmaplan’s business development as a global corporation has accentuated the need for integration of technical skills and relationship building across business units. Under our Global Exchange Programme scheme, our target of 20 exchanges of employees between business units materialised in 2010. Another initiative was culture training of expatriates and employees working in virtual and physical cross-cultural teams and projects. In 2010, we started up the culture training in China and Denmark with more than 100 participants. The training focused on local cultural characteristics and on increasing the cultural intelligence of our employees. 30 – COP report 2010 Figures and targets By the end of 2010, the total number of female employees made up just over one third of NNE Pharmaplan’s total workforce. This gender distribution is considered typical of the engineering business. The distribution of men and women in the management segment (executive management, line management, general and local management and specialist/senior specialist positions) varies as shown in the table below. Table 4: Distribution of women and men in the management segment in 2010 Country/subsidiary Women % Men % China 32 68 Denmark 26 74 France 29 71 Germany 19 81 India incl. Malaysia 9 91 Russia 30 70 Sweden incl. Finland 14 86 Switzerland 25 75 United States 17 83 Table 5 shows the specific results from the 2010 and 2009 employee surveys on equal opportunities. A score ≥ 7.3 is considered a good result, scores between 7.0 and 7.3 are termed average and <7 is not acceptable (on a 1-10 scale). Table 5: Equal opportunities rating in employee survey 2009 Survey question 2010 2009 “People with different backgrounds have equal opportunities at NNE Pharmaplan, 8.0 8.1 regardless of gender, race etc” For more targets and figures pertaining to Principle 6, please see Appendix 1, ‘Global Report Initiative (GRI) items: EC7, LA2, LA13, LA14, HR2 and HR4. COP report 2010 – 31 32 – COP report 2010 COP report 2010 – 33 Principles 7, 8 & 9: Environment For many years NNE Pharmaplan has worked systematically to reduce the environmental impact of our operations and project execution. Our applied environment standard on environmental management is described in the section on quality management system in the ‘Sustainability in the NNE Pharmaplan context’ chapter. In concrete terms, our environmental and climate policy states that NNE Pharmaplan will: • integrate environmental considerations into our services and business processes • include impact on climate in environmental considerations • deliver environmentally sound services • reduce our impact on the environment and climate • promote environmental awareness • enter into dialogue with stakeholders • report on our environmental efforts • comply with the environmental legislation, regulatory requirements and other regulations that NNE Pharmaplan has agreed to follow • include environmental issues in evaluation of suppliers As an engineering and consultancy company our efforts in terms of environmental measures are twofold: Firstly, our own environmental impact from our close to 1,700 employees and more than 25 locations around the world. Secondly, the influence of our HSE consultancy services by contributing to a reduction of the environmental impacts of our customers. Experience shows that a new production plant designed with optimised energy utilisation can save up to 30 percent on energy consumption compared to a traditionally designed plant. Our environmental sphere of influence thus covers our employees and buildings as well as our suppliers and customers. 34 – COP report 2010 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach Principle 7 to environmental challenges Obligations According to our environmental and climate policy we integrate environmental and climatic considerations into our services and business processes with the purpose of continuously paying attention to and trying to reduce our impact on the environment and climate – as a precautionary approach. Systems To identify significant environmental impacts, NNE Pharmaplan carries out – as a minimum annual environmental mapping of the buildings we occupy. Globally, this environmental mapping includes energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions, as these are the most significant environmental impacts. At the head office in Denmark, the mapping also includes other, minor environmental impacts. In projects we always carry out an initial HSE evaluation at the beginning of our proposals and projects (see the detailed description in the section on Principles 8). In relation to our suppliers, this principle is covered by our responsible sourcing programme (please refer to the section under Principle 1). In the section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’ we provide an overview of systems and documents which support Principle 7. Figures and targets In 2009 NNE Pharmaplan established a baseline for four types of emissions for all our offices worldwide. In 2010 NNE Pharmaplan continued to assess these figures: • Fossil fuel combustion – natural gas consumption for heating or fuel oil/petrol consumption for production of electricity, based on monthly or annual meter readings, or bills from supplier companies. The GHG emissions from the combustion of natural gas were calculated based on an average emission factor. • Refrigerant leakage – from cooling systems according to the official logbooks for refrigerant refilling. The greenhouse gases included in this report are the six gases named in the Kyoto Protocol: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs and SF6. • Electricity consumption – electricity used for operating the offices and for heating, based on meter readings at the end of 2010, or on bills from supplier companies. The GHG emissions from electricity consumption are calculated on the basis of specific emission factors from the energy companies whenever possible, or from average emission factors for electricity production for the country or region. • Transport – use of company and employee-owned cars and air travel. For transport by car, the emissions are based on either recorded fuel consumption or recorded mileage allowances, using an average fuel consumption rate or an average emission factor for the normal type of vehicle used. For the Danish offices the information on air travel and the reCOP report 2010 – 35 lated GHG emissions was provided by our external travel agency. For our other offices, the air travel information was recorded as the annual number of flights above or below 2000 km. Emissions were calculated using the emission calculator from the SAS homepage. Emissions in 2010 In 2010, we introduced some emission-reducing measures, mainly at the head office in Denmark, where we introduced more eco-friendly company cars and energy-efficient light installations and data viewers in meeting rooms. Table 6: Worldwide greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2)* Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2)* 2010 2009 Direct emissions (scope 1) Heating of office buildings 325 335 Fugitive emissions from cooling plant 4 8 Transport in company-owned cars 1,044 674 Indirect emissions (scope 2) Purchased electricity 1,752 1,472 Purchased heating 66 0 Purchased cooling 2 5 Indirect emissions (scope 3) Transport in employee-owned cars 554 626 Transport by flight** 4,715 2,672 Total greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2) 8,462 5,792 * tCO2 refers to tonnes of CO2 equivalence ** In 2010 we obtained more complete data on air travel from our offices in China and the USA, which nearly doubled the air travel emissions. Consequently, this figure may be regarded as a new baseline value. The Danish offices were the main contributor to NNE Pharmaplan’s greenhouse gas emissions, accounting for more than a third of total emissions. Data was incomplete on the electricity consumed at our small offices in the USA and the heating, cooling and air-conditioning (HVAC) of offices in the USA, Sweden, Russia and China mainly due to the nature of the tenancy arrangements in these countries where the HVAC equipment is owned by landlords. The main source for greenhouse gas emissions is our travel activities – in company-owned cars, employee-owned cars or by plane. These activities account for 75 percent of total emissions. Flights from Denmark to subsidiaries account for nearly one third of the travel related emissions. The NNE Pharmaplan carbon footprint for 2009 formed the baseline for our global organisation. The greenhouse gas emissions for 2009 amounted to 5,792 tCO2. The corresponding carbon footprint for 2010 amounted to 8,462 tCO2. The difference in greenhouse gas emissions was partly due to increased emissions in China and the USA, where staff increases led to increased travel activity, partly to more complete data being recorded and reported. The Danish sites experienced a decrease in emissions, mainly as a result of a reduction in travel by car. See items EC2, EN16, EN18, EN26 and PR1 in the appendix ‘Global Report Initiative (GRI)’. 36 – COP report 2010 Businesses are asked to undertake initiatives to promote Principle 8 greater environmental responsibility Obligations As stated in our environmental and climate policy, we promote greater environmental responsibility by • delivering environmentally sound services • promoting environmental awareness • entering into dialogue with stakeholders Systems At the beginning of every project, we carry out an initial Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) evaluation. This clarifies, at a general level, any impact the project will have on health, safety and environment during the lifetime of the facility. The evaluation is then used to find out in which areas our customer can reduce emissions and save energy, water and auxiliaries. We recommend solutions that give our customer the most value for money and suggest measures that will ensure optimal working conditions and safety both during construction and when the facility is fully operational. Based on these results the customer decides which recommendations to adopt. Customers can choose to do just enough to satisfy legislation or they can follow more of our recommendations and take their HSE achievements much further. See section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’ for an overview on our systems and documents which support Principle 8. 2009 highlights In 2010, we maintained our focus on the initial HSE evaluation and in Denmark we arranged employee meetings on the topic. The focus will be continued in 2011. Figures and targets See the following items in Appendix 1 ‘Global Report Initiative (GRI)’: EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN8, EN16, EN18, EN21, EN22, EN26 and EN29. COP report 2010 – 37 Businesses are asked to encourage the development and Principle 9 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Obligations Our environmental and climate policy states that we will integrate environmental and climatic considerations into our services and business processes. One of the key issues with regard to reducing environmental impacts is the application of environmentally friendly technologies in our engineering and consultancy services. Systems The mandatory initial HSE evaluation described under Principle 8 is key to selecting environmentally friendly technologies. The evaluation is communicated to and discussed with the costumer in order to identify or develop environmentally friendly and best available technologies for the project in question. In our context, HSE conscious design is one of the most essential HSE project activities as NNE Pharmaplan’s project portfolio comprises design and construction of new buildings and revamps of biotechnological and pharmaceutical plants. The purpose of HSE conscious design is to minimise the HSE effects in the lifetime of the plant. In order to develop and share knowledge in NNE Pharmaplan we have, among other things, established a global interdisciplinary group (functioning as a so-called Community of Interests COI) with the following purposes: • To develop and commercialise solutions that decouple pollution and resources consumption from increased productivity • To integrate energy efficiency and sustainable solutions in all NNE Pharmaplan projects and thereby assist our customers in meeting their goals in relation to climate and environment. See section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’ for an overview on systems and documents which support Principle 9. 2010 highlights We have decided to set up a common, internal NNE Pharmaplan sustainability standard for facilities. The work was initiated in 2010 and will continue in 2011. Our Community of Interest on Energy Efficiency & Sustainable Solutions was established in 2009 and continued its activities through 2010. The COI identified and described several improvement projects, in particular within energy and water optimisation such as Green Cleaning-in-Place (CIP) and ethanol regeneration. Figures and targets Figures and targets relating to Principle 9 are listed in the GRI Index in Appendix 1, items EN5, EN6, EN16, EN18 and EN26. 38 – COP report 2010 COP report 2010 – 39 Principle 10: Business ethics (anti-corruption) In our point of view, business ethics is much more than anti-corruption. Business ethics is a natural part of our business, and a business ethics policy is integrated into Our Way (see the section ‘Sustainability in the NNE Pharmaplan context’). NNE Pharmaplan has always prioritised accountability and a high level of trust with our stakeholders. The following is an extract from our business ethics policy: “NNE Pharmaplan will: • conduct business according to a high ethical standard, live our values and protect NNE Pharmaplan’s reputation • adhere to the principles of the UN Convention against Corruption • conduct business with integrity, honesty and professionalism • work against bribery in any form • set up facilities to ensure the possibility of anonymous whistleblower communication” Apart from our employees, our primary sphere of influence is our suppliers, authorities and customers. 40 – COP report 2010 Businesses should work against corruption Principle 10 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Obligations We wish to conduct business according to high ethical standards and protect the reputation of our company. We care about how we actually conduct business as well as how our business conduct is perceived. In order to achieve high standards, we have increased awareness about our business ethics. In addition to ensuring that all employees and internal consultants know about our policy in the area, we consider it is just as important that they are able to identify situations where potential dilemmas may arise. Systems NNE Pharmaplan has implemented a business ethics policy and a code of conduct on business ethics where the following items are addressed, defined and described: • Conflict of interest • Bribery • Facilitation payments • Donations • Gifts and entertainments Part of the policy and code of conduct is very straightforward as to what is permitted and what is not. But we often experience grey area challenges in our daily work that call for due considerations in terms of business ethical assessment. NNE Pharmaplan has established a whistleblower system which allows employees, agents and other stakeholders to report any suspected violations or concerns regarding financial fraud or business ethics. In this context, we also make demands on our suppliers and these demands are integrated into our responsible sourcing programme (see the paragraph on Principle 1). The section ‘Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context’ contains an overview of all systems and documents that support Principle 10. COP report 2010 – 41 2010 highlights The mandatory e-learning programme on business ethics for employees and internal consultants, rolled out in 2009 in order to educate all employees in our business ethics policy and code of conduct, continued in 2010 for all new employees. Participation in and completion of the e-learning programme is monitored at corporate level. All NNE Pharmaplan offices are required to deliver a quarterly compliance report to the business ethics officer on all cases of misconduct, or possible misconduct, related to business ethics and financial fraud. The first reporting was made in Q3, 2009 and has continued throughout 2010. No cases have been reported. Figures and targets Please consult item S03 in Appendix 1 for figures and targets related to Principle 10 ‘Global Report Initiative (GRI)’ 42 – COP report 2010 Matrix: The ten principles in the NNE Pharmaplan context UN Global Compact 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Global principles NNE Pharmaplan Human People (labour) Environment Business context rights ethics (anticorruption) Our Way Our mission Our vision Our values Our commitments Our fundamentals Our business ethics Our guiding principle Our leadership competences Quality Management System ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Policies Quality policy Environmental & climate policy Working environment policy Security policy Business ethics policy Communication policy Purchasing policy Human resource policy Full Partly COP report 2010 – 43 UN Global Compact 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Global principles NNE Pharmaplan Human People (labour) Environment Business context rights ethics (anticorruption) Codes of conduct Alcohol/narcotics Smoking Bullying and sexual harassment Discrimination Collections for aid charities Storage and handing over of sensitive personal data Working conditions Gifts and entertainment Stress Rehabilitation Senior conditions Education Help to employees going through crisis Flexitime Working at home Working part time Job abroad Equal opportunities Holiday and days off Illness Leave 44 – COP report 2010 UN Global Compact 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Global principles NNE Pharmaplan Human People (labour) Environment Business context rights ethics (anticorruption) Local unions and cooperation Social counselling Working hours Our tools Our Book Our Model Performance & Development Process (PDP) Business ethics e-learning programme Our Academy Our groups Environmental Committee Sustainability group in NNE Pharmaplan Working Environment Council Cooperation Committee COI: Energy Efficiency & Sustainable Solutions COI: Energy Sustainability & Environment Offering COP report 2010 – 45 Audit of the NNE Pharmaplan COP report The 2010 COP report has not been fully audited. Only information and figures quoted from our 2010 annual report have been audited. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This section has been prepared in accordance with the GRI framework (globalreporting.org), which is the most commonly used global framework for reporting on sustainability. The framework provides a well-defined structure and puts forward principles and indicators used to measure and explain financial, environmental and social performance. The GRI framework gives us the possibility to describe and quantify our performance related to the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact in a structured way. It is a voluntary framework and we have used it as a checklist and as inspiration in our reporting process. We have established the reporting scope by selecting the indicators which we find relevant for our business as a consulting and engineering company. We have reported figures and targets where relevant and where data is available. We do not set up targets for every indicator, but only where it is relevant and support significant development areas in our business. The framework also enables us to monitor our performance for coming COP reports. This is NNE Pharmaplan’s second COP and GRI reporting, and thus only figures from 2009 and 2010 are shown in the report. In addition, we have made a self-declaration based on our own assessment of the report content against the criteria in the GRI Application Levels. 46 – COP report 2010 GRI Indicator Table 2010 – Global Reporting Initiatives GRI # GRI description Figures CompliGlobal Reference/Comments Targets Core 2010 ance/Self Compact Add Rating principle PROFILE Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior Full • Our way of management decision maker of the organiza(Our Way) tion (e.g., CEO, chair, or equiva• Preface in the COP report lent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, Full • See Annual Report 2010 and opportunities. • See COP report • Quality management system Operational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Full NNE Pharmaplan A/S 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/ Full World’s leading consulting and or services. engineering company in the complex field of pharma and biotech. nnepharmaplan.com 2.3 Operational structure of the Full NNE Pharmaplan A/S has subsidiorganization, including main aries in the USA, China, Germany, divisions, operating companies, France, Switzerland, Sweden, subsidiaries and joint ventures. India, Malaysia, Russia, Ireland (representative), Czech Republic (dormant) and Puerto Rico (dormant). nnepharmaplan.com/ NP/en/Contact 2.4 Location of organization’s Full Copenhagen area: Vandtårnsvej headquarters. 108-110, DK-2860 Søborg, Denmark 2.5 Number of countries where Full In 2010, NNE Pharmaplan operthe organization operates, and ated in 12 countries with major names of countries with either operations in Denmark, China major operations or operations and the USA. See item 2.3. which are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership Full Private Limited Company, 100% and legal form. owned by Novo Nordisk A/S 2.7 Markets served (including Full Markets served are primarily geographic breakdown, Sectors the pharma and biotech markets. served, and types of customers/ Costumers are companies and beneficiaries). producers all over the world working in that field. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organizaFull NNE Pharmaplan employs close tion, including: to 1,700 people at more than • Number of employees; 25 locations around the world. • Net sales (for private sector See Annual Report 2010. organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and Quantity of products or services provided. COP report 2010 – 47 GRI # GRI description Figures CompliGlobal Reference/Comments Targets Core 2009 ance/Self Compact Add Rating principle PROFILE Strategy and analysis 2.9 Significant changes during the Full None reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: See Annual Report 2010 • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting Full None period. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/ Full The reporting period is the calendar year) for information calendar year of 2010 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous Full NNE Pharmaplan became a member report (if any). of the UN Global Compact in 2008. This is the second issue of the COP report. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, Full Annual etc.) 3.4 Contact point for questions reFull Charlotte Brit Pedersen, garding the report or its contents. Phone: +45 3075 2580, E-mail: cbrp@nnepharmaplan.com 3.5 Process for defining report Full The sustainability group at NNE content, including: Pharmaplan, in cooperation with • Determining materiality; the Environmental Committee • Prioritizing topics within the headed by the CEO, has defined report; and the report content. • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., Full The report covers the parent comcountries, divisions, subsidiaries, pany, NNE Pharmaplan A/S, and leased facilities, joint ventures, all subsidiaries suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on Full Not all data are available in all the scope or boundary of the subsidiaries. See COP report. report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint Full See Annual Report 2010 ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organization. 48 – COP report 2010 GRI # GRI description Figures CompliGlobal Reference/Comments Targets Core 2010 ance/Self Compact Add Rating principle PROFILE Strategy and analysis 3.9 Data measurement techniques Full • See COP report and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any Full N/A re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous Full N/A reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of Full • See Annual Report 2010 the Standard disclosures in the • nnepharmaplan.com report. Identify the page numbers • See COP report or web links where the following can be found: • Strategy and Analysis 1.1 1.2; • Organization Profile 2.1 2.10; • Report Parameters 3.1 3.12; • Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 4.10; • Disclosure of Management approach, per category; • Core Performance Indicators; • Any GRI Additional Indicators that were included; and • Any GRI Sector Supplement Indicators included in the report. Governance, Commitments & Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the Full NNE Pharmaplan A/S has a organization, including commitBoard of Directors and an Executees under the highest governtive Management. The Board of ance body responsible for specific Directors sets the strategy and tasks, such as setting strategy oversees the company’s performor organizational oversight. ance, whereas the Executive Management is responsible for the operation of the company. • See Annual Report 2010 • See COP report, section: “sustainability in our context” • Governance COP report 2010 – 49 GRI # GRI description Figures CompliGlobal Reference/Comments Targets Core 2010 ance/Self Compact Add Rating principle PROFILE Strategy and analysis 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Full No NNE Pharmaplan A/S Board highest governance body is also of Director’s members are execuan executive officer (and, if so, tive officers in the company. their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a Full The Board of Directors consists of unitary board structure, state eight people: three representing the number of members of the the parent company, three emhighest governance body that ployee representatives, and two are independent and/or nonindependent members. None of executive members. the board members are executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Full NNE Pharmaplan is 100% owned and employees to provide recomby Novo Nordisk A/S. Thus there mendations or direction to are no minority shareholders. the highest governance body. Include reference to processes Three members of the Board of regarding: Directors in Denmark are elected • The use of shareholder resoluby employees employed with the tions or other mechanisms Danish organisation. for enabling minority shareholders to express opinions NNE Pharmaplan in Denmark also to the highest governance has a Cooperation Committee/ body; and Work Council where employee • Informing and consulting representatives are heard in all employees about the working significant matters regarding relationships with formal employment. representation bodies such as organization level ‘work councils’, and representation of employees in the highest governance body. Identify topics related to economic, environmental, and social performance raised through these mechanisms during the reporting period. 4.8 Internally developed statements Full S ee COP report, section of mission or values, codes of “Sustainability in the conduct, and principles relevant NNE Pharmaplan context” to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Explain the degree to which these: • Are applied across the organization in different regions and department/units; and • Relate to internationally agreed standards. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Partly The Board of Directors highest governance body’s own conducts a self evaluation performance, particularly with process biannully. respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 50 – COP report 2010 GRI # GRI description Figures 2010 CompliGlobal Reference/Comments Targets Core ance/Self Compact Add Rating principle ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated Operating Full See Annual Report 2010 and distributed, including revprofit = enues, operating costs, employee DKK 18 million compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payment EC2 Financial implications and other Not Not 7 risks and opportunities for the reported reported organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s All employees Full The pension scheme can either be defined benefit plan obligations. covered a benefit or a contribution scheme Market presence EC7 Procedures for local hiring and 8 of 10 General Partly 6 Procedure is not documented proportion of senior management Managers are hired from the local community at locally hired locations of significant operation. Environmental PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by Oil for heating: Partly 8 See principle 8 in the COP report. primary energy source. 25,961 l. Gas for heating: 85,513 Nm3 Fuel for cars: 272,972 l. EN4 Indirect energy consumption Electricity total: Partly 8 See principle 8 in the COP report. by primary source. 3,159,279 kwh Heating: 317 MWh Cooling: 41,885 KWh EN5 Energy saved due to conservation Not reported Not 8,9 and efficiency improvements. reported EN6 Initiatives to provide energyData from Partly 8,9 Regarding our own operations and Ensure that efficient or renewable energy costumers is not the initial HSE evaluation, which is the initial based products and services, and obtainable mandatory in all projects executed HSE evaluareductions in energy requirements by NNE Pharmaplan, see principle 8 tion is carried as a result of these initiatives. in the COP report. out in more than 90% of the projects executed by NNE Pharmaplan Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 5,605 t Partly 8 Only reported for DK COP report 2010 – 51 GRI # GRI description Figures 2010 CompliGlobal Reference/Comments Targets Core ance/Self Compact Add Rating principle Environmental PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Emissions, Effluents & Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenGoal setting for 8,462 t Partly 7,8,9 See principle 8 2011 and 2012 house gas emissions by weight. in the COP report. is in progress EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Partly 7,8,9 See principle 8 Goal setting for gas emissions and reductions in the COP report. 2011 and 2012 achieved. is in progress EN21 Total water discharge by quality 5,605 t sanitary Partly 8 Water withdrawal = and destination. wastewater discharged water discharge to the municipal wasteOnly reported for DK water treatment plant EN22 Total weight of waste by type Paper (reuse): 36.6 t Partly 8 Only reported for DK and disposal method. Combustibles: 86.6 t Electronic waste: 0.3 t Glass: 0.27 t Metal scrap: 0.27 t Wood pallets: 1.76 t Hazardous waste (batteries, light sources): 0.04 t Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environPartly 8,9 See comments GRI EN6 Ensure that the mental impacts of products and initial HSE services, and extent of impact evaluation is mitigation. carried out in more than 90% of the projects executed by NNE Pharmaplan Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts See GRI EN16 Partly 8 See principle 8 Goal setting for of transporting products and in the COP report. 2011 and 2012 other goods and materials used is in progress for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. LABOUR PRACTICIES & DECENT WORK Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment 1,693 employees Partly 1 Only total numbers type, employment contract, and (equivalent to 1,649 are reported region. full-time employees) LA2 Total number and rate of emTotal rate = 12.1% Partly 1 See Total maximum ployee turnover by age group, Annual Report 2010 12% gender, and region. Labour/management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered DK, DE, FR & SE 100%, Partly 3 Employees are free to by collective bargaining agreedata from other organise and to enter ments. subsidiaries are not into collective bargaindocumented ing arrangements 52 – COP report 2010 GRI # GRI description Figures 2010 CompliGlobal Reference/Comments Targets Core ance/Self Compact Add Rating principle LABOUR PRACTICIES & DECENT WORK Occupational Health & Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce EU countries Partly 1 According to EU and local represented in formal joint 100%. Data from legislation. Questions regarding management-worker health and other subsidiaries health and safety are addressed safety committees that help is not documentin our worldwide employee monitor and advise on ed survey occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational Accidents with Partly 1 Data from other subsidiaries diseases, lost days, and absence: is not documented absenteeism, and number of Demark: 2 *) 1 fatality work related fatalities by region. China: 1* India:: 1 Total: 4, Accident frequency (accidents/ million working hours): DK: 0.9 LA8 Education, training, counselling, Minimum legal Full 1 prevention, and risk-control requirements + programs in place to assist add-ons in DK, workforce members, their GE, CN, US, FR, families, or community members DE, CH and IN regarding serious diseases. Training & Education LA10 Average hours of training per DK = 31 hours/ Partly 1 year per employee by employee employee category. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving US = 52% Partly 1 Annual performance and career 100% regular performance and career DK = 56% development reviews are mandain 2011 development reviews. FR = 24% tory for all employees. To facilitate CN = 47% the annual performance and DE = 67% career development meetings, NNE SE = 51% Pharmaplan continued the implementation of our global, IT-based Performance and Development Process system in 2010. In 2011, the system will be implemented worldwide in NNE Pharmaplan. Diversity & Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance Gender in the Partly 1,6 India includes Malaysia bodies and breakdown of management and Sweden includes Finland. employees per category according segment (women/ to gender, age group, minority men in %) Due to local legislation on recordgroup membership, and other DK: 26/74 ings, e.g. in Denmark, we only indicators of diversity. GE: 19/81 record gender and nationality US: 17/83 See Annual Report 2010 CN: 32/68 SE: 14/86 FR: 29/71 CH: 25/75 IN: 9/91 RU: 30/70 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to Not reported Not 1,6 women by employee category. reported COP report 2010 – 53 GRI # GRI description Figures CompliGlobal Reference/Comments Targets Core 2010 ance/Self Compact Add Rating principle HUMAN RIGHTS Investment & Procurement Practices HR2 Percentage of significant sup280 of 1015 Partly 1,2,3,4, We are working on a revision pliers and contractors that have were screened 5,6 of our responsible sourcing undergone screening on human in 2010 comprogramme, see COP report rights and actions taken. pared to 370 of under People 990 in 2009 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of None Full 1,6 No discrimination and actions taken. reported incidents Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which None Full 1,2,3 No the right to exercise freedom operations of association and collective identified bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labour HR6 Operations identified as having None Full 1,2 Employee age is monitored No significant risk for incidents of worldwide via the HR ERP system. operations child labour, and measures taken identified to contribute to the elimination of child labour. Forced & Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations identified as having None Full 1,2 No significant risk for incidents of operations forced or compulsory labour, identified and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. SOCIETY Community S1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness Data not Partly 1 See COP report under preface of any programs and practices obtainable to Human Rights that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Corruption S3 Percentage of employees trained 99% Full 10 The mandatory e-learning 100% inorganization’s anti-corruption programme on business ethics policies and procedures. for employees and internal consultants, rolled out in 2009 in order to educate all employees in our business ethics policy and code of conduct, continued in 2010 for all new employees. Participation in and completion of the e-learning programme is monitored at corporate level. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Costumer Health & Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Not reported Not 8 See COP report Sustainable and safety impacts of products reported Engineering and Principle 8 and services are assessed for regarding Health & Safety. improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. NNE Pharmaplan A/S Vandtårnsvej 108-110, DK-2860 Søborg, Denmark Tel.: +45 4444 7777 Fax.: +45 4444 3777 CVR No.: 13 24 60 09 nnepharmaplan.com
