ac 2010 Annual Report Investing in Brazil, a country of many colors and cultures Investing in Brazil, a country of many colors and cultures Banco Fibra has expanded into several areas of the country, contributing to the growth and development of the Brazilian economy while respecting the unique aspects of the local cultures. In this annual report, we would like to highlight the value of Brazil’s regional features through their cultural expression, such as folklore and handicrafts, renowned for their visual richness and popular tradition. Travel with us to these regions and learn about the cultural elements that are perpetuated thanks to the wisdom and knowledge of people of fibra.* pag. 01 > 1. INTRODUCTION pag. 02 > Banco Fibra pag. 04 > 2010 highlights pag. 05 > Main indicators pag. 07 > Message from the chairman pag. 09 > 2. STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT pag. 09 > Strategy pag. 10 > Growth management pag. 11 > Commitments pag. 13 > Corporate governance pag. 17 > Ethical behavior pag. 18 > Risk management pag. 23 > 3. BUSINESS PERFORMANCE pag. 23 > Operating performance pag. 23 > Wholesale/companies pag. 25 > Retail pag. 28 > Funding pag. 28 > Treasury pag. 31 > Economic and financial performance pag. 31 > Economic environment pag. 33 > Results pag. 38 > Intangible assets pag. 41 > 4. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE pag. 41 > People management pag. 46 > Social responsibility pag. 47 > Environmental responsibility pag. 48 > GRI SUMMARY pag. 51 > 5. Accountability pag. 52 > Balance sheets pag. 56 > Statements of income pag. 57 > Statements of cash flows pag. 58 > Statements of added value pag. 59 > Statements of changes in shareholders’ equity pag. 60 > Notes to the financial statements pag. 87 > Audit committee report pag. 88 > Independent auditors’ report pag. 89 > corporate information *People of Fibra/Fiber, which in Portuguese is a play on words, alluding both to the firm’s name Fibra (Fiber) and to the figurative meaning of this word in that language: firm character, willpower and moral value. ac 1. INTRODUCTION About the report For the first time, Banco Fibra has prepared its Annual Report based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The information concerns the year 2010 and the structure and content comply with Level C reporting parameters, suitable for companies and institutions that are beginners in terms of disclosing information and results in accordance with these standards. The previous report was published in May 2009. (GRI 3.1, 3.3, 3.2) The content of this document was determined internally, based on the subjects considered to be of interest for the different audiences with which the Bank maintains an ongoing relationship, namely, shareholders, clients, investors, personnel and suppliers. (GRI 3.5) The economic, social and environmental information presented concerns the Bank and its subsidiary CREDIFIBRA (GRI 3.6, 3.7, 3.8). The economic and financial data were calculated based on Brazil’s generally accepted accounting standards and were audited by the KPMG Auditores Independentes auditing firm (GRI 3.13). The data on social and environmental aspects comply with in-house criteria and were checked by professional teams from the Bank itself. (GRI 3.9, 3.13) The occasional reformulation of information provided in past reports is shown and explained over the course of this document (GRI 3.10). No significant changes occurred in the comparison with prior years in terms of the scope, limit or metrics methods used in the Report. (GRI 3.11) Doubts or requests for additional information on the content hereof should be sent to the Investor Relations area (ir@bancofibra.com.br, phone number 55 (11) 3847-6640, or fax number 55 (11) 3811-4788). (GRI 3.4) 2 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Banco Fibra Banco Fibra is dedicated to providing Controlled by Grupo Vicunha, a for export companies, and agribusiness specialized services to its clients, conglomerate comprised of enterprises financing, besides bank guarantees. regardless of whether they are in the textile, steel, energy, agro-industrial In the Retail segment, it has initiated companies or individuals. These services and real estate sectors, Fibra has one the operations of its finance company, focus on meeting client credit needs, more shareholder, the International CREDIFIBRA, and it made two important especially in relation to the terms, Finance Corporation (IFC), a World Bank acquisitions during the year: Sofcred security and quality of these operations. institution that finances the private Promotora, the Banco Sofisa company The main interest is the combination sector and that holds a 7.9% stake in the in charge of managing its payrollof specialization and integrity of the Fibra’s capital. (GRI 2.6) deductible credit and vehicle financing services the Bank renders. (GRI 2.1) Fibra reached the end of 2010 with operations, and Validata, a company that The Bank organizes its operations along R$ 10.0 billion in assets, or 14% less than issues, processes and acquires credit two lines of business: Wholesale and at the end of 2009, which puts it in the cards. (GRI 2.9) Retail. In the Wholesale segment, it category of midsized banks, and a credit The Wholesale and Retail segment provides credit in local currency and portfolio of R$ 7.9 billion, 43% above that operations have the support of the financial operations for organizations, of the previous year. (GRI 2.8) Funding and Treasury areas, which are predominantly those with R$40 million The Wholesale product portfolio, which in charge of managing liquidity and to R$400 million annual sales. In the Retail focuses on middle market enterprises, the Bank’s own resources, by obtaining segment, it provides direct credit for includes credit for working capital funds and structuring financial products individual consumers, vehicle financing, in local currency, structured loans to for clients, such as foreign exchange and and payrolland pension-deductible loans. meet the particularities of its clients’ foreign trade operations. Headquartered in the São Paulo state businesses, on-lendings from the BNDES capital, it has 20 business units for the (National Bank for Social and Economic Wholesale segment and 26 for the Retail Development), trade finance operations segment and it is present in the Brazil’s five geographic regions. (GRI 2.2, 2.7, 2.4, 2.3, 2.5) 2005 – It starts History 1999 – It adjusts offering payrollthe focus of or pension1994 – It conducts 1989 – It is its business in deductible loans its first corporate licensed by the order to target to active civil 1988 – It starts credit operations Central Bank middle market servants and operating as an for large and 1987 – Fibra begins companies. pensioners of investment bank, to operate as mid-sized operating as a the INSS, the centering its a multipleclients. It also securities broker. National Social activities on the services bank. starts providing Security Institute. treasury area, as consumer credit. Regarding credit the financial unit for companies, of Grupo Vicunha. it strengthens its operations by opening offices in several locations around the country. Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 3 Awards (GRI 2.10) Banco Fibra’s 2009 Annual Report was The objective is to identify and award ranked among the five best ones by market professionals which most closely Banco Fibra was among the ‘Top ABRASCA (the Brazilian Association of forecast the basic economic indicators. 5’ institutions according to the Publicly-Traded Companies). Fibra was Participants include banks, brokers, respondents of research on the expected competing in the category of privately consultants, asset managers, schools performance of market indices, as held enterprises with net revenues and others that periodically forecast reported by Gerin (the Department of under R$ 1 billion. This was the third economic indicators. Investor Relations and Special Studies), consecutive year in which Fibra ranked a branch of the Central Bank of Brazil. among the top five. Fibra was also rated among the five best institutions in terms of forecasting Fibra was among the top 10 in the the Selic interest rate and the foreign Top Basic Agência Estado Projections exchange rate. The annual classifications ranking (which evaluates inflation, – ‘Top 5’ shortand medium-term foreign exchange and interest rates). rankings – started being published as of January 2009, to identify and award the institutions that take part in the Market Expectations System with more consistent monthly estimates during the course of the preceding year. 2009 – GVI starts 2010 2008 – Grupo financing vehicles, Vicunha and by acquiring – Fibra acquires Sofcred 2007 – The IFC increase the PauliCred Promotora, which managed 2006 – It acquires a International Bank’s capital by Promotora de Banco Sofisa’s vehicle services and sales Finance Corporation R$ 275 million, Negócios. (IFC), which is the financing and payrollpromotion company maintaining headquartered in World Bank’s private deductible loan operations. sector financing their respective the South region. percentage stakes – It sets up CREDIFIBRA, a This firm starts unit, acquires a 7.9% stake in the Bank. in the Bank. finance company that operating under Fibra acquires the absorbs all of the Bank’s Retail the name GVI (the Grupo Vicunha sales promoting operations. initials) Promotora enterprise Lecca, from Rio de – It acquires Validata, a de Vendas e Serviços Janeiro. The firm company that issues, Ltda. was subsequently processes and acquires credit incorporated into cards. GVI. – Grupo Vicunha and IFC increase the Bank’s capital by another R$ 100 million. 4 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 2010 highlights –––108% growth of the Retail credit classification agency, in August. The ––– July start-up of the activities of the portfolio, to R$ 2.5 billion, due primarily to Standard & Poor’s agency also raised Growth Management Project, which is the acquisition of Sofcred and part of its Banco Fibra’s Brazil Domestic Scale ratings to complete, within two years, the Banco vehicle-financing portfolio and to Brazil’s to “brA/brA-2” and reiterated the “BB-/B” Fibra operating excellence model. current buoyant economy. ratings on a global scale, in November. ––– Conclusion of the three structured ––– 28% growth of company credit ––– Start-up in March of the operations of funding deals in the international operations, to R$ 5.2 billion , driven by the CREDIFIBRA, the financing firm in which market: subordinate debt of US$ 25 economy’s good performance and by the all of the Bank’s Retail operations have million with a six-year term, funded geographic expansion of the Bank in this been centralized: CDC (consumer credit) from DEG (a German governmental segment, with the inauguration of four and structured CDC, payroll-deductible institution that finances investments for business platforms, so that the Bank now has loans, vehicle financing and credit cards. private-sector companies in developing 20 units distributed throughout the country. countries – March 2010); a US$ 200 ––– Acquisition of Sofcred Promotora, the million bond, maturing in three years ––– 31% growth of total funding, to R$ 8.3 business unit that managed the vehicle (April 2010); and US$ 135 million from the billion. Funding from abroad amounted financing and payroll-deductible loan International Finance Corporation (IFC) to R$ 2.0 billion and domestic funding operations of Banco Sofisa, in March, for and a group of 11 banks, a loan of the A/B reached R$ 6.3 billion. R$ 120 million. The transaction also involved type (July 2010). the purchase of a portfolio of approximately ––– Delinquency (payments past due by R$ 400 million, with recourse. ––– R$ 100 million capital increase, of more than 90 days) dropped to 1.4%, lower which R$ 92.1 million were paid in by than the 2009 level of 1.8% and than the ––– Acquisition, in September, of Validata, Elizabeth S.A., a Grupo Vicunha company market ratio of 4.6%, according to a report a firm specializing in electronic means of and the Bank’s controlling stakeholder, released by Brazil’s Central Bank. payment and that focuses on providing and R$ 7.9 million were paid in by the credit via cards. ––– Improvement of the domestic longInternational Finance Corporation (IFC), and short-term ratings from “A-(bra)” to ––– Expansion of the Wholesale area which has a 7.9% stake in the bank’s “A(bra)” and from “F2(bra)” to “F1(bra)”, platforms from 16 to 20, to expand capital. As a result, their respective stakes according to the Fitch Ratings risk service to corporate segment clients. in the Bank remained unchanged. Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 5 Main indicators Income (in millions of R$) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Financial Operations income 1,505 1,620 1,987 2,908 951 1,797 Gross income from financial operations 102 173 237 214 351 368 Operating income 35 103 83 28 130 53 Net Income 40 71 69 91 25 4 Balance Sheet (in millions of R$) Total assets 9,375 8,326 13,808 9,163 11,699 10,048 Shareholders’ Equity 397 441 505 747 696 792 Deposits 1,253 1,844 2,599 2,708 3,631 5,189 Loans 2,104 3,244 4,449 4,315 5,525 7,893 Performance indicators Return on average equity (1) 9.8% 15.4% 14.3% 14.1% 3.5% 0.5% Net Margin (2) 1.6% 2.4% 3.6% 3.4% 5.5% 5.9% Efficiency ratio (3) 54.0% 34.0% 44.0% 49.2% 41.6% 61.9% Loan provision surplus 127% 116% 296% 134% 195% 221% Basel index (4) 14.9% 13.7% 13.2% 14.2% 17.7% 13.3%(5) Loan provisions to credit portfolio 1.7% 1.8% 2.5% 4.3% 3.5% 3.1% Operating Indicators Active clients – Wholesale 668 841 1,030 1,054 1,169 1,525 Active clients – Retail (in thousands) 344 620 830 993 880 1,071 Points of sale – Retail 391 2,719 7,257 9,722 15,972 16,052 Number of employees 282 659 1,013 858 1,051 1,622 (1) Percentage of net income over the average balance of shareholders’ equity (2) Gross income from financial intermediation without the impact of the provision for doubtful accounts as a percentage of the average balance of income-bearing assets (3) (Personnel and administrative expenses) / (gross income from financial intermediation, provisions excluded (+) service fees (-) tax expenses (+) other operating results) (4) Percentage of shareholders’ equity adjusted for the value of risk-weighted assets. In 2008, 2009 and 2010: Basel II (5) Includes DEG subordinated debt Risk Agency Area Rating Rating Date Moody’s Bank Deposits Apr 29, 2011 ––– Foreign currency Ba2/NP ––– NSR-Local currency Aa3.br/BR-1 ––– Bank financial strength D ––– Outlook stable Standard & Poor’s Global Scale Nov 19, 2010 ––– Foreign currency BB-/stable/B ––– Local currency BB-/stable/B Brazilian scale brA/stable/brA-2 Fitch Ratings National Aug 20, 2010 ––– Long term A (bra) ––– Short term F1 (bra) ––– Support 5 ––– Outlook stable RiskBank Low risk for medium term (being 9.82 Apr 27, 2011 monitored) Dorival Moreira Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 7 Message from the Chairman The growth of Brazilian income per capita and the ongoing caused the bank to achieve a lower level of recurrent results, expansion of the demand for credit helped our commercial which affected the year as a whole. performance in 2010. Significant advances in the Wholesale and In 2010, we ended a transition phase, consisting of a cycle of Retail businesses materialized, of which the following stand out: investments in the Retail operations, and we initiated the the growth of the Bank’s presence throughout the country; the process of consolidating the Bank’s expansion. To support these startup of CREDIFIBRA (the finance company that centralizes activities, we obtained a capital increase of R$ 100 million, of all our transactions for individuals); and the acquisition of which R$ 92.1 million were paid in by Elizabeth S.A., a company Sofcred Promotora (the administrator of the vehicle financing that is part of Grupo Vicunha, the Bank’s controlling stakeholder. operations and payrolland pension-deductible loans of Banco The other R$ 7.9 million came from the International Finance Sofisa) and of Validata, a company specializing in providing Corporation (IFC), which holds a 7.9% stake in the Bank. credit by means of cards. Additionally, we initiated the Growth Management Project in The outcome of the sum of these initiatives was a growth of the Wholesale segment, with which we plan to conclude the 108% in our Retail credit operations, to R$ 2.5 billion, and of 28% Banco Fibra operating excellence model within two years. This in our Wholesale segment operations, which amounted to initiative is additional to our investments in technology and R$ 5.2 billion. The growth of the portfolio of these two segments management systems to strengthen our customer service and totaled an expansion of 43% in relation to 2009, above the specialization capacity. market’s 17% growth of free resources. This performance, coupled with our risk management policy, helped to cut the We would like to thank our employees, service providers and default ratio of contracts more than 90 days past due to 1.4%, in investors for their commitment to the growth process that the contrast to the market average of 4.6%. Bank has undertaken in the last few years. We are sure that the phase that we are now entering will be professionally productive, The year’s net income reached R$ 3.7 million and shareholders’ as it will provide us with experience with more advanced business equity, of R$ 792 million, a 14% growth relative to the development bases. We would also like to thank our clients for the December 2009 balance. These results reflect the reassessment opportunities that they have given us to overcome challenges and of the pricing and marking to market criteria of certain to exercise our products and services specialties. corporate assets (fiscal hedge), overstated by R$ 114 million in the 2010, 2009 and 2008 financial statements. R$ 26 million concern the adjustment of the net income of the first half of 2010, whereas the balance refers to the net income and net equity of the two previous years. These adjustments, coupled with non-recurrent expenses of the order of R$ 57 million, Ricardo Steinbruch mainly due to our strong investments in the Retail segment, Chairman of the Board of Directors The beauty of the historic Marajoara ceramics The cultural richness of the Marajoara ceramics is the legacy of the ancient civilizations from Brazil’s North region. Produced and preserved by new artists, these ceramics have a range of uses and patterns, ranging from utilitarian objects to decorative ornaments. Flávio Coelho Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 9 2. STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Strategy In 2010, Banco Fibra entered a period model and benefit from the growth in its ––– Optimization of the structure, the of business consolidation and organic Wholesale and Retail segments. During resources and the costs that resulted growth, with the conclusion of a cycle of this process, it relied on governance, from the acquisitions; substantial Retail business acquisitions technology, people and risk management ––– Investments in technology, that began in 2006. As a result, the Bank as the cornerstones for the achievement particularly to develop solutions for searched to strengthen its management of its business objectives. clients of retail and wholesale segments; In this new stage, efforts are to focus on ––– Operating improvements by four work fronts: means of the Growth Management Project, which is to produce, by 2012, an excellence model capable of further strengthening the sales force; ––– Growth of the commercial base building upon the infrastructure established in the last two years. The art of bobbin lace Bobbin lace is among the most genuine representations of Brazilian handicrafts and it is strongly disseminated in the State of Ceará. The bobbins are a type of wooden rod with a head on one end. The thread for making the lace is wound around these bobbins, which are always used in pairs. 10 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Growth management the creation of services for clients. The idea consulting. The processes and models of the is to offer increasingly speedy services to management practices are to be reviewed, The Growth Management Project, save time, as well as services increasingly as well as the standards and the operating introduced in 2010, is comprised of a set of customized to their needs, while remaining procedures, along with the modeling of initiatives to improve and automate the operationally safe. Thus, in 2011, the Bank management results. processes that uphold the credit granting plans to add a new business platform via the procedure. In its first stage, the most With the help of this support in the areas Web for the Wholesale segment business and critical processes, which are those that of governance, technology, people and to digitize the Retail credit granting process, involve the operating flow, were mapped. risk management, the Bank will be able turning it into a paperless operation. This During 2010, one of the main gains was the to continue to pursue its growth model will make providing services for stores faster, implementation of the Commercial Support efficiently and profitably. In the medium term, besides reducing costs for these clients and Area, which focuses on the operating the marks of this process will be synergy for the Bank itself. efficiency of client care and the rendering gains due to the acquisitions made over the of services to clients, thereby freeing up the As part of the policy of permanent last two years, operating improvements and commercial area for business activities. improvement of the teams, all personnel greater commercial power. that held positions starting at the level of For 2011,the total investment in improving coordinator were trained, in 2010, in the operating efficiency amounts to R$ 26 million. areas of leadership and management cycles. A total of R$ 12 million was invested in 2010 in As for the credit teams, they were given more the structure and expansion of the branches, than 150 hours of training in credit analysis, in moving the Bank’s headquarters, in the business niches and case studies. creation of technological infrastructure and in the set-up of a new Data Processing Center. Regarding operational risks, the system was The outcome of these investments, planned strengthened with the hiring of personnel for the first half of 2012, will consist of gaining and the allocation of representatives from speed of action, security and operating the internal controls area in the Retail efficiency in the corporate credit business operations. Additionally, a team responsible and will free up the commercial area for sales. for the internal validation of management models was established. The technology investments center on improving the performance of the Wholesale A new model for the Bank’s control office is and Retail business platforms, especially in also being set up with the help of external Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 11 Commitments 8% are company associations and development by 2015. In Brazil, these the remaining 6% are split between objectives are known as the Eight Ways Banco Fibra aims to align its actions educational institutions, unions, the to Change the World, comprising the to the guidelines of the Global public sector and cities. (GRI 4.12) reduction of poverty, the fight against Compact, a United Nations (UN) hunger, the reduction of child and initiative designed to mobilize By adhering to the Global Compact, mother mortality, the issue of gender, companies worldwide to adopt ten the Bank has committed to the the reversal of the progress of Aids/HIV, principles that cover human rights, Millennium Objectives, which consist of and environmental sustainability. labor relations, the environment and 8 objectives, 18 targets and more than combating corruption. In Brazil, 75% 40 indicators developed by the UN, all of of the signatories are companies, 11% which indicate how to reduce poverty are non-governmental organizations, and achieve the planet’s sustainable Global Compact Principles HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and… Principle 2 – … make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 – the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 – undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 – encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Millennium Objectives 12 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Commitment Strategic Audiences (GRI 4.14) To integrate these commitments into dec 2010 the business, Fibra aims to involve Depositors 1,308 and establish a relationship with its Active clients (Wholesale) 1,525 various audiences: shareholders, clients, Active clients (Retail) 1,071,000 personnel, suppliers, government and Direct employees 1,622 society. It plays an active role in the following organizations: Relationship Activities (GRI 4.14) Febraban (Brazilian Federation of Banks) – Fibra representatives sit permanently on Interested Parties Activities and communication channels the following commissions: Accounting and Fiscal Issues; Taxation; Economics; Shareholders, investors Website with economic and financial information Compliance; Internal Auditing; and PayrollE-mail for communication with the Investor Relations area Deductible Loans. Quarterly and annual management reports Annual Report ABBC (Brazilian Association of Banks) – Announcements Fibra is on the following commissions: Wholesale banking; Retail banking; Compliance and Risk Management; Social and Environmental Responsibility; Clients Relationship events and Legal Issues. The Bank’s Wholesale Periodic visits to clients vice-president, Maércio Soncini, is deputy Internet chair of ABBC. Personnel Information channels Acrefi (National Association of Credit, Intranet Finance and Investment Institutions) – Corporate climate research The Retail vice-president, Márcio Ronconi, is Events with senior management deputy chair of the association. (GRI 4.13) Suppliers Internet Communities Sponsorship of cultural events Release of information via the press of institutional projects Government and society Participation in sector committees and forums Being active in and making contributions to associations and institutions Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 13 Corporate governance In line with its business management accounting practices, and the IFC was established in 1956, as a unit of policy, which is guided by standards operational areas and the IT area have the World Bank designed to promote of excellence, there has been progress been segregated, a manager having the projects of its developing member in management practices geared been appointed solely to deal with countries , by means of incentives to toward improving the Bank’s levels of internal controls, risks and compliance. private-sector firms with sustainable professionalization, transparency and The establishment of Human Resources, financial returns and economic and administrative independence. Foreign Exchange and Accounting social activities. committees has also been formalized. To ensure this, the internal auditing area Based on the shareholders’ agreement, has been strengthened, specifically as IFC may veto certain issues, such as regards accounting entry procedures operations that involve consolidations, Governance Structure and the monitoring of the hedge and spin-offs, mergers or any corporate swap operations, by the creation, The Bank’s governance comprises reorganization or change in the nature among other things, of a specific subthe General Annual Meeting of of the business. The agreement also committee to monitor these operations. shareholders, the Board of Directors, establishes the rules for the election of Additionally, procedures were the Executive Committee, the Executive the members of the Board of Directors, standardized and new controls were Officers and the management support guaranteeing that an IFC representative put in place for such operations. committees. (GRI 4.1) sits on the board. Furthermore, an external consulting Grupo Vicunha, the majority company has been hired to advise the stakeholder, holds 92.1% of the Bank on how to set up a new model for Bank’s capital and its partner is the the control function. The work includes International Finance Corporation (IFC), reviewing management practices and with 7.9% of the shares. processes in all financial areas, in order Grupo Vicunha is active in the textile, to standardize operating procedures and steel, power, agro-industry and real redefine the modeling of the calculation estate sectors. Its main investments are of managerial results. Vicunha Têxtil (textiles) and Companhia In the set of management tools, the Siderúrgica Nacional (CSN), both of managerial accounting practices are which are leading enterprises in their now independent from the corporate respective markets. 14 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 grupo vicunha ifc 92.07% 7.93% grand cayman full branch banco fibra s.a. 99.999% 99.958% 99.999% 99.999% 99.999% fibra asset fibra cia. fibra cia. CREDIFIBRA S.A. management fibra projetos securitizadora securitizadora Crédito, distribuidora de e consultoria de créditos de créditos Financiamento e títulos e valores econômica ltda. imobiliários financeiros Investimento mobiliários ltda Board of Directors exceptionally, whenever its chair calls a general meetings. Executives and other meeting. In 2010, 13 meetings were held. employees of the Bank can resort, The Board of Directors is a collegiate for recommendations, to the Board’s deliberation body elected by the Every member has a two-year term and advisory committees. (GRI 4.4) shareholders’ Annual General Meeting. It reelection is permitted. There are five men is comprised of seven members, three of and two women on the board, all of them The CVs of the Board members can be whom represent the main stakeholder, white, one of whom is aged between consulted at www.bancofibra.com.br/ri/ one of whom is appointed by IFC, 40 and 50, all the others being over 50. and three of whom are independent The Board members earn no additional directors. The concept of independent remuneration if they are removed from Executive Committee director complies with the regulations their position and are not subject to It is responsible for aligning the of the Novo Mercado (New Market) mandatory retirement due to age. The strategic directions of the Bank and of the São Paulo Stock Exchange chair of the Board holds no executive for monitoring its results. Instituted in (BM&FBovespa), which determines, function in the Bank. (GRI 4.2) There are ties August of 2007, it is comprised of the among other aspects, having no link with among some Board members, Ricardo chair of the Board of Directors, the CEO, the Company other than shareholdings Steinbruch being the brother of Elisabeth the Wholesale Business, Retail Business lower than 5% of the capital. (GRI 4.3) Steinbruch Schwarz; both are cousins of and Corporate executive vice-presidents, Clarice Steinbruch. The Board is in charge of determining and the executive officer of the Treasury. the general and commercial strategic The Board meetings are the forum for It meets every week. policies. Its duties include electing, shareholders to voice their views on providing guidance for and managing how business is progressing and to the work of the executives. It normally present recommendations regarding meets at least once a quarter or, eventual measures to be adopted, as in the ordinary or extraordinary Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 15 Executive Board Supporting Committees Market Risk Committee – It discusses the short-term strategies using as its The executive officers are elected by the The Board of Directors and the Executive reference the potential macroeconomic Board of Directors for a two-year term, Board have the support of several scenarios, the adjustment of the with the possibility of being reelected. committees, which help to discuss issues portfolio’s risk metrics to the established They are the Bank’s legal representatives in greater depth, as well as helping to limits, and the inclusion of positions in and are in charge of the day-to-day evaluate strategic themes for the business the trading portfolio. It also conducts the management of the business and of and in respect of security decisions. They operational strategic evaluation of the carrying out the policies and general are comprised of vice-presidents, executive Treasury, and decides, via extraordinary guidelines established by the Board officers and managers of the organization’s meetings, on the maintenance or not of of Directors. At the end of 2010, the different areas and they meet from time the Bank’s positions if limits are exceeded. executive board comprised one chief to time. At the end of 2010, the following executive officer, three vice-presidents committees, among others, were active: Ombudsmanship Committee – Its purpose and four officers, six of whom were men is to discuss internal controls and Audit Committee – It fulfills the regulation and two of whom were women, all of processes, besides best practices for the requirements and governance practices. them white. Six are aged 40 to 50 and two Ombudsperson’s Office. are over 50. (GRI LA13) Internal Controls Committee – Its purpose Credit Risk Committee – It evaluates is to discuss and point out themes All of the executives are professionals the evolution of the credit portfolio, and connected with risks, finance and with experience in the financial sector monitors limits (past due or exceeded), internal controls. It reports to the and none of them has any family ties exposure and concentration risks (of Board of Directors and its full members with the Board members or shareholders. groups and sectors), exceptional situations, are the independent directors Luiz Management remuneration amounted simulation of scenarios, and default. Nelson Guedes de Carvalho, José to R$ 7,027 thousand in 2010, 88% of Antonio Miguel Neto and Ricardo Global Risks Committee – It monitors which consisted of fixed salaries while Caldeira, the IFC representative. the main points of credit risk, market, 12% comprised the variable portion, tied liquidity, operating and compliance to results. (GRI 4.5) Credit Committee – Middle, Corporate elements, and the prevention of money The CVs of the members of the executive and Financial Institutions – It analyses laundering, besides the Basel index. board can be consulted at proposals and credit operations, and www.bancofibra.com.br/ri/ monitors abnormal credit situations Accounting Committee – It discusses and and the evolution of client’s ratings. analyzes the best accounting practices Its activities are split between three in the market in relation to local and Internal Auditing committees (Credit, Credit Restructuring international standards. and Rating) and one subcommittee, Its activity is independent and objective. Prevention of Money Laundering, Internal besides a monitoring group. It provides an evaluation and consulting Control and Operating Risks Committee – service with a view to adding value to Alco – Asset & Liabilities Committee – It is It is responsible for assessing occurrences the conglomerate. Auditing helps the responsible for updating the movements that seem atypical. It communicates them organization to reach its objectives, of the credit portfolio as well as for to the appropriate authorities when it by adopting a systematic approach funding and liquidity, besides analyzing concludes that a crime or illicit act has to evaluation and to improving the the structure of assets and liabilities and occurred or finds indications of one having efficacy of the processes of risk the gaps in maturities. been committed. management, control, and corporate governance and information security. 16 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Ethics Committee – It fosters an ethical Suitability Committee – A cross-discipline Foreign Exchange Committee – It culture at the Bank. This involves committee in charge of assessing and approves the foreign exchange (Câmbio approving policies related to this issue and approving situations that have not been Pronto) operations, as well as the limits deliberating on personal and professional foreseen in the Suitability Policy (suitability for renewal or exceeded limits, and conduct issues, in order to establish a of the operation to the client’s profile). determines a limit for the monitoring of healthy work environment. It meets only each type of operation proposed. Market Risk / Assets Committee – It on an extraordinary basis, as necessary. discusses the fit of the risk metrics of Product and Services Committee – Technology Committee – It discusses and the portfolio to the regulatory limits Presents and approves new products and evaluates technological solutions with and the limits approved by investors. services as well as defines the conditions high potential impact for the Bank. It also The committee is also responsible for to initiate their offering to clients. analyzes, approves and prioritizes new approving or not, via an extraordinary Besides the aforementioned committees, information technology projects. meeting, proposals to adjust positions in CREDIFIBRA has others that make the event that limits are exceeded. decisions pertaining only to that firm. More Security and Information Privacy information on committees is available at Committee – Its purpose is to provide Human Resources Committee – www.bancofibra.com.br/ri/ guidance and support for privacy and Determines and monitors corporate and information security initiatives. strategic actions regarding best Human Relations practices. board of directors internal control committee audit committee executive committee ombudsman committee internal auditing external auditing money security and products market global human foreign laundering ethics credit technology credit risk information suitability accounting and risk alco risks resources exchange prevention committee committee committee committee privacy committee committee services committee committee committee committee committee committee committee retail asset corporate interbank credit recovery Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 17 Ethical behavior (GRI 4.8) The Code of Ethics and Conduct sets Basic Principles Repudiation of prejudice – All attitudes directives that the Bank’s personnel based on prejudice concerning origin, Company objectives and ethical and its service providers should comply ethnicity, religion, social class, gender, principles – In order to advance with. These directives provide guidance color, age, and physical limitations are financially and socially, consolidating for professional activity, to ensure that repudiated, as well as any other forms itself while also building a path high ethical standards are met. They of discrimination. of integrity within society and, also reflect Fibra’s cultural identity specifically, in regard to those groups Responsibility – Corporate and social and its commitments in the markets in with which it maintains a direct responsibility is of crucial importance. which it operates. relationship, the Bank must be based The Bank is committed to the The general rules of conduct on precise ethical principles and communities in which it is active. This determined in the Code cover corporate objectives, which should responsibility is fully exercised when partnering relations with clients, be shared by its personnel at all one engages in activities that further banking confidentiality practices, basic hierarchical levels, as well as by its the country’s development. consumer rights, statements to the suppliers of services. Values – The Bank’s management, press, information security procedures, Reputation – Its company activities employees and providers of services ethical behavior, and conflicts of invariably aim at ongoing must be committed to upholding its interest. It also establishes that smoking development, high performance values and image, to maintaining a is prohibited in the Bank’s premises, and, above all, client satisfaction. posture that is compatible with these as well as drugs and sexual and moral Among the Bank’s chief objectives is values, and to acting in the defense of harassment, and promotes the safety its reputation as a sound and reliable the interests of their clients. Pursuit and protection of the environment and enterprise that is aware of its social of the Bank’s development must be of the institution’s assets. It is up to the and corporate responsibilities and guided by these principles, with the Ethics Committee to manage the Code that strives to achieve results honestly, assurance that all actions will be and its dissemination, updating and fairly, legally and transparently. aligned with ethical standards and application, as well as to evaluate and with strict regard to legality. deliberate on breaches of rules. Integrity, confidence and loyalty – The activities of the Bank’s personnel must be underscored by these characteristics, as well as by respect for and acknowledgement of the value of human beings, in terms of their privacy, individuality and dignity. 18 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Risk Management As part of the process of Market risk the historical situations prepared consolidating a risk mitigation by the risk area and the prospective By investing in the expansion of its culture, different measures were scenarios prepared by the Economic structure, in the implementation of implemented in 2010 to improve Research area. The EVE methodology systems and in the improvement of the structure and the management is used because the Banking portfolio its internal controls, the Market Risk procedures, including developing transactions are different from those area aims to continuously improve proprietary risk management of the Trading portfolio and require risk controls. models, adapting to Central Bank different controls. requirements, adopting new credit The changes during this period For the V@R (Value at Risk) controls risk management practices and using include segregating the assessment used (Trading Portfolio and Options methods and systems that enable of the risk of the Trading Portfolio Book), a conservative confidence analyzing portfolios by type of risk. (frequent and active trading) and of interval (99%) has been adopted, in the Banking Portfolio (non-trading), The Bank is involved with the keeping with the recommendations adopting a more conservative constant improvement of its of the Central Bank and with the confidence interval (up to 99% from measuring models and of its risk market’s best practices. 97.5%), refining the stress scenarios management processes. Its objective used in simulations, and improving As for improving documentation is not only to meet the requirements processes and documentation on an and processes, during 2010, new of Central Bank norms regarding ongoing basis. criteria were incorporated into the the release of information on control and classification of the management and on the adjustment Thus, a new methodology, EVE derivative financial instruments used of capital to risk exposure, but also to (Economic Value of Equity), was in hedging structures. The manuals undertake refined capital allocation implemented to assess the risk of on marking to market and risk practices for the coverage of the Banking portfolio. It allows one methodologies were also improved, operations, to align itself with good to measure risk by means of the as well as the operational manuals. market practices and to guarantee impact upon the present value of that the institution’s risk is suitably the portfolio, taking into account Through its Risk Control area, the monitored and controlled. shocks to fixed interest rates for a Bank aims to anticipate itself to 10-workday period. These shocks are the new requirements of the Basel taken from the worst cases among Accord – Level 3, which determines R$ thousand Dec 31, 2010 Dec 31, 2009 Dec 31, 2008 Shares/IBOVESPA 0 190.3 5,847.4 Fixed interest rate 5,326.6 908.1 3,949.9 Foreign exchange variation 389.7 488.3 3,730.8 Selic/IPCA price index 57.8 11.7 12 Others 10.7 144.6 772.9 Diversification effect -1,449.5 -555.6 -5,142.8 Overall Global VaR 4,335.3 1,187.4 9,170.2 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 19 new capitalization requirements Liquidity risk includes the following alternatives: for financial institutions. Thus, a) obtaining external funding (via The liquidity risk is managed as constant analyses are presented the strategic foreign shareholder); a subdivision of the market risk in committees and simulations are b) credit assignments; c) guarantees management area, its priority carried out with a view to foretelling and sureties; d) obtaining resources being to keep the Bank’s assets and their potential effects upon the from other companies belonging liabilities under control. Three main institution’s capital. to the controlling stakeholder; e) tools are used: reducing or suspending the granting One of the Bank’s focuses in 2011 is to Cash control – Cash is monitored daily of credit, until control of liquidity improve the Liquidity Risk controls, to ensure its level is suitable to meet is re-established; and f) sale of the by implementing new controls the needs of the credit operations corporate bonds portfolio. and complementing the current contracted with the clients, at a documentation. There is also a plan volume level determined by Alco (the to adjust the market risk controls Assets and Liabilities Committee). Credit risk and documentation, with a view to becoming a possible candidate for Liquidity control – The flow of In 2010, Banco Fibra adjusted itself internal capital allocation models. maturities of the assets and liabilities to the requirements of Resolution portfolios is tracked daily by Alco, 3.721 of the Central Bank. This On December 31, 2010, the value to ensure that the capital level is covers a number of provisions at risk (V@R) of the Total portfolio, appropriate and in keeping with the on the setting up of a credit risk considering a 99% confidence conditions of the market. At the end management structure at financial interval, stood at R$4.3 million. The of 2010, the Bank’s cash-objective was institutions. The bank had already V@R of the Trading portfolio on R$1 billion. been complying with some of these the same date and with the same provisions. The measures, which are confidence interval was R$1.1 million. Contingency plan – If an eventual part of the Basel 2 Accord, include On December 31 of the previous liquidity risk is identified on the creating units that are independent year, the amount (V@R of the Total basis of predetermined parameters, from the credit granting areas, portfolio) amounted to R$1.2 million, a plan is activated that establishes appointing a dedicated director, with a confidence interval of 97.5%. actions and measures to be taken annual public release of the At the end of 2010, value at risk to overcome the possible scarcity structure adopted, and holding the was equal to 0.5% of the Bank’s net of resources and the deepening of Board of Directors accountable for shareholders’ equity. financial market crises. This plan this matter. 20 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Besides the work of the specific Operational Risk Compliance credit committees and of the Operational Risk management falls The Compliance area has been subcommittees, the management under the responsibility of the broken down into five subdivisions: processes of this risk at the Bank differ Internal Controls and Compliance Preventing Money Laundering, depending on the line of business and area. This comprises a team that Operational Risks, Internal Controls, the profile of the clients. coordinates the management Internal Validation, and Projects and For companies requesting credit, of operational risk and that is Programs of Compliance Agents. the evaluations consider their responsible for measures capable In the Preventing Money capacity to generate cash and to of mitigating risks that are due Laundering area, new tracking honor their commitments. The to failures, deficiencies and activities and work tools have Bank requires guarantees and it inappropriateness of processes, been introduced. Additionally, the visits these enterprises. These systems or people, using tools, team has been strengthened by analyses are submitted to the credit procedures and controls to hiring more personnel. The focus committees and decisions are made coordinate its activities, with is understanding the client and based on decision levels (further the support of the Compliance monitoring client operations once information under Corporate Agents of the different areas. The they start doing business with Governance – Support Committees). projects planned for 2011 include the Bank. In 2010, 95% of Bank strengthening policies, increasing For individuals requesting credit, personnel and 76% of CREDIFIBRA the dissemination of the themes who are served by the Retail staff attended Preventing related with Operational Risk, and area, most of the operations are Money Laundering training. developing improvements in the approved automatically, via a For 2011, management systems process of identifying the losses process conducted online with improvements and Preventing that are due to this risk. the support of a proprietary credit Money Laundering training have analysis model. Requests for loans been planned for all the personnel. are assessed using several screeners (historical statistical information, credit policies, score tools, and fraud prevention tools), that are able to evaluate the risks by region, segment and point-of-sale. Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 21 The Internal Controls area is mainly on evaluating Market Risk responsible for providing the management models, ensuring information that the Central Bank the correct implementation of requests about Banco Fibra, which Central Bank risk management enables the systematic monitoring standards for financial institutions, of the issues and questions that are and calculating the Bank’s capital of interest to that regulating body. In (Basel). The auditing company 2011, improvements will be put in place Ernst&Young, which has supported to consolidate the control practices large Brazilian Banks in their and all personnel will be trained as part candidacy projects, is currently of the process of development of a risksupporting Fibra in its application management culture. for the use of proprietary market risk models. The next project to The Internal Validation area was be implemented by the Internal created to validate the internal Validation team will be the internal risk-management models, as the credit risk model. Bank has chosen to enroll for the use of proprietary models. To have this, it is necessary that the risk management models be submitted to internal auditing and validation, as per Central Bank requirements. In December, the area completed one year of activity. In this initial stage, it focused Anticorruption training (GRI SO3) (1) Employees by function number of participants % participants bank Total employees(2) 529 502 94.9 % Managers 119 113 95.0 % Non Managers 410 389 94.9 % CREDIFIBRA Total employees(2) 1,021 772 75.6% Managers 170 140 82.4% Non Managers 851 632 74.3% (1) Training in money laundering prevention (2) Includes trainees Pedro Martinelli Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 23 3. BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Operating performance Fibra’s 2010 growth was driven by The Bank grew in terms of number of Wholesale/companies three main factors: the expansion of its clients (22% more in Retail and 30% more The Wholesale business operations focus commercial operations via acquisitions in Wholesale) and credit (43% above on local currency loans for working capital and the opening of new branches; the the previous year). It also improved its and on structured loans to meet specific recovery of the economy; and the growth coverage in the regions in which it was client needs. Operations involving onof consumption in the domestic market. already active, renovated products and lending of funds provided by BNDES (the improved policies in order to raise the National Bank for Social and Economic quality of its credit portfolio and offer Development) were maintained as part its clients speedier services, without of the business policy context, as they are forfeiting security. a relevant relationship tool that furthers client loyalty. The business portfolio also comprises trade finance operations, which enable the Bank to take part in the exporters market, and they are a complementary product for those firms that take out local loans. Guarantees are also a complementary product for clients, including for low risk-large corporations. Basketry is the ancient art of weaving fibers With skilled hands, artisans transform fibers into baskets, mats, bags, hats and carpets. An art created by the Indians, it uses a variety of materials, such as straw, rattan, reeds, lianas and cane, among others. This type of handicraft is found in several regions of Brazil, particularly in the State of Mato Grosso. 24 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 At the close of 2010, the Wholesale clients (with actual transactions in the As an initiative complementing the infrastructure had 20 branches spread month) grew 30% to 1,525 companies in commercial operations, economic throughout Brazil’s main markets, the 12 months ended in December 2010. presentations were held in the cities reflecting a four-unit growth vs. 2009. in which Fibra is active. The talks Along with geographic expansion, the Thanks to this expansion, the Bank now are delivered by journalists from Bank hired more personnel experienced in covers a significant portion of innerthe economic area or by renowned the main sectors of the economy and the state São Paulo, having included the economists. In 2010, eleven cities were middle market to strengthen and provide city of São José do Rio Preto in its area of covered from June to November, with support for the commercial managers. operations. In the Southeast Region, the Bank also opened a commercial platform in the town of Uberlândia. In the South, it expanded its presence to the towns of rr ap Caxias do Sul (Rio Grande do Sul state) and Cascavel (Paraná state). In line with its strategy of strong asset ma sourcing growth and the diversification am pa ce rn of its client base, the number of active pb PI pe al ac to se WHOLESALE NETWORK ro ba mt 2009 2010 go 16 units 20 units mg es South South ms Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, sp rj Florianópolis, Curitiba, Florianópolis, Curitiba, Londrina Londrina pr + Caxias do Sul, Cascavel sc Southeast Southeast rs São Paulo, Guarulhos, São Paulo, Guarulhos, Ribeirão Preto, Campinas, Ribeirão Preto, Campinas, São Bernardo do Campo, São Bernardo do Campo, Belo Horizonte, Rio de Belo Horizonte, Rio de New Platforms Janeiro Janeiro existing platforms + São José do Rio Preto, Uberlândia Northeast Northeast Recife, Salvador, Fortaleza Recife, Salvador, Fortaleza Mid-West Mid-West Goiânia, Cuiabá Goiânia, Cuiabá Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 25 an average attendance of 60 to 70 Anticipation of the 13th salary – The Redecard card transactions. There will also clients per event. Bank pioneered offering this line of be an expansion of the virtual platforms, credit in August, with a six-month grace and the improvement of the PAG Fibra An important cornerstone of the period for repayment. The initiative had (fees) product and of the agribusiness commercial operations is technology. positive results, R$ 155 million having been credit management policies by segment The development of an internet banking disbursed, reflecting 58% growth vs. 2009. and product. Additionally, the granting of business platform was initiated and is due credit via Discounted Papers should also be to be concluded in 2011. This will enable Long-term working capital – This line of introduced, with and without recourse. clients to conduct transactions remotely. credit was reformulated, payment terms Fibra is also investing in a system of were extended with more competitive virtual business platforms that consists interest rates. The client now has a sixRetail of equipping account managers with month grace period and 18 months for technological resources that allow the repayment, with more advantageous In 2010, a cycle of acquisitions-based mobile servicing of clients in the regions conditions than those found in the market. growth initiated in 2006 was completed. in which the Bank is active but has no The loans granted via this line amounted Among the outstanding activities was physical facilities. Two pilot tests were to R$ 346 million. the setting up of CREDIFIBRA, a finance conducted in 2010 from the cities of São enterprise that now centralizes all Among the achievements of 2010, the José do Rio Preto and Ribeirão Preto, to operations with individuals: consumer Bank attained a record R$ 424 million prepare the roll-out of the project in 2011. finance, payrolland pension-deductible of BNDES funding releases. Fibra also loans, vehicle financing and cards, In line with the objective of strengthening became authorized to on-lend resources previously handled by GVI Promotora de Vendas the commercial activities, including market of Funcafé (the Defense Fund for Coffeeand Serviços. The year’s acquisitions involved segmentation, specialization in the middle Related Economic Activities), a total of Sofcred Promotora (the Banco Sofisa enterprise market and expansion of the agribusiness R$ 46 million having been disbursed in that managed its payroll-deductible loans and operations, the technology investments loans over the year. vehicle financing operations) and Validata, a centered on offering solutions for clients Derivatives – The Bank strengthened its credit card issuer, processor and acquirer. and providing support for the sales force. structure in order to offer a wide range of As part of this consolidating movement, the hedge products to clients, allowing them operating systems and processes of Paulicred to hire protection to foreign exchange, (acquired in 2009) and of Sofcred (acquired in interest rates and commodity pricing Products 2010) were integrated. Validata, acquired in risks, among others. October, is the finance company’s sole wholly As part of this objective, various products Trade finance – Fibra also owned subsidiary. This operation adds to have been renovated, of which the strenghthened its trade finance CREDIFIBRA the business of processing private following stand out: operations by offering new structured label cards (issued by stores), which consists of Company checks – This product’s products that best serve client´s needs. about one thousand active points of capture at clients had their rating reassessed; regional retailers’ stores, 110 thousand issued the portfolio was then distributed Outlook by risk levels, with different interest rates. Additionally, credit approval Operations in 2011 will be strengthened levels were created for the different thanks to the introduction of internet functional levels (managers, banking and of the New Collections superintendents and executive system, the marketing of the Electronic officers), which made the process Vendor product (sales finance), and speedier. As a result, granting of operations with receivables backed by limits grew by 80%. 26 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 and unblocked cards, and a credit portfolio Growth the specialization of the teams and of R$ 24 million. The operation also involved investments in technology, all of which Retail production increased 127% in acquiring the Validata brand, which allows the enabled, for instance, cutting the time it 2010 vs. 2009. The vehicles segment bearers of its cards to purchase at any store took to serve clients and grant credit in the stood out. At the end of 2010, the total within the Validata network. vehicle-financing segment. vehicle-financing portfolio exceeded the The integration of the Paulicred and Sofcred R$ 1 billion mark. In addition to organic The upgrading of the credit operations has operations also resulted in unifying their growth and acquisitions, this performance allowed the bank to improve the quality of branch offices, which have now been entirely was influenced by improved processes, the services it renders to its client stores, incorporated into CREDIFIBRA. There are 26 especially of service deadlines. By the end offices in operation, 9 further points of service having been opened in 2010. Additionally, rr the company benefits from 16 thousand ap points-of-sale, including retailers, dealers and correspondents. By the end of the year, it had reached 1.1 million active clients, 22% above ma the December 2009 figure. am pa ce rn pb PI pe al ac to se RETAIL NETWORK ro ba mt 2009 2010 go 17 offices 26 offices mg es South South ms Porto Alegre, São José, Porto Alegre, São José, sp rj Joinville, Curitiba Joinville, Curitiba + Caxias do Sul and Maringá pr Southeast Southeast sc São Paulo, Campinas, São Paulo, Campinas, Ribeirão Preto, rs Ribeirão Preto, São José São José do Rio Preto, Santana do do Rio Preto, Santana de Parnaíba, Belo Horizonte, Juiz de Parnaíba, Belo Horizonte, Fora, Uberlândia, Rio de Janeiro Juiz de Fora, Uberlândia, + Bauru, São José dos Campos New offices Rio de Janeiro and Vitória existing offices Mid-West Mid-West Goiânia, Brasília Goiânia, brasília + Cuiabá Northeast Northeast Recife, Salvador Recife, Salvador + Fortaleza North north + Belém and Manaus Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 27 of 2010, it took only five second to provide Service Outlook answers for 60% of the consumer loan In the context of client relations, In 2011, a self-service system will be operations, meaning that stores can offer building loyalty occurs by getting them implemented for stores, consumers, services with higher standards. to try services. Thus, four client services suppliers and CREDIFIBRA teams. They As part of the commitment to high areas are maintained, which provide will be able to submit requests, solve standard services, in December, the support for the commercial operations. pending issues and consult the progress first pilot test was implemented for One of them focuses on serving of operating processes via the internet or the digitization of the consumer loan consumers; another, the stores; the third, by phone. With this model, the Bank aims approval process. Called DigitalCred, the CREDIFIBRA teams themselves, to to streamline procedures, improve the the initiative, in 2011, is expected to clarify doubts about operations; and control of operations, cut the time it takes to structure the operation with a system the fourth one is the ombudsperson’s answer requests, reduce costs and ensure linked to a biometric signature, so as office, whose duty is to solve issues that the competitiveness of its Retail business. to eliminate most of the paperwork went unresolved in the other channels. The new service system will be available in normally employed in such transactions Furthermore, CREDIFIBRA maintains connection with direct consumer credit, and to provide faster payment to stores. a website (www.credifibra.com.br) to including also structured consumer credit, This measure will reduce costs for stores which related parties may address their vehicle financing, payrolland pensionand for the Bank itself, besides reducing queries, which are then redirected to deductible loans, and cards. the volume of printed paper and avoiding the appropriate area. There is also a environmental waste. post-sales service that, through calls and SMS, conducts satisfaction research and clarifies eventual doubts. CREDIFIBRA Operations 2009 2010 (%) Production (R$ million ) Consumer credit 916 1,447 58% Vehicles 88 991 1,026% Payroll 225 321 43% Cards 0.3 28 9,233% Total 1,229 2,787 127% Portfolio (R$ million ) Consumer credit 507 627 24% Vehicles 369 1,358 268% Payroll 330 500 52% Cards 0.1 26 25,900% Total 1,206 2,511 108% 28 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Concerning direct consumer credit, the Bank Funding Treasury plans to invest in services and innovation The funding strategy is based on 2010 was a year dedicated to structuring to strengthen its relationship with partner increasing the client base, extending the the Client Desk area. Specialized personnel stores as an outstanding provider of sales payment terms of the bank’s debts and were hired and the Treasury products were solutions. Concerning payrolland pensionreducing the percentage of operations incorporated into a single platform, in order deductible loans, Fibra plans to maintain with daily liquidity. Based on these to operate as a unit of the commercial area its current R$ 500 million portfolio and to guidelines, Fibra achieved positive results for specific treasury and foreign exchange make the most of it in profitability terms. in 2010. Total funding reached R$ 8.3 products. This should improve the Concerning vehicles, the Bank will focus billion, up 31% over the 2009 figure. Of the efficiency of pricing and the speed at which on financing semi-new and used vehicles total amount, 76% was obtained in the quotations are provided, freeing up the no more than 10 years old. The teams are domestic market. time of the commercial managers, while to be expanded and investments made the Client Desk will also offer specialized in improving operating processes and Local funding – The Bank’s geographic support for the product, preparing technology, in order to increase the Bank’s expansion helped to increase local funding, presentations, suggesting operations and share of this segment. carried out via Term Deposits (CDBs) and accompanying the commercial manager Agribusiness Letters of Credit (LCAs). Growth As for cards, specifically in the private label on visits to clients. Thus, the Bank can take reached 44% vs. 2009. Term deposits grew niche, a new product is to be introduced advantage of market opportunities and 49%, to R$ 4.3 billion, with one of the lowest to client stores, to complement credit and volatilities, by working proactively with the ratios in the domestic market of deposits expand the offerings of means of payment. available credit limits. with daily liquidity (3.3%). Foreign funding – The strategy for raising funds abroad was based on maintaining the same volumes as in 2009, to meet obligations denominated in foreign currencies undertaken in previous operations of funding generation. They amounted to R$ 2.0 billion in 2010 and their aim was to support asset growth and to improve the Basel index, which reflects the ratio between the institution’s capital and the value of its risk weighted assets. In April, the bank raised US$ 200 million via Eurobonds with a threeyear term. In July, another US$ 135 million were obtained from the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and an 11-bank syndicate, via a A/B loan. Furthermore, US$ 25 million in subordinate funding with a six-year term was provided by DEG, the German development bank. Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 29 Diversified funding Deposits in US$ » 0.06% time deposits in US$ » 0.39% Subordinated debt » 2% B Loan US$ » 3% Issuance of securities » 8.59% loans in US$ » 10% time deposits in R$ » 36% Other Deposits » 0.01% cash deposits in r$ » 2% Subordinated debt » 3% issuance of securities» 4% onlending obligations » 7% Local » 76% interbank deposits » 8% International » 24% DPGE » 16% funding breakdown by product R$ (million) Dec-10 Dec-09 Var. time deposits 4,338,326 2,919,163 49% interbank deposits 681,141 580,876 17% demand deposits 169,221 130,547 30% bndes onlendings 564,416 324,596 74% Subordinated debt 394,634 399,482 -1% securities issuance 1,020,928 803,333 27% foreign loans 1,097,889 1,155,695 -5% Total 8,266,555 6,313,692 31% funding breakdown by tenor R$ (million) Dec-10 Dec-09 Var. up to 90 days 2,338,148 2,131,802 10% from 91 to 180 days 1,899,119 1,066,251 78% from 181 to 360 days 1,394,987 956,154 46% over 360 days 2,634,301 2,159,485 22% Total 8,266,555 6,313,692 31% 30 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 funding by type of client* banks » 15% insurance companies » 2% corporate » 20% pension funds » 7% funds » 44% individuals » 12% as of December 31, 2010 *Includes: CDB, CDI, DPGE and LCA. Securities issued abroad maturity date date of issue principal arranging bank Eurobonds jun/11 jun/08 US$ 150 million Standard/santander apr/13 apr/10 US$ 200 million bnp/bes/HSBC Other international funding Operation maturity date date of issue principal arranging bank Subordinated debt(4) mar/11 mar/06 us$ 30 million Unibanco B Loan aug/11 aug/08 us$ 42.5 million IFC and Itaú BBA B Loan jul/12 jul/10 ¤ 20 million ifc B Loan jul/12 jul/10 US$ 96 million ifc A Loan oct/12 oct/07 R$ 74 million (1) ifc bilateral loan sep/13 sep/08 UsS 20 million wachovia/opic A Loan jul/14 jul/10 US$ 15 million ifc A Loan jul/14 jul/07 R$ 55.9 million(2) ifc Subordinated debt mar/16 mar/10 US$ 25 million deg Subordinated debt(3) nov/16 nov/09 US$ 110 million goldman sachs bilateral loan jun/19 dec/09 US$ 30 million proparco (1) Equal to US$ 40 million (2) Equal to US$ 30 million (3) issued under the emtn program (4) Paid in march, 2011 Funding in r$ Operation maturity date date of issue principal arranging bank Subordinated debt may/12 may/07 R$ 76 million itaú BBA Subordinated debt oct/12 oct/07 R$ 19.2 million banco fibra Subordinated debt mar/13 mar/08 r$ 20 million BBI Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 31 Economic and financial performance Economic environment increase to R$ 510.00 in early 2010, the the economic block itself. In the lower basic interest rates (the Selic United States, the monetary and tax The highlight of the year on the rate closed the year at 10.75%) and the stimuli should be effective in terms global arena was the growth of the growth of the volume of credit. of putting the US economy back emerging countries and the start of a on a growth path. China is unlikely process of softening of the economic The balance of credit operations to change its foreign exchange difficulties of the developed nations. amounted to R$ 1,706 billion, having formation mechanism, which The growth of Brazil’s Gross Domestic increased 21% in 12 months. Loans maintains the yuan devalued. Product (GDP), in 2010, was 7.5%, with targeted resources totaled a performance that reflects 10.1% R$590 billion, reflecting a 28% The Brazilian scenario is an uncertain growth of the industrial sector, 6.5% increase vs. the previous year. With one, as the new government goes growth of the crop and livestock respect to free credit, the balance of through a trial and error period, farming sector, and 5.4% growth of operations reached R$ 1,116 billion, which is part of the current the services sector. a 17% expansion in the year. Thanks administration’s learning curve. What to this performance, the volume of is likely to require attention are the Family consumption, which increased credit was equivalent to 46.4% of GDP decisions to solve the high demand 7.0%, went hand-in-hand with a lower (45% in 2009). vs. inflation equation. The growth unemployment rate, which stood of credit for individuals should be at 5.3% in December, the lowest One of the consequences of the maintained, but at a slower pace than on record since 2002, when the consumption stimuli was the rise that of 2010. The real estate market, Monthly Employment Survey began, of inflation. The Broad National in turn, will only develop further with conducted by IBGE (the Brazilian Consumer Price Index (IPCA), which a drop of real interest rates, which is Institute of Geography and Statistics). is the inflation reference used by the not expected in the short term. Central Bank, increased 5.9% in 2010, The expansion of the economy was whereas the General Price Index – the result of the monetary and tax Domestic Availability (IGP-DI) ended stimuli that favored a number of the year with a variation of 11.3%, the sectors, including building, electrical greatest since 2004. and electronic goods, and vehicles. What also contributed to economic In 2011, the developed economies buoyancy was the minimum wage are expected to maintain their slow recovery. In the Euro zone, the financial difficulties of certain economies should be solved within 32 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Credit operations of the financial system 46.4% 44.4% 39.7% 1,706 1,414 33.4% 1,227 30.7% 28.1% 936 24.7% 24.5% 24.6% 24.0% 732 22.0% 607 498 384 418 326 336 dec-00 dec-01 dec-02 dec-03 dec-04 dec-05 dec-06 dec-07 dec-08 dec-09 dec-10 Credit (R$ billion) Credit/GDP Credit evolution in brazil free resources (R$ billion) 1,116 556 955 871 485 477 661 343 498 560 404 260 470 318 213 394 240 256 221 179 318 188 150 155 138 238 122 191 139 90 101 66 83 dec-00 dec-01 dec-02 dec-03 dec-04 dec-05 dec-06 dec-07 dec-08 dec-09 dec-10 corporate individuals Source: Central Bank Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 33 Results efficiency ratio The 2010 results reflect the re-evaluation R$ million 2010 2009 (%) of pricing and mark-to-market criteria of personnel expenses 162 109 48% specific corporate assets (fiscal hedge) administrative expenses 157 92 71% recorded in excess in the results of 2010, Total Numerator 319 201 59% 2009 and 2008, in the total net amount of R$114 million. Of this amount, the sum income from financial oper. 368 351 5% of R$26 million was adjusted in regard provisions for doubtful credit 142 152 -6% to the net income of the first half of 2010 gross income before provision 510 502 2% and the remainder, to the net income services and fees income 77 33 135% and the stockholders’ equity of the two tax expenses (51) (47) 8% previous years. These resulted in a lower other operating income (22) (5) 360% level of recurrent results, which affected Total Denominator 514 483 6% the year as a whole. efficiency ratio 61.9% 41.6% +20.3 p.p. Besides these adjustments, in 2010 the Bank also incurred in non-recurrent net expenses in the amount of R$57 million, mainly concerning three events: Net income amounted to R$ 3.7 its operations with government bonds – In the Retail business, the cost of turning million, and net shareholders’ equity, with repurchase agreements and, as a CREDIFIBRA into an operating company, on December 31, 2010, stood at R$ 792 result, ceased to be a primary dealer for the investments in the credit card project, million, with growth of 14% vs. the the Central Bank as of February 2010. As a in addition to incorporation and expansion December 2009 balance. result, credit operations accounted for 75% expenses amounting to R$31.9 million; of total assets in 2010, with a significant increase (32 percentage points) vs. 2009. – The merger of the Sales Promoters GVI Efficiency ratio and GVCred (the former Sofcred) into Fibra maintained a comfortable The efficiency ratio (expenses over CREDIFIBRA, aiming at downsizing the cash position and reached the end revenues), reached 61.9%, vs. 41.6% in 2009, corporate structure, improving controls of December with its objective cash largely due to additional expenses and the and taking advantage of synergies. position of R$ 1.0 billion. integration of the companies Paulicred, This incorporation, which had an initial Sofcred and Validata. This ratio should negative impact of R$17.3 million on net improve in 2011, as the revenues from the Credit operations income, will result, in forthcoming years, vehicles and cards businesses offset the in benefits for the Bank estimated at Fibra’s credit operation is divided early growth of expenses. more than R$8 million a year; and, essentially into three types: credit operations for companies, focusing on the – Provisions for civil contingencies in the Assets and Liquidity middle market; retail operations generated amount of R$7.8 million, for cases that by its finance company CREDIFIBRA, are not expected to recur in the future. Total assets amounted to R$ 10.0 billion consisting basically of direct consumer in December 2010, 14% less than in In 2010, Banco Fibra’s gross financial loans, payrolland pension-deductible the same period last year, when they intermediation income was R$ 368 loans and vehicle financing; and credit reached R$ 11.7 billion. In keeping with the million, an amount 5% greater than acquired from other financial institutions. strategy of focusing on its core business that of 2009. Service revenues and fees (i.e., providing credit for companies and reached R$ 77 million, with a growth of individuals), Fibra gradually reduced 135%, explained by the rise of bank fees. 34 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Credit evolution R$ million dec-10 dec-09 var.(%) Dec10/dec09 corporate 5,195 4,058 28% credit 4,815 3,619 33% guarantee 380 439 -13% retail 2,511 1,206 108% consumer credit 653 507 29% payroll-deductible 500 330 52% vehicle 1,358 369 268% credit acquisition 187 261 -28% total portfolio 7,893 5,525 43% Note: The vehicle financing operations began in September 2009, as a result of the acquisition of Paulicred operations. The balance of credit operations in individuals as a whole), to R$ 2.5 billion Default and provisions for December 2010 reached R$ 7.9 billion, 43% in December 2010, largely due to the losses above the same period in 2009. acquisition of the vehicles financing The consolidated balance of the provision and payrolland pension-deductible The corporate credit portfolio reached for doubtful loans (PDL) reached R$ 236 loans operations of Banco Sofisa and R$ 5.2 billion, with growth of 28% over 12 million, or 3.1% of the volume of credit to Brazil’s good economic moment. The months, and accounted for 66% of the operations, with 221% coverage of all Retail portfolio already accounts for 32% total credit portfolio. The credit operations loans past due by more than 90 days. The of the total credit portfolio, vs. 22% in for companies in the financial system as a Bank’s default ratio (amounts past due by December 2009. whole grew 15%. more than 90 days) was 1.4%, lower than The Bank’s portfolio of acquired credit the December 2009 figure of 1.8% and the Among the achievements of 2010, the Bank amounted to R$ 187 million on December market figure of 4.6% (data from Brazil’s reached a record R$ 424 million in BNDES 31, 2010, or 2% of its total credit portfolio. Central Bank). funding releases, and a total of R$ 46 million in credit having been disbursed for the Funcafé (the Defense Fund for CoffeeRelated Economic Activities) during the year. This is the first year Fibra offered the Funcafé product for its clients. The Retail portfolio grew 108% in the last 12 months (vs. 19% in the market of Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 35 credit portfolio concentration of main debtors* % credit portfolio dec-10 dec-09 main debtor 0.7% 2.5% 10 largest debtors 5.2% 7.3% 20 largest debtors 8.8% 11.7% 50 largest debtors 16.8% 22.3% 100 largest debtors 26.4% 33.8% * Excludes interbank market and includes guarantees credit quality indicators (R$ million) dec-10 dec-09 (%) credit portfolio (1) 7,513 5,086 48% balance of PDL 236 180 31% d-h Portfolio 269 216 25% Contracts past due by more than 90 days(2) 107 92 16% portfolio ratio pdl/portfolio 3.1% 3.5% 0.4 p.p. d-h Portfolio / portfolio 3.6% 4.2% 0.6 p.p. Contracts past due by more than 90 days(2)/portfolio 1.4% 1.8% 0.4 p.p. coverage ratio pdl/ Contracts past due by more than 90 days(2) 221% 196% + 25 p.p. (1) Excludes guarantees (2) past due and future installments of contract risk distribution dec-10 Acum. dec-09 acum. AA 15.1% 15.1% 11.6% 11.6% A 39.9% 55.0% 43.6% 55.2% B 32.3% 87.3% 29.0% 84.2% C 9.1% 96.4% 11.5% 95.7% D-H 3.6% 100.0% 4.3% 100.0% 36 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Capital increase Additionally, Banco Fibra is Added value discussing with its shareholders the Grupo Vicunha and IFC decided to The value added in 2010 amounted possibility of a further subsequent increase the Banco Fibra capital, thus to R$ 263 million, vs. R$ 286 million in capital increase in the amount of showing their firm intent to support the the previous year. This added value R$ 154 million. IFC is to present Bank’s growth plans. An initial R$ 100 illustrates the organization’s wealth a proposal to take part in this million tranche was paid in during 2010, generation capacity and the social new capital increase to its Board resulting in net shareholders’ equity effects produced by the distribution of Directors. Besides its own of R$ 792 million and a Basel II index of of these funds among the personnel investment, IFC may mobilize third13.3% (also including the subordinated (59%), the government and society party funds for this transaction, loan obtained from DEG, in the amount (39%), and the shareholders (9%). which might include the IFC African, of US$ 25 million, that is awaiting The figure was calculated as the Latin American and Caribbean Central Bank approval). Brazil’s difference between the gross income Fund. If this increase is approved Central Bank rules dictate that banks from financial intermediation plus by all the appropriate authorities, it should maintain capital equal to the rendering of services, and the will raise the stake of the minority or greater than 11.0% of their riskoperating expenses. shareholders to some 20% of Fibra’s weighted assets. This percentage is corporate capital and its (proforma) higher than the 8.0% established in Basel index to 16.2%. the Basel Accord. In March 2011, a new capital increase occurred, in the amount of R$ 80 million, to be paid in by Grupo Vicunha. The subscription rights were extended to the shareholder IFC, to allow it to maintain its proportional stake in the Bank, which results in the capital increase rise of another R$ 6 million. The entire increase resulted in pro-forma capital of R$ 878 million and a Basel index of 14.3%. Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 37 Statement of Added Value (GRI EC1) 2010 2009 R$ Million % R$ Million % Composition of added value Gross income on financial operations 368 140% 351 123% Income from services 24 9% 16 6% Bank fee income 53 20% 16 6% Other operating income/expenses (181) -69% (98) -34% Total 263 100% 286 100% Distribution of added value Salaries 155 59% 146 51% Salaries 106 40% 69 24% Benefits 23 9% 13 5% unemployment guarantee fund 9 4% 7 2% Other charges 17 6% 57 20% Government remuneration 103 39% 155 54% Tax expenses 59 22% 47 17% Income tax and social contribution 18 7% 89 31% INSS (social security charges) 26 10% 18 6% Interest on own capital / dividends proposed 22 9% 51 18% Loss for the period (18) -7% (67) -23% Total 263 100% 286 100% 38 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Intangible assets The strategic decision to offer solutions technological innovation as applied to speed of action when it comes to decisionto middle market clients, combined with the business, with credit products that making. This is a cornerstone in the Bank’s credit operations in segments that have are supported by operational platforms strategic positioning that allows it to high growth and profitability potential, that give them security and lead to lower stand out vis-à-vis its competitors. provides Fibra with competitive costs and speedier transactions. Conservative and efficient management advantages. The Bank prioritizes team Specialization – Highly specialized – The management model is guided by specialization, has a policy of continuous and technically well-prepared teams professionalization and ethics in the investment in technology to improve in the client business segments in conduct of business. Members of the services and constantly adjusts it to meet both management and sales raise the management team and the Board of the needs of its clients, and is constantly quality of the Bank’s infrastructure Directors have no family relationships alert as to how up-to-date its products in both products and operational with the controlling family, which sets are relative to the market. solutions. From the perspective of client the Bank apart from its competitors in Relationship – Team specialization, relations, professional specialization the segment. Senior executives have freeing up of the sales force, a presence enables offering a more refined service good professional reputations, more with clients, solutions for companies that covers the reality of companies than 20 years of experience in the and high standard services: these are the and stores better, thus facilitating financial market and highly qualified components that are fundamental for a decisions about redesigning products, academic credentials. The teams relationship with clients, especially to fulfill adjustments to processes and operating are constituted according to criteria their product needs and provide efficient systems, improvements in risk of academic background, market and speedy operations. In the corporate management models and the offer of specialization and professional maturity. segment, the product portfolio, the ability Treasury products. Shareholders – Grupo Vicunha’s to understand the specifics of the clients’ Distribution network – The Bank has management experience and the business in order to be able to serve them 20 corporate service units spread expertise of the International Finance accurately, and the reach of the Bank’s throughout Brazil, the greatest Corporation in corporate governance and operations throughout Brazil, particularly concentration being in the Southeast social and environmental responsibility in regions where there is a concentration Region. The Retail segment has 26 units strengthen the Bank’s business. In 2010, of production activities, are the strengths in Brazil’s five geographical regions. the shareholders injected R$ 100 million that attract business. In the Retail segment, Product distribution is made more of new capital, which bears witness to product and high performance credit tools flexible by the virtual business platform their confidence in the business. are the key distinguishing features used to system. These platforms enable account build up loyalty among client stores. managers to provide clients with a Products – A complete portfolio of mobile service in regions in which the products designed to better serve Bank operates, without the need to clients favors business and gives Fibra maintain local premises. a competitive edge. With products that Technology – Extensive use of technology have efficient parameters relative to in the digitizing of operational processes, the client profile it is possible to offer in sales support, in the granting of adequate rates and terms, manage loans, in the construction of solutions in risks more effectively and have a products and services for clients and in portfolio that is closer to the market risk management makes for security and reality. The Retail segment also relies on Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 39 Brand – The Fibra brand, in the Portuguese language, refers to ideas of determination, strength and perseverance, which are evident in the Bank’s team spirit and in the history of Grupo Vicunha, which founded Fiação Brasileira Rayon (Fibra) in the textile sector. Now CREDIFIBRA, the Bank’s retail brand, will further reassert the power of the name. The Bank has registered the Fibra, CREDIFIBRA and GVI trademarks and has 13 other requests. It also owns eighteen domain names on the Internet in Brazil and twelve domain names registered abroad. Pipo Gialluisi Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 41 4. PEOPLE MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE People management The rapid expansion that has of 2010, the Bank and CREDIFIBRA situation test, a case study for underscored Banco Fibra’s activities employed 1,622 people directly, and analysis and a piece of writing. In over the past few years has also had 20 trainees and a further 85 the areas in which the function to be been reflected in headcount growth outsourced employees, to a total of occupied by the candidate demands and in improving the professional 1,727 people. specialized knowledge, specific tests development of its teams. At the end are also applied. The hiring policy now has new stages in the selection process. In addition Among the hiring objectives for 2011, to interviewing the candidate, the the Bank plans to admit 20 trainees for only procedure previously employed, various areas. the process now comprises a Clay figures: the culture and folklore of the Northeasterners This is the form of popular art and handicraft that is produced in the greatest numbers in Brazil. It developed in regions where clay could be easily obtained. One finds these clay figures in the fairs and markets of the Northeast, especially in the State of Pernambuco. They are inspired by the region’s typical characters, such as the cangaceiro bandits, emigrants, salespeople, musicians and lace makers. 42 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Total number of workers (GRI LA1) 2009 2010 Employees 1,049 1,622 South-east region 871 1.288 South region 125 179 Northeast region 33 83 Middle West region 19 41 North region 1 31 Third-party workers 147 85 Trainees 24 20 Total 1,220 1,727 Employee Turnover (GRI LA2) 2009 2010 Banco Fibra CREDIFIBRA Banco Fibra CREDIFIBRA Average number of employees 387 562 452 880 Number of admitted 128 250 235 446 number of dismissed 107 195 128 317 Turnover – total 27.6% 35.0% 28.3% 36.0% Turnover by gender Men 71 78 92 139 Women 36 117 36 178 Turnover by Age Up to 30 years old 29 84 41 127 Between 30 and 50 years old 70 101 75 186 over 50 years old 8 10 12 4 Turnover by region South-east region 97 140 117 206 South region 3 49 6 91 Northeast region 6 2 4 11 Middle West region. 1 4 1 4 North region 0 0 0 5 * Average between January and December (does not include those on leave) Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 43 Diversity indicators (GRI LA13) number of Employees 2009 2010 Functional Directors 12 11 Managers and Supervisors 367 537 Administrative 165 195 Technical level 265 403 Operational level 240 476 Gender MEn 561 848 Women 488 774 Colour / Race White 955 1,485 Black 62 95 Yellow 32 39 Indigene 0 3 Age Up to 30 years old 301 404 Between 30 and 50 years old 669 1,132 over 50 years old 79 86 profile by time with the bank profile by educational level 8% 7% 8% 25% 24% 16% 33% 13% 13% 34% 62% 63% 51% 43% 2009 2010 2009 2010 less than 1 year complete or incomplete undergraduate course between 1 and 3 years postgraduate studies between 3 and 5 years high school more than 5 years 44 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Training and Accounting of the University of São practical experimentation of the Paulo (FEA/USP). There were more than conceptual content. Three action fronts for professional 150 hours of training in credit analysis, development stood out in 2010. One In addition to training, every three business niches and case studies. The of them was the leadership and months the Human Resources area also course ended with a final piece of work management cycles training program, arranges a series of talks on various in the form of a business plan. taken by all personnel who occupied topics. In 2010, they dealt, among positions above area coordinator. The third initiative involved e-learning other things, with money laundering The modules of this training program courses, which went into operation in prevention, new collection methods and were customized by business area and 2010. The courses are given over the moral harassment. professional activity, with the teams intranet and cover both operational New training programs are being from the sales area receiving additional and normative subjects. The first course planned for 2011 along the same lines. course content on how to manage along these lines dealt with how the One of them will be aimed at account client portfolios. electronic time-control (clocking in) managers and back-office teams. There system functions; the next courses will Another front was reserved for the will also be training on communication be on information security and money credit teams. Personnel from the area, perspectives – internal, with the client, laundering prevention. in functions from junior analyst to the written and verbal – and a leadership head of the area, attended a course The training philosophy is to prepare refreshment course for area managers. given by the Management Institute people technically, but also to motivate Foundation (FIA), an institution them as an incentive to become more founded and maintained by professors professionally engaged. Attention is from the Business Administration also paid to customizing courses so that Department of the School of they meet the specific needs of each Economics, Business Administration area. The learning method presupposes Hours of training by function (GRI LA10) Function Employees by function Number of participants Number of hours Hour/ Employee Directors 11 17 339 30.82 Managers and Supervisors 537 811 12,653 23.56 Technical level 403 607 5,803 14.40 Operational level 476 518 2,534 5.32 Administrative / trainees 215 211 606 2.82 Total 1,642 2,164 21,935 13.4 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 45 Performance assessment – During Health and safety – During the year, our Climate survey – As part of the the year, all the Bank’s employees traditional Health Week was held. This management practices of the underwent formal performance was to remind people of the habits that organizational culture, the Bank carries evaluation. At CREDIFIBRA, only the are fundamental for preserving life, out a climate survey and discloses the managers were assessed, i.e., 20.6% of such as healthy eating and periodic results to employees. Human Resources its personnel. (GRI LA12) medical exams. The program included provides directors with feedback on the activities such as the ergonomic results of the survey that concern their Remuneration and benefits – The measurement of chairs and computer respective areas. remuneration policy provides for a monitors, a quick massage service, an mixture of direct and indirect salary Union relations – All Fibra’s employees are ophthalmology kiosk and a fruit stall, and benefits, such as a medical plan represented by the Bankers’ Trade Union which served fruit and cereals every to which the employee contributes, and covered by collective bargaining three hours. With practices such as meal vouchers, groceries vouchers agreements. (GRI LA4) these, the Bank promotes education and reimbursement of children’s day and training programs that relate to the care center costs. These benefits are prevention and control of the risk of not extended to those who only work serious diseases. (GRI LA8) part-time or are temporary employees (trainees). (GRI LA3) The Bank has an Internal Accident Prevention Committee (Cipa) comprising Employees have the right to profit 12 members, 50% of whom are elected sharing according to criteria and by employees, which represent 100% of parameters established in a specific plan workers. (GRI LA6) filed with the Bankers’ Trade Union. In 2010, this amount reached R$ 17.2 million (R$ 55.0 million in 2009). 46 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Social responsibility The Bank’s social responsibility activities Teachers without Frontiers – this initiative goes towards maintaining focus on promoting the well-being of This educational work is conducted and developing the entity’s activities. children and adolescents in situations with youngsters enrolled in high school The support of the Bank comes from the of social vulnerability and support their in Jardim Ângela, a district in the south purchase of Christmas cards, gifts for access to education and culture. The of the city of São Paulo. Lessons are clients and office materials. Bank also seeks to involve its employees provided complementing those in the Easter Solidarity Campaign – This is a in volunteering initiatives. In 2010, these normal school curriculum, to upgrade Banco Fibra volunteer campaign to activities were funded by investments of students’ knowledge to the level collect Easter eggs for 140 children R$199 thousand. (GRI EC8) expected of someone in their age group helped by the Jardim Fontalis Social and The structure to plan and exercise the and school grade. Educational Center. Bank’s social responsibility is comprised Gol de Letra Foundation – It offers full by 2 employees: one manager and one São Paulo Biennial Foundation – Banco time educational programs for more senior analyst. Fibra was one of the sponsors of the than 1,200 adolescents in São Paulo 29th São Paulo Biennial Art Show, The main activities supported by the Bank (Vila Albertina) and Rio de Janeiro which exhibited 200 pieces of work in 2010 were: (Caju), with an educational proposal from 148 artists. that is associated with social aid, Correspondents Project – Its objective helping families and strengthening Jerusalem Symphony Orchestra – Support is to promote an exchange of letters communities. In 2010, as in the previous for the presentation, which took place between volunteers and children or year, professionals from the Bank and in the Sala São Paulo concert hall in adolescents who live in safe havens from CREDIFIBRA took part in the Gol August 2010. This fund-raising event or frequent child and adolescent de Letra Tournament, an event that was organized by both the catholic Liga centers. Letters can be an important brings together sponsors and is one of Solidária (Socially Aware League) and the instrument of expression for the child the main fund-raising activities for the Jewish UNIBES (Brazilian-Israelite Union or adolescent to set down in writing his organization’s programs. for Social Welfare). The two entities care or her life experiences and stories. The for children and adolescents in social risk. letters are also a way for exchanging GRAACC – The Support Group for perceptions on reality, giving rise to Adolescents and Children with Cancer Expanded Field Exibition – Sponsorship a cultural interchange between the strives to ensure the right to have a of the exhibition of works by Sérgio correspondents. The project has a total chance of a cure, with quality of life and Camargo, a tribute to the 80th of 551 volunteers and helps children within the highest scientific standards. anniversary of the birth of the artist from 43 institutions. Some 60 employees It supports a hospital that sees to 2,500 and 20th anniversary of his death. The from the Bank and CREDIFIBRA are patients a month. The Bank contributes exhibition was promoted by the Institute taking part in the project as volunteers. via the McHappy Day initiative, by of Contemporary Art and the Maria purchasing sandwiches from the fast Antonia University Center – USP, and was Crossing Project – This is dedicated to food chain, the income from which is held between August 15 and October 24 promoting the return of children and passed on to the entity. in São Paulo. adolescents to regular schooling and reintegrating them into family and Reciclar Institute – It is responsible for community life. Support for the project the Education for Work and Citizenship is coordinated by the Bankers’ Trade Program, which helps adolescents from Union of São Paulo and the Bank has the Jaguaré shantytown in São Paulo. been involved with it since the project’s Youths take part in producing articles inception in 1995. from recycled materials, in keeping with sustainability concepts. Income from Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 47 Environmental responsibility Economic growth combined with The Bank also supports the use of Recycling – The Bank has a collection corporate responsibility is what alternative means of transport for and separation procedure for recycling guides the adoption of sustainability coming to work, such as bicycles and materials used in its headquarters in practices within the organization. In the walking, by offering employees a São Paulo. It has also installed collection environmental area, internal initiatives changing room with showers. receptacles for batteries, cell phones and seek to use resources responsibly and other technological waste, which are compliance criteria are used for the Duplex Printing (1) sent for recycling to ADS Green, which approval of client loans. 2010 is responsible for the micro-logistics Total printing 1,226,576 operation that makes the Participate and Loans associated with environmental Total Duplex printing 353,108 Recycle Project feasible. The result of this policies – In line with the guidelines of Savings 29% environmentally appropriate disposal its shareholder IFC, the Bank adopts is certified. The Bank’s headquarters policies, procedures and approval (1) Consolidation since the project was introduced, in August, until December 2010 building has waste collection and flows for loan operations that make recycling systems. the granting of a loan conditional on Energy – During the year, the companies adopting best practices consumption of indirect electricity, as Materials used (GRI EN1) in their care for the environment, represented by lighting and cooling in health and safety. The policy also the administrative buildings, totaled 2010 vetoes commercial relationships with 1,010,569 kWh, 61% of which related to A5/A4 Paper 12,900 reams clients who have activities linked to the consumption of CREDIFIBRA and Cartridge 192 pieces wild animals and plants, radioactive 39% to the Bank’s installations. As this Tonner 562 pieces materials, asbestos fibers, nonis the first year in which this data has reforestation timber and substances been controlled, there is no parameter Materials collected for that are harmful to the ozone layer. for making a comparison with previous recycling (GRI EN22) periods. Energy sources follow the More with Less – This campaign kg Brazilian energy matrix, with 90.6% encourages the rational use of Battery 64 coming from renewable sources (hydro, resources such as water, electricity, Paper 1,857 biomass and wind). (GRI EN4) plastic, paper, food, transport, Total 1,921 telephones, and time and throughout The Bank’s headquarters in São Paulo has 2010, the Bank invited its employees to an ecologically appropriate infrastructure, put into practice actions for reducing with regulated air conditioning, traffic the consumption of resources. It control systems and intelligent elevators to also promoted Duplex Printing generate energy savings. campaigns, which introduced the idea of printing on both sides of the paper, and instituted a Water – Avoid Waste campaign, with guidance on how to avoid wasting this resource. 48 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 GRI SUMMARY Page / comment STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement on the relevance of sustainability 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2 2.1 Name of the organization 2 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 2 2.3 Operational structure 2 2.4 Location of the headquarters 2 2.5 Number of countries in which the organization operates 2 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2 2.7 Markets served (regions, sectors and types of client/ beneficiaries) 2 2.8 Size of the organization 2 2.9 Main changes during the reporting period, regarding size, structure or shareholdings 2 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 3 REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period for the information presented 1 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report 1 3.3 Report cycle (annually, biennially) 1 3.4 Contact details 1 3.5 Process for defining report content 1 3.6 Boundary of the report (countries, divisions, subsidiaries, suppliers) 1 3.7 Statement on any specific limitations as to the scope or boundary of the report 1 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 1 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation bases 1 3.10 Effects of any restatements of prior information 1 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 1 3.12 Table identifying the location of information in the report 48 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external verification for the report 1 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Governance 4.1 Governance structure 13 4.2 Indication as to whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 14 4.3 Independent or non-executive members of the highest governance body 14 4.4 Mechanisms whereby shareholders and employees can make recommendations 14 4.5 Relationship between remuneration and performance 15 4.6 Processes in place to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided not structured 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and knowledge of board of directors not structured Internal mission and values statements, codes of conduct and principles that are relevant to the economic, environmental 4.8 and social performance, and the status of their implementation 17 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, 4.9 environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, as well as adherence to or compliance not structured with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, especially with regard to economic, 4.10 not structured environmental and social performance Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 49 Page / comment Commitment to external initiatives 4.11 Precautionary principle not applicable 4.12 External charters, principles or other initiatives subscribed to or endorsed 11 4.13 Participation in national/international associations and/or organisms 12 Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 12 Performance indicators ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (DVA) 37 EC8 Investments in infrastructure and services in the community 46 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 47 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source 47 EN22 total weight of waste by type and disposal method 47 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK LA1 Workers by employment type, employment contract and region 42 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover, by age group, gender and region 42 LA3 Benefits that are not offered to temporary or part-time employees 45 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 45 LA6 Percentage of employees represented on formal health and safety committees 45 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk control programs 45 LA10 Average number of training hours per year and per employee category 44 LA12 Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance assessments 45 LA13 Those responsible for governance and employees, by gender, age band and minorities 15 SOCIETY SO3 Employees trained in anticorruption policies and procedures 21 Sérgio Pagano Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 51 5. Financial statements pag. 52> balance sheets pag. 56 > Statements of income pag. 57 > Statements of cash flows pag. 58 > Statements of added value pag. 59 > Statements of changes in shareholders’ equity pag. 60 > Notes to the financial statements pag. 87 > Audit committee report pag. 88 > Independent auditors’ report pag. 89 > Corporate information A Rio Grande do Sul tradition Chimarrão is a typical drink from Rio Grande do Sul State, consisting of maté herb tea drunk out of a typical bowl with a metal sucker. The bowl, a fundamental part of the chimarrão tasting experience, is generally made out of a gourd, although some are made out of wood, porcelain, leather or even horn. 52 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated ASSETS 2010 2009 2010 2009 CURRENT ASSETS 5,825,702 10,000,853 7,108,623 9,991,413 Cash and banks 29,430 31,062 37,155 33,982 Interbank investments 755,724 4,910,524 755,724 4,910,524 Money market 630,446 4,659,748 630,446 4,659,748 Interbank deposits 83,623 39,219 83,623 39,219 Foreign currency deposits 41,655 211,557 41,655 211,557 Securities and derivative financial instruments 338,351 951,460 506,254 916,608 Own portfolio 309,932 830,927 487,852 804,500 Subject to repurchase commitments – 29,167 – 29,167 Derivative financial instruments 20,323 28,808 10,306 20,383 Deposited with the Central Bank of Brazil 8,096 – 8,096 – Subject to guarantees provided – 62,558 – 62,558 Interbank accounts 74,527 41,404 74,527 41,404 Term deposits Deposited with the Central Bank of Brazil 72,714 40,208 72,714 40,208 Correspondents 1,813 1,196 1,813 1,196 Loans 3,924,478 3,257,195 4,872,102 3,257,195 Public sector 7,091 33,760 7,091 33,760 Private sector 4,020,394 3,309,103 4,997,557 3,309,103 (-) Allowance for doubtful loans (103,007) (85,668) (132,546) (85,668) Other receivables 680,508 773,508 805,253 795,886 Foreign exchange portfolio 654,089 704,519 654,089 704,519 Income Receivable 2,695 40 3,364 811 Due in connection with securities dealing 3,358 190 4,865 248 Other 20,366 68,759 142,935 90,308 Tax credits 4,073 31,712 4,940 38,989 Real estate receivables – – 3,251 5,030 Other (Note 17a) 70,142 67,287 189,728 70,163 (-) Allowance for doubtful receivables (53,849) (30,240) (54,984) (23,874) Other assets 22,684 35,700 57,608 35,814 Other assets – – 445 – Prepaid expenses 22,684 35,700 60,655 35,813 Provision for devaluation – – (3,492) 1 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 53 Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated 2010 2009 2010 2009 LONG TERM RECEIVABLES 3,811,942 1,537,665 2,634,264 1,552,338 Interbank investments 1,482,356 12,812 33,309 12,812 Interbank deposits 1,482,356 12,812 33,309 12,812 Securities and derivative financial instruments 731,020 383,091 345,927 301,497 Own portfolio 406,734 181,730 114,144 181,730 Derivative financial instruments 146,074 130,315 53,571 48,721 Deposited with the Central Bank of Brazil 98,127 – 98,127 – Subject to guarantees provided 80,085 – 80,085 – Securities subject to repurchase commitments and free transactions – 71,046 – 71,046 Loans 1,173,898 822,594 1,735,268 822,594 Public sector 3,334 6,779 3,334 6,779 Private sector 1,193,541 837,450 1,771,881 837,450 (-) Allowance for doubtful loans (22,977) (21,635) (39,947) (21,635) Other receivables 403,169 284,426 492,647 380,107 Foreign exchange portfolio – 4,604 – 4,604 Income Receivable 244 1,215 244 1,215 Other 402,925 278,607 492,403 374,288 Tax credits 247,172 227,809 305,806 265,816 Real estate receivables – – 7,836 13,758 Other (Note 17a) 159,582 92,261 182,590 143,562 (-) Allowance for doubtful receivables (3,829) (41,463) (3,829) (48,848) Other assets 21,499 34,742 27,113 35,328 Other assets 9,144 1,870 9,144 2,246 Prepaid expenses 16,222 33,971 18,562 34,400 (-) Provision for devaluation of other assets (3,867) (1,099) (593) (1,318) PERMANENT ASSETS 862,206 541,048 305,416 155,583 Investments 793,570 485,993 1,662 2,041 Shareholding interest in subsidiaries In Brazil 792,189 484,612 – – Other investments 1,381 1,381 1,662 2,041 Premises and equipment 8,121 7,255 18,447 10,339 Other fixed assets 18,530 15,846 34,653 22,384 Accumulated depreciation (10,409) (8,591) (16,206) (12,045) Deferred charges 3,498 5,475 8,652 8,957 Organization and expansion expenses 16,534 16,534 21,779 21,211 Accumulated amortization (13,036) (11,059) (13,127) (12,254) Intangible 57,017 42,325 276,655 134,246 Goodwill on investments (note 25h) 39,850 39,850 243,921 126,282 Amortization of goodwill on investments (12,619) (8,634) (21,738) (8,634) Software acquisition and development 36,008 12,204 65,443 18,287 Amortization on software acquistion and devel (6,222) (1,095) (10,971) (1,689) TOTAL ASSETS 10,499,850 12,079,566 10,048,303 11,699,334 See the accompanying notes to the Financial statements. 54 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated LIABILITIES 2010 2009 2010 2009 CURRENT LIABILITIES 6,516,248 8,740,163 6,349,337 8,550,550 Deposits (Note 12) 3,796,954 2,783,621 3,581,676 2,620,890 Demand deposits 177,021 134,731 168,292 129,105 Interbank deposits 714,481 556,579 571,174 428,105 Time deposits 2,904,523 2,090,869 2,841,281 2,062,238 Other deposits 929 1,442 929 1,442 Money market repurchase commitment (Note 13) 53,460 3,975,449 53,460 3,975,449 Own portfolio – 97,615 – 97,615 Third party portfolio 53,460 3,877,834 53,460 3,877,834 Acceptances and endorsements 892,846 429,109 891,093 429,109 Agricultura bond funds 312,666 176,923 181,078 176,923 Notes and bonds issued abroad 580,180 252,186 710,015 252,186 Interbank accounts 100,703 48,436 282 – Correspondent relations – – 282 – Interbank repasses 100,703 48,436 – – Interbranch accounts 21,583 19,380 35,827 19,380 Third party funds in transit 21,583 19,380 35,827 19,380 Borrowings 751,430 958,046 751,430 958,044 Foreign borrowings (Note 15 a) 751,430 958,046 751,430 958,044 Repass Borrowings from Public Sector 356,840 146,162 356,840 146,162 BNDES (National Bank for Economic and Social Development) onlendings 146,686 89,099 213,091 89,099 FINAME Repasses (Note 15.b) 175,950 57,063 109,546 57,063 Rural 34,204 – 34,203 – Derivative financial instruments 162,368 34,307 157,175 33,251 Derivative financial instruments 162,368 34,307 157,175 33,251 Other liabilities 380,064 345,653 521,554 368,265 Collection of taxes 2,521 4,230 3,706 4,230 Foreign exchange portfolio 196,869 169,717 196,869 169,717 Due to shareholders – 33,344 – 33,344 Taxes payable 62,502 98,685 115,016 118,558 Due in connection with securities dealing 180 444 1,686 501 Subordinated debts 51,215 3,748 51,215 3,748 Other (Note 17 d) 66,777 35,485 153,062 38,167 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 55 Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated 2010 2009 2010 2009 LONG TERM LIABILITIES 3,186,918 2,640,619 2,902,267 2,449,983 Deposits (Note 12) 1,727,996 1,031,537 1,607,012 1,009,696 Interbank deposits 230,240 152,771 109,967 152,771 Time deposits 1,497,756 878,766 1,497,045 856,925 Money market repurchase commitment (Note 13) – 1,664 – 1,664 Own portfolio – 1,664 – 1,664 Acceptances and endorsements 129,835 374,224 129,835 374,224 Agricultural bond funds (Note 14a) 129,835 – 129,835 – Securities abroad (Note 14b) – 374,224 – 374,224 Interbank accounts 183,282 233,177 – – Interbank repasses (Note 17 c) 183,282 233,177 – – Borrowings 346,459 197,649 346,459 197,649 Foreign borrowings (Note 15 a) 346,459 197,649 346,459 197,649 Repass Borrowings from Public Sector 207,576 178,434 207,576 178,434 BNDES (National Bank for Economic and Social Development) onlendings 195,572 76,598 129,167 76,598 FINAME Repasses (Note 15.b) – 101,836 66,404 101,836 Rural 12,004 – 12,005 – Derivative financial instruments 34,608 83,416 34,608 83,416 Derivative financial instruments 34,608 83,416 34,608 83,416 Other liabilities 557,162 540,518 576,777 604,900 Taxes payable 168,135 130,270 182,228 141,819 Subordinated debts (Note 20) 343,419 395,734 343,419 395,734 Other (Note 17 d) 45,608 14,514 51,130 67,347 Deferred income 4,344 2,721 4,344 2,721 Deferred income 4,344 2,721 4,344 2,721 Minority interest in subsidiaries – – 15 17 Minority interest in subsidiaries – – 15 17 Shareholders’ equity (Note 21) 792,340 696,063 792,340 696,063 Capital 806,461 706,461 806,461 706,461 Domestic 743,291 643,291 743,291 643,291 Foreign 63,170 63,170 63,170 63,170 Capital reserves 4,830 4,830 4,830 4,830 Profit reserves – 40,970 – 40,970 Legal – 40,970 – 40,970 Equity evaluation adjustments (Note 4c) (16,868) (31,648) (16,868) (31,648) Retained earnings (losses) (2,083) (24,550) (2,083) (24,550) TOTAL LIABILITIES 10,499,850 12,079,566 10,048,303 11,699,334 See the accompanying notes to the Financial statements. 56 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated 2010 2009 2010 2009 2nd Semester Year Year 2nd Semester Year Year Financial operations income 615,940 1,662,842 918,016 715,375 1,796,855 951,486 Loans 364,663 750,378 546,760 531,848 968,807 548,521 Leases – – 51 – – 51 Securities income 192,926 362,529 605,763 115,543 265,453 608,060 Financial derivative instruments (119,127) (104,634) (491,936) (106,405) (88,885) (462,524) Trade finance and foreign exchange income 177,478 654,569 257,378 174,389 651,480 257,378 Income from compulsory deposits – – – – – – Financial operations expenses (480,463) (1,356,361) (573,466) (542,450) (1,429,221) (600,914) Deposits, money market and interbank funds (429,809) (921,546) (611,385) (450,156) (933,539) (604,190) Borrowings and onlendings 7,403 (360,383) 252,751 2,209 (353,204) 239,080 Leases – – (51) – – (51) Trade finance and foreign exchange income – – (84,020) – – (84,020) Allowance for doubtful loans (58,057) (74,432) (155,070) (94,503) (150,989) (176,042) Allowance for doubtful loans Additional – – 24,309 – 8,511 24,309 Gross income on financial operations 135,477 306,481 344,550 172,925 367,634 350,572 Other operating income (expenses) (146,412) (272,158) (211,740) (164,088) (314,381) (220,118) Service fee income 8,598 16,874 12,579 11,768 24,032 16,248 Income from banking charges 2,418 10,213 16,454 35,549 52,828 16,454 Equity in earnings (losses) of subsidiaries (22,509) (29,597) (3,727) – – – Personnel expenses (49,731) (91,216) (69,777) (89,883) (161,938) (109,282) Other administrative expenses (55,670) (120,725) (121,217) (87,096) (156,698) (91,560) Tax expenses (Note 18a II) (10,985) (27,324) (33,161) (24,833) (51,032) (47,286) Other operating income 7,083 11,307 10,083 8,316 14,052 21,936 Other operating expenses (25,616) (41,690) (22,974) (17,909) (35,625) (26,628) Operating income (10,935) 34,323 132,810 8,837 53,253 130,454 Non-operating income (3,211) (3,253) (1,474) (3,050) (3,112) (1,503) Income before income and social contribution taxes and profit sharing (14,146) 31,070 131,336 5,787 50,141 128,951 Income tax and social contribution (Note 18a I) (10,464) (14,994) (53,331) (27,683) (29,167) (48,592) Provision for income tax 5,043 (3,327) (17,508) (9,216) (22,055) (20,454) Provision for social contribution tax 3,121 (2,080) (12,833) (5,541) (13,396) (14,002) Deferred tax assets (18,628) (9,587) (22,990) (12,926) 6,284 (14,136) Deferred tax assets (change to CSLL rate from 9% to 15%) Statutory profit share (3,450) (12,334) (52,590) (6,163) (17,232) (54,944) Net income (loss) (28,060) 3,742 25,415 (28,059) 3,742 25,415 Net income per lot of a thousand shares R$ (17.00) 2.27 15.40 See the accompanying notes to the Financial statements. Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 57 Statements of Cash Flows Years and semester ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated 2nd semester 2nd semester of 2010 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 of 2010 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 ADJUSTED NET INCOME 89,159 147,641 243,117 107,166 171,796 311,005 Net income (loss) (28,057) 3,745 25,415 (28,057) 3,745 25,415 Adjusted net income 117,216 143,896 217,702 135,223 168,051 285,590 Formation (reversion) for losses and nonoperating assets 3,295 2,768 – 3,295 2,767 – Adjustment to market value of securites and derivative financial instruments (assets/liabilities) 7,747 14,780 27,456 7,747 14,760 27,456 Allowance for doubtful loans 58,059 74,432 151,733 94,503 142,478 151,736 Amortization of goodwill 1,994 3,985 6,173 7,201 – (63,116) Depreciation and amortization 4,988 8,922 5,626 9,549 14,313 7,662 Deferred taxes 18,628 9,586 22,990 12,926 (6,284) 161,835 Minority shareholders – – – 2 17 17 Equity in income of associated companies and subsidiaries 22,509 29,597 3,727 – – – Other (4) (174) (3) – – – VARIATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (206,181) (22,960) (219,967) (157,859) (241,590) (590,773) (Increase) decrease in interbank investments 298,045 2,518,559 (4,173,678) 636,887 3,967,596 (4,173,677) Increase (decrease) in securities and derivative financial instruments (assets/liabilities) 201,574 344,433 2,449,339 260,673 441,040 2,177,229 Increase (decrease) in interbank accounts and interbank investments (assets/liabililties) (37,505) (28,548) (219,514) (22,609) (16,394) (115,034) (Increase) decrease in loans (689,294) (1,107,044) (1,046,402) (1,240,534) (2,680,630) (1,045,651) Increase (decrease) in other assets (36,614) 10,771 60,919 (114,837) (110,099) 82,729 (Decrease) increase in deposits 68,361 1,709,792 1,034,028 (15,619) 1,558,102 922,650 (Decrease) increase in money market repurchase commitments (361,972) (3,923,653) 2,142,623 (61,081) (3,923,653) 2,142,623 (Decrease) increase in acceptances and endorsements 71,234 219,348 (356,289) 73,487 217,595 (356,289) (Decrease) increase in liabilities from borrowings and repasses 136,351 182,014 (457,748) 136,351 182,016 (457,750) Increase (decrease) in other obligations 141,777 49,745 346,778 187,561 121,214 232,420 Variation in deferred income 1,862 1,623 (23) 1,862 1,623 (23) NET CASH GENERATED (INVESTED) IN OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES (117,022) 124,681 23,150 (50,693) (69,794) (279,768) Dividends and interest on own capital received – – 9,996 – (22,248) – (Purchase) disposal of investments – – 1,480 966 379 882 (Purchase) disposal of property, plant and equipment in use (1,104) (2,684) (3,893) (10,075) (12,267) (3,990) (Purchase) disposal of nonoperating assets (4,330) (7,274) – (4,124) (7,344) – (Purchase) disposal of intangible assets (10,554) (23,803) 6,499 (35,219) (152,257) (15,217) NET CASH USED IN (INVESTED) IN INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (15,988) (33,761) 14,082 (48,452) (193,737) (18,325) Dividends and interest on own capital paid – (22,248) (103,370) – – (103,371) Capital decrese in subsidiaries 30,000 30,000 29,988 – – – Capital increase in subsidiaries – (367,000) (366,993) – – – Capital increase 100,000 100,000 – 100,000 100,000 – NET CASH GENERATED/(CONSUMED) IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES 100,000 77,752 (103,370) 100,000 100,000 (103,371) INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (Note 4a) (3,010) (168,328) (403,143) 855 (163,531) (401,464) Beginning of the period 90,416 255,734 658,877 94,268 258,654 660,118 End of the period 87,406 87,406 255,734 95,123 95,123 258,654 See the accompanying notes to the Financial statements. 58 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Statement of Added Value Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Banco Fibra S.A. 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 R$ thousand % R$ thousand % Composition of Value Added Gross income on financial operations 306,481 204.9% 344,550 147.1% Income from services 16,874 11.3% 12,579 5.4% Bank fee income 10,213 6.8% 16,454 7.0% Other operating income/expenses (183,958) -123.0% (139,309) -59.5% Total 149,610 100.0% 234,274 100.0% Distribution of added value Salaries 88,691 59.3% 110,268 47.0% Salaries 59,682 39.9% 44,549 19.0% Benefits 11,015 7.4% 8,630 3.7% Guarantee Fund for Lengh of Service 5,659 3.8% 4,498 1.9% Other charges 12,335 8.2% 52,591 22.4% Government Remuneration 57,177 38.2% 139,388 59.5% Tax Expenses 34,243 20.4% 33,161 14.2% Income Tax and Social Contribution 8,074 5.4% 94,127 40.1% INSS 14,860 9.9% 12,100 5.2% Interest on own capital/Dividends proposed 22,245 14.9% 51,285 21.9% Loss for the period (18,503) -12.4% (66,667) -28.5% Total 149,610 100.0% 234,274 100.0% Fibra Consolidated 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 R$ thousand % R$ thousand % Composition of Value Added Gross income on financial operations 367,634 139.7% 350,572 122.7% Income from services 24,032 9.1% 16,248 5.7% Bank fee income 52,828 20.1% 16,454 5.8% Other operating income/expenses (181,383) -68.9% (97,755) -34.2% Total 263,111 100.0% 285,519 100.0% Distribution of added value Salaries 155,483 59.0% 145,877 51.2% Salaries 106,419 40.3% 68,999 24.2% Benefits 22,882 8.7% 13,350 4.7% Guarantee Fund for Lengh of Service 9,351 3.6% 6,777 2.4% Other charges 16,831 6.4% 56,751 19.9% Government Remuneration 103,262 39.2% 155,024 54.2% Tax Expenses 58,925 22.9% 47,280 16.6% Income Tax and Social Contribution 17,991 6.8% 89,357 31.2% INSS 26,346 10.0% 18,387 6.4% Interest on own capital/Dividends proposed 22,245 8.6% 51,285 18.0% Loss for the period (17,879) -6.8% (66,667) -23.4% Total 263,111 100.0% 285,519 100.0% See the accompanying notes to the Financial statements. Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 59 Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Capital Valuation adjustments Retained Profit reserves for earnings Paid in Capital Capital shareholders’ (losses) Total capital increase reserves Legal Statutory equity Balances at December 31, 2008 706,461 – 4,806 40,970 15,810 (59,104) 48,873 757,816 Adjustments opening balance (note 2) – – – – (11,278) – – (11,278) Balances at December 31, 2008 706,461 – 4,806 40,970 4,532 (59,104) 48,873 746,538 Adjustments due to Circulars 3068/01 and 3082/02 – – – – – 27,456 – 27,456 Price level restatement of membership certificates – – 24 – – – – 24 Dividends – – – – (4,532) – (47,553) (52,085) Net income for the year – – – – – – 25,415 25,415 Interest on own capital – – – – – – (51,285) (51,285) Balances at December 31, 2009 706,461 – 4,830 40,970 – (31,648) (24,550) 696,063 Balances at December 31, 2009 706,461 – 4,830 40,970 – (31,648) (24,550) 696,063 Adjustments due to Circulars 3068/01 and 3082/02 – – – – – 14,780 – 14,780 Reserve reversion – – – (40,970) – – 40,970 – Capital increase – 100,000 – – – – – 100,000 Net income for the year – – – – – – 3,742 3,742 Interest on own capital – – – – – – (22,245) (22,245) Balances at December 31, 2010 706,461 100,000 4,830 – – (16,868) (2,083) 792,340 Balances at June 30, 2010 706,461 – 4,830 42,561 7,966 (24,614) (24,550) 712,654 Adjustments due to Circulars 3068/01 and 3082/02 – – – – – 7,746 – 7,746 Reserve reversion – – – (42,561) (7,966) – 50,527 – Capital increase – 100,000 – – – – – 100,000 Net income for the semester – – – – – – (28,060) (28,060) Net income for the semester – – – – – – – – Balances at December 31, 2010 706,461 100,000 4,830 – – (16,868) (2,083) 792,340 See the accompanying notes to the Financial statements. 60 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) 1. Operations Banco Fibra S.A. is a multiple service bank, operating in the commercial, exchange, investment, credit and finance portfolios as well acting as an intermediary for its subsidiaries in securities brokerage activities, securitization of real estate credits as well as portfolio and investment fund management. Operations are conducted in the context of a group of institutions that operate jointly in the financial market, and certain operations involve the participation or the intermediation of associate institutions that are also members of the financial system. The benefits of the services rendered among these institutions and the costs of the operating and administrative structures are absorbed, according to the practicality of assigning such costs, either jointly or individually. Since the end of the first quarter of 2008, the institution has had a policy in place to protect net income and shareholders’ equity from the full effects of the foreign exchange fluctuations of its investment in the branch located in Grand Cayman (full-branch). In this regard, it maintains a sell position in US dollars, in an amount sufficient to offset the direct and indirect impact on the results for the period. 2. Presentation of financial statements The financial statements were prepared in accordance with Corporation Law and the accounting practices adopted in Brazil, and in conformity with the rules and instructions of the Brazilian Central Bank BACEN. They include operations conducted by its branch located abroad (Note 11) and are presented together with the financial statements of Banco Fibra and Banco Fibra Consolidated, which include the Bank and its subsidiaries (Note 10). As of June 30, 2010, Management reviewed pricing and mark-to market criteria for some corporate assets and changed recognition criteria for profit sharing that resulted in charges to shareholders’ equity totaling R$87,607, net of tax effects from prior years, distributed as follows: R$35,134 related to the first accounting period of 2009, R$41,195 related to the second accounting period of 2009 and R$11,278 related to prior periods. The authorization to complete these financial statements was given by the Executive Board on February 18, 2011. For better presentation and comparability, financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009, bank and consolidated, have been adjusted in the respective lines, as follows: 2009 Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated Information selected from balance sheet Published Adjusted Published Adjusted Long term receivables Derivative financial instruments 231,401 130,315 149,807 48,721 Other 127,097 92,261 178,398 143,562 Long term liabilities Taxes payable 178,585 130,270 190,134 141,819 Shareholders’ equity Statutory reserves 57,970 – 57,970 – Retained earnings – (24,550) – (24,550) 2009 Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated Information selected from income statement Published Adjusted Published Adjusted Derivative financial instruments (394,512) (491,936) (365,100) (462,524) Provision for income tax (43,006) (17,508) (45,952) (20,454) Provision for social contribution tax (28,132) (12,833) (29,301) (14,002) Statutory profit share (32,888) (52,590) (35,242) (54,944) Net income 101,744 25,415 101,744 25,415 2009 Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated Information selected from statement of cash flow Published Adjusted Published Adjusted Net income 101,744 25,415 101,744 25,415 (Increase) decrease in securities 604,901 2,449,339 639,896 2,177,229 Increase (decrease) in other liabilities 339,599 346,778 386,377 380,118 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,487,168 658,877 1,273,481 660,118 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,769,686 281,852 1,872,198 258,654 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 61 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) 3. Significant accounting practices a. Consolidation practices In the preparation of consolidated financial statements (Consolidado Econômico Financeiro CONEF), denominated “Fibra Consolidated”, consolidation criteria adopted are in compliance with Standard Chart of Accounts for National Financial Institutions (COSIF), insituted by Circular Letter 1,273, of December 29, 1987, comprised of Banco Fibra S.A., its foreign branch and direct subsidiaries, as follows: Name Activity Share 2010 2009 Subsidiaries Fibra Asset Management Distribuidora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários Ltda. Distribution of securities and fund management 99.999% 99.999% Fibra Cia. Securitizadora de Créditos Imobiliários Acquisition of Real Estate 99.958% 99.958% Fibra Cia. Securitizadora de Créditos Financeiros Acquisition of Financial Receivables 99.999% 99.999% Fibra Projetos e Consultoria Econômica Ltda. Consulting services and economic analysis 99.999% 99.999% Credifibra S.A. Crédito Financiamento e Investimento (b) Loan Company 99.999% 99.900% Description of the main consolidation procedures • Elimination of the balances of assets and liabilities among the companies/entities; • Elimination of equity interest, reserves and retained earnings of the subsidiary companies; • Elimination of the balances of income and expenses, and of un realized gains, resulting from transactions between the companies/entities; e • Identification of the amount of interest of the minority shareholders in the consolidated financial statements. b. Statement of income Income and expenses arising from asset and liability operations are recognized on an accrual s basis and take into account the effects of operations subject to price level restatement on a daily pro-rata basis. Asset and liability operations that incorporate exchange variations are price level restated according to the buy or sell rate of the foreign currency on the balance sheet dates according to the contractual provisions. Income from loan operations is not accrued when the installment payments for the principal or charges are overdue for equal to or more than 60 days. c. Cash and cash equivalents These reflect cash and banks in local currency, foreign currency, interbank investments which settlement terms on the date of the Balance Sheet were fewer than 90 days and pose an insignificant risk of change in their fair values, which are used by the Bank to manage its short term commitments. d. Interbank investments These are valued at the cost of acquisition plus interest accrued up to the balance sheet dates, and when applicable, is adjusted to market value. Investments in foreign currency are shown at the cost of acquisition plus accrued income calculated on a daily pro-rata basis, and the foreign exchange variations are recorded up to the balance sheet dates. e. Securities These are classified into three categories: “trading securities”, “securities available for sale” and “securities held to maturity”. “Trading securities” are valued at their market value; with the adjustments to market value included in an appropriate income or expense account for the period. “Securities available for sale” are valued at their market value; with the adjustments to market value included in an appropriate account in shareholders’ equity, net of tax effects, which are transferred to income in the period in which the securities are sold. Securities classified as “held to maturity” are valued at their cost of acquisition plus interest earned up to the balance sheet dates. Classification in this category is contingent upon the financial capacity of the institution to hold the securities to maturity and Management’s decision to rule out any possibility of selling these securities. f. Derivative financial instruments According to Central Bank of Brazil Circular Letter 3082, derivative financial instruments are valued and recorded at market value and classified as either hedge or non -hedge. Hedge instruments are classified as: (i) “market risk hedge” or (ii) “cashflow hedge”. The criteria for recording them are as follows: for derivative financial instruments which are not intended to be used as a hedge, as well as those classified as market risk hedge, adjustments to market value are recorded against an appropriate income or expense account for the period. For derivative financial instruments classified as “cash flow hedge,” the effective portion of the hedge must be recorded and offset in a special account in Shareholders’ Equity, and any ineffectiveness is recorded in an appropriate income or expense account for the period. In the event of derivative financial instruments which are intended to protect securities classified in the category “securities held to maturity”, both the security and the derivative financial instrument are valued and recorded in compliance with the intrinsic contracted terms and are not recorded at market value. With the advent of the changes introduced by Central Bank Circular Letter 3150, this treatment is also given to derivative instruments traded in association with fund raising operations or fund investments, and market value may be disregarded under the terms therein specified. 62 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) g. Allowance for doubtful loans and other receivables These provisions are recorded at an amount considered sufficient to cover any losses arising on their collection. The Central Bank of Brazil established regulations through Resolution 2682/99, which are based on risk analyses of clients with asset operations and past experience as well as specific sector or portfolio risks. h. Assets not for own use Goods received in lieu of payment are recorded in the account “Other assets” and include provisions recorded in an amount considered sufficient to cover any losses arising on their collection. i. Investments Interests held in subsidiaries are valued according to the equity method of accounting. The other investments are valued according to the cost of acquisition, price level restated up to December 31, 1995, less provisions for losses when applicable. The book balances of the entities located overseas were converted to Brazilian Reais, using the US foreign exchange rate on the closing date. For purposes of calculating the equity in net income and for consolidation purposes, these balances were adjusted to comply with accounting practices derived from Brazilian corporation law. j. Property, plant and equipment, deferred charges and intangible assets Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, amortization of deferred charges and intangible assets are calculated using the straight line method, according to the following annual rates: (i) property, plant and equipment: vehicles and computer system, 20%; other assets 10%; (ii) deferred charges: expenses for acquisition and development of computer software and reorganization and expansion expenses , 20% and leasehold improvements, according to the term of the rental; (iii) intangible: reflect the rights acquired that serve as incorporated assets devoted to the maintenance of entity or used for this purpose. The intangible assets having a defined useful life are generally amortized according to the straight line method throughout the period of the estimated economic benefit. The goodwill on the purchase of investments, supported by expected realization of future results, is being amortized at the rate of 10% per annum and is tested, at least annualy, for impairment. k. Evaluation of the recoverable value Beginning 2008, based on a review by the management, if the book values of the non-financial assets of the Bank, except other assets and tax credits, exceed their recoverable values, they are recognized as a loss of recoverable assets in income for the period. l. Other current assets and long term receivables These are shown at their cost values, including, when applicable, accrued income and price level restatement less the corresponding provisions for losses or adjustments to the realizable value. m. Income and social contribution taxes (assets and liabilities) Deferred income and social contribution taxes, calculated on tax losses, negative basis and temporary additions are recorded in “Other Receivables Other”. Tax credits on temporary additions are realized upon the use and/or reversal of the respective provisions on which they were formed. Tax credits on tax loss and on negative basis of social contribution tax are realized in accordance with the generation of taxable income. Provision for income tax is established at the rate of 15% on taxable income, plus the additional percentage of 10% on the portion of taxable income that exceeds R$ 240 per year, and includes the portion corresponding to fiscal incentives. Provision for social contribution is formed at the rate of 15% on adjusted accounting profit, pursuant to the current legislation. n. Contingencies and legal obligations Recognition, measurement and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and legal obligations are carried out according to the criteria defined in CMN Resolution 3535 and BACEN Circular Letter 3429: i. Contingent assets Are not accounted for except upon the existence of a favorable ruling, for which no appeals are permitted, characterized as practically certain. Assets with chances of success considered as probable are disclosed in a note to the financial statements (Note 19). ii. Contingent liabilities Are recorded in the accounting records when, in the opinion of management and of legal counsel, the chances of loss are probable and when the value of the liability can be estimated with sufficient accuracy. Assets with chances of success considered as probable are disclosed in a note to the financial statements when individually relevant and those classified as remote do not require a provision and do not have to be disclosed (Note 19). iii. Legal obligations These are recognized and full provision is recorded in the balance sheet, regardless of the probabilities of success of the legal suit. o. Current and long term liabilities These are shown at the known values or at values that can be calculated and include charges and price level restatement or exchange variations incurred up to the balance sheet dates. Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 63 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) p. Accounting estimates The preparation of the Financial statements in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil requires that the Management uses its judgment when determining and recording accounting estimates. Significant assets and liabilities subject to these estimates and assumptions include the residual value of premises and equipment, goodwill on investments, provision for doubtful loans, provision for devaluation of certain assets, deferred income tax and social contribution recorded in assets, provision for contingencies and valuation of securities and derivative financial instruments. The settlement of transactions involving these estimates may result in amounts different to those estimated due to the lack of precision inherent to the process for determining them. The Bank periodically reviews estimates and assumptions. q. Law 11638/07 Initial adoption of the referenced Law, did not create any material impacts on the Bank’s and Fibra Consolidated’s financial statements, in view of the fact that the major changes imposed by the new legislation, which affected Bank operations had already been adopted by it owed to the already existing accounting regulations issued by BACEN. We have highlighted below the most important effects for the year: • Analysis performed annually of the ability to recover the assets, to ensure that these assets were not registered in the accounting records at amounts in excess of the amount that could be recovered from use or sale; • Treatment of the balance for capital reerves and allocation of retained earnings; • The fixed asset accounts should include the rights the object of which are physical assets held for the purpose of maintaining the company’s activities or exercised for this purpose, including those that arise from operations that transfer the benefits, risks and control over these assets to the company; • Deferred assets should include pre-operational expenses and restructuring costs that will contribute, effectively, to increasing the results of more than one financial year and which do not refer exclusively to a reduction in costs or an increase in operational efficiency. 4. Cash and cash equivalents For the statements of cash flow, Cash and Cash Equivalents are comprised of: Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated 2010 2009 2010 2009 Cash and banks 29,430 31,062 37,158 33,982 Interbank investments 16,311 13,115 16,310 13,115 Foreign currency deposits 41,665 211,557 41,655 211,557 Total 87,406 255,734 95,123 258,654 5. Interbank investments Interbank investments are as follows: Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated 2010 2009 2010 2009 Money market 630,446 4,659,748 630,446 4,659,748 Banked position 576,996 780,918 576,996 780,918 • Financial Treasury Bill LFT 380,280 400,393 380,280 400,393 • National Treasury Bill LTN 185,912 278,571 185,912 278,571 • National Treasury Notes NTN 10,804 101,954 10,804 101,954 Financed position 53,450 3,877,872 53,450 3,877,872 • Financial Treasury Bill LFT 23,042 800,265 23,042 800,265 • National Treasury Bill LTN 21,205 870,817 21,205 870,817 • National Treasury Notes NTN 9,203 2,206,790 9,203 2,206,790 Sold position – 958 – 958 • National Treasury Bill LTN – 958 – 958 Interbank deposits 1,565,979 52,031 116,932 52,031 Foreign currency investments 41,655 211,557 41,655 211,557 Total 2,238,080 4,923,336 789,033 4,923,336 64 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) 6. Securities and derivative financial instruments a. Classification of the porffolio of securities and derivative financial instruments, according to the business strategy Banco Fibra S.A. 2010 2009 Book Book Cost value/ Cost value/ value market value market Trading securities (1) 180,798 181,811 814,216 906,294 Financial Treasury Bill LFT 147,476 147,475 196,527 196,531 National Treasury Notes NTN 3,152 3,200 164,393 164,512 National Treasury Bill LTN 5,497 5,507 67,485 67,482 Fixed Income Private Securities 24,654 25,610 28,410 29,350 Shares – – 48,494 95,268 Euronotes and Commercial Papers – – 282,496 326,740 Quotas of investment funds 19 19 26,411 26,411 Securities available for sale (1) 610,927 721,163 268,578 269,134 National Treasury Notes NTN 251,525 255,384 247,428 252,777 Shares 60,124 126,368 21,150 16,357 National Treasury Bill LTN 33,565 33,622 – – Euronotes and Commercial Papers 264,266 303,590 – – Quotas of investment funds 1,447 2,199 – – Derivative financial instruments 112,007 166,397 211,209 159,123 Swap receivable differences 102,360 157,289 106,929 145,154 Other 9,647 9,108 104,280 13,969 Total securities portfolio 903,732 1,069,371 1,294,003 1,334,551 Fibra Consolidated 2010 2009 Book Book Cost value/ Cost value/ value market value market Trading securities (1) 354,771 355,784 832,948 879,317 Financial Treasury Bill LFT 147,485 147,484 203,636 203,641 National Treasury Notes NTN 3,152 3,200 164,393 164,512 National Treasury Bill LTN 5,497 5,507 67,485 67,482 Fixed Income Private Securities 26,464 27,420 28,410 29,479 Shares – – 50,699 95,870 Euronotes and Commercial Papers – – 15,541 15,549 Quotas of investment funds 172,173 172,173 302,784 302,784 Securities available for sale (1) 361,084 432,520 269,990 269,684 National Treasury Notes NTN 251,525 255,387 247,428 252,777 Shares 63,741 127,955 22,562 16,907 National Treasury Bill LTN 33,565 33,622 – – Euronotes and Commercial Papers 10,806 13,357 – – Quotas of investment funds 1,447 2,199 – – Derivative financial instruments 9,648 63,877 117,146 69,104 Swap receivable differences 1 54,773 12,866 55,135 Other 9,647 9,104 104,280 13,969 Total securities portfolio 725,503 852,181 1,220,084 1,218,105 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 65 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) (1) The book/market value of the securities for the categories “Securities Available for Sale” and “Trading Securities” was calculated based on the following criteria: a) government securities and operations conducted on the futures, and options markets based on the pricing model described in Note 7; b) Publicly traded company stocks and forward operations guaranteed by these securities, according to the average quotation available from the last trading floor session of the month, or in the absence thereof, the most recent trading floor sessions published in the Daily Bulletin for each Exchange; the shares of closely-held companies are in accordance with their book value or that traded on the auction market for incentivated companies or based on a appraisal report issued by specialized companies; and c) Swaps, based on the notional values of each of the legs of the contracts, considering the cash flow discounted to the present value by the futures market interest rates calculated on the pricing model described in Note 7, in compliance with the terms of each contract. (i) Comprised mainly of shares of receivables investment funds recorded in Credifibra S.A., Credito, Financiamento e Investimento. According to Management’s definition, Euronotes, Shares and Investment Fund Shares that were previously recorded in Trading Securities have been transferred to Securities available for sale on June 30, 2010, as they have not been traded. On December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bank did not have securities classified as held to maturity. Criteria for the calculation of market values The market values of securities and derivative financial instruments are calculated based on: • Market prices or market agent quotations; • Pricing methodology that utilizes as a basis the price determined by other financial instruments with similar characteristics, divulged by the BMF&BOVESPA S.A. Securities, Commodities and Futures Exchange or by trade associations; • Price models developed by management, which use mathematical models for the calculation of rates for intermediary periods. (2) The effect of mark to market of securities classified as “available for sale”, net of tax effects, recorded in shareholders’ equity amounts to R$ 11,882 (R$ 23,781in 2009) in the Bank and R$ 11,956 (R$ 24,299 in 2009) in the consolidated. b. Derivative financial instruments Banco Fibra S.A. and its subsidiaries conducted operations with derivatives to attend its own needs and those of its clients, with respect to reducing exposure to market, currency and interest risks. Management of these risks is conducted through determining limits and establishing strategies for operations. Derivatives are recorded according to their nature and specific legislation in equity and/or income accounts. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the market value of the derivative financial instruments is shown below: Derivative financial instruments I Asset position Banco Fibra S.A. 2010 2009 Asset Liabilities Receivables Asset Liabilities Receivables CDI X DOLLAR 667,556 540,097 127,459 376,811 284,017 92,794 DOLLAR X CDI 259,166 232,347 26,819 395,445 343,086 52,359 IGPM X PRE 10,409 10,187 222 – – – IPCA X PRE 81,550 80,856 694 – – – IPCA X CDI 72,445 70,350 2,095 – – – DOLLAR X PRE – – – 946 938 8 PRE X DOLLAR 3,229 3,168 61 262,908 248,946 13,962 Other 9,047 – 9,047 – – – Total market value 1,103,402 937,005 166,397 1,036,110 876,987 159,123 Amounts receivable calculated according to the operations value 112,007 211,209 Fibra Consolidated 2010 2009 Asset Liabilities Receivables Asset Liabilities Receivables CDI X DOLLAR 311,141 286,199 24,942 17,640 14,865 2,775 DOLLAR X CDI 259,166 232,347 26,819 395,445 343,086 52,359 IGPM X PRE 10,409 10,187 222 – – – IPCA X PRE 72,445 70,350 2,095 – – – IPCA X CDI 81,551 80,856 695 – – – DOLLAR X PRE – – – 946 938 8 PRE X DOLLAR 3,229 3,168 61 262,908 248,946 13,962 Other 9,043 – 9,043 – – – Total market value 746,984 683,107 63,877 676,939 607,835 69,104 Amounts receivable calculated according to the operations value 9,648 117,146 66 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) II Liability position Banco Fibra S.A. 2010 2009 Asset Liabilities Receivables Asset Liabilities Receivables CDI X DOLLAR – – – 1,489 1,503 (14) DOLLAR X CDI 1,062,917 1,245,950 (183,033) 939,835 1,055,821 (115,986) IPCA X PRE 112,822 113,618 (796) – – – IPCA X CDI – – – 50,013 50,150 (137) DOLLAR X PRE 6,582 6,837 (255) 85,631 87,152 (1,521) PRE X CDI – – – 8,022 8,082 (60) OTHER – 12,892 (12,892) 541 546 (5) Total market value 1,182,321 1,379,297 (196,976) 1,085,531 1,203,254 (117,723) Payable amounts calculated according to the cost value (184,667) (147,179) Fibra Consolidated 2010 2009 Asset Liabilities Receivables Asset Liabilities Receivables CDI X DOLLAR 846,827 1,024,668 (177,841) 656,435 771,330 (114,895) DOLLAR X CDI 112,822 113,618 (796) – – – IPCA X PRE – – – 50,013 50,150 (137) IPCA X CDI – – – 1,489 1,503 (14) DOLLAR X PRE – – – 8,022 8,082 (60) PRE X CDI 6,582 6,837 (255) 85,631 87,152 (1,521) OTHER – 12,891 (12,891) 540 580 (40) Total market value 966,231 1,158,014 (191,783) 802,130 918,797 (116,667) Payable amounts calculated according to the cost value (180,123) (144,772) On December 31, 2010, the gains and losses earned and incurred in the year in regard to derivative financial instruments presented a net effect in the result of (R$ 104,634) in Banco Fibra (R$ 491,936, in 2009) and (R$ 88,885) in Fibra Consolidated (R$ 462,524, in 2009) and (R$ 2,881) in shareholders’ equity in Banco Fibra and Fibra Consolidated (R$ 24,494 in 2009). c. Securities and derivative financial instruments Maturity terms Up to 31 to 91 to 181 to Over Total Total Banco Fibra S.A. 30 days 90 days 180 days 360 days 360 days 2010 2009 Trading securties 20 5,574 14,664 3,365 158,188 181,811 906,294 Available for sale 285,855 113 343 – 434,852 721,163 269,134 Derivative financial instruments (assets) 484 125 14,137 5,576 146,075 166,397 159,123 Total 286,359 5,812 29,144 8,941 739,115 1,069,371 1,334,551 Derivative financial instruments (liabilities) (8,564) (430) (146,672) (6,702) (34,608) (196,976) (117,723) Up to 31 to 91 to 181 to Over Total Total Fibra Consolidated 30 days 90 days 180 days 360 days 360 days 2010 2009 Trading securties 172,173 5,574 14,664 3,365 160,008 355,784 879,317 Available for sale 287,444 113 343 – 144,620 432,520 269,684 Derivative financial instruments (assets) 483 125 9,340 358 53,571 63,877 69,104 Total 460,100 5,812 24,347 3,723 358,199 852,181 1,218,105 Derivative financial instruments (liabilities) (8,563) (430) (146,672) (1,510) (34,608) (191,783) (116,667) Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 67 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) The total notional amounts of swap contracts recorded at CETIP (Clearing House for the Custody and Financial Settlement of Securities) at December 31, 2010 was R$ 2,339,706 (R$ 1,632,379 in 2009) in Banco Fibra and R$ 1,900,996 (R$ 1,030,627 in 2009) in the Fibra Consolidated, and contracts recorded at BM&FBOVESPA S.A. at December 31, 2010 was R$ 256,700 (R$ 540 in 2009) in Banco Fibra and Fibra Consolidated. At December 31, 2010 the margins deposited in guarantee of the derivative financial instruments totaled R$ 214,859 (R$ 62,558 in 2009) for Banco Fibra S.A. and Fibra Consolidated. d. Future and forward market operations We present the operations performed in the futures and forward markets, which are recorded in the Banco Fibra S.A., with the notional amounts shown below: Notional amounts Future and forward contracts 2010 2009 NDF call 4,508 7,467 NDF put (5,604) – Sold index – (8,994) Commercial US Dollar Purchased – 5,082 Commercial US Dollar Sold (653,670) (628,385) Foreign Exchange Coupon DDI Purchased 255,906 264,494 Foreign Exchange Coupon DDI Sold (104,470) (39,306) One day DI Purchase 995,317 7,562,532 One Day DI Sold (4,307,287) (665,432) Option Dollar Purchased 69,875 66,500 Option IDI Purchased 30,454,000 – Option Dollar Sold (61,125) (202,400) Option IDI Sold (30,457,000) – e. Cashflow hedge, market and investment risk On December 31, 2010, there was a cashflow hedge and market risk linked to the DI and DDI swap and futures contracts having a reference value of R$ 4,193,904 (R$ 1,387,489 in 2009) and maturities that ranged from January/2011 to January/2014. The mark to market effect is recorded under shareholders’ equity and corresponds to a debit for the amount of R$ 4,986 (R$ 7,867 in 2009), net of taxes. The market value of Time Deposits, Government Bonds and Deposits classified as hedge items is R$ 3,807,675 (R$ 970,951 in 2009). Investments in the Grand Cayman branch are also hedged by BM&F future dollar investment. The effectiveness of the “hedge” structures is measured by means of the market value of derivatives destined to “hedge”and instrument subject to “hedge”. On December 31, 2010 these amounts were represented by R$ 3,838,791 (R$ 715,403 in 2009) in relation to derivatives and R$ 3,807,675 (R$ 970,951 in 2009) to the instrument subject to “hedge”. In view of the aforementioned, the effectiveness verified in the hedge portfolio on December 31, 2010 is in conformity with the standard established by the Central Bank of Brazil and we did not identify any ineffective portion to be accounted for during the year. The above operations do not reflect overall exposure of Fibra to market risks, currency and interest rates, since they only include derivative financial instruments used as hedge. 7. Risk management With the continual evolution of markets and of the products and services offered by Banco Fibra, the Institution continually seeks excellence in its management and control of risks, which is always in line with best international practices. Prior identification of the risks inherent to new or altered products/activities is performed by the Risk Control Area within the Products Committee, which evaluate all of the impacts prior to implementation. The Risk Control area is composed of the Market Risk area, Liquidity Risk area, and Credit Risk area. Operating Risk is currently under the management of the Compliance area. a. Market risk management Market risk management of positions assumed by Banco Fibra uses a set of adequate controls for each portfolio. Trading portofolio includes VaR, Stress and CPV. VaR, that is currently calculated by the Parametric model (the Monte Carlo model is used in the options portfolio as well as in the trading portfolio when the options VaR surpasses 10% of total Trading VaR), which provides the expected loss for a given level of confidence of 99%, and simulation adopting the “Crash Scenario”, which, considering extreme scenarios, evaluates the maximum potential loss from a portfolio and the distribution of the losses from each of the extremes adopted, by means of an analysis of the Vertices Concentration (CPV). While the Banking portfolio uses EVE (Economic Value of Equity), which consists of the impact on portfolio present value, considering the effect on fixed interest rates of the application of a holding period of 10 b.d. 68 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) The Institution permanently invests in the development of control systems and people, for the purpose of regularly monitoring risks. For this purpose, limits are monitored by means of risk measures (VaR, Stress, CPV, and EVE) and the results (Stop Loss and MA), and their evolution is presented in the market risk committee The use of limits is accompanied by the Market Risk Area and disclosed, daily, to top management, the treasury area and internal audit. Top management is informed of any extrapolations and the explanations and the adjustment plans are approved by the relevant authority level within the Institution. The Market Risk Committee also defines the criteria for including operations in the negotiation portfolio, based on hedge and negotiation strategies, and the procedures adopted in the event of the low liquidity of an operation or hedge are explained and documented in records. All of this structure is described in the Institution’s Market Risk Policy, which was approved by the Bank’s top management (executive committee and board). The internal market risk management policy includes volume and results limits. To validate the systems a backtest is conducted periodically at least once a week. In addition to the policy, the institution also has a process guide which complements the process covered in the policy. Risk is calculated through the risk system, which generates values that are validated by the market risk area. Curves and reference prices are calculated through the Market Risk system, which are validated by independent appraisers to guarantee data integrity. All methodologies used or possible changes are approved by Top Management and the Board of Directors. Another core duty of the Risk Control area is to focus on meeting the regulations disclosed by BACEN on Basel, as well as the active participation in the Basel discussion panels set up by the Brazilian Federation of Bank Associations (FEBRABAN) and the Brazilian Bank Association (ABBC). b. Liquidity risk management For the purpose of managing liquidity risk exposure, the bank has adopted instruments to control cash flow and forecast needs or excess funds in a timely manner to enable it to implement preventive measures beforehand. These instruments include projected cash flow and simulations of payment events or renewal of operations. Top management receives, daily, a map to accompany the liquidity position, as well as the minimum liquidity reserve, which is used as a reference for input/output of the liquidity contingency. Some of the control instruments used are defined below: Control of cash position Determination of changes in assets, funding and other operations on that date, and of available cash, at the opening and closing dates. The minimum liquidity reserve corresponds to the cash comfort level considered adequate for the management of assets and liabilities. The projection and evaluation of the minimum liquidity reserve is defined by the Assets & Liabilities Committee (ALCO), a group that meets every 30 days to define the strategies of assets and liabilities for the following periods. Liquidity risk control The liquidity level is monitored on a daily observing the maturity flows until maturity of the asset and liability portfolios lapse. In addition, ALCO performs monthly analyses of the mismatch of terms between assets and liabilities into brackets of terms (buckets), which define the alternatives for the management of the minimum cash level to be maintained by the Bank, compatible with the risk exposure resulting from the characteristics of its assets and liabilities, its capital ratio and market conditions. It is used as a parameter to control liquidity and to activate the Contingency Plan whenever any liquidity insufficiency risk has been identified; Liquidity contingency plan This management tool defines the actions and measures that should be taken when a short term liquidity projection indicates lower levels than the defined minimum level. In the event of a shortfall of funds and worsening of the financial market crisis, this plan encompasses a number of alternatives: external fund raising (by means of our strategic foreign shareholder); credit extension; sureties and guarantees; raising funds from parent group companies; decrease or even suspension of credit extension, until liquidity has been regularized and sale of the private securities portfolio. c. Credit risk management Management adopts as a basic premise for extending credit the capacity of the company to present an adequate cash flow, so as to enable normal continuity to its operations, complying with its credit line access capacity. The levels from the credit decisions are attributed according to an authority policy, which considers the amount, period and guarantee for the operation. Each level represents a specific committee responsible for the credit decision and evaluation. For retail operations, credit risk management aims to keep adequate controls to monitor default and avoid losses due to operational risks and frauds. In addition, it helps to develop the credit policy, intended to obtain the best analysis of the final customer (individual or legal entity). For credit granting, in addition to the customer payment capacity, the location of the customer is also a key element, both to avoid fraud and for future collection in case of default. Approval is given by a system of anti-fraud rules, policy filters and a market scoring model, that evaluates the customers’ profile and the amount of his/her income that is committed. The procedure for risk control analyzes, for each product, managerial reports on default per crop (granting month) or maturity, as well as the portfolio. The credit risk unit is responsible for the analysis and macro monitoring of the loan portfolio, through sectorial concentration controls, RE commitment and quantitative evaluation of cases, imposed by investors and business partners. Credit risk controls, such as, for example, control over operating limits, monitoring of default and write-offs to losses allow the monitoring of the quality of the portfolio, so as to respond beforehand to possible problems that might occur with its clients, as well as the creation of subsidies to comply with regulatory requirements regarding the issue. d. Operational risk management Operational Risk consists of the chances of risks occurring due to flaws, deficiencies or inadequacy of internal processes, personnel and systems, or external events. This includes the legal risk related to the inadequacy or deficiency in contracts entered into by the Bank. Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 69 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Banco Fibra, in order to have this type of risk mitigated and to adapt the Bank to the global market practices and to the regulations in the Brazilian financial market, established an internal control structure that ensures the permanent updating in the mapping of risks and controls, as well as the capture (on information) related to any flaw and/or loss in connection with an operational risk. This structure is composed of the Compliance Agents and also of the employees comprising the Operational Risk area, which reports to the Corporate Vice-presidency. These Agents also work as multipliers of the compliance management, operational risk and internal control culture. Through continuous management and control work, the Operational Risk management structure is taking the necessary measures to meet the recommendations of the Basel New Capital Agreement, as set by schedule established by the Central Bank of Brazil. (The Bank) currently adopts the “Alternative Standardized” model for the allocation of capital and the (Bank’s) goal is to be qualified for the “Advanced” model. e. Internal validation In line with best market practices, an Internal Validation Area was established within the Compliance structure. This action strengthens governance in risk control areas of the institution, making model validation independent from risk control operating areas. In validation, in addition to model qualitative and quantitative assumptions, integrity, applicability, formalization, documentation, communication, usage and approval by compentent areas are verified. 8. Loan portfolio We present below the breakdown of loan operations of Fibra Consolidated: a. Breakdown of operations Consolidated 2010 2009 R$ % R$ % Loans 6,947,338 88.1 4,459,933 80.7 Working capital and secured account 3,279,532 41.6 2,382,702 43.1 Retail portfolio CDC / CP 652,662 8.3 506,842 9.2 Retail portfolio Payroll loans 500,242 6.3 330,020 6.0 Vehicle portfolio (a) 1,358,426 17.2 369,273 6.7 Loans acquired Ohter banks (c) 187,267 2.4 260,801 4.7 Resolution n.º 2770 repasses 185,062 2.3 133,293 2.4 Foreign currency financing (imports/exports) 139,197 1.8 92,312 1.7 BNDES (Mational Bank for Economic and Social Development) onlendings 521,857 6.6 327,153 5.9 “Vendor” and “Compror” 53,617 0.7 57,142 1.0 Other 22,739 0.3 395 – Agriculture financing 46,737 0.6 – – Advances on exchange and export contract ACC/ACE (b) 498,919 6.3 582,966 10.6 Other receivable 66,711 0.8 43,603 0.8 Total portfolio loans extended 7,512,968 95.2 5,086,502 92.1 Guarantees and surety bonds provided not honored 379,663 4.8 438,603 7.9 Total portfolio 7,892,631 100.0 5,525,105 100.0 (a) The balance refers to: • Portfolio of financing of vehicles in the amount of R$ 931,543 (R$ 96,566 in 2009); • Portfolio of credit rights acquired from Banco Paulista S.A. by Fundo de Investimento de Direitos Creditórios (GVI FIDC Financeiro) whose balance on December 31, 2010 is R$ 149,492 (R$ 272,707 in 2009). A Credifibra S.A. is the exclusive quotaholder of the fund GVI FIDC Financeiro, which is presented in this note only for composition of Fibra Consolidated’s total loan portfolio, and, • The portfolio acquired from Banco Sofisa S.A. in March 2010, currently amounts to R$277,391. (b) Advances on Exchange and Export Contracts ACC/ACE are recorded in the balance sheet under “Other liabilities Foreign exchange portfolio”, plus income receivable on advances granted that are in the “Other receivables Foreign exchange portfolio” account. For the purposes of presentation of this note, the two amounts are presented as “Loan portfolio”. (c) Refers to the portfolio of CDC Direct Consumer Credit Operations, Payroll Loans and Vehicles from other banks, with co-obligation of grantors. 70 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) b. Breakdown per sector of activity 2010 2009 R$ % R$ % Industry 2,063,857 26.1 2,213,637 40.0 Commerce 1,389,039 17.6 806,238 14.6 Services 842,755 10.7 497,097 9.0 Rural 153,259 1.9 121,050 2.2 Housing 498,739 6.3 258,492 4.7 Public sector 10,425 0.1 40,539 0.7 Financial intermediaries 611,026 7.7 291,248 5.3 Individuals 2,323,531 29.6 1,296,804 23.5 Total portfolio 7,892,631 100.0 5,525,105 100.0 c. Concentration of main debtors Within interbank market operations 2010 2009 R$ % of portfolio R$ % of portfolio Main debtor 277,391 3.5% 35,204 0.6% 10 largest debtors 687,396 8.7% 290,697 5.3% 20 largest debtors 974,734 12.3% 530,411 9.6% 50 largest debtors 1,573,677 19.9% 1,093,695 19.8% 100 largest debtors 2,288,052 29.0% 1,698,369 30.7% Without interbank market operations 2010 2009 R$ % of portfolio R$ % of portfolio Main debtor 51,206 0.7% 139,006 2.5% 10 largest debtors 386,214 5.2% 404,703 7.3% 20 largest debtors 648,657 8.8% 648,556 11.7% 50 largest debtors 1,217,647 16.8% 1,234,201 22.3% 100 largest debtors 1,894,850 26.4% 1,864,724 33.8% d. Breakdown by maturity 2010 2009 R$ % R$ % Overdue 117,788 1.5 116,956 2.1 Falling due in 30 days 1,404,722 17.8 966,267 17.5 Falling due in 31 to 60 days 938,347 11.9 814,851 14.7 Falling due in 61 to 90 days 689,094 8.7 546,626 9.9 Falling due in 91 to 180 days 1,464,081 18.5 1,054,423 19.1 Falling due in 181 to 360 days 1,396,854 17.7 1,003,070 18.2 Falling due over 360 days 1,881,745 23.9 1,022,912 18.5 Total portfolio 7,892,631 100.0 5,525,105 100.0 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 71 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) 9. Classification of receivables by risk level and allowance for doubtful accounts (consolidated) We demonstrate below the risk levels of loans, segregating: i. Retail operations, characterized by direct consumer lending (CDC), personal loans and personal loans with payroll-consigned payment of installments. ii. Wholesale operations, characterized by loans and financing originally intended for legal entities, as well as acquisitions of loans to individuals acquired and backed by assignee financial institutions. a. Loan portfolio, according to risk levels Reatail operations (i) Performing loans Non performing loans Total Total Risk level % Minimum R$ Provisions Ovedue Falling due Provisions loans Provision (1) AA 0.0% 426,884 – – – – 426,884 – A 0.5% 1,830,772 9,154 – – – 1,830,772 9,154 B 1.0% – – 13,015 91,742 1,047 104,757 1,047 C 3.0% – – 9,445 50,331 1,793 59,776 1,793 D 10.0% – – 5,585 18,074 2,366 23,659 2,366 E 30.0% – – 5,193 9,819 4,504 15,012 4,504 F 50.0% – – 4,824 7,072 5,948 11,896 5,948 G 70.0% – – 4,288 4,104 5,874 8,392 5,874 H 100.0% – – 22,302 8,182 30,483 30,484 30,483 Total in 31/12/2010 2,257,656 9,154 64,652 189,324 52,015 2,511,632 61,169 % of portfolio 28,6 – 0,8 2,5 – 31,9 – Total in 31/12/2009 1,107,344 4,144 35,872 62,981 29,907 1,206,107 34,051 % of portfolio 20.0 – 0.6 1.2 – 21.8 – b. Loan portfolio, according to risk levels Wholesale operations (ii) Performing loans Non performing loans Total Total Risk level % Minimum R$ Provisions Ovedue Falling due Provisions loans Provision (1) AA 0.0% 710,656 – – – – 710,656 – A 0.5% 1,164,189 5,821 – – – 1,164,189 5,821 B 1.0% 2,321,707 23,217 – – 1 2,321,707 23,218 C 3.0% 620,945 18,628 322 4,425 143 625,692 18,771 D 10.0% 44,147 4,415 – 3,162 316 47,309 4,731 E 30.0% 2,362 709 410 1,410 546 4,182 1,255 F 50.0% 4,938 2,469 1,092 – 546 6,030 3,015 G 70.0% 27,098 18,969 337 54 274 27,489 19,243 H 100.0% 30,617 30,617 59,270 4,196 63,466 94,083 94,083 Total in 31/12/2010 4,926,659 104,845 61,431 13,247 65,292 5,001,337 170,137 % of portfolio 62,4 – 0,8 0,2 – 63,4 – Total in 31/12/2009 4,198,008 84,242 81,174 39,816 61,732 4,318,998 145,974 % of portfolio 76.0 – 1.5 0.7 – 78.2 – 72 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) c. Total loan portfolio, in accordance with risk levels Performing loans Non performing loans Total Total Risk level % Minimum R$ Provisions Ovedue Falling due Provisions loans Provision (1) AA 0.0% 1,137,540 – – – – 1,137,540 – A 0.5% 2,994,961 14,975 – – – 2,994,961 14,975 B 1.0% 2,321,707 23,217 13,015 91,742 1,048 2,426,464 24,265 C 3.0% 620,945 18,628 9,767 54,756 1,936 685,468 20,564 D 10.0% 44,147 4,415 5,585 21,236 2,682 70,968 7,097 E 30.0% 2,362 709 5,603 11,229 5,050 19,194 5,759 F 50.0% 4,938 2,469 5,916 7,072 6,494 17,926 8,963 G 70.0% 27,098 18,969 4,625 4,158 6,148 35,881 25,117 H 100.0% 30,617 30,617 81,572 12,377 93,949 124,566 124,566 Total portfolio 7,184,315 113,999 126,083 202,570 117,307 7,512,968 231,306 Guarantees provided 379,663 – – – – 379,663 – Total in 31/12/2010 7,563,978 113,999 126,083 202,570 117,307 7,892,631 231,306 % of portfolio 95.8 – 1.6 2.6 – 100.0 – Total in 31/12/2009 5,305,352 88,386 117,046 102,797 83,128 5,525,105 180,025 % of portfolio 96.0 – 2.1 1.9 – 100.0 – d. Provision for doubtful loans Consolidated 12/31/2010 Retail Wholesale Total (2) Beginning balance 34,051 145,974 180,025 Write-offs against provision (47,613) (45,341) (92,954) Provision recorded for the period 75,324 75,665 150,989 Reversal of additional provision (2,350) (6,161) (8,511) Acquisition (1) 6,400 – 6,400 Final balance 65,812 170,137 235,949 (1) Refers to provision of the portfolio acquired from Validata, see Note 25f. (2) As of December 31, 2010 the balance of provisions for loans and other receivable is composed in the following manner: provision for loans in the amount of R$173,513, provision for other receivable in the amount of R$57,792 and provision on loans sold with recourse in the amount of R$4,643, the latter of which recorded in the account “Provision for other contingent liabilities”. 12/31/2009 Retail Wholesale Total (2) Beginning balance 48,928 116,939 165,867 Write-offs against provision (53,976) (63,227) (117,203) Provision recorded for the period 43,153 112,517 155,670 Additional provision (4,054) (20,255) (24,309) Final balance 34,051 145,974 180,025 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 73 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) The total loans renegotiated during the year was R$ 42,908 (R$ 35,340 in 2009). This type considers customers that have entered into debt acknowledgment. The total recovery of loans written off from prior periods was R$ 47,133 Bank and Credifibra (R$ 9,561 in 2009) in Fibra Consolidated. The provision to cover losses arising from credits has been established according to Brazilian Monetary Council (CMN) Resolution 2682. The minimum percentages for each risk band comply with the general rule, although higher levels are used within each risk band based on the judgment and experience of the Management. e. Loans assigned In the year ended December 31, 2010, the amount of R$72,957, referring to Payroll Loans, was granted with coobligation to financial institutions, generating income of R$9,731, net of taxes; and R$149,559, referring to CDC Vehicle portfolio, generating income of R$8,984, net or taxes. Also, the amount of R$12,768 was granted without coobligation to a financial institution for the financial value of R$4,100. This transaction had no impact on results, as the loss had benn provisioned. In the year ended December 31, 2009 there were no assigned credits. 10. Shareholding interest in subsidiaries 12/31/2010 Equity in earnings Equity in (losses) earnings Book value Book value Interest Net income of the (losses) of the of the of the held by Shareholders’ (loss) for subsidiary subsidiary investment investment Goodwill (4) Companies the Bank equity the year 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 Fibra Asset Management Distribuidora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários Ltda. 99.999% 46,140 (11,793) (11,793) 1,875 46,140 57,761 – Fibra Projetos e Consultoria Econômica Ltda. 99.999% 4,324 (1,001) (1,001) (982) 4,324 5,325 – Fibra Cia. Securitizadora de Créditos Financeiros (3) 99.999% 10,334 181 181 (11,956) 10,334 10,152 – Fibra Cia. Securitizadora de Créditos Imobiliários 99.958% 13,738 (436) (436) 1,754 13,732 14,168 – Credifibra S.A. Crédito, Financiamento e Investimento (5) 99.900% 717,659 10,394 10,394 58 717,659 7,051 – GVI Promotora de Vendas Ltda. (1) 99.900% – (26,942) (26,942) 5,480 – 390,155 27,231 Credfibra S.A. (2) 100.000% – – – 44 – – – Total – – (29,597) (3,727) 792,189 484,612 27,231 (1) In September 2009, Banco Fibra capitalized GVI Promotora de Vendas Ltda., with the amount of R$330,000, for the purpose of: i) acquisition of all the shares of Paulicred Promotora de Negócios Ltda., company specialized in the prospection of vehicle financing businesses, for the amount R$70,356, and goodwill amounting to R$69,287 based on expected future earnings, and amortization estimated over 10 years, and ii) acquisition of receivables from vehicle financing and payroll loans of Banco Paulista S.A., through the Receivables Investment Fund (GVI FDIC Financeiro) that on December 31, 2010 represents the amount of R$236,107, both executed by GVI Promotora de Vendas Ltda. As of December 30, 2009, GVI Promotora de Vendas Ltda. purchased from Banco Fibra S.A. all the 901,000 common shares issued by the company Credfibra S.A. for R$ 18,121, recording goodwill of R$ 17,142 on this date which is based on expected future earnings. In May 2010, Banco Fibra capitalized GVI Promotora de Vendas Ltda., in the amount of R$ 67,000; (2) As approved at a General Unitholders’ Meeting held on December 28, 2009, Paulicred Promotora de Negócios Ltda. and Credfibra S.A. were merged into GVI Promotora de Vendas Ltda.; (3) As approved by an Extraordinary General Meeting held on December 30, 2009, a capital reduction of R$ 30 million was carried out through the cancellation of 30,000,000 common shares. (4) Goodwill on acquisition of GVI Promotora de Vendas e Serviços Ltda was recorded based on future earnings and is presented in the Intangible assets group; (5) As approved by an Extraordinary General Meeting held on December 30, 2010, GVI Promotora de Vendas e Serviços Ltda was fully merged into Credifibra S.A. – Crédito, Financiamento e Investimento. As a result of the merger, the capital of Credifibra, went from R$307,000 to R$709,426 (Note 25 g). 74 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) 11. Agencies abroad Intercompany balances Third party balances Assets 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Cash and banks 21 21 8,047 4,789 Interbank investments 88,309 – – 28,730 Securities and derivative financial instruments 292,600 311,178 10,990 15,561 Loans 415,435 786,824 80,324 110,185 Other receivables – – 1,996 – Other assets – – 2,449 3,835 Liabilities 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Demand deposits – – 4,621 8,325 Time deposits – 26,119 32,005 52,914 Repurchase agreements – – – 1,664 Acceptance and endorsements – – 237,022 491,311 Borrowings and repass borrowings – – 97,160 139,032 Derivative financial instruments – – – 1,361 Other liabilities – – 224,374 246,338 The result recorded by Cayman branch, in the year, was R$ 22,952 (R$ 82,995 in 2009). 12. Interbank, demand, time deposits and others Maturity terms Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated Demand Demand and other Time Interbank Total and other Time Interbank Total deposits (1) deposits deposits deposits deposits (1) deposits deposits deposits Without maturity 177,950 – – 177,950 169,221 – – 169,221 Up to 30 days – 550,082 131,033 681,115 – 547,430 123,211 670,641 31 to 60 days – 309,399 158,677 468,076 – 307,733 62,741 370,474 61 to 90 days – 396,683 15,141 411,824 – 396,683 15,141 411,824 91 to 180 days – 855,431 154,279 1,009,710 – 850,622 116,134 966,756 181 to 360 days – 792,929 255,351 1,048,280 – 738,813 253,947 992,760 Over 360 days – 1,497,755 230,240 1,727,995 – 1,497,045 109,967 1,607,012 Total in 31/12/2010 177,950 4,402,279 944,721 5,524,950 169,221 4,338,326 681,141 5,188,688 Total in 31/12/2009 136,173 2,969,635 709,350 3,815,158 130,547 2,919,163 580,876 3,630,586 (1) Classified to current liabilities without considering the average historic turnover. Of the total portfolio of term deposits recorded at December 31, 2010 the amount of R$ 108,112 (R$ 284,662 in 2009) refers to operations that include a clause for possible anticipated liquidation, and are recorded in the current portion. At December 31, 2010, Banco Fibra included in its portfolio of term deposits, the amount of R$ 1,293,743 (R$ 596,314 in 2009), which referred to operations with Special Guarantees from the Credit Guarantor Fund (FGC). Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 75 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) 13. Money market repurchase commitments This refers to securities sold in the market carrying repurchase commitments, backed by government or third party securities according to the following terms: Up to 30 days Total in 31/12/2010 Total in 31/12/2009 Banco Fibra and Fibra Consolidated 53,460 53,460 3,977,113 14. Acceptances and endorsements Consolidated This refers to issuances of agricultural bonds and securities abroad, based on a program of total issues of up to US$ 1 billion. Banco Fibra S.A., through its branch located in Grand Cayman, has already made three issues in Dollars with rates of 6.5% to 8% per annum, and in 2007, two issues in Reais with rate the of 90.7% of CDI + 1.625% and 90% of CDI per annum, as follows: a. Obligations from the Issuance of Agribusiness Credit Notes Up to 31 to 91 to Total in Total in 30 days 90 days 180 days 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 Banco Fibra and Fibra Consolidated 152,113 101,177 57,623 310,913 176,923 Total 152,113 101,177 57,623 310,913 176,923 b. Notes and bonds issued abroad Up to 31 to 91 to Over Total in Total in 30 days 90 days 180 days 360 days 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 Series in R$ – 2,401 4,101 129,835 136,337 491,311 Series US$ 427 2,989 570,262 – 573,678 135,099 Total 427 5,390 574,363 129,835 710,015 626,410 15. Foreign borrowings and domestic repass borrowings a. Foreign Borrowings These are represented by funds in foreign currency on which financial charges are levied i.e., LIBOR plus interest ranging from 0.30% and 4.25% per annum or pre-fixed interest from 4.05% to 7.0% per annum, in the following terms: Up to 31 to 91 to 181 to Over Total in Total in 30 days 90 days 180 days 360 days 360 days 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 International Finance Corporation IFC 897 – 2,784 58,700 241,622 304,003 405,013 Other 87,367 232,101 210,878 158,703 104,837 793,886 750,680 Total 88,264 232,101 213,662 217,403 346,459 1,097,889 1,155,693 b. Domestic repasses Domestic onlendings, represented by funds transferred by BNDES and FINAME, adjusted for inflation by TJLP (long-term interest rate) and interest from 1.00% to 11.00% p.a, as follows: Up to 31 to 91 to 181 to Over Total in Total in 30 days 90 days 180 days 360 days 360 days 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 Banco Fibra S.A and Fibra Consolidated 30,419 54,882 86,715 184,824 207,576 564,416 324,596 76 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) 16. Foreign exchange portfolio Banco Fibra S.A. and Fibra Consolidated 12/31/2010 Interbank Clients Total Assets (543) 654,632 654,089 Purchase exchange pending settlement – 546,434 546,434 Rights on exchange sale – 113,658 113,658 (-) Advances in local currency (543) (21,888) (22,431) Income receivable – 16,428 16,428 Liabilities 112,682 84,187 196,869 Liabilities for exchange purchases – 566,678 566,678 Sold exchange pending sales settlement 112,682 – 112,682 (-) Advances on exchange contracts – (482,491) (482,491) Banco Fibra S.A. and Fibra Consolidated 12/31/2009 Interbank Clients Total Assets 143,792 565,331 709,123 Purchase exchange pending settlement – 541,781 541,781 Rights on exchange sale 143,861 8,941 152,802 (-) Advances in local currency (69) (9,155) (9,224) Income receivable – 23,764 23,764 Liabilities 144,099 25,618 169,717 Liabilities for exchange purchases – 575,984 575,984 Sold exchange pending sales settlement 144,099 3,521 147,620 (-) Advances on exchange contracts – (553,887) (553,887) 17. Breakdown of other accounts with significant balances a. Current assets and long term receivables Other receivables Other: Banco Fibra 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Guarantee deposits 64,234 59,238 Recoverable taxes 29,610 76,327 Receivables from purchase of assets 46,859 4,127 Retention program (Note 25 d) 57,735 – Advances for suppliers 2,357 1,497 Debtors from purchase of assets 2,319 – Loan operations to be processed (i) 13,657 – Other 12,953 18,359 Total 229,724 159,548 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 77 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Fibra Consolidated 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Guarantee deposits 104,178 114,532 Recoverable taxes 62,357 57,701 Receivables from purchase of assets 60,236 18,788 Retention program (Note 25 d) 61,492 – Advances for suppliers 2,716 1,553 Real estate receivables 11,087 18,788 Debtors from purchase of assets 2,319 – Loan operations to be processed (i) 18,915 – Receivables credit assignments (ii) 29,912 – Other 19,106 2,363 Total 372,318 213,725 (i) It refers to unprocessed receipt transactions (ii) Refer to an amount retained from the vehicle portfolio Granting, which will be settled as installments are received. b. Prepaid expenses Prepaid expenses refer to commissions paid to service providers resulting from the prospecting of retail operations and are controlled by contract. In case of portfolio granting, the corresponding commission expense is written off against results. The allocation of this expense to net income for the period is executed in accordance with the term of the contracts, as follows: Banco Fibra 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Commission payroll loan 22,367 24,173 Commission CDC 1,315 – Expenses from placing securities overseas 8,225 3,587 Discounts in financing and importing 1,700 – Consulting and advisory services 2,780 3,240 Total 36,387 31,000 Fibra Consolidated 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Commission payroll loan 22,367 24,173 Commission CDC 38,632 31,425 Expenses from placing securities overseas 8,225 3,587 Discounts in financing and importing 1,780 – Consulting and advisory services 2,780 – Total 73,784 59,185 c. Current liabilities Interbank accounts Interbank repasses This refers to the lines supported by Brazilian Central Bank Resolution 2770 repassed by Fibra Asset Management Distribuidora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários Ltda. to Banco Fibra S.A., at normal market rates and used to peg foreign currency repasses. d. Current liabilities and long term liabilities Other liabilities Other This refers mainly to the provisions for contingent liabilities, which totaled R$ 30,880 in Banco Fibra S.A. (R$14,514 in 2009) and R$ 40,826 in Fibra Consolidated (R$ 15,423 in 2009), provision for payments to be made of R$ 29,314 and Payroll Loans Receivable of R$ 26,257 in Banco Fibra S.A. (R$ 13,577 in 2009) and R$ 68,275 in Fibra Consolidated (R$ 18,591 in 2009), Certificates of Real Estate Receivables of R$ 8,679 (R$ 11,002 in 2009) in Fibra Consolidated, Retail Operations to Settle for the amount of R$ 35 in Banco Fibra S.A. and Fibra Consolidated (R$ 10,830 in 2009) and payable amounts due to investment aquisition of R$ 43,559 (R$ 43,718 in 2009) in Fibra Consolidated. 78 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) e. Other administrative expenses The account “Other administrative expenses” in the income statement refers to: Banco Fibra S.A. 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Transport 1,782 2,106 Amortization 7,104 4,050 Depreciation 1,818 1,576 Rents 4,804 3,871 Data processing 14,389 11,100 Communications 8,970 6,261 Outsourced services 12,715 59,604 Financial system services 13,139 10,839 Publicity and advertising expenses 1,509 1,385 Travelling expenses 1,442 1,419 Specialized technical services 45,322 12,041 Other 7,731 6,965 Total 120,725 121,217 Fibra Consolidated 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Transport 3,405 2,114 Amortization 18,671 5,162 Depreciation 2,865 2,394 Rents 7,657 5,460 Data processing 19,486 13,894 Communications 22,955 10,687 Outsourced services 11,493 11,612 Financial system services 14,892 10,926 Publicity and advertising expenses 5,556 2,826 Travelling expenses 4,712 3,715 Specialized technical services 28,843 13,268 Other 16,163 9,502 Total 156,698 91,560 f. Other operating income The account “Other Operating Income” in the statements of income, refers mainly to: Banco Fibra S.A. 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Interest on TCR operation 3,487 – Amnesty of Law 11941/09 – 3,571 Escrow deposit adjustment 404 2,013 Adjustment of taxes to be offset 3,170 1,946 Cayman foreign exchange variation – 873 Other 4,246 1,680 Total 11,307 10,083 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 79 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Fibra Consolidated 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Credit assignment income – 2,688 Interest on TCR operation 3,487 – Amnesty of Law 11941/09 – 8,888 Escrow deposit adjustment 1,257 5,015 Adjustment of taxes to be offset 4,826 2,490 Cayman foreign exchange variation – 873 Other 4,482 1,982 Total 14,052 21,936 g. Other operating expenses The account “Other Operating Expenses” in the statement s of income, refers mainly to: Banco Fibra S.A. 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Reintegration of goods 379 604 Civil contingencies 12,074 1,258 Provision for contingent liabilities 7,673 6,526 Legal indemnity costs 1,553 2,156 Collection fines 570 111 Money lending insurance 7,795 1,463 Sureties expenses 1,387 1,491 Amortization of goodwill 1,993 6,173 CDC operations expense 26 595 Other 8,240 2,597 Total 41,690 22,974 Fibra Consolidated 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Reintegration of goods 462 615 Civil contingencies 11,125 1,438 Provision for contingent liabilities 8,148 7,874 Legal indemnity costs 1,572 2,198 Collection fines 585 111 Foreign exchange variation – 183 Money lending insurance 7,824 1,511 Sureties expenses 1,397 1,538 Discounts 1,004 – Amortization of goodwill 1,993 6,173 CDC operations expense 26 595 Expenses for real estate credit operations 1,489 1,063 Other – 3,329 Total 35,625 26,628 80 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) h. Non-operating result This item refers mainly to the gains and losses in the sale of permanent assets, assets not for own use and the recording of provisions for potential losses on assets of this nature for the amount of R$ 3,273 in Banco Fibra and Fibra Consolidated, and losses from frauds from CDC/loan payroll operations for the amount of R$ 207 in Banco Fibra and R$ 232 in Fibra Consolidated, and result in the sale of investments (shares and quotas) in the amount of R$ 67 in Banco Fibra and Fibra Consolidated. 18. Taxes a) Breakdown of expenses with taxes and contributions I Income Tax and Social Contribution for the period are as follows 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Income before income taxes and prfit sharing 31,073 131,336 Payment of interest on own capital (22,248) (51,285) Profit sharing (12,334) (52,590) Income before income tax and social contribution (3,509) 27,461 Charges (Income tax and social contribution) pursuant to the current rates (Note 4l) 1,404 (10,984) Additions and exclusions in the fiscal base: (16,398) (42,347) Tax credits not activated during the period (287) (503) IRRF overseas (6,920) 5,772 Overseas losses (2,875) (32,366) Non deductible expenses permanents 6,819 3,145 Equity in income of subsidiaries and associated companies (9,229) (2,398) Other (3,906) (15,997) Total income tax and social contribution for the year (14,994) (53,331) II Tax expenses are mainly represented by PIS, COFINS and ISS. b) Tax credits I As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bank had income and social contribution tax credits, calculated according to the prevailing rates as shown below. These credits are recorded under assets as “Other Receivables Other” considering the estimates for realization in light of forecasts for taxable income based on a technical study. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, there are no tax credits that have not been recorded from income tax losses or the negative social contribution base in Banco Fibra and Fibra Consolidated. Banco Fibra S.A. Balance at Constitution/ Balance at 12/31/2009 (Realization) 12/31/2010 Total tax credits from temporary differences 178,982 4,980 183,962 Provision for doubtful loans 125,122 467 125,589 Provision for profit sharing – 2,304 2,304 Provision for labor contingencies 2,424 1,281 3,705 Provision for contingencies 33,609 17,206 50,815 Foreign income 1,912 (1,912) – Provision for devaluation of goods not for own use 440 1,107 1,547 Other 15,475 (15,473) 2 Tax losses and negative basis of social contribution tax 70,778 (6,687) 64,091 Social contribution tax M. P. nº 2158-35 issued 24/08/2001 9,762 (6,571) 3,191 Total tax credits 259,522 (8,278) 251,244 Deferred tax liabilities (95,740) 41,028 (54,712) Net tax credits 163,782 32,750 196,532 Net tax credits on shareholders’ equity 21.6% Net tax credits on assets 1.4% Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 81 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Banco Fibra S.A. Balance at Constitution/ Balance at 12/31/2008 (Realization) 12/31/2009 Total tax credits from temporary differences 186,268 (7,286) 178,982 Provision for doubtful loans 103,232 21,890 125,122 Provision for labor contingencies 2,235 189 2,424 Provision for contingencies 26,862 6,747 33,609 Foreign income 34,277 (32,365) 1,912 Provision for devaluation of securities and investments 18,858 (18,858) – Provision for devaluation of goods not for own use 440 – 440 2008 Long-term interest rate provision – 15,475 15,475 Other 364 (364) – Tax losses and negative basis of social contribution tax 86,483 (15,705) 70,778 Social contribution tax M. P. nº 2158-35 issued 24/08/2001 9,762 – 9,762 Total tax credits 282,513 (22,991) 259,522 Deferred tax liabilities (67,186) (28,554) (95,740) Net tax credits 215,327 (51,545) 163,782 Net tax credits on shareholders’ equity 28.4% Net tax credits on assets 2.2% Fibra Consolidated Balance at Constitution/ Balance at 12/31/2009 (Realization) 12/31/2010 Total tax credits from temporary differences 208,178 29,188 237,366 Provision for doubtful loans 132,343 19,697 152,040 Profit sharing – 3,693 3,693 Provision for labor contingencies 2,424 1,811 4,235 Provision for contingencies 37,869 21,601 59,470 Foreign income 1,912 (1,912) – Provision for devaluation of securities and investments 17,604 (1,334) 16,270 Provision for devaluation of goods not for own use 530 1,107 1,637 Other 15,496 (15,475) 21 Tax losses and negative basis of social contribution tax 86,868 (12,382) 74,486 Social contribution tax M. P. nº 2158-35 issued 24/08/2001 9,761 (6,571) 3,190 Total tax credits 304,807 10,235 315,042 Deferred tax liabilities (95,784) 41,261 (54,523) Net tax credits 209,023 51,496 260,519 Net tax credits on shareholders’ equity 27.34% Net tax credits on assets 1.8% Fibra Consolidated Balance at Constitution/ Balance at 12/31/2008 (Realization) 12/31/2009 Total tax credits from temporary differences 206,891 1,287 208,178 Provision for doubtful loans 103,322 29,021 132,343 Provision for labor contingencies 2,234 190 2,424 Provision for contingencies 33,717 4,153 37,870 Foreign income 34,277 (32,365) 1,912 Provision for devaluation of securities and investments 32,424 (14,821) 17,603 Provision for devaluation of goods not for own use 530 – 530 Other 387 15,109 15,496 Tax losses and negative basis of social contribution tax 102,290 (15,422) 86,868 Social contribution tax M. P. nº 2158-35 issued 24/08/2001 9,761 – 9,761 Total tax credits 318,942 (14,135) 304,807 Deferred tax liabilities (67,186) (28,598) (95,784) Net tax credits 251,756 (42,733) 209,023 Net tax credits on shareholders’ equity 36.10% Net tax credits on assets 3.0% 82 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) II As of December 31, 2010, based on a technical study which considered past realization and future profitability forecasts, we present below the annual forecast of realization of tax credits on timing differences, tax losses and negative basis of social contribution tax, and their respective present values. To calculate the present value of the tax credits, the companies utilized as a funding cost the SELIC Rate projected year by year for the next 10 years; deducting the tax impact of IRPJ and CSLL at the rates in force on the balance sheet date. Banco Fibra S.A. Fibra Consolidated Year to be realized Temporary differences Temporary differences 2011 20,858 27,512 2012 20,638 27,396 2013 22,453 29,331 2014 23,381 30,397 2015 25,482 32,657 2016 28,003 35,360 2017 31,028 38,595 2018 28,762 33,271 2019 31,283 36,069 2020 19,356 24,454 Total em 31/12/2010 251,244 315,042 Present value 181,320 220,922 19. Contingent assets and liabilities and legal obligations Tax and social security Banco Fibra and its subsidiaries are involved in legal suits and administrative processes arising during the normal course of operations concerning issues of a civil, labor, tax and social security nature. a. Contingent assets Are not accounted for except upon the existence of a favorable ruling, for which no appeals are permitted, characterized as practically certain. The most significant are: (i) COFINS (Tax for Social Security Financing) R$ 25,601 and PIS R$ 4,934: petition for restitution of values paid from July 2001 to June 2006, which exceed the calculation on the basis of Complementary Law 7/70 and in view of the unconstitutionality of the expansion of the calculation base provided in Law 9718/98; (ii) administrative processes for the amount of R$ 23,075. b. Provisions of a labor and civil nature The Banco Fibra and Fibra consolidated, based on the information provided by their legal counsel and on a review of the pending legal matters, which involve suits calling for indemnity of material losses and damages, especially arising from the collection of debts, has established provisions for all suits, regardless of the amount and status of said suits, using the internal calculation criterium. In relation to labor suits, based on prior experience related to amounts demanded and in accordance with the status of each one of the processes, the Company has established a provision in an amount deemed sufficient to cover estimated losses involved in the pending suits. c. Legal obligations and contingent liabilities classified as probable losses The legal obligations and contingent liabilities classified as probable losses have been fully accrued. The most relevant issues are: • COFINS and PIS Petitions payment of the contributions beginning June 2006 on the basis of the calculation stipulated by Complementary Law 7/70, in and in view of the unconstitutionality of the enlargement of the calculation basis provided in Law 9718/98. Banco Fibra and Fibra Asset Management obtained a favorable court decision to recognize the right to the payment without the enlargement of the calculation basis imposed by Art. 3 of Law 9718/98, and did not file an Appeal against the decision contrary to the revocation of the total exemption from the contributions. After the decision, Banco Fibra S.A. and Fibra Asset Management DTVM Ltda., who were benefited by the preliminary injunction, started to pay the contribution without the enlargement of the calculation basis imposed by Law 9718/98. The lawyers working on this process understand that the loss probability to Banco Fibra S.A and Fibra Asset Management DTVM Ltda. is very low. d. Contingent liabilities classified as possible losses The contingent liabilities classified as possible losses are monitored by the institution and are based on reports issued by its legal counsel in relation to each one of the legal measures and administrative processes. Therefore, according to prevailing regulations, the contingencies classified as possible losses have not been recorded in the accounting records. a) R$ 27,001 for ISS (Services tax) collection in several periods and by several municipalities in Brazil on leasing operations, since the same tax had been collected in the city in which the now defunct company was located; b) R$ 13,894 for CPMF from the leasing company, claiming the same treatment as financial institutions; c) R$ 14,298 from assessments raised by municipals, charging service tax (ISS) on various accounts, based on the argument that they refer to income from services provided; d) R$ 10,501 for IRPJ and CSLL for deducting losses from assignment of doubtful debt operations; e) R$ 3,074 for a nullification claim for an assessment raised for IRPJ for 1991 and f) R$ 517 Administrative processes (ISS on leasing operations mercantile/ISS on banking services/CSLL and IRPJ compensation of losses incorporation). Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 83 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) e. Movement of the provision for legal claims Fibra Consolidated 12/31/2009 12/ 31/2010 Beggining balance Movement Final balance Civil and labor Civil suits 9,361 20,997 30,358 Labor suits 6,062 4,688 10,750 Total 15,423 25,685 41,108 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 Beggining balance Movement Final balance Tax legal obligation CSLL 86 – 86 INSS Education salary 744 4 748 Finsocial 1,161 – 1,161 ISS 199 – 199 PIS Law 9718 13,443 4,643 18,086 Cofins Law 9718 77,865 28,208 106,073 Total 93,498 32,855 126,353 f. Program for Lump Sum Payment or Installment Payment of Federal Taxes Law 11941/09 Banco Fibra and its subsidiaries enrolled with the program for installment payment and lump sum payment of tax debts, which grants amnesty for debts managed by the Federal Revenue Secretariat and the National Treasury Legal Department, introduced by Law 11941/09. Under this program, it is possible to pay in a lump sum or in installments the debts overdue up to November 30, 2008, consolidated by the company in default, with suspended payment or not, owed to the Federal Government or not, taken on a stand-alone basis, even when a tax collection action has already been filed, or which have been enrolled in a previous installment payment program cancelled for nonpayment. The main proceedings included in this program are: i) CSLL Isonomy Lodged to suspend the CSLL requirement applicable to financial institutions at rates higher than those applicable to other legal entities in view of the disregard to the constitutional principle of isonomy. ii) PIS – requested the discontinuation of the administrative collection action filed as a result of the offsetting of credits recorded from 1996 to 1998, referring to the calculation bases introduced by Constitutional Amendments 10/96 and 17/97. iii) Administrative Proceedings refer to a provision for Income Tax and Social Contribution calculated based on the expenses for write-off to losses of loan operations disallowed by the Federal Revenue Service. 20. Subordinated debt eligible for capital At December 31, 2010, the total balance of issues in subordinated debt, dully homologated by the Central Bank of Brazil, amounted to R$ 394,634 (R$ 399,482 in 2009) in issued securities, of which the amount of R$ 263,930 (R$ 312,517 in 2009) can be calculated as eligible for Level II Regulatory Capital, as presented below: 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Date of operation Date of maturity Remuneration Balance Capital level II Balance Capital level II 5/18/2007 5/18/2012 CDI + 1.28% 115,341 23,068 103,757 41,502 10/30/2007 10/30/2012 CDI + 1.08% 27,402 5,480 24,699 9,880 3/24/2008 3/25/2013 CDI + 1.38% 27,516 11,007 24,728 14,837 10/14/2005 3/2/2016 PRÉ + 7.5% 51,215 51,215 53,542 53,542 11/16/2009 11/16/2016 PRÉ + 8.5% 173,160 173,160 192,756 192,756 Total 394,634 263,930 399,482 312,517 21. Shareholders’ equity a. Capital In an Extraordinary General Meeting held on September 30, 2010, it was decided that there should be a Capital Increase of the Company of R$ 100,000, by means of issue of 231,650,284 new shares, of which R$ 92,075 paid-up and R$ 7,925 not yet paid-up. The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held on November 30, 2010 decided to pay in as capital an amount of R$7,925, through the issuance of 18,359 common shares, with capital going from R$706,461 to R$806,461. These operations were homologated by the Brazilian Central Bank on February 15, 2011. 84 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Capital is now constituted by 1,882,508,714 shares, of which 1,816,431,825 are common shares and 66,076,889 are preferred shares, all of them nominative and with no par value. Each common share corresponds to 1 (one) vote in Annual Shareholders’ Meetings, and preferred shares have no voting rights, but the following preferences and advantages are ensured: (i) right to participate in profit distributions under the same terms as ordinary shares; (ii) priority in reimbursement of capital at no premium; and (iii) right to be included in the public offer of shares, arising from the sale of the controlling interest or the cancellation of the company’s registration as a public corporation, or discontinuity of the segment from the Level I list with Bovespa (except if to another segment from the Bovespa list), guaranteeing dividends at least equal to those for ordinary shares from the controlling block. b. Reserves Legal reserve This is mandatory based on 5% of net income for the period, until reaching 20% of realized capital stock, or 30% of capital plus capital reserves. After this limit, allocation is no longer mandatory. c. Dividends and interest on own capital The shareholders are entitled to receive mandatory dividends of not less than 25% (twenty five percent) of net profits for the calendar year, every year, after deductions provided for in the By-laws and in compliance with that contained in the Brazilian Corporation Law. The amount paid or credited as equity earnings according to relevant legislation can be construed as mandatory dividends and incorporating such amount to the amount of dividends distributed by the Company for all legal purposes. Intermediary and interim dividends must at all times be credited and acknowledged as advances on mandatory dividends. 22. Related party transactions a. Related party transactions The transactions carried out between related parties are disclosed to comply with Resolution 3750 of the National Monetary Council (CMN) of June 30, 2009. These transactions are performed under the usual market values, terms, rates and conditions prevailing on their respective dates, as described below: Assets Income Assets Income Liabilities (expenses) Liabilities (expenses) 12/31/2010 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 12/31/2009 Interbank deposits Credifibra S.A. Crédito, Financiamento e Investimento 1,449,047 88,160 – – Securities and derivative financial instruments Fibra Asset Management DTVM Ltda 5,192 26,168 400,155 20,190 Other receivables Fibra Asset Management DTVM Ltda 20 – 747 – Credifibra S.A. Crédito, Financiamento e Investimento 5,785 – 23 – Deposits Fibra Asset Management DTVM Ltda 5,192 26,168 (133,505) (2,303) Credifibra S.A. Crédito, Financiamento e Investimento (198,737) (4,301) – – Elizabeth S.A. – – (10,155) (1,018) Fibra Cia. Securitizadoras de Créditos Imobiliários (9,848) (786) (5,337) (4,243) Fibra Cia. Securitizadora de Créditos Financeiros (2,331) (214) (2,917) (293) Fibra Projetos e Consultoria Econômica Ltda (100) (9) (398) (47) GVI Promotora de Vendas Ltda – – (21,963) (1,580) Credfibra S.A – – (4) (48) Interbank repasses Fibra Asset Management DTVM Ltda. 283,985 21,831 – – Other liabilities Fibra Asset Management DTVM Ltda. (292,600) (26,788) – – Derivative financial instruments Fibra Asset Management DTVM Ltda. (102,748) (21,966) – – Associated companies of Parent Group CFL Participações S.A. (1,329) (191) (759) (104) Cia. de Gás do Ceará CEGAS (5,102) (1,043) (6,942) (1,043) Cia. Siderúrgica Nacional – (1,233) (25,460) (686) Cia. Sul Riograndense de Imóveis (6,369) (733) (9,413) (724) CIPLA Serviços e Empreendimentos Imobiliários Ltda. (4,142) (417) (2,605) (269) COTESUL Participações Ltda. (419) (47) (375) (80) Fazenda Santa Otília Agropecuária Ltda. (7,491) (698) (6,114) (550) Fibra Empreendimentos Imobiliários S.A. (272) (113) (2,338) (608) Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 85 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) Ativo Receita Ativo Receita Passivo (Despesa) Passivo (Despesa) 31/12/2010 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2009 Fibra Experts Emp. Imobiliários Ltda. (47,033) (2,375) (12,884) (669) Pinhal Administração e Participações Ltda. (4,859) (370) (2,478) (393) Rio Purus Participações S.A. (4,267) (463) (5,222) (73) Taquari Participações S.A. (9,251) (335) (2,564) (621) Transnordestina Logística S.A. (17,967) (2,209) (74,208) (4,499) Vicunha Aços S.A. (27,485) (2,599) (19,982) (1,055) Vicunha Agropecuária S.A. (1,185) (261) (4,284) (296) Vicunha S.A. (5,505) (128) (16) (120) Vicunha Siderurgia S.A. (31,166) (2,441) (10,128) (9,538) Vicunha Steel S.A. (1,003) (94) (448) (87) Vicunha Textil S.A. (25) (1,745) (84,208) (8,707) Clube de Investimento KOKUREN – – (1,938) (315) Empresas no Exterior – – (226) – Majority shareholders and key management personnel (75,541) (7,325) (21,136) (2,901) Interbank accounts Fibra Asset Management DTVM Ltda. – – (281,613) 79,972 Borrowings and repass borrowings IFC 440,339 46,682 (405,015) 146,153 Other liabilities Fibra Asset Management DTVM Ltda. – – (21) – GVI Promotora de Vendas Ltda. – (21,334) (6,410) (49,838) b. Remuneration of the key personnel of management The Bank’s directors are remunerated through Director Compensation or salaries when registered under the CLT regime, which are presented in the personnel expenses account. The breakdown of the fees paid to the key personnel of management in the period is as follows: 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Fixed remuneration Management (1) 6,180 6,971 Variable remuneration Management (1) 847 12,308 Total 7,027 19,279 (1) Represented by the directors appointed pursuant the the Bylaws of Banco Fibra. Banco Fibra does not have post-employment benefit plans, employment termination benefits, other long-term benefits or share-based compensation. In the retention program, management was entitled to the amount informed in note 25 d. 23. Fund management Fibra Consolidated is responsible for the management of a number of investment funds and portfolios, of which net assets totaled R$ 768,598 at December 31, 2010 (in 2009, R$ 842,425). 24. Operational limits Basel agreement Financial institutions must maintain a minimum shareholders’ equity of 11% of its consolidated assets weighted according to degree of risk plus percentages of the swap credit risk over gold exposure and liabilities referred to under foreign exchange fluctuation and interest rate variations, according to the regulations and instructions issued by BACEN. As from July 1, the calculation of the Basel ratio has changed. Pursuant to the terms of the New Capital Accord (Basel II). On December 31, 2010 and 2010, the Bank was within this operations limit as shown below: 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Reference equity (PR) 1,052,777 1,098,457 Required Reference Equity (PRE) (907,574) (682,063) Amount corresponding to the PBAN (1) (22,048) (30,023) Margem 123,155 386,371 (1) Interest rate market risk of banking portfolio. On December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Required Shareholders’ Equity according to the prevailing regulations was equal to 12.8% (in 2009, 17.7%). 86 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands of Reais) 25. Supplementary information a. Guarantees and surety bonds Responsibility of the Bank for guarantees, surety bonds and collateral extended to third parties, on December 31: 12/31/2010 12/31/2009 Surety Bonds Financial legal entities 51,879 12,316 Surety Bonds Individuals and non-financial legal entities 290,000 424,271 Loans opened for imports 37,784 2,016 Total 379,663 438,603 b. Employee benefits The Bank offers its employees the following benefits: life insurance, health insurance, food voucher, meal ticket and transport voucher. None of these benefits are considered an integral part of the salary. The Bank did not contribute to private pension or complementary plans in the years ended 2010 and 2009. c. Profit sharing Employees The Bank has its own model of payment of Profit and Gain Sharing, with criteria and parameters established in a specific plan filed at the Bankers’ Union. The amount of profit share paid or provisioned during the year ended December 31, 2010 was R$ 17,232 (R$ 32,887, in 2009). d. Retention program Considering the scenario of good opportunities for the financial market in the coming years, the maintenance of internal economic stability, economic growth of the country and with the purpose of keeping its human capital, the Executive Board decided to adopt a retention bonus compensation model. This program pays the amounts in two installments, with first installment by December 31, 2010 and the second installment by February 29, 2012, retention to be held for no less than 24 months and formalized through a contract between employer and employee. Amounts contracted on December 31, 2010 represent R$57,735 in Banco Fibra and R$61,492 in Fibra Consolidated, with Management entitled to R$31,426 in Banco Fibra and R$32,063 in Fibra Consolidated. e. Insurance contract The Bank has insurance for specified risks with basic coverage for fire, lightning, explosion or implosion building, machinery, furniture and fixtures, electrical damage, electronic equipment, business interruption as a result of the basic coverage (for the period of 6 months), loss or payment of rent (6 month period), expenses with re-composition of records and documents and civil liability for business establishments. The maximum amount of coverage is R$ 67,000 and the period of coverage extends up to March 2011. f. Acquisitions On March 30, 2010, Banco Fibra, through Promotora de Vendas GVI Promotora de Vendas Ltda, purchased all of the shares issued by SOFCRED Promotora de Vendas Ltda. for R$120,000, amount paid on May 14, 2010. Subsequently, Sofcred changed its name to GVCRED Promotora de Vendas e Serviços Ltda. The goodwill of R$27,231 was based on future expected earnings and estimated amortization over 10 years. On September 16, 2010, Banco Fibra, through its credit company Credifibra S.A. Crédito, Financiamento e Investimento acquired all f the shares issued by Validata Meios de Pagamento Ltda., with no liens or encumbrances. The amount paid for this acquisition is R$20,367. g. Mergers (3) As approved by an Extraordinary General Meeting held on December 1, 2010, GVI Promotora de Vendas e Serviços Ltda was fully merged into Credifibra S.A. – Crédito, Financiamento e Investimento. As a result of the merger, Credifibra’s capital was increased by R$402,426, and capital went from R$307,000 to R$709,426, through the issuance of 397,250 common shares, all nominative and with no par value. h. Intangible assets As of December 31, 2010, goodwil is recorded in intangible assets, as follows: Banco Fibra: GVI Promotora de vendas Ltda. 27,231 Total 27,231 Fibra Consolidated: GVI Promotora de vendas Ltda. 27,231 Credfibra 14,654 Paulicred 62,359 GVCred 117,639 Total 221,883 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 87 Audit Committee Report Introduction: Pursuant to its Internal Rules and Corporate Governance practices, it is incumbent upon the Committee to ensure the quality and effectiveness of the controls and the compliance of the Fibra Conglomerate operations and businesses with all legal provisions, and to furnish the results to the Board of Directors, including information on the evaluations presented by the Internal and the External Auditors. The analyses of the Committee were based on the information received from Management, Accounting, External Auditing, Internal Auditing, the parties responsible for managing risks and internal controls, and its own evaluations, derived from direct observation. It is the duty of Management to determine and implement the information systems that produce the financial statements of the companies of which the Conglomerate is comprised, in keeping with corporate law, accounting practices and the rules and standards of Comissão de Valores Mobiliários (the Brazilian Securities Commission), Conselho Monetário Nacional (the National Monetary Council) and Banco Central do Brasil (the Brazilian Central Bank). Management is also responsible for the ongoing improvement of processes, policies and control procedures, to foster an environment suitable for managing the risks, operations and systems of the Institution. KPMG Auditores Independentes is the auditing firm responsible for examining the financial statements and for issuing an opinion on their compliance with accounting principles. Additionally, it produces a report with recommendations for the improvement of accounting procedures and internal controls. Internal Auditing focuses on evaluating the quality of the processes and the effectiveness of the internal controls and of the risk management activities, providing the Committee with a critical view of both. Activities conducted under the scope of its duties during this period: Activities were conducted to evaluate the integrity and quality of the financial statements. The monitoring of the activities of the organization to align its control structure with the requirements of the International Finance Reporting Standards – IFRS continue to fall within the scope of the elements monitored. Evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control systems: It is the understanding of the Committee that the Internal Controls System is continuously improved and integrated with the risk management and Corporate Governance processes. Furthermore, the ongoing development of the Control System helps to strengthen the culture of the group’s personnel and partners, reiterating the commitment of the institution to maintaining sound and continuous growth. The Committee has evaluated the effectiveness of the internal controls system positively, given the activities implemented and those that are under way. The Institution also maintains a conservative posture with regard to undertaking risks and therefore its perennial growth strategy encompasses compatible strengthening of the control structure. Thus, as a result of such work, the following activities were conducted: • Improvement of the internal controls structure of the Accounting Area, by means of an internal review of processes, controls, interfaces and systems, including the prioritization of the project of spreadsheet review and standardization. • Execution of a joint project with an external consulting firm regarding the processes of the Accounting, Control, and Risk Areas in order to improve control practices. • Institutional training on IFRS International Finance Reporting; Banco Fibra prioritized corporate training activities targeting management, to help with the convergence process. • Continuous strengthening of the governance structure, of which the highlight was the creation of a dedicated committee focused on accounting issues. • Strengthening of the Internal Auditing team to expand accounting and auditing coverage via indicators. The scope of the work of KPMG Auditores Independentes mainly covered the following: • Mapping and evaluating the risk of errors in the accounting statements, connected with the strategies of the organizations held by the group. • Evaluation of the use of specialists in Systems Auditing. • Execution of limited review procedures for the purpose of issuing IFTs and ITRs. • Report on the evaluation of the quality and suitability of the Internal Controls System. Internal Auditing, based on the planning of its activities, focuses on the priority business cycles, auditing processes centered on risks with the use of market methodology. The opportunities for improvement identified were submitted to the respective areas, whereas the recommendations were monitored by the Internal Controls Committee and the Board of Directors. Evaluation of the quality of accounting recommendations for the respective periods, with emphasis on the application of the accounting practices adopted and on compliance with the applicable standards and rules: The Audit Committee has been monitoring the measures related with the project of restructuring the Accounting Area and the improvement of the respective controls. São Paulo, March 15, 2011 Audit Committee Maércio Soncini Glauco Cavalcante Lima (Qualified Member) 88 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 Independent auditors’ report To The Management and Shareholders of Banco Fibra S.A. São Paulo SP We have audited the individual and consolidated financial statements (Consolidado Econômico Financeiro CONEF) of Banco Fibra S.A., identified as “Banco Fibra S.A.” and “Fibra Consolidated”, respectively, which comprise the balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 and the related statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows, for the year and semester then ended, and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies as well as the summary of the significant accounting practices and other explanatory notes. Responsibility of management for the individual and consolidated financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the individual and consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil, applicable to institutions authorized to operate by Central Bank of Brazil and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Brazilian and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements of the Bank in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion on the individual and consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the individual and consolidated aforementioned financial statements (Consolidado Econômico Financeiro CONEF) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Banco Fibra S.A., and the consolidated financial position of the Bank and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010, the performance of its operations and its cash flows, for the year and semester then ended in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil, applicable to institutions authorized to operate by Central Bank of Brazil. Emphasis of matter The individual and consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 are being re-submitted with adjusted balances, as mentioned in note 2. Other matter Statements of added value We have also examined the individual and consolidated statements of added value of Banco Fibra S.A. for the year ended at December 31, 2010, whose presentation has been carried out in a spontaneous manner by the Bank. These statements were submitted to the same audit procedures previously described and, in our opinion, these supplementary statements are adequately presented, in all material respects, in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole. São Paulo, February 18, 2011 KPMG Auditores Independentes CRC 2SP014428/O-6 Original report in Portuguese signed by Giuseppe Masi Accountant CRC 1SP176273/O-7 Luciana Liberal Sâmia Accountant CRC 1SP198502/O-8 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 89 Corporate information board of directors Ribeirão Preto (SP) Av. Presidente Vargas, 2.001 Room 84 8th floor Ricardo Steinbruch – Chairman ZIP code 14020-260 Jardim Califórnia Clarice Steinbruch – Board member Phones: 55(16) 3911-7844 / (16) 3913-4404 Elisabeth Steinbruch Schwarz – Board member José Antônio Miguel Neto – Independent Board member Belo Horizonte (MG) Luiz Nelson Guedes de Carvalho – Independent Board member Avenida Getúlio Vargas, 1.300 – Room 1.907 – 19th floor Bernard Camille Paul Mencier – Independent Board member ZIP code 30112-021 – Savassi Ricardo Duarte Caldeira – Appointed by IFC Board member Phone: 55(31) 3078-6700 Curitiba (PR ) Alameda Dr. Carlos de Carvalho, 417 – Room 804 Executive Officers ZIP code 80410-180 – Centro Antonio Francisco de Lima Neto – Chief Executive Officer Phone: 55(41) 3324-1261 Maercio Soncini – Executive Vice-President of Wholesale Business Fortaleza (CE) Marcio Ronconi de Oliveira – Executive Vice-President of Retail Business Avenida Santos Dumont, 1.789 – Room 301 Glauco Cavalcante Lima – Executive Corporate Vice-President ZIP code 60150-160 – Aldeota Luiz Maurício Jardim – Executive Director of Treasury and Funding Phone: 55(85) 3261-1520 / Fax: (85) 3261-2420 Carlos Alexandre Ribeiro Bicudo – Director of Credit Luciana Buchmann Freire – Legal Director Rio de Janeiro (RJ) Simone Schmidt Belleza Colombino – Middle Market Commercial Director Praia de Botafogo, 228 Room 1402 ala B 14th floor ZIP code 22250-040 Centro Phone: 55(21) 2109-6700 / 2109-6708 Addresses Recife (PE) BANCO FIBRA S/A Rua Antônio Lumack do Monte, 128 Room 604 and 605 6th floor São Paulo head office ZIP code 51020-350 Boa Viagem Avenida Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek, 360 4th to 9th floors Phone: 55(81) 3326-4215 ZIP code 04543-000 – Chácara Itaim Porto Alegre (RS) Phones: 55(11) 3847-6700, 3811-4771, 3811-4770 R. Furriel Luiz Antonio de Vargas, 250 Room 404 São Bernardo do Campo (SP) ZIP code 90470-130 – Bela Vista Rua Rio Branco, 427 – Rooms 6.008 and 7.008 Phone: 55(51) 3333-1480 ZIP code 09710-090 – Centro Goiânia (GO ) Phones: 55(11) 4337-1136, 4123-3511 Avenida 136, 960 – 17th floor – Setor Marista Campinas (SP) ZIP code 74180-040 Avenida Selma Parada, 201 – Room 402 – Galeria Office Park Phone: 55(62) 3091-1298 ZIP code 13091-904 – Jardim Madalena Cuiabá (MT) Phones: 55(19) 3207-3391, 3207-1266 Avenida Historiador Rubens de Mendonça, 1.894 Guarulhos (SP) ZIP code 78050-000 – Jd. Aclimação Rua Morvan de Figueiredo, 73 Room. 23 2nd floor Phone: 55(65) 3052-1478 ZIP code 07090-010 Centro Salvador (BA ) Phone: 55(11) 2443 1264 Av. Tancredo Neves, 1632 Rooms 910 and 911 ZIP code 41820-020 Salvador Phone: 55(71) 3341 9753 90 Banco Fibra | Annual Report 2010 credifibra Customer service individuals CREDIFIBRA branches in the process of being opened on December 31, 2010 (documentation being processed by the appropriate government bodies) 24h a day, 7 days a week (including service for hearing or speech impaired clients) Bauru (SP) Rua José Ferreira Marques, 1045 1st floor room 11 Customer service Organizations ZIP code: 17012-200 Cidade Universitária Hours: Monday to Saturday, from 8:00 a.m.to 8 p.m. Belém (PA) Capital cities: 4007.1747 Rua Antônio Barreto, 130 rooms 1604/1606/1608 Other locations: 0800.604.0484 ZIP code: 66055-050 Umarizal CREDIFIBRA Brasília (DF) SIA/SUL, Trecho 3, Lotes 625/695 room 402 A In December 2009, the Brazilian Central Bank authorized Banco Fibra to open ZIP code: 71200-030 Guará its finance firm, CREDIFIBRA S.A., Crédito, financiamento e investimento S/A. Since then, all Banco Fibra retail credit operations previously conducted Caxias do Sul (RS) by GVI Promotora de Vendas e Serviços Ltda have been concentrated in Rua Carlos Giesen, 1297 room 505 CREDIFIBRA. One of the main requirements of this undertaking was opening ZIP code: 95084-220 Exposição CREDIFIBRA branches in the towns were GVI operated. Cuiabá (MT) CREDIFIBRA branches established by December 2010 Av. Historiador Rubens de Mendonça, 2254 rooms 308 and 309 ZIP code: 78065-050 Jardim Aclimação Addresses: Fortaleza Av. Dom Luiz, 176 room 1304 and 1305 H ead office ZIP code: 60160-230 Adeola Alameda Santos, 1787 7th floor ZIP code 01419-002– São Paulo Joiville Rua Dona Francisca, 260 9th floor room 902 Belo Horizonte (MG) ZIP code: 89201-250 Centro Av. Brasil 1.666 – 4th floor ZIP code 30140-003 – Funcionários Juiz de Fora (MG) Av. Rio Branco, 2390 – 7th floor rooms 703, 704 Campinas (SP) ZIP code: 36010-012 Centro Avenida Selma Parada, 201 – Room 402 – Galeria Office Park ZIP code 13091-904 – Jardim Madalena Manaus (AM) Rua Rio Içá, 480 room 102 Conj. Vieiralves Curitiba (PR ) ZIP code: 69053-100 Rua Marechal Deodoro, 630 2nd floor Cj 207 ZIP code 80010-912 – Centro Maringá (PR) Av. São Paulo, 172 14th floor rooms 1408/1410 Florianópolis (SC) ZIP code: 87013-908 Centro Rua Domingos André Zanine 277 – 9th floor room 911 ZIP code 88117-200 – Campinas Recife (PE) Av. Agamenon Magalhães, 2.936 rooms 101 and 102 Goiânia (GO ) ZIP code 52020-000 – Espinheiro Av. Goiás, 315 – 4th SI 401/402/403 ZIP code 74005-010 – Setor Central Salvador (BA ) Av. Tancredo Neves, 1.632 Torre Sul rooms 301/302/303 and 304 Porto Alegre (RS) ZIP code 41820-020 – Caminho das Árvores Rua dos Andradas, 1.001, loja 101 – 17th floor rooms 1701 and 1702 ZIP code 90020-007 Centro São José dos Campos (SP) Av. Dr. João Guilhermino, 261 room 54 5th floor Ribeirão Preto (SP) ZIP code: 12210 131 Centro Rua Couto Magalhães, 210 1st floor room 6 ZIP code: 14025-690 Alto da Boa Vista Uberlândia (MG) Av. Floriano Peixoto, 615 rooms 2101/2102 and 2103 Rio de Janeiro (RJ) ZIP code 38400-102 – Centro Av. Rio Branco, 80 4th and 5th floor ZIP code: 20040-070 Centro Vitória (ES) Av. João Batista Parra, 673 room 1802-A São José do Rio Preto ZIP: 29052-123 PRaia do Sua Rua Marechal Deodoro da Fonseca, 3131 5th floor room 51/53 ZIP code: 15010-070 centro CREDITS Content coordination – Investor Relations Area Creation coordination – Marketing Area Write-up Editora Contadino Planning / graphic design Luz Publicidade / Elizandro Rabelo Photographs SambaPhoto Printer Argon Av. Pres. Juscelino Kubitschek, 360 – 4th TO 9th floors ZIP code 04543-000 – Chácara Itaim São Paulo SP brazil www.bancofibra.com.br
