February 15, 2011 Communication on Progress Covering the period from 1 July 2009 through 30 June 2010. BrownFlynn For more information on sustainability at BrownFlynn and our commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, please read our 2009-2010 Sustainability Report – a GRI-checked A-level report – available online at: United Nations http://www.bfreport2010.com Global Compact CEO letter Communication The purpose of our work at BrownFlynn is to assist and guide organizations on Progress towards the management of their economic, environmental and social impacts. Our vision is for a sustainable economy and we believe that the United Nations Global Compact is a serious contributor towards this shared vision. The Ten Principles endorse and address human rights, fair labor, responsible environmental management and anti-corruption. These mirror the principles we hold true for our business and the principles we recommend for our clients. As such, we remain committed to supporting the UNGC and each of the Ten Principles. Human rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Human rights are important to BrownFlynn, however these issues are not material impacts from our operations. We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and apply our Sustainable Purchasing Policy to eliminate known offenders from our value chain. As a boutique consulting firm operating in the United States, we have no direct Human Rights impacts in our services, nor are we aware of any impacts in the products and services we purchase. Implementation We utilize our Sustainable Purchasing Policy to direct the removal of any offending products or services from our value chain. We do not have the scale or resources to perform first-party investigations of the products we buy, so we rely on the markets, government or other third-parties to identify troubling products or services. Measurement We have had no known impacts and do not expect to have any. Labor Assessment, Policy and Goals We commit to support and uphold any and all labor laws which apply to BrownFlynn. We utilize a general office policy to explain employee benefits and explain any employee rights and responsibilities. More information about our policies and culture can be found in our 2009-2010 Sustainability Report. Implementation BrownFlynn management has an open-door policy, is committed to providing fair wages and a safe, healthy work environment. We have no labor violations to report. We are in compliance with all relevant labor regulations and have remained in compliance during the entire period. Measurement Our company culture is described in our 2009-2010 Sustainability Report. We have had zero incidents and do not expect to have any. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals As environmental sustainability continues to grow and significantly impact personal and business decisions around the globe, our conviction to improve our own performance is stronger than ever. Although some of our greatest examples of advancing environmental sustainability are through our client work, we also strive to respect the environment with our internal operations. Our environmental footprint may be small, but we believe everything we can do to conserve energy, reduce waste and use less water counts. We have developed an environmental policy and are now in the process of setting concrete and manageable goals. We utilize a Sustainable Purchasing Policy to guide the selection of products and services. Our environmental policy broadly describes initiatives to reduce energy consumption, manage our waste stream and seek continuous improvement opportunities. Our goals for the upcoming year are to identify energy baselines and reduce consumption and to screen suppliers based on our new Sustainable Purchasing Policy. More information can be found in our 2009-2010 Sustainability Report. Implementation We recycle heavily and eliminate waste when possible. We manage our energy consumption downward, although more robust management data is not yet available. We purchase recycled paper (one of our major “raw materials”) despite the premium. We have an internal Environmental Team for developing the strategies, goals and tools of environmental management. This team’s target for this year is to identify baselines, set reduction targets and implement a screening based on the Sustainable Purchasing Policy. Measurement Despite our size, we are committed to indentifying and reducing our environmental impact on a relative basis. We have an internal team to identify goals and implement plans to achieve them. Our commitments and related performance will be identified, at least annually, in our GRI sustainability report. While we are committed to reducing our environmental impact, that impact is very small and involves no large-volume or unique waste or emissions. We have not had any compliance incidents, nor do we expect to have any. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Much like human rights, as consulting service providers, corruption is not a material issue. Nonetheless, we have zero tolerance for corruption and follow all applicable laws. Implementation Our anti-corruption policy is to be fully compliant with the law. Measurement We evaluate our anti-corruption performance against the applicable laws. We have not had any corruption issues, nor do we expect to have any. Contact Information Shawn Feils Associate Consultant +1-440-484-0100 5603 Wilson Mills Road Highland Heights, Ohio 44143 USA Artistic Inspiration The Report Artistic Inspiration The Report Expression from Leadership This is our latest work of art—the BrownFlynn 2009-2010 Sustainability Report. The Letter from the Principals title, 15 Minutes of Sustainability. 15 Years of BrownFlynn., reflects our desire to tell our history, our story and the powerful impacts of sustainability. In the world of YouTube, E! Canvas About BrownFlynn and iTunes, it is easier than ever to find notoriety, yet harder than ever to hang on to it. With the rapid growth in sustainability, is it just “a flash in the pan”? As Warhol would Artistry say, has it had its “15 minutes of fame”? The answer is simple. Sustainability is about BrownFlynn Services the future. It is about successfully meeting present social, economic and environmental Creating the Portrait needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet theirs. As we Reporting Process celebrate our 15th anniversary this year, we are confident that sustainability has and will continue to stand the test of time as a successful business strategy and way of life. Masterpiece Far from being a fad, our longevity and growth are testimonies to the belief that Sustainability Strategy sustainability is becoming the new normal. Gallery 2010/2011 Sustainability In the future, we believe the world will be more sustainable. The impact of this will Goals contribute to the health of businesses, families and our planet. Think about it. What if The Artists the famous quote wasn’t “15 minutes of fame” but instead, “15 minutes of The Staff sustainability”? If we all spent 15 minutes each day focused on intentionally engaging in sustainable behaviors, what could happen? Throughout our report, we’ll give you an Easels idea of how significant 15 minutes can be. UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index This report is inspired not only by Andy Warhol’s great words, but also his creativity, memorable works of art and his ability to impact generation after generation. We can Download PDF only hope to do the same. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Expression from Leadership Letter from the Principals Artistic Inspiration The Report Expression from Leadership Dear Friends, Letter from the Principals Canvas As we were writing our 2nd annual sustainability report, we were also planning for a About BrownFlynn monumental business milestone. This year, in 2011, we are proud to celebrate BrownFlynn’s 15 th anniversary. While “time changes things” we have found that, our Artistry commitment to corporate responsibility has not wavered. To demonstrate the deep BrownFlynn Services connection between sustainability and our business, we are tying the release of our Creating the Portrait 2009/2010 sustainability report to our anniversary celebration. Furthermore, after 15 Reporting Process years in business, we decided to challenge our readers to imagine the possibilities of “15 minutes of sustainability.” Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy If you were given an extra 15 minutes today, what would you do with it? Would you sleep Gallery more or work out longer? Would you spend more time with your family or finish that 2010/2011 Sustainability report for your boss? Would you take that extra couple of minutes to turn off all the lights Goals and electronics in the house before leaving or sort through the items that can be The Artists recycled from breakfast, lunch and dinner? The Staff At BrownFlynn, we define sustainability as the integration of three pillars: People, Easels UNGC Principals and GRI Planet and Prosperity. We have integrated this triple-bottom-line thinking into our Context Index operations and built a business around guiding companies in developing strategies that are focused on their social, environmental and economic impacts. Believe it or not, if you answered “yes” to any of the questions above, you are in one way or another, Download PDF thinking about or engaging in sustainable practices. Thank you—that’s a great start! And, for those of you that spend more than 15 minutes a day, or week, or month, or year devoted to sustainability—thank you as well and please continue your dedicated efforts. As you will read throughout this report, the impacts of “15 minutes of sustainability” can be life-changing. This past year, we have seen many “minutes of fame” for sustainability. From DoddFrank passing both Houses to the UN Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, “sustainability” has seen its name in the headlines. And, as companies begin to realize the top-line and bottom-line benefits of integrating environmental, social and governance impacts into their strategies, “sustainability” will endure. BrownFlynn expects the trends, stakeholder pressures and reputational benefits of sustainability to increase for the foreseeable future and we remain committed to helping our clients keep pace with these business expectations. At the same time, we will continue to live our motto of “doing well by doing good.” We will try to inspire our stakeholders, and all of you, to think about sustainability every day so that in the end, everyone wins. Now…what will you do with your 15 minutes of sustainability? Sincerely, Barb Brown & Margie Flynn BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Canvas About BrownFlynn Artistic Inspiration The Report Expression from Leadership Letter from the Principals BrownFlynn is a corporate responsibility and sustainability consulting Firm Canvas headquartered in Highland Heights, Ohio. We partner with clients to integrate About BrownFlynn environmentally and socially responsible practices into their business strategies and Mission and Culture help them communicate those messages internally and externally, creating a cultural shift that results in bottom-line impact. Click here to learn more about our services and Team and Governance review a sampling of BrownFlynn’s client case studies. Diversity BrownFlynn also believes in advancing sustainability through education. In 2008, External Commitments BrownFlynn was named the first U.S.-certified trainer for the Global Reporting Initiative Artistry (GRI), the international gold standard for sustainability management and reporting. BrownFlynn Services This resulted in the launch of BrownFlynn Learning—the Firm's corporate sustainability training division. Creating the Portrait Reporting Process Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy Gallery 2010/2011 Sustainability Goals The Artists The Staff Easels UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index Download PDF BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Canvas About BrownFlynn 2.52 billion liters of water flow over Niagara Falls every 15 minutes. That’s enough to meet the needs of the 1.1 billion people in the world who don’t have access to safe drinking Artistic Inspiration The Report water.1 Expression from Leadership Letter from the Principals Our Mission Canvas BrownFlynn commits to create a world in which all companies operate in a manner that About BrownFlynn provides for the freedom of current and future generations’ ability to prosper. Mission and Culture Team and Governance Our Culture Diversity External Commitments The principals at BrownFlynn have established a legacy of honesty, accountability, flexibility, open communication and innovation for employees, clients and partners of Artistry the Firm. “No idea is a bad idea,” “Thank you,” “Family first” and “I have confidence in BrownFlynn Services you” are commonplace phrases at BrownFlynn. We believe it is an extraordinary place Creating the Portrait to work and learn. Reporting Process A framed copy of the “I am BrownFlynn” graphic sits on each of our desks as a constant Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy reminder of our company values; the statements it contains, created by our team, represent a way of living, working and building relationships that we embrace both Gallery inside and outside of BrownFlynn. The meaning behind each statement is part of our 2010/2011 Sustainability commitment to “walk the talk” or genuinely live the tenets of sustainability—something Goals we are accountable for in our performance reviews. Each of us has strengths and The Artists opportunities for growth, including advancing our knowledge so we can pass on our The Staff own learning to our clients. Easels UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index Download PDF BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Canvas About BrownFlynn Every 15 minutes, 118 people say “I do.” That’s 59 marriages every 15 minutes.2 Artistic Inspiration The Report Our Team & Governance Expression from Leadership Letter from the Principals Team Canvas About BrownFlynn BrownFlynn comprises highly talented consultant team members with experience in Mission and Culture corporate responsibility, sustainability strategy and execution, stakeholder engagement, finance, organizational development and marketing communications. Team and Governance Barb Brown and Margie Flynn, our principals and co-owners, provide leadership to the Diversity team and offer strategic counsel and direction to clients. To see full biographies of the BrownFlynn team members, click here. External Commitments Artistry BrownFlynn also works with a Senior Advisory Team of individuals outside the BrownFlynn Services organization. Our Senior Advisory Team members provide the Firm and clients with expertise that is complementary to BrownFlynn’s palette of service offerings. Creating the Portrait Reporting Process Masterpiece Partners Sustainability Strategy Gallery Recognizing that no two clients are alike, we strive to match client needs with the most 2010/2011 Sustainability creative, effective and efficient resources. We have established relationships with a Goals variety of technical and creative experts – from lawyers and engineers to designers and The Artists multimedia producers – that allow BrownFlynn to leverage our expertise while The Staff delivering on specific client needs. To see a sampling of our partner organizations, click here. Easels UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index Governance Download PDF BrownFlynn’s co-owners and principals, Barb Brown and Margie Flynn, guide and approve all final decisions in the consulting and communications division of the Firm. Our Director of Learning reports to BrownFlynn’s principals, but is primarily responsible for daily decision-making regarding the operations of our training division—BrownFlynn Learning. In 2010, a Director of Operations was hired to help implement efficiencies and oversee day-to-day operations at BrownFlynn. All staff members report to the DOO including the office manager, senior consultants, associate consultants, executive assistants, our research analyst and any shortor long-term interns. Advisory Board For more than a decade, BrownFlynn has benefited from counsel and specific expertise from its Advisory Board. The Board is designed to give non-binding advice to BrownFlynn and possesses no fiduciary or legal responsibilities to the Firm. The Board serves two primary purposes: • Members act as a “sounding board” on a variety of critical business issues— those of utmost importance to the Firm and its future growth and success. • The Board creates a “networking community” and generates business leads and suggestions, especially in BrownFlynn’s growth areas. For a complete list of Advisory Board members, click here. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Canvas About BrownFlynn 118 babies are born every 15 minutes in the United States. Every 15 minutes, 462 babies are born in China and 714 are born in India.3 Artistic Inspiration The Report Expression from Diversity Leadership Letter from the Principals As a small business and women-owned Firm, we understand first-hand the Canvas challenges women face in running their own business and appreciate that our About BrownFlynn success defies the statistics. BrownFlynn qualifies for a number of regional and state Mission and Culture business certifications and supplier diversity programs. Click here for a complete listing of these qualifications and certifications. Team and Governance Diversity While we are proud of our accomplishments and hope to serve as an example for other small-business owners, we also see an opportunity to increase diversity within our External Commitments own organization in terms of gender, race and, as important, diversity of thought. Artistry BrownFlynn Services Diversity of Gender at BrownFlynn (2009/2010): 25% Male | 75% Female Creating the Portrait As of Date of Publication, Diversity of Gender at BrownFlynn: 13% Male | 87% Female Reporting Process Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy Gallery 2010/2011 Sustainability Goals The Artists The Staff Easels UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index Download PDF BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Artistry BrownFlynn Services Artistic Inspiration The Report Expression from Leadership Letter from the Principals BrownFlynn has three main practices areas: Consulting, Communications and Canvas Training About BrownFlynn Artistry BrownFlynn Services Creating the Portrait Reporting Process Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy Gallery 2010/2011 Sustainability Goals The Artists The Staff Easels UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index Download PDF BrownFlynn’s holistic approach to sustainability and corporate responsibility consulting meets clients where they are on their sustainability journey. Every client engagement is a collaborative process. Through our proven facilitation methods and techniques, we help clients discover their unique sustainability opportunities. For some, that means establishing a vision and framework for creating a sustainability strategy—we can uncover the bold sustainability goals, metrics and action plans that will generate bottom-line results. For others, it means helping to uncover new opportunities through the sustainability “lens”. Throughout any engagement, we help create sustainability champions who are instrumental in driving an organization’s success. The BrownFlynn ProcessSM BrownFlynn’s Prioritization FrameworkSM During this reporting period, we witnessed a proliferation of available environmental, social and governance data on public companies. This data is used to generate a plethora of sustainability rankings, indices, ratings and awards. BrownFlynn helps cut through the complexity to help our clients assess their current positioning within rankings and in relation to peer companies to generate specific recommendations on improving performance. To learn more about BrownFlynn’s Prioritization Framework, click here. Our sustainability training division, BrownFlynn Learning, teaches companies how to triple their bottom line—environmentally, socially and economically—through workshops, webinars, on-site training, conferences and other venues. Click here for more information about BrownFlynn Learning. In this reporting year, BrownFlynn conducted six, GRI-certified training courses—educating nearly 75 participants from diverse industries. Each participant received a certificate of completion from the Global Reporting Initiative. Further, we designed and facilitated several customized workshops to fulfill the specific sustainability education needs of our clients. These workshops reached a variety of audiences including C-level executives, sustainability councils and teams, plant operational staff and sales and marketing teams. BrownFlynn expanded its client base in 2010 to serve many new clients in our industry verticals—Mining, Minerals and Aggregates, Consumer Goods, Building Materials and Healthcare. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Creating the Portrait Reporting Process Artistic Inspiration The Report Expression from Leadership Letter from the Principals Canvas About BrownFlynn Our experience in pulling together our first report benefited the development of our 2nd annual sustainability report. While we had better data collection and metrics, we are in Artistry BrownFlynn Services a “continuous improvement” mode and are confident we can keep enhancing our overall sustainability strategy and communication process. The GRI process and Creating the Portrait guidelines provided us with a strong framework to follow and with the same Reporting Process management benefits that we identify for our clients. This year’s reporting process Parameters includes the following: Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality • Organizing for success; Masterpiece • Engaging internal stakeholders to review last year’s goals and determine Sustainability Strategy report content; and Gallery • Set goals of material (relevant) topics to internal stakeholders. 2010/2011 Sustainability Goals The Artists This report describes the progress our sustainability teams—Community The Staff Engagement, Employee Orientation & Engagement, Employee Health & Wellness, Environmental Stewardship and Business Innovation—made on the goals declared in Easels our last report. As we achieved goals, we consolidated or retired teams and UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index assimilated what were once aspirational goals into BrownFlynn’s everyday culture. As we identified our 2010/2011 goals we achieved clarity and balance by aligning them more explicitly to the triple bottom line concepts of people, planet and prosperity. This Download PDF report also demonstrates our annual commitment to transparent reporting on our sustainability performance. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Creating the Portrait Reporting Process Every 15 minutes, every square mile in the United States receives 700 million kWh of energy from sunlight. At 3.5 million square miles, the United States receives 2,465 Artistic Inspiration The Report trillion kWh of energy every 15 minutes of sunlight—this is 23 million times our consumption rate.5 Expression from Leadership Letter from the Principals Parameters Canvas About BrownFlynn With this report, we intend to provide our stakeholders with factual information Artistry regarding: BrownFlynn Services Creating the Portrait Reporting Process • Opportunities we see to enhance our economic, social and environmental performance Parameters • Systems and infrastructure to address these opportunities Stakeholder Engagement • Goals for the upcoming year and Materiality Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy We will publish our Sustainability Report annually, based upon our UNGC Gallery Communication on Progress commitment date and the compilation of the previous 2010/2011 Sustainability year’s data and performance metrics. Our report is available online with a fully Goals downloadable and customized printing option at www.bfreport2010.com. The Artists The scope of this sustainability report includes data or activities within the BrownFlynn The Staff organization. All data and information are from July 1, 2009 – June 30, 2010, unless Easels otherwise noted. UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index We recognize the importance of external reporting standards in promoting transparent and comparable disclosures on company performance. BrownFlynn follows the Global Download PDF Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines in our reporting practices. BrownFlynn principals have reviewed and approved this report. For more information on BrownFlynn’s 2009/2010 Sustainability Report, please contact Melissa Wicinski at sustainability@brownflynn.com. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Creating the Portrait Reporting Process Every 15 minutes, almost 43 million text messages are sent in the United States.6 Artistic Inspiration The Report Stakeholder Engagement Expression from Leadership To understand the issues and opportunities our stakeholders find most significant to Letter from the Principals our organization, BrownFlynn actively engaged internal and external stakeholders in the Canvas 2008/2009 reporting process. For this report, we focused mainly on employee About BrownFlynn engagement activities. To determine progress on the goals set in 2008/2009, the sustainability teams reported new activities, progress on goals, suggested Artistry modifications and other updates during monthly staff meetings. In addition, our BrownFlynn Services reporting staff interviewed each sustainability team leader to measure goal status, Creating the Portrait opportunities and challenges their teams encountered throughout the reporting year. Reporting Process Parameters To set new goals, our reporting staff surveyed the Principals and staff of BrownFlynn to evaluate the current team structure, share best practices and success stories, identify Stakeholder Engagement areas of improvement and map material topics for BrownFlynn’s 2010/2011 and Materiality sustainability goals. An executive summary of the survey findings was prepared and Masterpiece shared at a facilitated half-day workshop for the entire BrownFlynn staff. At this Sustainability Strategy workshop, the organic assimilation of goals and retirement of some of the sustainability teams took place and new goals were set for 2010/2011. Gallery 2010/2011 Sustainability Goals While we used these specific methods of engagement as a formal part of the reporting process, stakeholder engagement is an ongoing effort. In addition to annual staff The Artists retreats and performance reviews, BrownFlynn encourages frequent internal The Staff stakeholder engagement and transparency through monthly staff meetings and weekly Easels project update sessions attended by all employees. UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index To demonstrate our deep commitment to stakeholder engagement, BrownFlynn partnered with the Institute for Sustainable Development (ISD) to conduct a landmark Download PDF stakeholder engagement survey. ISD, also known as GreenPlus (www.gogreenplus.org) is a national, North Carolina Research Triangle-based nonprofit that assists smalland medium-sized organizations with their sustainability efforts. ISD partners with academic institutions UNC, Duke University, NC State, Elon University and chambers of commerce in their efforts. The survey and final report focused on the importance of stakeholder engagement in developing an organization’s sustainability strategy. Responses from almost 200 businesses, nonprofits and governmental agencies uncovered how various organizations and companies value and practice stakeholder engagement and how it impacts their sustainability efforts. For a full version of the final report, click here. BrownFlynn and ISD intend to conduct the survey on a biennial basis going forward. We welcome stakeholder feedback specific to this report or our sustainability commitment and activities at Marissab@brownflynn.com. Materiality The GRI materiality principle asserts that report content and sustainability goals should be material, or relevant, to a reporting organization and its stakeholders for maximum effectiveness. Material issues or topics: • Reflect the reporting organizations significant environmental, social or economic impacts, • Are identified as important by internal and/or external stakeholders, and/or • Relate to particular contemporary or regional sustainability trends identified by sustainability professionals, scientific experts, etc. According to GRI, an organization should report on all of its material topics, typically associated with specific G3 performance indicators. To do so, the organization should either fully disclose relevant performance data or information, or explain the reason for excluding certain performance information from the report. During the 2008/2009 reporting cycle, BrownFlynn engaged in a materiality exercise to determine which issues are most significant to our Company and stakeholders. For this year’s goal setting process, we identified no significant changes to our material issues. Because we are a small consulting Firm, some of the GRI indicators are not as relevant to our business as they might be to a manufacturing company or one that is significantly larger in size. However, we have included material topics that reflect significant impacts relative to our own organization (for example, transportation impacts) even if they represent a relatively small impact in comparison to other organizations. We also included topics in which our impact may be small (for example, water use) but for which we feel responsible for managing as a part of our commitment to the environmental pillar of sustainability. A complete list of material indicators can be found in our GRI Content Index with reference to fully disclosed information or reasons for not including certain information in this report. Click here to access our GRI Content Index. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy Artistic Inspiration The Report Expression from Leadership Letter from the Principals Throughout our history, BrownFlynn has engaged in a variety of activities for the benefit Canvas of people, planet and prosperity. Since last year’s sustainability report was published, About BrownFlynn the Firm established systems for tracking and improving our sustainability Artistry performance. BrownFlynn Services In our last report, we highlighted the formation of five sustainability teams that Creating the Portrait Reporting Process integrated all three components of the triple bottom line—people, planet and prosperity. Those teams were titled: Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy Community Engagement ••Community Engagement ••Employee Orientation and Engagement Employee Orientation and ••Employee Health and Wellness Engagement ••Environmental Stewardship Employee Health and ••Business Innovation Wellness Environmental Stewardship Each team was responsible for designing realistic, measureable goals in their focus Business Innovation area and developing and implementing the infrastructure, practices and metrics to Gallery measure and achieve those goals. Each team created two goals for the 2009/2010 2010/2011 Sustainability reporting year. This report highlights the team’s efforts to deliver on each goal. Goals The Artists At the conclusion of our reporting year, June 30, 2010, BrownFlynn significantly evolved The Staff its sustainability strategy in two specific ways. First, the teams have been organically phased out and incorporated into everyday work activities for the entire BrownFlynn Easels staff. It was difficult for a small staff to keep every team member involved and the staff UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index up-to-date. Instead of dividing into teams to create goals, our strategy for 2010/2011 hinges on coming together as one team to identify and meet our goals. The second evolution is the direct focus on the triple bottom line categories—People, Planet and Download PDF Prosperity. For a full list of our 2010/2011 goals, please visit “The Gallery” section of this report. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy If everyone in the United States turned off one light for an extra 15 minutes, we would save almost 3 million kWh of electricity.7 Artistic Inspiration The Report Expression from Community Engagement Leadership Letter from the Principals Giving back and reaching out to our community have been at the core of BrownFlynn's Canvas business since our founding in 1996. Our team members fulfill our vision of doing well About BrownFlynn by doing good by donating personal and professional time to initiatives that they, and Artistry we, care about. We provide financial support to select organizations in our community BrownFlynn Services and also contribute in-kind services to help non-profits achieve their goals. Creating the Portrait Last year, our Community Engagement Team identified that the Company had a Reporting Process greater opportunity to track and report its philanthropic efforts, volunteer hours or pro Masterpiece bono time. The team set the following two goals: Sustainability Strategy Community Engagement 1. Develop a formal BrownFlynn community investment policy that includes Employee Orientation and guidelines for employee volunteering, pro bono work and Engagement philanthropic/charitable giving. Employee Health and 2. Begin planning a strategic community outreach initiative for BrownFlynn's 15 th Wellness anniversary in 2011. Environmental Stewardship Business Innovation Both goals were met during the reporting year. BrownFlynn’s community investment Gallery policy is communicated to all employees and is an important discussion point in the 2010/2011 Sustainability overall on-boarding and orientation process. The policy has also been included in Goals employee performance dashboard goals. The policy is: The Artists The Staff Each employee at BrownFlynn receives 40 hours of PTO for volunteer efforts or pro bono work. To participate, employees request (in writing) the time off and track and Easels report on the approved activities. A formal tool was created in our time management UNGC Principals and GRI system to make monitoring easier and consistent. In addition, the following Context Index parameters apply: Download PDF • Engagements must support people, planet or prosperity • Principals must approve all volunteering applications • Volunteering and pro bono work can only be done for 501(c)3-designated, taxexempt organizations • Up to 40 volunteer and pro bono hours per employee each year during working hours • Personal time volunteering can be included • BrownFlynn will achieve 100% participation from all employees • Some pro bono efforts will be driven by Principals’ commitments The Community Investment Policy also states that BrownFlynn will donate 1% of our annual net income to the community through philanthropic support, charitable giving, volunteerism or pro bono activities—70% of those financial contributions will support the 3Ps, and 30% will be used at the discretion of the Principals. In the 2009/2010 reporting year, BrownFlynn did begin planning for its 2011, 15 th anniversary community outreach program. Historically, BrownFlynn celebrates anniversaries every five years by “walking the talk” and giving back in some way to the community. For 2011, our 15th anniversary, BrownFlynn will focus on sustainability education. An internal committee was established and began concept and timeline development in the last reporting year. Click here to learn about BrownFlynn’s 5 th and 10th anniversary contributions. The following represents highlights of our community engagement efforts in 2009 and 2010: • Our employees spent 837 hours giving back to the community through volunteer and pro bono activities. • Some of the organizations that benefited from that time included: NEO Green Building Council, U.S. Green Building Council, Big Brothers / Big Sisters, Catholic Diocese of Cleveland Foundation, Adoption Network of Cleveland, Nature Center at Shaker Lakes, Shoes & Clothes for Kids, Cain Park, Women in Sports and Events, Leadership Cleveland, ParkWorks, JumpStart, St. Paschal Baylon Church, PRSA, St. Martin de Porres High School, St. Paul’s Pre-School, American Red Cross Blood Services of Northeast Ohio, Corporate Sustainability Network, Business for Social Responsibility, In Counsel with Women and Policy Bridge. • During the holiday season, the BrownFlynn team took an afternoon to volunteer together at the Cleveland FoodBank. During our time there, we prepared food for hundreds of people who needed it most in our own back yard. • In our reporting year, BrownFlynn donated more than 1% of our net income to charitable organizations. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy Every 15 minutes, 44,800 people ride the New York subway.8 Artistic Inspiration The Report Employee Orientation and Engagement Expression from Leadership Employee engagement is fundamental to our success. As we grow, we have the Letter from the Principals opportunity to welcome talented new individuals to the Firm and ensure that our Canvas existing team members have the proper tools to do their job and feel connected to the About BrownFlynn business. It is essential to keep our orientation and employee engagement programs current and compelling to ensure employee commitment and efficiency. Artistry BrownFlynn Services In 2009 and 2010, the Employee Orientation and Engagement Team focused Creating the Portrait exclusively on employee orientation and the ways in which we introduce new Reporting Process employees to BrownFlynn, our culture and our practices. The team set two goals: Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy 1. Develop electronic orientation communications. Community Engagement 2. Audit and update the Book of Answers, our online employee reference Employee Orientation and manual. Engagement Employee Health and Wellness Both goals were met during the reporting year. The mission of the Employee Environmental Stewardship Orientation and Engagement Team was to improve the on-boarding process and the esprit de corps at BrownFlynn. The first critical goal that came out of this mission was Business Innovation to develop a professional online orientation program that would facilitate the Gallery acclimation of new associates and manage the many logistical considerations that are 2010/2011 Sustainability a part of on-boarding. During the implementation of this goal, the team saw an Goals opportunity to make improvements, but also an opportunity to leave some things as they are. At BrownFlynn, we are proud of our flexible culture which allows us to quickly The Artists meet the needs of our clients. The orientation process was developed with this in mind The Staff and it allows new associates to be quickly immersed in the culture and activities of Easels BrownFlynn. UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index The second goal was to audit and update the Book of Answers – our internal resource library. While this is a very tactical goal, the opportunity it creates is strategic. By making Download PDF the Book of Answers a more accessible and user-friendly resource, we were able to share information more easily, bring on new associates more quickly and operate with more consistency between associates. In addition to meeting our goals, BrownFlynn has implemented many initiatives throughout its 15-year history to support employee engagement. Embracing laughter and levity is one component of our corporate culture that strengthens internal relationships and, in turn, our performance as an organization. At BrownFlynn, we promote fun and team-building through a number of different activities including weekly team meetings, milestone celebrations, out-of-office gatherings and an open-door communications policy. In addition, to ensure employees feel comfortable in the rapidly evolving field of sustainability and corporate responsibility, our leaders set aside professional development funds for education and training opportunities, including conferences, webinars, and other external training and education opportunities. Furthermore, team members are competitively compensated for their hard work and dedication. The Principals and Director of Operations conduct individual, semi-annual employee performance reviews to check performance against dashboards. At the end of each calendar year, BrownFlynn reviews, and, if warranted, adjusts compensation based upon performance and cost of living. We also offer our employees a competitive benefits package, including healthcare, retirement plans, life insurance, profit sharing and paid time off for vacation and holidays. In this reporting year, BrownFlynn also added both shortand long-term disability for all full-time employees. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy 524 bicycles and 68,000 pairs of shoes are sold every 15 minutes.9 Artistic Inspiration The Report Employee Health and Wellness Expression from Leadership BrownFlynn strives to create an environment that promotes healthy employee lifestyles. Letter from the Principals Our employee healthcare plan includes specific programs and information on Canvas preventative care, wellness maintenance and chronic disease management. In About BrownFlynn addition, we have exercise equipment available on-site and encourage the use of paid time off for rest and rejuvenation. With the creation of our Health and Wellness Team, Artistry we aimed to enhance BrownFlynn's efforts to assist our team members to thrive BrownFlynn Services personally and professionally. Our Employee Health and Wellness Team set two goals Creating the Portrait in the 2009/2010 reporting year: Reporting Process Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy 1. Develop and implement a healthy, local and organic snack purchasing initiative. Community Engagement 2. Develop and begin to implement an employee health and wellness Employee Orientation and awareness program. Engagement Employee Health and Wellness BrownFlynn made significant progress on both goals during the reporting year. While developing a new snack purchasing initiative, we first examined our Firm’s break room. Environmental Stewardship Ours, like many company break rooms, was stocked with coffee, candy and soda. Business Innovation While coffee made the cut, we have replaced soda with juice and tea options and candy with fresh fruit, nuts, granola bars and other healthier choices. Many of the fruit options Gallery 2010/2011 Sustainability are organic and bought from local farmers. Goals Given our size, we do not have a full-service cafeteria, yet we did see an opportunity to The Artists make certain purchases in bulk. The “wholesale” bulk retailers carry few organic The Staff options and almost no local goods, except those regional or national brands which are Easels coincidentally located nearby. However, buying in bulk during a single trip minimizes UNGC Principals and GRI the time and expense of shopping at multiple store and, in many cases, minimizes the Context Index packaging associated with the product and saves the Firm money. Download PDF We also made significant progress on our second goal. First, we elected to extend elements of our health benefits including shortand long-term disability. BrownFlynn’s healthcare insurance provider provides a monthly health tip email that is shared with the entire staff. Internally, we began sharing articles, recipes and other health tips more regularly. Many of us also take advantage of the shower amenities available at our office to enable a midday run or bicycle ride. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy Americans emit more than one pound of CO2e per person every 15 minutes.10 Artistic Inspiration The Report Environmental Stewardship Expression from Leadership As environmental sustainability continues to grow and significantly impact personal Letter from the Principals and business decisions around the globe, our conviction to improve our own Canvas performance is stronger than ever. Although some of our greatest examples of About BrownFlynn advancing environmental sustainability are through our client work, we also strive to respect the environment with our internal operations. Our environmental footprint may Artistry be small, but we believe everything we can do to conserve energy, reduce waste and BrownFlynn Services use less water counts. Creating the Portrait Reporting Process The Environmental Stewardship Team created the following goals for our Firm: Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy 1. Create and implement an environmental policy. Community Engagement 2. Create a sustainable purchasing policy. Employee Orientation and Engagement Employee Health and Sustainable Purchasing and Supply Chain Wellness Environmental Stewardship In 2011, we will begin to follow our Sustainable Purchasing Policy that was created as a result of our goals set in BrownFlynn’s last sustainability report. During this reporting Business Innovation year, we gave preference to sustainable purchasing options for office supplies and Gallery marketing materials—products made of partially or all post-consumer recycled content. 2010/2011 Sustainability For example, BrownFlynn's printed marketing materials are created using Forest Goals Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified and carbon neutral products and we use recycled paper for all our day-to-day printing projects. In addition, we prefer to purchase cleaning The Artists and landscaping materials with minimal environmental impacts. The Staff Easels Going forward, we believe our formal policy which contains a clear system for UNGC Principals and GRI evaluating and selecting products, will allow us to be more effective in tracking and Context Index improving our environmental impact. We also believe that part of bringing the highest value possible to clients includes choosing local suppliers who understand and Download PDF respond to environmental and social concerns. We currently select our vendors based on location, cost, and environmental and social performance. Energy Use Although our energy footprint is relatively small (given the size of the building we occupy and limited use of major energy consuming devices), the global energy and climate change crisis presents opportunities to reduce costs and risks associated with dependence on fossil fuels. We aspire to lessen our energy-related impacts through individual behavior at our office and investment in alternative energy. To lower our carbon footprint, BrownFlynn is currently taking part in Ecovations TM , a renewable energy program offered by our natural gas supplier, Dominion East Ohio and supplied by Integrys Energy Services, Inc. Through this program, the carbon dioxide emitted by burning eight percent of the natural gas we use each year is offset by sourcing gas from renewable alternatives and by purchasing carbon offsets. In addition, we updated one of our two air conditioning units from a SEER 11 to a SEER 13 model. The efficiency of air conditioners is often rated by the Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio (SEER) which is defined by the Air Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute in its standard ARI 210/240, Performance Rating of Unitary AirConditioning and Air-Source Heat Pump Equipment. This change allowed BrownFlynn a potential energy reduction of 14.4%. Also, the new unit takes a different type of refrigerant which is compliant with EPA standards. We practice small energy conservation steps daily by shutting down all computers and power sources at the end of the work day, lowering the thermostat in the winter, turning off lights every time we leave a room, and making use of natural light whenever possible. We have also exchanged inefficient lighting for newer technologies and have ongoing discussion on ways we could reduce our consumption. To factor out seasonal variation, we evaluate the rolling 12-month average kWh consumed. In June of 2008, our 12-month average was close to 2,400 kWh. By June of 2010, our 12-month average had fallen to 1,900, or more than 20%. In this reporting period (July 2009 – June 2010), consumption fell from 2,200 to 1,900, or 13%. For an office our size, one of the critical factors in consumption is head count. While we do not have clear data demonstrating which consumption drivers are fixed and which are variable, we evaluated the rolling 12-month average consumption data against total head count. In June of 2008, kWh per FTE was nearly 275. By June of 2010, we have reduced this number to less than 225 kWh per FTE, a reduction of 20%. Transportation Carbon emissions associated with employee transportation and business travel, possibly our most significant environmental impact, is an area where BrownFlynn has an opportunity to improve practices. In the past year, we made important steps to encourage telecommuting (30% of our staff works at least one day a week from their home offices) and have reduced travel through communications technology upgrades and a company-wide conversion from desktops to portable laptop computers. BrownFlynn Learning Training Events While conducting our two-day, GRI-certified training course, we have adopted many sustainable practices to lessen our impact on the environment, including: • Catering from Café Ah-Roma, which has a strong commitment to fair trade coffee and living wages. The Café chain caters focuses on the needs of the communities in which it operates by providing a forum for discussion groups, poetry sessions, open mic nights and different types of performance artists. Further, the café is housed inside the training facility which enables us to eliminate travel issues. • Trinity Commons, the facility in which we conduct our training sessions, was created as part of an environmentally friendly renovation of Trinity Cathedral (the headquarters of the Episcopal Diocese of Ohio). The facility has won several awards for urban revitalization, sustainable building practices and historical restoration, most notably the Cleveland Engineering Society's Excellence in Renovation Award.. Waste and Recycling Standard office waste represents another of our relatively significant environmental impacts. Presently, we provide recycling options for basic office waste and continue to upgrade our receptacles to include signage listing the kinds of waste that can and cannot be recycled. Raising awareness with our team members has encouraged all of us to be more conscious about what gets thrown away. We’ve reduced the amount of waste we produce in the office by switching from paper towels to cloth hand towels; using silverware and ceramic dinnerware instead of plastic and paper plates (any disposable dinnerware used is biodegradable) and recycling all plastic/glass/aluminum cans, paper, cardboard and newspaper. As mentioned before, we also try to buy in bulk to reduce the amount of packaging that goes to the landfill. To gain a better understanding of our waste stream and opportunities to reduce the amount going to a landfill, BrownFlynn conducted a waste audit for the 2008/2009 sustainability report. Using those numbers as a baseline, BrownFlynn can report that in this reporting period we did reduce waste and increase the amount of recycled items in the office. The audit estimated the volume of each category below in gallons. We used the U.S. Department of Environmental Quality's volume-to-weight conversion factors to estimate the total weight of each category. We measured recycled materials separately using the same process. 2008/2009 2009/2010 Finally, based on our internal records and tracking systems, BrownFlynn can report the following changes to our overall environmental footprint: Please note: We did increase our staff size in 2009/2010 reporting year. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy Every 15 minutes, almost 87,000 songs are purchased on iTunes.11 Artistic Inspiration The Report Business Innovation Expression from Leadership BrownFlynn's economic performance is a fundamental aspect of our sustainability. Letter from the Principals Without the financial resources necessary to continue operations, we would be limited Canvas in our ability to benefit internal and external stakeholders, our communities or our About BrownFlynn environment. Because we are a private company, we choose not to disclose specific financial information in this report, but instead focus on business innovations and Artistry growth that play a central role in our prosperity. BrownFlynn Services Creating the Portrait As such, our Business Innovation Team chose last year to create the following two Reporting Process goals which would establish some additional discipline around innovation: Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy 1. Develop a process for generating, tracking and vetting new business ideas. Community Engagement 2. Begin implementing a minimum of one idea by the end of December 2009. Employee Orientation and Engagement Employee Health and Both goals were met during the reporting year. BrownFlynn developed a concrete Wellness system of generating, tracking and vetting new business ideas. Ideas generated and Environmental Stewardship captured in staff meetings, innovation sessions and as a result of other client work. Then, the ideas are vetted by the Business Innovation Team and appropriately Business Innovation addressed by the Firm's principals. This system allows each idea to be heard and Gallery gives each an equal chance of being incorporated into BrownFlynn's business. 2010/2011 Sustainability Goals Our second goal was to begin implementing one innovation by the end of 2009. The fulfillment of this goal is the creation of the BrownFlynn Prioritization Framework ™. The The Artists Prioritization Framework brings a disciplined analysis to the many sustainability The Staff rankings, identifying which are the most credible and material to a client and then Easels creating a tailored strategy to improve on the areas of opportunity and leverage the UNGC Principals and GRI areas of strength which drive the ranking. While rankings are not the driving motivation Context Index behind business decisions, rankings can be powerful sources of information shaping the perception of a business. By managing the performance behind the most important Download PDF rankings, companies can take control of the conversation and manage their reputation. Ongoing, our success as consultants depends upon our ability to serve the unique needs of each of our clients. We call it meeting our clients where they are on their sustainability journey. We are facilitative consultants. Rather than presenting our clients with a one size fits all approach, we adapt our approach to the client's culture, industry, communications style and organizational structure. Our role is to guide our clients in a way that capitalizes on their existing strengths and potential opportunities. As a result, our clients have full buy-in and ownership of their sustainability strategies going forward. More often than not, this approach unveils new innovations resulting in revenue and cost saving opportunities. We see innovation as such an important driver in our success that we have retained it as a goal for the 2010/2011 report. We understand that our continued focus on innovation will, in turn, contribute to our client's ability to innovate. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Gallery 2010/2011 Sustainability Goals Artistic Inspiration The Report Expression from Leadership Balance is an essential element of sustainability. The very word implies stability and Letter from the Principals conjures images, such as a tight rope walker dipping neither left nor right, but making steady progress toward the ultimate goal. For some, the triple bottom line – people, Canvas About BrownFlynn planet and prosperity – means juggling the various demands and pressures. For us, the triple bottom line means balance. BrownFlynn came together in the summer of Artistry 2009 to prepare for our annual reporting process. As a team, we identified a number of BrownFlynn Services possible sustainability goals for 2010/2011. As we further developed and narrowed Creating the Portrait these goals, we wanted to achieve balance. We divided the goals into the three pillars Reporting Process of sustainability—people, planet and prosperity—and evaluated them based on their materiality or feasibility. BrownFlynn then selected bold goals for each of the triple Masterpiece bottom line categories. Sustainability Strategy Gallery 2010/2011 Sustainability People Goals The Artists In the world of sustainability, it is often the ‘Planet’ issues that are in the headlines, but, The Staff in our opinion, it is the ‘People’ pillar that makes it all work. At BrownFlynn, our people Easels are our stakeholders – our principals, employees, current and potential clients, friends, UNGC Principals and GRI families and the communities we impact. Context Index Our “People” goals for 2010/2011 are to: Download PDF (12.6 MB) 1. Plan and execute our 15th anniversary celebration while educating the community on the importance of sustainability. 2. All BrownFlynn employees will participate in a signature educational event. During our 15th year of business, BrownFlynn is committed to educating our stakeholders on the importance of sustainability. Whether through the launch and promotion of this report or through topical webinars, our leaders and staff will spend the year sharing trends, technology, behaviors, opportunities and challenges of sustainability—our goal is to plan or participate in at least 15 events throughout the course of the 2011 calendar year. The cornerstone anniversary event will be in April, when we will host the largest GRIcertified training course in the world. Partnering with colleges and universities throughout the state of Ohio, BrownFlynn hopes to train in one location more than 150 MBA and college seniors on the GRI framework for reporting and managing sustainability strategies. 3. Improve employee engagement through education and wellness activities. We believe that engaged employees are essential to a thriving business. As a small but growing business, finding, engaging and retaining talent is a necessary competency. Our approach to improving this process is to hold quarterly events focused on exercise, continue to build upon our strong orientation and on-boarding program, and foster a culture of continual education. Most importantly, we need to have fun doing it! 4. Plan and host an annual employee retreat to set goals, review processes and reflect on opportunities and challenges from the past year. Committed to asking for and responding to employee feedback and ensuring every voice is heard, BrownFlynn intends to continue its annual tradition of holding a staff retreat off-site. This allows for complete concentration on internal issues and goal setting for the future. Planet As sustainability consultants, we are sensitive to the growing strains on the environment and are convinced that the world’s great enterprises will drive the solutions to our common environmental problems. We dedicate a significant part of our work to helping clients envision the role they can play. Our biggest opportunities lie in helping our clients imagine and achieve bold environmental goals. We too, however, have operational impacts that ought to be carefully managed. Although our impacts are relatively small, they are deserving of our time and attention. Last year, we focused on creating an Environmental Policy and a Sustainable Purchasing Policy. This year, we will leverage these policies to manage our environmental impact. Our “Planet” goals for 2010/2011 are to: 1. Reduce energy consumption by evaluating baseline drivers and implementing at least one initiative to save energy. Our first goal is to identify and achieve an energy reduction target. We, like most Firms, have many projects which could be considered “low-hanging fruit” – those projects which are relatively easy or inexpensive and have outsized results. We will also identify possible future improvements, including the more challenging or expensive projects, such as changing established habits or making capital improvements. In every case, the financial and environmental benefit will be compared to the financial and environmental cost associated with the improvement, as well as the financial and environmental opportunity cost associated with taking no action. 2. Evaluate our supply chain based on our sustainable purchasing policy. Our second goal is to use our Sustainable Purchasing Policy to evaluate our “supply chain.” As consultants, we aren’t consuming raw materials to manufacture consumer goods, but we do use resources to accomplish our work. We use fuel driving or flying to clients. We use computers, peripherals and software programs. We use printing and shipping services. We eat. And, we use paper. Where we see opportunity without sacrificing quality, we will make changes within our supply chain. Prosperity What is the difference between profit and prosperity? Prosperity implies healthy profits over time. It also implies overall economic well-being for the owners, employees, suppliers and customers of a Firm. Profit in an owner-employee context, for example, can be imagined as zero-sum – the wage of the employee limits the profit of the owner. Prosperity, on the other hand, allows for both the owner and employee to be prosperous and in the best cases, for the prosperity of either to be to the benefit of both. Our “Prosperity” goals for 2010/2011 are to: 1. Continue fostering a culture of innovation and launch at least one new product in 2010/2011. Our first goal is a continuation of last year’s goal: continue fostering a culture of innovation. This is not the type of goal which ever achieves completion. In the business of consulting, it is essential to be in front of our clients developing the products and services they will need in the future. While we believe that we have an innovative culture capable of solving these future problems, we see an opportunity to improve our discipline around maintaining and leveraging this culture. That said, we will strive to innovate and create at least one new product or service in 2010 and 2011. 2. Drive profitability by instilling a culture of individual accountability. Our second goal is to drive profitability by instilling a culture of individual accountability. In March, we hired a Director of Operations to manage our growing workforce and client engagements. With this addition, we have enhanced our internal processes and reporting to allow for better decision-making and staff management. Specific enhancements include: • Tracking of profitability by practice areas (allows better decision-making on what work we pursue and how to price) • New time tracking procedures (allows us to accurately assess each team member’s utilization rate relative to the target utilization rates for each role within the company) • Probability-weighted pipeline tracking (improved accuracy of revenue forecasting and better gauge of prospect-to-client win rates) These improvements have added a significant level of clarity and rigor to our decisionmaking processes and, by sharing this data regularly with the entire team, contributes to the transparency and individual accountability which are core to our culture. Overall, our largest opportunity to have positive, sustainable impact is with our clients. To fulfill our mission to create a world in which all companies operate in a manner that provides for the freedom of current and future generations' ability to prosper, our overriding strategy has been and will always be to assist and enable our clients to make bold and powerful improvements to their own triple-bottom-line. According to Andy Warhol, everyone will have their own 15 minutes of fame. We are confident that the sustainability movement and efforts to enhance corporate responsibility will continue to build over the next several years. We believe that because of this, more people and companies will start to pay attention to their actions. We hope that it will result in a healthier planet and a better life for generations to come. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 The Artists The Staff I would be less selfish with my time—putting convenience aside and solely concentrating on what is best for my children and what they need to be happy. Artistic Inspiration Melissa Wicinski The Report Expression from Leadership Letter from the Principals Canvas Get outside of yourself and think of others—give a hug; About BrownFlynn complement a co-worker on a good job, a nice haircut or a great Artistry smile; sponsor a friend who is running a race for a cause; visit an BrownFlynn Services elderly neighbor who is alone; or just say thank you! Creating the Portrait Barb Brown Reporting Process Masterpiece Sustainability Strategy Gallery 2010/2011 Sustainability Rethink that purchase—that “need”—and focus on whether it is Goals necessary. Often there is something I already have that can be reused, repurposed and given new life instead. So often we buy new The Artists The Staff when there are other options. Easels Jennifer Klie UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index Download PDF Teach someone something about being healthy, lean and green! If you learn the ‘why’ behind opting for a healthier lifestyle, you’re more likely to live it! Also, take care of a plant because it connects you to nature and makes you appreciate the dedication and beauty that we are often so far removed from. Katie Kaminski “If I only had 15 minutes to better our world, the people in my life or my prosperity, I would spend it trying to help someone else – whether it was someone I knew or didn’t know. I really enjoy helping people and I would rather spend my 15 minutes helping someone else than myself.” Marissa Beechuk “For the people around me, I want to communicate the importance of sustainability to all my younger cousins so that they grow up, not with a mindset of “only 15 minutes” but one of “at least 15 minutes.” I want to reinforce this as a principle to live by and continually expand upon.” John Barrett “I would reach out via email to a minimum of 225 other people (15 X 15) and ask them to join me in donating 15 items (food or clothing) each to a local shelter in their areas. I also would ask them to reach out to 15 more people and request the same things. The multiplying effect would hopefully touch the lives of thousands of people in need.” Margie Flynn “I will spend my 15 minutes persuading people to think more carefully about their choices and to listen more carefully to their loved ones. 15 minutes doesn’t seem like a lot of time, but it is plenty of time to make an impact and there is no such thing as a small impact. Turn the TV off and invest in someone.” Shawn Feils “I would educate someone about the value of recycling--reduce, reuse, recycle. I think people would feel good about taking care of the environment. For instance, by recycling a 3 foot high stack of newspapers, a 32 foot tree is saved.” Anita Zak Each day, I try to spend five minutes reflecting on the broader goals I want to achieve that week, month or year. From trying to live a healthier lifestyle to striving to reduce the environmental impact of my travel, I identify something I can do in a few minutes to advance my personal objectives. I think being deliberate and thoughtful about what each one of us can do to improve our own personal sustainability can make a tremendous difference. Hallie Rich BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 Easels UNGC Principals and GRI Context Index Artistic Inspiration The Report Expression from Leadership UNGC Principles Letter from the Principals BrownFlynn is a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), indicating our Canvas About BrownFlynn commitment to uphold 10 universal principles in the areas of: Artistry BrownFlynn Services • Human Rights Creating the Portrait • Labor Standards Reporting Process • Environment Masterpiece • Anti-Corruption Sustainability Strategy Gallery 2010/2011 Sustainability The Global Compact expects members to embrace, support and enact, within their Goals sphere of influence these principles as core values. BrownFlynn ensures the principles are maintained in our own operations to the extent that they are relevant (for The Artists example, we've never had an issue with human rights abuses, child labor, forced or The Staff compulsory labor, corruption, etc.). Based on the areas of opportunity we identified last Easels year, we created formal policies and procedures for improving our environmental UNGC Principals and GRI impacts. We support the UNGC principles through our client engagements, promoting Context Index them as necessary elements of corporate responsibility in general, whether or not our clients are UNGC signatories. As members of the UNGC, we are required to produce Download PDF (12.6 MB) an annual Communication on Progress (COP) describing our efforts to advance the 10 principles. GRI Context Index Our GRI Content Index provides a description of the all GRI Indicators and Profile Disclosures and their location within this report if applicable. Click here for a complete version of BrownFlynn’s GRI Context Index. GRI offers a service for organizations to have self-declared Application Levels confirmed. GRI concluded that our report fulfilled the requirements for Application Level A. Click here to review the official Application Level A Check Statement from GRI. Click here to review GRI’s Application Level Chart. BrownFlynn | BrownFlynn Learning | Sitemap | Privacy Statement | © BrownFlynn 2010 G3 Content Index Application Level STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis If applicable, Profile Reason for Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Disclosure omission not reported Statement from the most senior decisionExpression from 1.1 maker of the organization. Fully Leadership Description of key impacts, risks, and Expression from 1.2 opportunities. Fully Leadership 2. Organizational Profile If applicable, Profile Reason for Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Disclosure omission not reported 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully BrownFlynn, Ltd. Canvas (Who We 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully Are), Artistry (BrownFlynn Services) Operational structure of the organization, 2.3 including main divisions, operating Fully Canvas (Who We Are) companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully Canvas (Who We Are) Number of countries where the organization BrownFlynn is headquarted in Highland Heights, Ohio, operates, and names of countries with either however we serve clients globally. BrownFlynn is a 2.5 major operations or that are specifically Fully certified training partner of the GRI in the United relevant to the sustainability issues covered States. in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Canvas (Who We Are) Markets served (including geographic BrownFlynn is a certified training partner of the GRI in Proprietary We have no geographic limitations and our target sectors 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Not the United States. information and types of customers are proprietary. customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully Canvas (Who We Are) Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 period regarding size, structure, or Fully No significant changes to report. ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Canvas (Who We Are) G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 3. Report Parameters If applicable, Profile Reason for Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Disclosure omission not reported Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) Creating the Portrait 3.1 for information provided. Fully (Report Parameters) The last report was published December 2009 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully covering our fiscal year from July 1, 2008 to June 30, 2009. Creating the Portrait 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully (Report Parameters) Contact point for questions regarding the Creating the Portrait 3.4 report or its contents. Fully (Report Parameters) Creating the Portrait There were no material changes to BrownFlynn or the (Stakeholder 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully Engagement & market which necessitated re-engaging external stakeholders. Materiality) Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint Creating the Portrait 3.6 ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Fully (Report Parameters) Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or Creating the Portrait 3.7 boundary of the report. See Completeness Fully (Report Parameters) Principle for explanation of scope. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced This is not applicable to BrownFlynn during this 3.8 operations, and other entities that can Fully reporting period. significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations Any variations in measurement or calculation will be 3.9 applied to the compilation of the Indicators Fully reported in conjunction with the data in the relevant and other information in the report. Explain sections. any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re3.10 statement (e.g.mergers/acquisitions, change Fully No restatements in this report or reporting period. of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting 3.11 periods in the scope, boundary, or Fully No significant changes to report. measurement methods applied in the report. Table identifying the location of the Standard 3.12 Disclosures in the report. Fully Easels (GRI Index) You are here. Welcome! Policy and current practice with regard to 3.13 seeking external assurance for the report. Fully We are not seeking assurance at this time. G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement If applicable, Profile Reason for Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Disclosure omission not reported Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governance body responsible for specific Fully Canvas (Who We Are) tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 4.2 governance body is also an executive officer. Fully Canvas (Who We Are) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of 4.3 the highest governance body that are Fully BrownFlynn is a privately-held partnership. independent and/or non-executive members. Employees at BrownFlynn enjoy an open door policy Mechanisms for shareholders and with senior management and the Firm principals. 4.4 employees to provide recommendations or Fully BrownFlynn does not have shareholders. The Firm is direction to the highest governance body. organized as a partnership. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 4.5 departure arrangements), and the Fully BrownFlynn is a privately-held partnership. organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts of Fully BrownFlynn is a privately-held partnership. interest are avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governance body for guiding the Fully BrownFlynn is a privately-held partnership. organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Canvas (Who We 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and Fully Are), Masterpiece (Our social performance and the status of their Sustainability Strategy) implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, 4.9 including relevant risks and opportunities, Fully BrownFlynn is a privately-held partnership. and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, 4.10 particularly with respect to economic, Fully BrownFlynn is a privately-held partnership. environmental, and social performance. G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement If applicable, Profile Reason for Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Disclosure omission not reported The activities and services of BrownFlynn do not lead Explanation of whether and how the to instances of grave harm ; however, we consider 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is Fully the safety of our employees and clients in everything addressed by the organization. we do. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 4.12 principles, or other initiatives to which the Fully Canvas (Who We Are) organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in Proprietary We have additional memberships; however, we consider 4.13 governance bodies; * Participates in projects Partially Canvas (Who We Are) information all unstated information to be proprietary. or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. Creating the Portrait There were no material changes to BrownFlynn or the List of stakeholder groups engaged by the (Stakeholder 4.14 organization. Fully Engagement & market which necessitated re-engaging external stakeholders. Materiality) Creating the Portrait There were no material changes to BrownFlynn or the Basis for identification and selection of (Stakeholder 4.15 stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully Engagement & market which necessitated re-engaging external stakeholders. Materiality) Creating the Portrait Approaches to stakeholder engagement, (Stakeholder 4.16 including frequency of engagement by type Fully Engagement & and by stakeholder group. Materiality) Key topics and concerns that have been Key topics which were raised through stakeholder raised through stakeholder engagement and engagement were: community engagement, employee Gallery (2010/2011 4.17 how the organization has responded to those Fully Sustainability Goals) health and wellness, energy consumption, key topics and concerns, including through sustainability risks in our supply chain, product and its reporting. service innovation, and profitability. G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) If applicable, Reason for To be G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation omission reported in not reported Disclosure on Management Approach EC Economic performance Fully Canvas (Who We Are) Aspects Market presence Fully Canvas (Who We Are) We have not yet quantified our indirect economic impacts, nor have we Indirect economic impacts Not All Not available identified a management approach to this issue. Disclosure on Management Approach EN Masterpiece Materials Fully (Environmental Stewardship) Masterpiece Energy Fully (Environmental Stewardship) Masterpiece Water Fully (Environmental Stewardship) We are concerned about biodiversity, however it is unclear how our operations contribute to or inhibit biodiversity. We do not have a management approach for Biodiversity Not All Not material this aspect, however should this become Aspects a material issue, we will follow the same collaborative process to develop an appropriate approach. Masterpiece Emissions, effluents and waste Fully (Environmental Stewardship) Masterpiece Products and services Fully (Environmental Stewardship) Masterpiece Compliance Fully (Environmental Stewardship) Masterpiece Transport Fully (Environmental Stewardship) Masterpiece Overall Fully (Environmental Stewardship) G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) If applicable, Reason for To be G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation omission reported in not reported Disclosure on Management Approach LA We comply with all labor laws which apply to Employment Fully BrownFlynn. We comply with all labor laws which apply to Labor/management relations Fully BrownFlynn. Aspects Masterpiece Occupational health and safety Fully (Employee Health and Wellness) Masterpiece Training and education Fully (Employee Engagement) We comply with all labor laws which apply to Diversity and equal opportunity Fully BrownFlynn. Disclosure on Management Approach HR Masterpiece (Environmental Investment and procurement practices Fully Stewardship) Sustainable Purchasing Policy We comply with all labor laws which apply to Non-discrimination Fully BrownFlynn. Aspects Freedom of association and collective We comply with all labor laws which apply to Fully bargaining BrownFlynn. We comply with all labor laws which apply to Child labor Fully BrownFlynn. We comply with all labor laws which apply to Forced and compulsory labor Fully BrownFlynn. We comply with all labor laws which apply to Security practices Fully BrownFlynn. We comply with all labor laws which apply to Indigenous rights Fully BrownFlynn. Disclosure on Management Approach SO Masterpiece Community Fully (Community Engagement) We comply with all commerce laws which apply to Corruption Fully Aspects BrownFlynn. BrownFlynn is a privately-held Proprietary Public policy Not All partnership and chooses not to disclose information this information. We comply with all commerce laws which apply to Anti-competitive behavior Fully BrownFlynn. We comply with all commerce laws which apply to Compliance Fully BrownFlynn. G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) If applicable, Reason for To be G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation omission reported in not reported Disclosure on Management Approach PR As consultants, our services have no Customer health and safety Not All Not material health or safety consequences. We follow all applicable laws and regulations relative Product and service labeling Fully to marketing and communications, including service labeling. Aspects We follow all applicable laws and regulations relative Marketing communications Fully to marketing and communications. BrownFlynn as a practice signs confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with all clients, and we ensure Customer privacy Fully this confidentiality by establishing firewalls between engagement teams where there may be conflicts of client interest. We comply with all commerce laws which apply to Compliance Fully BrownFlynn. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Economic performance Creating the Portrait Direct economic value generated and (Stakeholder As a private company, we choose not to distributed, including revenues, operating As a private company, we choose not to report Engagement & report financial performance data costs, employee compensation, donations financial performance data externally but are Proprietary EC1 and other community investments, retained Partially Materiality); transparent with our employees about the financial information externally; however, we are transparent Masterpiece with our employees about the financial earnings, and payments to capital providers performance of the company. performance of the company. (Community and governments. Engagement) While we understand climate change poses significant environmental risks for all businesses, we see opportunities to counsel clients in designing Financial implications and other risks and sustainability strategies that will enable them to more EC2 opportunities for the organization's activities Fully effectively anticipate and respond to issues related to due to climate change. climate change. We engage companies on holistic sustainability and do not have the capability to segment revenues by the underlying risks and opportunities, such as climate change. While we choose not to report this Masterpiece information externally, employees Coverage of the organization's defined Proprietary EC3 benefit plan obligations. Partially (Employee information receive frequent updates about benefits Engagement) including health care, profit-sharing and retirement plans. Significant financial assistance received from BrownFlynn has received no significant financial EC4 government. Fully assistance in this reporting period. G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Market presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Proprietary As a small, private company, we choose EC5 compared to local minimum wage at Not information not to report this data at this time. significant locations of operation. We have not yet begun tracking the Policy, practices, and proportion of spending Masterpiece 2010/2011 Proportion of proportion of our spending on locally EC6 on locally based suppliers at significant Partially (Environmental Sustainable Purchasing Policy spending Not available based suppliers. We will report the Sustainability locations of operation. Stewardship) Report proportion in our 2010/2011 report. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of BrownFlynn is a boutique firm operating in a niche field senior management hired from the local from a single office. We do not have a formal EC7 community at significant locations of Fully procedure for hiring locally, however 100% of our operation. senior management team has been hired locally. Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily No infrastructure investments made during reporting EC8 for public benefit through commercial, inFully period. kind, or pro bono engagement. There is a separation between the Understanding and describing significant We intend to more fully explore and describe our provision of services and indirect EC9 indirect economic impacts, including the Partially indirect economic impacts in future sustainability Not available economic benefits accrued making extent of impacts. reports. collection, at this time, an excessive expense. Environmental If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Materials As a service firm, we have few material EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not All Not material inputs and do not track the weight or volume of materials used. Masterpiece Percentage of materials used that are EN2 recycled input materials. Fully (Environmental Sustainable Purchasing Policy Stewardship) G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Environmental If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Energy BrownFlynn uses natural gas to heat our office. July 2007 June 2008: 222.5 MCF, or 253.8 GJ Direct energy consumption by primary July 2008 June 2009: 222.5 MCF, or 253.8 GJ EN3 energy source. Fully July 2009 June 2010: 231.8 MCF, or 264.4 GJ Data obtained from previous energy bills. BrownFlynn uses electricity for normal office applications. July 2007 June 2008: 28,860 kWh July 2008 June 2009: 26,677 kWh July 2009 June 2010: 22,565 kWh Data obtained from previous energy bills. Masterpiece Indirect energy consumption by primary EN4 source. Fully (Environmental Electricity is purchased from FirstEnergy, which has Stewardship) the following generation profile: 35% Coal, SO2 controlled 29% Nuclear (emissions free) 19% Coal 9% Combustion Turbine (Natural Gas/Oil) 8% Renewable (Hydroelectric/Wind Turbine/Solar) (emissions free) Masterpiece Energy saved due to conservation and EN5 efficiency improvements. Fully (Environmental Stewardship) Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or There is not a direct correlation between renewable energy based products and EN6 services, and reductions in energy Not Not applicable the energy we consume and the services we provide. requirements as a result of these initiatives. Masterpiece Initiatives to reduce indirect energy EN7 consumption and reductions achieved. Fully (Environmental Stewardship) Water BrownFlynn uses water for normal office applications. We have no products or services which directly During the reporting period, we have had consume water. a malfunction in the water meter, Masterpiece preventing accurate data collection. We 2010/2011 July 2007 June 2008: 2600 cubic feet Data for the current EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Partially (Environmental July 2008 June 2009: 3300 cubic feet reporting period. Not available will report on this period in the 2010/2011 Sustainability Stewardship) report, contingent on the repair of the Report July 2009 June 2010: data not available water meter and the correct accounting of water usage for the period. Data obtained from previous energy bills. Water sources significantly affected by No water sources are significantly EN9 withdrawal of water. Not Not applicable impacted by our water withdrawal. G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Environmental If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Water None of our water is used for external landscaping or embedded in our Percentage and total volume of water products or services. All water is EN10 recycled and reused. Not Not applicable returned to the Cleveland sewer system and ultimately Lake Erie, save for drinking water consumed. Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, Our office is located in Highland Heights, Ohio, a managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas suburb of Cleveland, Ohio and is neither in nor EN11 and areas of high biodiversity value outside Fully adjacent to protected areas or areas of uniquely high protected areas. biodiversity. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Our services have no significant impacts on EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of Fully biodiversity. high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Our services have no significant impacts EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not Not applicable on biodiversity. Strategies, current actions, and future plans Our services have no significant impacts EN14 for managing impacts on biodiversity. Not Not applicable on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Our services have no significant impacts EN15 habitats in areas affected by operations, by Not Not applicable on biodiversity. level of extinction risk. G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Environmental If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Emissions, effluents and waste We have data concerning quantities of natural gas consumption and electricity consumption, however we do not know the true emissions from our heating/cooling system and the disaggregated fuel sources of our electricity. BrownFlynn uses natural gas to heat our office. Pounds of CO2 emitted are derived using formulas provided by University of California Irvine. July 2007 June 2008: 222.5 MCF = 26,813 lbs CO2 July 2008 June 2009: 222.5 MCF = 26,813 lbs CO2 July 2009 June 2010: 231.8 MCF = 27,934 lbs CO2 Data obtained from previous energy bills. UC-I: http://www.physics.uci.edu/~silverma/units.html. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas EN16 emissions by weight. Fully BrownFlynn uses electricity for normal office applications. The EPA estimates that our electricity provider emits 1538 lbs CO2/MWh. July 2007 June 2008: 28,860 kWh = 44,386 lbs CO2 July 2008 June 2009: 26,677 kWh = 41,029 lbs CO2 July 2009 June 2010: 22,565 kWh = 34,705 lbs CO2 Data obtained from previous energy bills. EPA site: http://oaspub.epa.gov/powpro/ept_pack.charts. Total calculated emissions: July 2007 June 2008: 71,199 lbs CO2 July 2008 June 2009: 67,842 lbs CO2 July 2009 June 2010: 62,639 lbs CO2 Not all emissions information is available, Other sources of indirect emission include frequent such as emissions from air fare. As this 2011/2012 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas EN17 emissions by weight. Partially auto and air travel; however, we do not fully track the Not available information becomes available, we would Sustainability data to report on these sources of emissions. expect to report our indirect emissions Report more fully. While we do not currently have an greenhouse gas Masterpiece emissions reduction plan, our efforts to reduce energy Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas EN18 emissions and reductions achieved. Fully (Environmental consumption in our office building and to substitute Stewardship) technology for travel will decrease our direct and indirect emissions greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by EN19 weight. Fully We have no direct emissions of such substances. NOx, SOx, and other significant air EN20 emissions by type and weight. Fully We have no direct emissions of such substances. Our water discharge is to the Cleveland area sewer Total water discharge by quality and system. After public processing, we ultimately return EN21 destination. Fully 100% of the water we draw to the Lake Erie watershed. G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Environmental If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Emissions, effluents and waste While we do not yet have the systems to measure total Our waste is not measured by weight or Masterpiece type by our trash hauler, nor are we 2011/2012 Total weight of waste by type and disposal weight of waste, we understand the relative EN22 method. Partially (Environmental proportions of waste we create by type and disposal Not available certain of the final destination of our Sustainability Stewardship) trash or sorted recycling. We are Report method. Data included in this report. committed to reporting all available data. Total number and volume of significant EN23 spills. Fully We do not handle, process or ship spillable materials. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the We do not handle, process, or ship EN24 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, Not Not applicable hazardous materials. and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and Our sewage discharges are processed biodiversity value of water bodies and related by the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting Not Not applicable District and returned, ultimately, to Lake organization's discharges of water and Erie. runoff. Products and services We have a policy of, when possible, engaging our clients and partners remotely through telephone and Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Masterpiece web applications. This reduces our travel impacts, but EN26 of products and services, and extent of Fully (Environmental since we do not have data on the impact of our travel, impact mitigation. Stewardship) we do not know the extent of impact mitigation due to this policy. Percentage of products sold and their Our products are services and cannot be packaged EN27 packaging materials that are reclaimed by Fully or recycled. category. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonEN28 compliance with environmental laws and Fully No fines or non-monetary sanctions to report. regulations. G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Environmental If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Transport Significant environmental impacts of We have a policy of eliminating travel transporting products and other goods and Masterpiece Not currently tracked, but we plan to calculate carbon 2011/2012 Data for the current when possible, but we do not currently EN29 materials used for the organization's Partially (Environmental emissions associated with employee commuting and reporting period. Not available have the ability to collect adequate data Sustainability operations and transporting members of the Stewardship) business travel in future reports. Report concerning travel-related emissions. workforce. Overall Total environmental protection expenditures EN30 and investments by type. Not Not applicable Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Employment We have two principals and eight employees, all fullTotal workforce by employment type, LA1 employment contract, and region. Fully Canvas (Who We Are) time status and located at our office in Highland Heights, Ohio. The size of our firm may result in the ability to identify specific individuals Total number and rate of employee turnover Proprietary LA2 by age group, gender, and region. Not information through this data reporting. At this time, we choose to protect the confidentiality of our employees. The size of our firm may result in the Benefits provided to full-time employees that ability to identify specific individuals Proprietary LA3 are not provided to temporary or part-time Not information through this data reporting. At this time, employees, by major operations. we choose to protect the confidentiality of our employees. Labor/management relations Percentage of employees covered by No employees are covered by a collective bargaining LA4 collective bargaining agreements. Fully agreement. Minimum notice period(s) regarding We do not have a policy or regulatory requirement to significant operational changes, including LA5 whether it is specified in collective Fully provide a minimum notice and no employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. agreements. G3 Content Index Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and Masterpiece LA6 safety committees that help monitor and Fully (Employee Health & advise on occupational health and safety Wellness) programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost We have had no workplace injuries, fatalities or lostProprietary Due to our small size, we choose not to LA7 days, and absenteeism, and number of workPartially time accidents in the reporting period. information report additional data. related fatalities by region. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist We have no such education, training, counseling, LA8 workforce members, their families, or Fully prevention, or risk-control programs in place. community members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal No employees are covered by a collective bargaining LA9 agreements with trade unions. Fully agreement. Training and education While it is the policy at BrownFlynn to support and Masterpiece Average hours of training per year per encourage additional training and education, this LA10 employee by employee category. Fully (Employee Orientation training is primarily external and self-directed. We do & Engagement) not collect data on training. Programs for skills management and lifelong Masterpiece learning that support the continued LA11 employability of employees and assist them Fully (Employee Orientation & Engagement) in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular Masterpiece (Business LA12 performance and career development Fully Innovation) reviews. Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and Due to the small size of our organization, breakdown of employees per category Proprietary we choose not to disclose details about LA13 according to gender, age group, minority Not information the composition of governance bodies group membership, and other indicators of and employee population. diversity. Due to the small size of our organization, Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Proprietary we choose not to disclose details about LA14 employee category. Not information the composition of governance bodies and employee population. G3 Content Index Social: Human Rights If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Diversity and equal opportunity Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human BrownFlynn has no significant investment agreements HR1 rights clauses or that have undergone Fully for the reporting period. human rights screening. We have created a Sustainable Purchasing Policy which includes evaluating suppliers on multiple sustainability issues. Our significant suppliers and Percentage of significant suppliers and Masterpiece contractors are comprised of small, local service firms HR2 contractors that have undergone screening Fully (Sustainable and large national retailers. Should we learn of human on human rights and actions taken. Purchasing Policy) rights violations within our supply chain, we will take action, however we do not have plans to screen all of our suppliers and contractors. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of Our operations consist of providing consulting HR3 human rights that are relevant to operations, Fully services, which do not have human rights impacts. including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination HR4 and actions taken. Fully No incidents to report. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and We follow all applicable laws and regulations relative HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant Fully to freedom of association and collective bargaining. risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and We follow all applicable laws and regulations relative HR6 measures taken to contribute to the Fully to child labor. elimination of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory We follow all applicable laws and regulations relative HR7 labor, and measures to contribute to the Fully to forced or compulsory labor. elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures HR8 concerning aspects of human rights that are Fully We do not employ security personnel. relevant to operations. G3 Content Index Social: Human Rights If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Indigenous rights Total number of incidents of violations HR9 involving rights of indigenous people and Fully No incidents to report. actions taken. Social: Society If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any BrownFlynn carefully considers its impact programs and practices that assess and on the community. We have had no SO1 manage the impacts of operations on Not Not material changes and no plans to change our communities, including entering, operating, location and have minimal impact. and exiting. Corruption Percentage and total number of business BrownFlynn has no unique corruption risks and does SO2 units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Fully not engage in corruption risk screening or analysis. Percentage of employees trained in Every employee receives a copy of the Employee SO3 organization's anti-corruption policies and Fully Handbook, which outlines expectations with regard to procedures. ethical behavior. Actions taken in response to incidents of SO4 corruption. Fully No incidents to report. Public policy BrownFlynn is a privately-held Public policy positions and participation in Proprietary SO5 public policy development and lobbying. Not information partnership and chooses not to disclose this information. Total value of financial and in-kind BrownFlynn is a privately-held Proprietary SO6 contributions to political parties, politicians, Not information partnership and chooses not to disclose and related institutions by country. this information. Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for antiSO7 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Fully No incidents to report. monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for nonFully No fines or non-monetary sanctions to report. compliance with laws and regulations. G3 Content Index Social: Product Responsibility If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Customer health and safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety Our consulting and training services do not have direct impacts of products and services are or unique health and safety impacts. We have not PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage Fully conducted a life-cycle assessment or any other health of significant products and services and safety analysis on our service offerings. categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of Fully No incidents to report. products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Our consulting and training services do not have such PR3 significant products and services subject to Fully requirements. such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 concerning product and service information Fully No incidents to report. and labeling, by type of outcomes. We do not currently administer surveys measuring Practices related to customer satisfaction, customer satisfaction, but there are several PR5 including results of surveys measuring Fully checkpoints throughout all engagements to assess customer satisfaction. client satisfaction. Marketing communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, We follow all applicable laws and regulations relative and voluntary codes related to marketing to marketing and communications, however we do not PR6 communications, including advertising, Fully utilize any formal or informal programs to accomplish promotion, and sponsorship. compliance. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, Fully No incidents to report. including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and Fully No incidents to report. losses of customer data. G3 Content Index Social: Product Responsibility If applicable, Performance Reason for To be Description Reported Cross-Reference Direct Answer indicate the part Explanation Indicator Omission reported in not reported Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 concerning the provision and use of products Fully No fines to report. and services.
