Y2Ad COP Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Equality in health, civil, social and political rights along with the right to freedom of express; should be taken into consideration and applied in each work environment with regards to the Human rights standards and methods. Along with providing a forth legal protection for these rights. Ensure that people are receiving decent, humane treatment. Y2AD is one of few firms in Syria that are a part of the United Nation Global Compact Program. In respect to human rights, Y2AD urge its employees to constantly develop themselves and does not stand in the way of their personal success. Providing constant training and coaching.  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; People and groups have no right to engage in any activity or perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms. Therefore, business must not violate human rights ethics and should act responsibly with regard to human rights issues. Justice, tolerance, mutual respect, and human dignity are being implemented in all of our work activity inside the corporation and in every detail of its connections and relations with relevant stakeholders. Y2Ad employees have no relations with any organization against the human rights law. Labour  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Collective Bargaining a Fundamental Right, this gives employees the right to perform democracy and ensure forcing the law in the workplace. In addition, Y2AD workers and related stakeholders have the right to participate and join into different organizations based on their orientations and personal opinions, with no involvement or intrusion of any kind.  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; No human being shall be required to perform any kind of slavery or forced labour. Therefore no one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in a work environment. Based on strict inside laws, no employee is forced to perform or practice their work services against his/her will. Imposed work forces are strongly disagreed within Y2AD.  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; The employment of a minor (age 5–14) for the purpose of using as a work force before the competent legal age is illegal. No kind of any child labour activity is undertaken by Y2AD nor its clients and relevant stakeholders. The inside regulations of Y2AD highly disagree with child labour and the use of minors to perform any type of missions.  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; Eliminating discrimination starts with ensuring equality between workers with different races, religions, political opinions and others. In Y2ad, we make sure that no employee is preferred according to their sex, orientation or social origin; But according to their competence. Training, using resources, education And self improvement is accessible to all with no regard but to their efficiency and qualifications. Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Most business includes a risk of causing harm to the environment; therefore it should take obvious and practical precautionary approaches for the protection of environment and natural resources. Many Eco-friendly actions are being applied in the workplaces of Y2AD; by using environmentally friendly products along with minimizing the use of electricity, water and other sources of energy plus recycling; has an extremely high affect on the environmental challenges. Y2Ad employees have special boxes in each office to gather the papers for recycling. We are considering the environment by applying a cooling system of 24 degree in all Y2Ad Air conditions. All Y2Ad signatures have the (Go Green) message & logo.  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Corporations must make sure that its activities do not hold any harm to the environment. It also needs to generate environmentally responsible behavior among other firms and relations. Y2AD has come up with many environmental approaches, such as promoting the usage of fabric bags instead of plastic bags. A special environmental program has been presented to many of our clients includes: replant the public gardens of Aleppo – replace the exhaust pipes of the old cars ….etc  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies; Including the application of green science to illuminate the negative effect of technology on our lives. This also includes not only using these technologies in the workplace, but spreading this kind of science and recommending the use of it for business relations and stakeholders. Many of Y2AD clients promote Eco-friendly products such as; Eco-bubble washing machines and Doctor Virus air conditions (Samsung 2010-2011).This in a way helps in spreading the environmental awareness daily techniques. Anti-Corruption  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery; Corruption is recognized as a critical issue in business, because it affects the integrity of a corporation. Seeking illegitimate personal gain from a work place through the use of power does not match the work ethics of Y2AD business. Transparency is completely applied in all manners or relations between; employees themselves, employees and their clients, employees and the supervisors, and between the firm itself and the stakeholders. Insuring an effective technique towards a better work environment. The End
