Sustainability Report 2010 SSAB in 90 seconds SSAB is a world-leading producer of high strength steels. SSAB offers products developed in SSAB EMEA close cooperation with customers, in order to create a stronger, lighter, and Sales 2010 Shipments 2010 more sustainable world. SEK millions 25,000 Thousand tonnes 2,500 20,000 2,000 15,000 1,500 Profit 2010 10,000 1,000 • Sales increased by 34 percent to SEK 39,883 (29,838) million 5,000 500 • Profit after financial items amounted to SEK 682 (-2,061) million 0 0 • Profit after tax was SEK 764 (-879) million and n Ordinary steels n Niche products earnings per share were SEK 1.70 (-2.69) • Cash flow from the current operations was SEK -731 (3,387) million • Net debt/equity ratio at year-end was 58 (49) percent • Proposed dividend of SEK 2.00 (1.00) per share Share of the Group sales 42% Share of the Group capital employed 36% Sales, total Operating profit and margin The share’s performance SEK m SEK m % SEK 60,000 10,000 30 300 O 50,000 8,000 25 250 S 20 40,000 6,000 200 15 30,000 4,000 10 150 20,000 2,000 5 100 10,000 0 0 0 -2,000 -5 50 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Sales Profit A-Share OMX Stockholm Source: Trust and Fidessa Margin SSAB AMERICAS SSAB APAC Sales 2010 Shipments 2010 Sales 2010 Shipments 2010 SEK millions Thousand tonnes SEK millions Thousand tonnes 25,000 2,500 25,000 2,500 20,000 2,000 20,000 2,000 15,000 1,500 15,000 1,500 10,000 1,000 10,000 1,000 5,000 500 5,000 500 0 0 0 0 n Ordinary steels n Niche products n Ordinary steels n Niche products Share of the Group sales 36% Share of the Group capital employed 60% Share of the Group sales 6% Share of the Group capital employed 2% OMX Stockholm Products SSAB A With SSAB’s high strength steels, lift cranes become lighter, truck beds stronger, and containers more durable. In other words, SSAB’s steels give the customers efficiency gains and environmental gains. In 2010, niche products accounted for 32 percent of total volumes. Content Introduction Page Letter from the CEO 2 The sustainability year 2010 4 Strategy and governance Values, vision and guidelines 6 Stakeholders and driving forces 8 Corporate governance 10 Economic value creation SSAB’s offering 12 Focus: China 14 Environment SSAB’s environmental work 16 Environmental work during the year 18 Environmental impact during the production process 20 Focus: Climate 26 Social responsibility Employees 29 Work during the year 29 Strategic personnel work 30 Focus: Safety 32 Suppliers 34 Community 36 Initiatives and awards 37 Reference table for GRI 38 Glossary 40 Addresses Inside cover About this report SSAB’s Sustainability Report 2010 reflects the most important aspects of SSAB’s activities from a sustainability perspective. The report covers events that occurred during the 2010 calendar year. Reported data has been compiled during the reporting period and covers all parts of the operations, unless otherwise stated. The environmental data is focused on the Swedish part of operations. As a result of the reorganization in operations, the relationship between certain data has been changed and results from the preceding year have been adjusted accordingly. A complete content index, in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), is presented on pages 38–39, and SSAB has self-declared the reporting to be Application Level C. SSAB’s Sustainability Report 2010 also constitutes Communication on Progress (CoP) reporting to Global Compact. In the event of questions or comments, please contact SSAB at info@ssab.com. The cover shows a dumper truck with a bed made of high strength abrasion steel from SSAB. The truck is produced by Belaz, the manufacturer of some of the world’s largest dumper trucks with load capacity of up to 320 tonnes. » With SSAB’s steels our customers are able to produce products that are lighter and stronger than if they had used ordinary steels. With the support of SSAB’s experts, the customers are able to develop handling, processing, design and construction and in so doing improve profitability. The steel and the expertise that SSAB offers have made the company the market leader within high strength steels. « Introduction / Letter from the CEO SSAB’s business strategy is a strategy for a more sustain­ We must do everything to ensure that this does not happen able society. Our goal is that high strength steels will again. In the Swedish operations, we have also had an unac­ account for 50 percent of our shipments within four years. ceptably high level of accidents resulting in sick leave. Thus, Since products made of high strength steels are lighter, we are implementing an extensive program to improve stronger and have a longer lifespan than if produced using safety at the Swedish plants. Much of the work is based on ordinary steels, our strategy results in major benefits for learning from our operations in the US. There, SSAB’s plants the environment and advantages for our customers. are at the forefront as regards safety, compared with the For SSAB’s customers, the use of high strength steels rest of the American steel industry. makes it possible to produce products that are lighter, In 2010, SSAB signed up to the UN’s Global Compact. stronger and more durable than products made of ordinary This is an important undertaking for us which makes clear our steels. Light and high strength steel constructions save ambitions within the sustainability area. This report consti­ material both in the production stage and at the end-user. tutes part of our communication on SSAB’s work in accord­ For vehicles, excavation machinery and lifting cranes, high ance with the principles of the initiative. During the year, we strength steels provide in­creased lifespan and lower fuel also reported to Global Compact that we have established a consumption. These are qualities which are increasingly in whistleblower function in the Swedish operations. We have demand as energy prices increase and in pace with greater already had such a function in place in our American opera­ environmental awareness. In this way, SSAB’s investment tions. Thus, as from this year it will be possible for all employ­ in high strength steels represents an investment in the ees to report any irregularities to an external party. environment. At the same time, Swedish steel production imposes “ In order to further develop our high strength major strains on the environment. Iron-ore based steel steels and our customers’ possibilities to use production gives rise to significant carbon dioxide emis­ them in the best way, during the year we sions. With currently known technology, it is not possible to have carried out a number of investments reduce these emissions by much more. Already today, within research and development”. SSAB is one of the steel companies that have achieved the most in reducing carbon dioxide emissions from produc­ We have opened a new R&D center in Montpelier, USA. We tion, and we are constantly working to fine tune our pro­ have also commenced construction of a research and duction. During the year, we suffered a number of disrup­ development center in Kunshan, China. In Sweden, we have tions in production, which had a negative impact on carbon commenced a cooperation project between SSAB and the dioxide emission figures. Our target is to achieve a reduc­ SwereaKimab research institute regarding the development tion in emissions of 2 percent per produced tonne under of steel products of the future. normal production conditions by 2012. During the year, During the year, SSAB participated in the World Expo in investments have been carried out and decisions taken Shanghai, themed “Better city, Better life”. The Swedish regarding additional measures which will provide conditions pavilion was constructed of Prelaq Energy steel from SSAB, for achieving the target. which has the characteristic that it reduces the need for We are also actively participating in international indoor cooling in hot climates. Thanks to the characteristics research projects aimed at halving carbon dioxide emissions of the thermal surface, energy use can be reduced by up to from steel production. SSAB is a member of the steering 15 percent. The building aroused great interest and, since the group for the European ULCOS (Ultra Low CO2 Steelmaking) World Expo, has been moved to the eco-city of Caofeidian. research project, which is expected to have developed the I consider this to be yet further evidence that our high new technology within approximately 10 years. SSAB is also strength steels can contribute to sustainable development. participating in projects to study possibilities for storing car­ Now, as I hand over to my successor, Martin Lindqvist, bon dioxide captured from Swedish industry, the so-called I am convinced that SSAB will continue to contribute to a CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage) projects. more sustainable society. During the year, we have established a zero tolerance vision as regards the number of accidents within SSAB. For a long time we have had clear rules and clear routines in place as to how we must work safely within the Company. But we have been able to conclude that these rules and routines are not always complied with. Last summer, this Olof Faxander resulted in the occurrence of a fatality at one of our plants. President and CEO 2 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Introduction / Letter from the CEO Olof Faxander Martin Lindqvist Although 2010 did not develop as strongly as we had initially Taken together, all of this means that we can continue to believed, I feel very confident as regards the coming year. drive the development forward. SSAB will continue to pro­ SSAB has a clear and distinct strategy for the future. We vide the market with steel products which contribute to a have committed and skilled employees. We are carrying out more sustainable society and we will continue to work on investments which will make us well equipped for growth reducing emissions from our production. within high strength steels. And demand for steel is expected to increase. During 2011, we will continue to develop our operations. This means that we will continue on the staked out path and develop our employees’ skills, use our production plants to the best effect, and manufacture in the most cost-efficient way. We will increase our efforts within Martin Lindqvist research and development, as regards both the production President and CEO process and new grades of steel. from January 1, 2011 SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 3 Introduction / The sustainability year 2010 SSAB is strategically investing in research and development in relation to the customer. An important event during the The past year year was the completion of a North American research and development center in Montpelier, Iowa. Read more about this on page 13. China’s demand for steel is continu­ ously growing, and SSAB is on hand to meet that demand. Structures made using SSAB’s high strength steels result in significant advan­ tages at a time when sustainability and environmental issues are be­­ coming increasingly important for companies in Asia. Read more about this on page 14. SSAB has a policy of zero tolerance in regard to accidents in the work­ place and efforts to achieve in­­ creased safety awareness among employees and contractors have increased throughout the year. Read more about new safety routines and targets on page 32. 4 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Introduction / The sustainability year 2010 The Swedish Steel Prize continues to reward innovative solutions, which leverage the advantages offered by high strength steels. In 2010, the prize was awarded to the South African company Van Reenen Steel Ltd. Read more about their dump truck body on page 12. A whistleblower function covering the entire Group was established during the year. It is a channel that enables every employee within SSAB to report serious im­proprieties and violations of the Company’s Code of Business Ethics. Read more about this on page 6. Using resources as efficiently as pos­ sible is a priority for SSAB. As part of a project to evaluate waste products produced during the production process, North American operations have identified potential waste reduc­ tions of approximately 2,000 tonnes per year. This reduces the volume of waste sent for deposit. Read more about this on page 18. SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 5 Strategy and governance / Values, vision and guidelines From overall vision to practical guidelines SSAB’s vision and strategy includes an element of sustainability. Together, the company’s values and internal guidelines provide the necessary framework for all employees to achieve the Group’s overall objectives. Vision and strategy provide frameworks To benefit SSAB’s employees in their daily work, an environ­ Serving as a global leader in high strength steels and on mental and sustainability policy is in place to provide guid­ the Group’s two domestic markets are the cornerstones of ance on various sustainability issues. Additionally, a Code SSAB’s overall strategy. The vision and values provide clear of Business Ethics provides guidance on issues such as guidance by emphasizing both the opportunities opened human rights, the environment and community relations. up by high strength steels and the importance of collabo­ During the year, a zero tolerance program to ensure safety rating with customers. In order to strengthen our position in the workplace has also been developed. Special instruc­ as a leader in high strength steels, SSAB continues to focus tions regarding the giving and taking of bribes also are in on developing a close cooperation with our customers, place. maintaining a high level of expertise within applications SSAB is a signatory to the United Nation’s Global Com­ development and increasing knowledge about the product pact and supports the 10 principles brands. within human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. These principles are reflected in the SSAB’s Vision guidelines and communicated to vari­ A stronger, lighter and more ous commercial partners. sustainable world Education and communication are key elements in gaining employee support Together with our customers, we will go further than anyone SSAB’s values are continuously being applied to both else in realizing the full value of lighter, stronger and more external and internal communications. During 2010, group durable steel products. meetings have been held to address the issue of how values are being implemented within the Group. There also is a possibility for online education. Additionally, the vision SSAB’s Values and values are recurring features in the staff magazine, THE CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS IN FOCUS Steel! We always take an active interest in the customers’ business and seek long-term relationships. By New whistleblower function for the entire Group sharing knowledge, together we create value. During the year, a new function was established for the entire Group in which employees can report improprieties TRUE and suspicion of criminal offences at SSAB. Such devia­ We are dedicated and proud of what we do. We tions were previously reported internally, but as part of the build strong relationships by being open-minded, new feature, complaints are now received by an outside straight-forward and honest and by sharing infor­ party to guarantee the anonymity of the whistleblower. The mation and knowledge. system is similar to the function that has already been in place within the American part of the business, in which a ALWAYS AHEAD number of complaints are received each year. We are result-oriented. To achieve the highest performance we always proactively seek to be innovative and enhance our expertise further. 6 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Strategy and governance / Values, vision and guidelines Focus on business ethics in 2010 Within some operations or During the year, SSAB’s lawyers launched an internal busi­ subsidiaries there are addi­ ness ethics project to focus on preventing corruption and tional guidelines or instruc­ fraud. As part of the project, SSAB has proactively engaged tions. The Group’s guidelines take precedence over such in providing information to strengthen and disseminate our guidelines or instructions, and regulations and guidelines. Together with other functions in some cases are more farwithin the Group, several training courses have been held reaching than statutes and regulations. with a focus on SSAB’s values, policies and guidelines. Upon discovering that personnel have abused their SSAB’s Environmental and position or acted disloyally or criminally during the past few sustainability policy in brief: • SSAB shall continue to years, SSAB has investigated the events. Lack of know­ develop products and serv­ ledge or deliberate criminal behavior has been involved on ices together with its cus­ a number of occasions. The consequences have, for exam­ staff. Earlier in the year, SSAB APAC started a training tomers in order to contrib­ ute actively to an environ­ ple, been dismissal and legal proceedings. course for all business area employees concerning SSAB’s mentally friendly and profit­ In order to emphasize that deviations from SSAB’s pol­ values, policies and guidelines. To date, approximately 50 able transaction icies are unacceptable, the lawyers, together with the percent of the sales staff has taken the course which will • SSAB places importance on the efficient use of raw heads of finance and administration in SSAB EMEA’s for­ expand so that all employees within the business area materials and energy, and eign sales companies, have started a new initiative. The obtain increased knowledge on these issues. on minimizing waste plan involves informational and educational meetings for In SSAB Americas, SSAB’s lawyers also remain engaged • SSAB shows respect for employees and provides a SSAB EMEA’s sales staff both within and outside Sweden. in education and sharing information with staff concerning safe and stimulating work­ During 2011, the initiative will involve SSAB APAC’s sales the regulations and ethical rules that apply to SSAB. ing environment • Transparency and openness are sought after SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics covers, among other things: • Employee health and safety • Diversity and internationally recognized labor law guidelines Targets • Business ethics and integrity SSAB has a number of targets within the three dimensions of the sustainability area, particularly in regards to the economy, • Human rights environment, and social issues. SSAB consistently measures its work against these targets and intends to report on them • Stakeholder and community relations annually. The targets presented below cover the entire Group. Within the various operations, there are additional estab­ • The environment lished targets applicable on a plant level, specifically within the environmental area. • Communication Target Development/trend 2010 Read them in their entirety, Economy as well as SSAB’s Instructions regarding the Giving and Niche products shall account for 50 percent of total volumes by 2015 In 2010, the proportion was 32 percent, which is the Acceptance of Bribes, on same level as in 2009 www.ssab.com Asia shall account for 20 percent of total niche product volumes by 2015 In 2010, the proportion was 13 percent Environment 2 percent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions per tonne of produced steel by In 2010, an important step was taken to achieve 2012 (base year 2008) this target. An investment in new Cowpers at one of the blast furnaces in Oxelösund was brought into commission; this has reduced the use of reduction agents in the production of hot metal Social responsibility Annual reduction of at least 5 percent in accidents resulting in sick leave The target was adopted in 2010 and is calculated from 2011 and onwards Performance and planning reviews completed for at least 90 percent of In 2010, just over 80 percent of employees had all employees each year performance and planning reviews At least three internal candidates for each managerial position In line with the objective of 90 percent SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 7 Strategy and governance / Stakeholders and driving forces Driving forces and external challenges The steel industry plays a key role in the development of society and SSAB’s high strength steels possess several advantages from a sustainability perspective. At the same time, the industry is resource-intensive and is a high-risk industry from a working environment perspective. Stakeholder confidence in our ability to address risks and opportunities is of great importance for continued success. Driving forces and opportunities Opportunities for the steel industry and SSAB can be primarily linked to increasing environmental demands from customers and the world at large. It also can be linked to a development need in many emerging economies. High strength steelS – a competitive advantage Even if the rate of growth within many markets has fallen as a consequence of the economic situation, there is a con­ tinued need for steel for infrastructural development and growth in markets around the world. At the same time, ”SSAB is committed to creating value for its stake­ demands are increasing for stewardship of resources and holders and to building sustainable development, which is an advantage of high relationships based upon strength steels. respect, responsibility and excellence with its em­­ployees, customers, consumers, share­ Transportation and increased safety holders and other business According to the UN, the global transportation industry partners – and to do so in a socially and environmentally accounts for almost one quarter of global carbon dioxide responsible manner.” emissions. With structures made of high strength steels, vehicles become lighter and consume less fuel or carry From SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics greater loads and hence reduce the number of transports. Steel production processes also generate surplus energy in There is an increased demand for alternative means of the form of heating or energy-rich gases. Investments and transportation and railways are regarded as an attractive research in these areas create more possibilities to utilize alternative. Both the expansion of railway networks and the them as sources of energy. construction of high-speed trains involve the use of steel. The higher the speed, the greater the impact in the Recycling and re-use event of collisions and this factor places demands on the The stewardship of resources is an issue which has conse­ energy-absorbent qualities of the steel in its design. Hybrid quences for both the economy and the environment. Steel and electric cars require lighter designs in order to increase is one of the most recycled construction materials in the their performance with retained safety levels. world, and thus, obsolete constructions can potentially give rise to new raw material instead of generating waste. RENEWABLE ENERGY Approx­imately 35 percent of all steel in the world is manu­ Demand for competitive, renewable energy is growing with factured from recycled scrap metal. an increased focus on climate issues and higher energy In addition to surplus energy, steel production also prices. Steel is an important component in new technical generates a number of byproducts. Instead of being solutions for utilizing nature’s renewable resources. Steel is deposited, these byproducts can be processed into new included in wind power stations, solar power stations and products with various areas of use. For example, slag can the various types of hydroelectric power stations. replace burnt lime in the cement and concrete industry. 8 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Strategy and governance / Stakeholders and driving forces Risks and challenges MATERIALS AND SUPPLIERS The steel industry is energy-intensive and dependent upon Changes in the price of iron ore pellets and coal are raw materials from natural resources. Access to materials influenced by the balance between supply and demand. with a low impact on the environment and produced under The past year has seen sharp fluctuations in both iron ore safe conditions can affect confidence in companies. In the prices and coal prices. Initially, this was a result of the long term, this factor also affects the ability to compete for global recession, but later was due to increased demand skilled employees. from China. In the long term, demands will increase for efficient use of resources and the utilization of byproducts Carbon dioxide targets and technical development by both manufacturers and users. With current technology, it is possible to achieve marginal The ability of companies to impose demands on and reductions in carbon dioxide emissions from ore-based monitor conditions of their suppliers constitutes an impor­ steel production. Thus, more stringent targets regarding tant confidence issue. Stringent demands are imposed reduced carbon dioxide emissions impose demands for for a safe workplace, particularly in raw materials industries new steel production technology. In addition, functioning associated with a risk-filled working environment. If a sup­ technology is required for carbon capture and storage. plier is unable to manage such risks, this also has negative consequences for the customers. Emission rights and carbon dioxide restrictions In the long term, more industries will be covered by the EU’s Generational shift and competition for skills trading system in carbon dioxide emission rights. The alloca­ SSAB is actively engaged in an exchange of skills within the tion currently takes place based on governmental authority organization. Many companies in the industrial sector are decisions and is expected to become more restrictive. The facing a significant generational shift and are competing system may impede or distort the competitiveness of the for skilled employees on local markets critical for their European steel industry on the global market, but with business, as well as in a growing, global labor market. SSAB increasing global awareness of climate change, pressure must be an attractive employer by providing opportunities also is growing on the United States and Asian countries to for development, while at the same time offering a safe increase the regulation of carbon dioxide emissions. workplace in a risk-filled working environment where acci­ dents could potentially have serious consequences. Transparent communication with SSAB’s stakeholders SSAB is committed to having an open dialogue with stakeholders affected by SSAB’s operations and those who influence SSAB. Different stakeholder groups have different expectations regarding the Company’s behavior. Presented below is a summary of issues addressed during the year. Stakeholder Forum Issues Shareholders Investor meetings for shareholders and sustainability Economic development, safety issues and risks at analysts, among other places in Stockholm and suppliers, climate issues, sustainability strategy Oxelösund Employees Regular meetings with labor union representatives, Development possibilities, working environment and employee discussions, employee surveys safety, strategic issues Customers Knowledge Service Center, Expo 2010, local customer Profitability and environmental advantages of high seminars and trade fairs, Swedish Steel Prize strength steels, exchange of knowledge, on-time delivery, and quality Community Local consultation with inhabitants, the media, environ­ Permit matters, impact on the local community, mental groups and politicians environmental impact Authorities and Industry organizations, research cooperation, consulta­ The trading rights system and competitive terms, technical organizations tion and negotiations in permit matters development, reporting of environmental matters Suppliers Purchasing meetings, conferences, visits to suppliers Contractual issues involving human rights and the environment, on-time delivery and quality SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 9 Strategy and governance /Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance within SSAB involves continuous development of rules and routines that ensure transparency, a clear allocation of responsibilities between various company bodies, and well-functioning board work. SSAB is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm and applies the Swedish Code on Corporate Governance. External and internal regulations Committee or submit other matters to be addressed by Further information regar­ With its registered office in Sweden, SSAB’s corporate following the instructions available on SSAB’s web site. ding corporate governance governance is regulated by external rules and regulations in SSAB is available on consisting of, among other things, the following Swedish The Board of Directors www.ssab.com, including the statutes: the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish SSAB’s board of directors currently consists of nine mem­ following information: Accounting Act, and the Swedish Annual Reports Act. bers elected by the general meeting, and one woman is • Routines regarding the Also, as a listed company, SSAB complies with Nasdaq among those members. SSAB’s president also is a member Annual General Meeting OMX Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers and the Swedish of the board. Taking into consideration the company’s oper­ (including when the AGM must be held, notice to Code on Corporate Governance. ations, phase of development and circumstances in general, attend and registration In addition, there are a number of internal rules, regula­ the board is composed of members whose expertise and procedure, as well as which tions and policies that affect corporate governance includ­ background represent diversity and a wide breadth of expe­ important decisions must ing: the by-laws, the Procedure Rules for the board of direc­ rience. Five of the directors are independent, in relation to be made at the AGM) tors with instructions for the president, instructions for board both the company and SSAB’s major shareholders. • Information from SSAB’s committees, and a finance manual (Financial Guidelines), as The board is responsible for internal control and has previous Annual General well as the Finance Policy. The internal rules also include established a process for internal control based on an Meetings (since 2005), including notices, minutes, SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics. internationally established framework developed by The addresses by the President Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway and communiqués Shareholder governance Commission (COSO). The process is based on five compo­ • The by-laws The general meeting is the company’s highest decisionnents, including: control environment, risk assessment, • Corporate governance re­ making body where shareholder influence in the company is control activities, information and communication, as well ports from previous years exercised. At the annual general meeting (AGM), the share­ as monitoring. • Information regarding the holders decide on, among other things, the members of the The chairman of the board is responsible for presiding Nomination Committee Board of Directors, compensation to the Board, as well as over the work of the board, representing SSAB on owner guidelines for compensation to the President and senior issues, and is responsible for the evaluation of the work of executives. Pending the annual general meeting, share­ the board. The chairman of the board also serves as the holders are able to submit proposals to the Nomination link between the board and the president. Shareholders/ Nomination Committee General Meeting External auditors Board Compensation Committee Audit Committee of Directors President and Other Group ExeInternal audit cutive Committee Business areas and subsidiaries Business areas Processing operations Distribution operations SSAB SSAB SSAB Plannja Tibnor EMEA Americas APAC 10 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Kapitelrubrik » With SSAB’s high strength steels, it is possible to manu­ facture steel constructions that are lighter, stronger and more durable over time. The reliable, high-quality of the company’s steels, together with the strength of knowledge and cutting-edge applications expertise, make SSAB a valuable partner for its customers.« SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 11 Economic value creation / SSAB’s offering Products with potential for the future The use of SSAB’s advanced high strength steels in applications and designs provide many advantages that have resulted in lighter, stronger and more durable solutions. This can be translated into an improved total economy, reduced impact on the environment in the customer stage, as well as greater lifespan of the products. Additionally, the byproducts from steel production are being used in new, innovative solutions, which contribute to closing the gap in the steel eco-cycle. Eight-tonne weight reduction resulted in the Swedish Steel Prize 2010 winning contribution of a lighter and more durable body for For the 12th year in a row, the Swedish Steel Prize was dump trucks within the mining industry. By using high strength awarded for the most innovative application in high abrasion-resistant steel in a new design, the body acquired strength steel. The aim of the Swedish Steel Prize is to greater resistance to the strenuous wear and tear exacted by inspire and disseminate knowledge regarding high strength mining operations. At the same time, the vehicle weight was steels and the possibilities to develop lighter, safer and reduced by 8 tonnes, which is equal to 19 percent. As a result, more environmentally-friendly products. A common theme operating and maintenance costs were reduced, as well as the for the four contributions nominated this year was sustain­ impact on the environment due to lower emissions. ability through longer lifespan. Other nominated companies were Blupoint PTY Ltd from The 2010 winner of the Swedish Steel Prize is the South Australia, which developed an efficient method for renovating African company Van Reenen Steel Ltd, recognized for their worn out bucket teeth for loaders; Ruthmann GmbH & Co from Share niche products of total sales Thousand tonnes 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 06 07 08 09 10 Ordinary steel Niche products 12 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Economic value creation / SSAB’s offering Germany for contributing a telescope boom made of high Growing the market through research and development strength steel that increased the lift height and load capa­ Since 2008, SSAB has had a Research and Development city in a new sky lift; and Wranne Fåhraeus Design AB from Council whose overarching goal is to lead the development Sweden for presenting an entirely new bedspring design that of and realize the potential in high strength steels. The combines comfort, hygiene, design and cost efficiency. Council coordinates projects in this area with the task of optimizing technical resources and ensuring regular trans­ New exciting solution based on Merox product fer of technology among the various business areas. The Kenrex company developed a miniature purification Forums with customers and SSAB staff were established to plant and a filter using Hyttsand from SSAB Merox. develop new products that meet the needs of the market Hyttsand is a byproduct from steel production. Thanks to a and serve as important platforms for the work. membrane trap that deals with solid organic material, the In addition to the long-established Knowledge Service purification plant, together with the filter, is able to remove Center, a new research and development center was opened phosphates from wastewater for up to 300 households. A in Montpelier in October 2010. Work also has begun on the number of municipalities in Sweden are currently conduct­ construction of a new research and development center in ing a review of water quality in surrounding property areas Kunshan, China and is expected to be completed in late 2011. and are imposing more stringent requirements in regards The aim is to strengthen SSAB’s position as a leading to the water returned to the soil from commercial and resi­ manufacturer of high strength steels, while at the same time dential properties. With the miniature purification plant, 99 growing US and Asian markets through advanced offerings percent of the phosphates in the wastewater are removed. based on SSAB’s cutting-edge expertise. Studies and tests also are currently taking place to iden­ tify if and how it might be possible to return phosphates into the soil as improvement agents. SSAB’s subsidiary, Merox, is the primary channel for the processing and sale of byproducts from steel production. By identifying new areas of use, the proportion of byproducts that must be deposited is minimized, thereby leading to a more efficient use of resources and reduced impact on the environment when compared with alternative products. It also leads to generating more revenue. Operations that create value contributes to the community through salaries, social security SSAB plays a vital role in the locations where the company contributions, and in the case of strong earnings, through operates. In fact, SSAB contributes directly and indirectly profit-sharing with the employees. Purchases from suppliers to the development of these communities. An overarching contribute to job creation outside the Company and stimulate goal is to generate a good return for SSAB’s shareholders other local economies. In addition, taxes and interest pay­ and to invest in the continued growth. SSAB also is an ments to lenders contribute to the financial system. important employer in locations where it operates and Generated and distributed value, SEK million 2008 2009 2010 Reinvested in the Company (363) Reinvested in the Wages and Reinvested in the Wages and Company (6,649) salaries (3,705) Wages and Interest salaries (3,408) Company (2,933) salaries (3,610) Social security payments to lenders (437) Interest expenses (2,002) payments to lenders (360) Interest payments Dividends to to lenders (966) Dividends to shareholders Social security Dividends to Social security Income tax (2,445) shareholders (1,620) (1,296) expenses (1,450) shareholders (324) expenses (1,236) SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 13 Economic value creation / Focus: China An attractive market for high strength steels SSAB participated in Shanghai’s World Expo 2010 and thereby demonstrated its interest in growing the Asian market with China as a base. A continued need for infrastructural development in Asia is strengthening the demand for steel, and an increased environmental awareness provides an advantage for SSAB’s high strength steels. Strengthened positions in China innovation,” and focused on providing inspiration for inno­ Target 2015 Nearly half of the steel produced in the world is used by vations and solutions that improve society. This theme also The target for 2015 is that China, which is considered by many as the engine that drives was built into the actual design and construction of the Asia, lead by China, shall account for 20 percent of the global steel market. For that reason, SSAB is now Swedish pavilion, as SSAB’s Prelaq Energy steel created the SSAB´s total niche product strengthening its position in Asia, particularly in China, in façades and roof. The organic-coated surface of Prelaq’s volumes. order to offer the region different products within high steel possesses thermal qualities and reduces energy use strength steels. By investing in a finishing line in Kunshan for by dissipating heat, as well as the need for indoor cooling in plate from Oxelösund and Mobile, SSAB will be able to cut hot climates. lead times and optimize the products based on the market’s needs. The line is expected to be in commission by 2011. With Innovation race the new research and development center currently under SSAB’s race to innovation was incorporated in another construction in Kunshan, SSAB can become an important way when two project teams competed against each other partner for Chinese customers who will benefit from the during a special activity at the Expo. Over the course of knowledge and experience available within the Group. 72 hours, the teams worked in a structured fashion on Over the course of two days, SSAB welcomed more ideas and innovations to demonstrate that structure and than 400 customers to various seminars led by experts intensive work can achieve innovative and commercially from the Group who showcased their cutting-edge expertise viable solutions. The competition’s theme was “innovative within high strength steels. It was an important opportunity solutions using high strength steels,” which focused on the to present to the Chinese market SSAB’s product offerings customer segment in the APAC area. Several ideas also and technical proficiency. Important strengths include the have led to other patent applications, including a steel products’ environmental advantages and higher perform­ pallet that offers recyclable capabilities not available with ance, which generate savings in the long term. wooden pallets, and a protection igloo that can be used as an emergency shelter in the case of natural disasters. World Expo with important theme The theme of the World Expo in China was “Better City, Swedish pavilion obtains new lease of life Better Life,” and sustainable development was a recurring In total, the Swedish pavilion hosted over three and a half topic. The Swedish pavilion had its own theme, “Spirit of million visitors – an estimated 20,000 people per day – and was an important meeting place for SSAB and other participants. The 2010 Expo’s international committee Satisfied customers in China awarded the Swedish pavilion a gold medal for design and SSAB hopes the customers in China, who already have positive experiences with how creativity, and the pavilion was designated as one of the steel from SSAB can be used to construct lighter and stronger products, will contribute World Expo’s most valuable commercial meeting places. to strengthening SSAB’s product brands and strong reputation on the Chinese market. Since the Expo, the Swedish pavilion was sold to the “Weldox 960 has extremely good production qualities, as well as excellent and Chinese city of Tangshan, where it will be dismantled and stable mechanical qualities, particularly in regards to its perfect flatness. Zoomlion has reassembled in the eco-city of Caofeidian. The clear sus­ great confidence in using the steel in the production of lighter and stronger cranes, tainability theme of the architecture and design is well and has done so for the past 10 years. It’s the best advanced high strength steel in the suited to the ambitions of Caofeidian. This is a clear sign of world,” said Mr. Wang Lianfang, senior engineer at Zoomlion. future possibilities with advanced high strength steels from SSAB in a world where the demands for sustainable develop­ ment are increasing. 14 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 » The expansion of the quenching line at SSAB’s hot strip rolling mill in Borlänge will increase the need for cooling water, but thanks to being a closed system, the degree of recirculation will increase. « SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 15 Environment / SSAB’s environmental work Strategic environmental work SSAB is continuously working to improve efficiency enhancements that reduce the impact on the environment from steel production. The cornerstones of the strategic environmental work promote both gradual improvements, as well as innovative solutions and are long-term in nature. Environmental strategy supports the business reductions and/or increased lifespan for end products. The efficient use of resources represents an important cor­ Continuous improvements and increased cooperation pro­ nerstone of the strategy. Target-oriented work in regards vide a basis for active marketing of the environmental to the use of natural resources, energy and byproducts advantages afforded by SSAB’s advanced high strength contributes directly to increased profitability in operations. steels. Increased knowledge stimulates demand for SSAB’s Increased energy efficiency reduces energy costs and steel, and as SSAB’s steel replaces ordinary steels, addi­ innovative use of byproducts from production processes tional important savings in environmental resources are can further contribute to a more efficient use of resources. achieved. Part of the strategy also involves developing environ­ mental work through cooperation and dialogue. Results Guidelines for the environmental work from research projects strengthen the organization’s own All business areas and subsidiaries are responsible for pre­ work and contribute to increased competence. Dialogue paring and complying with their own environmental policy. with customers, governmental authorities and the media This is in line with the overall Group guidelines, SSAB’s increases awareness of SSAB’s environmental work and Environmental and Sustainability Policy, and SSAB’s Code creates conditions for a competitive steel industry. of Business Ethics. Knowledge, understanding and partici­ The inherent sustainability potential of the products pation from all employees is important in order to yield has a clear connection to the business, since the high positive results. strength of the steel can lead to significant weight Environmental organization and governance Important environmental work in 2010 The Group has the environmental council, a joint body for coordination of activities concerning the external environ­ ment. The purpose of the environmental council is to focus • Reduced dust emissions in Oxelösund on the overall strategic environmental work and monitoring of this work. Two central figures in the Council are SSAB’s • Energy efficiency improvements in Sweden environmental manager for EMEA and the environmental • Environmental improvements with manager for SSAB Americas, who also is responsible for savings potential in the US other environmental work in operations outside Europe. The objective is that business areas themselves shall take • Working group for improved air quality charge of the day-to-day environmental work. The envi­ in Oxelösund ronmental council convened eight times in 2010. Within each business area and subsidiary, there are • From spillage to resource in Luleå special environmental departments responsible for ensuring compliance with laws and contracts, administering permit • Unique solution reduces nitrogen applications, as well as measuring and reporting emissions. • Renewal audits during the year All business areas and subsidiaries within SSAB have integrated operational systems and through joint work • Merox established in Luleå descriptions, they are able to coordinate rules for require­ ments in conjunction with purchasing, and the develop­ • Permit matters during the year ment of production techniques. Additionally, it is possible • Participation in international cooperation to coordinate the work concerning the environment, prod­ uct quality, and working environment. All production units have environmental management systems approved in 16 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Environment / SSAB’s environmental work accordance with ISO 14001. The environmental manage­ Mistra. One of SSAB’s most important research areas ment systems are an integral part of the operational involves carbon dioxide. Read more about it under Focus: systems of the units. Climate, on page 26. Each location with production plants has identified its most significant environmental aspects. The most Environmental conditions for the operations important is the impact on climate through emissions into In Sweden, the environmental court establishes conditions for the air and water, as well as use of raw materials and energy. SSAB’s operations, a process which affects decisions on envi­ Targeted activities are performed within these areas in ronmental legislation taken within the EU. In the US, the fed­ order to make improvements. eral government and the United States Environmental Pro­ Special self-inspection programs ensure monitoring tection Agency play a corresponding role. SSAB’s operations of the local environment at all of SSAB’s production are subject to several hundred environmental conditions plants, such as in the case of collecting water, air, and which, among other things, regulate production levels, emis­ noise samples. The results are reported to the relevant sions into the air and water, noise levels, and rules regarding supervisory authorities. deposits. All production units comply with their respective local Cooperation within research and development environmental requirements and the Group holds manda­ SSAB participates in a number of different cooperation tory environmental damage insurance, as well as liability bodies and projects concerning the steel industry. The most insurance to cover potential damage to third parties. important cooperation partners include the US Department The maximum permitted production levels for Swedish of Energy, the institutions Swerea Mefos (Metallurgical operations are shown in the table below. In North America, Research Institute AB), SwereaKimab and IVL Swedish production levels are determined in the form of restrictions Environment Institute, the PRISMA skills center, and Mistra on the maximum produced tonnage per hour. (Foundation for Strategic Environmental Research). This also includes the following trade organizations: the Swedish Steel Producers’ Association, Eurofer (European Confeder­ ation of Iron and Steel Industries), American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI), and the World Steel Association (WSA). All of these bodies are important players within environmental research, as are universities, colleges and governmental authorities. SSAB is involved in different ways in all of these forums, such as in the Eco-Steel Cycle project financed by Thousand Permitted Production tonnes Plant production 2010 Coke Luleå 800 705 Oxelösund 530 413 Hot metal Luleå 2,300 2,223 Oxelösund 2,000 1,224 Slabs Luleå 2,500 2,001 Oxelösund 1,900 1,134 Hot-rolled steel Borlänge 3,200 2,184 Oxelösund 820 527 Pickled steel Borlänge 2,500 1,467 Cold-rolled steel Borlänge 1,400 981 Annealed steel Borlänge 650 502 Hot-dipped Borlänge 680 451 galvanized steel Organic-coated Borlänge 140 104 products Köping 30 20 Finspång 40 1) 30 1) 1) Million m2 SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 17 Environment / Environmental work during the year Improvement work continues within the environmental area Steel production has a significant impact on the environment, and SSAB is always working to moderate the impact. Efficiency improvement work continued during the year and planned measures were implemented. Reduced dust emissions in Oxelösund recycling the material in the production process. By focus­ The new exhaust hood to reduce dust emissions from the ing on four specific waste products, including various types coking plant in Oxelösund was installed during the year. of dust and spills, the volume deposited can be reduced by The investment represents an important step in our more than 2,000 tonnes annually and is expected to gen­ endeavors to make the coking plant more environmentally erate savings in excess of USD 500,000. During 2010, the fit, and calculations show that it should be possible to project was a success with two types of waste materials, reduce dust emissions by a couple of hundred tonnes per and has thus already generated a cost saving. The project year. Alignment of the exhaust hood took place in late fall. will continue in 2011. Another project is aimed at attaining a reduction of at Energy efficiency improvements in Sweden least 50 percent in energy consumption at one of SSAB’s An energy strategy has been drawn up in Borlänge as part warehouse facilities in Mobile. Various types of lamps have of the ongoing work to secure long-term strategic energy been tested, including LED lamps, to replace existing halo­ supplies. The long-term goal is to replace oil with alterna­ gen lamps. It was determined that high efficiency fluores­ tive sources of energy, such as gas. In the ongoing work to cent strips, together with a smarter lighting activation reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from the slab furnaces, system, gave the best result. Less than 63 percent of tests are now being conducted involving oxygen enrich­ energy savings were achieved, which exceeded the target ment of the combustion air. Also, plans are underway to goal. It is expected that energy costs at the facility will be convert the oil-powered furnace to natural gas. reduced by an estimated USD 12,000 a year. The installation of new Cowpers at one of the blast fur­ naces in Oxelösund will result in significant reductions in fuel Working group for improved air quality in Oxelösund consumption. In addition, a heat recycling system has been In the spring, a working group was established to plan vari­ connected to contribute to further efficiency improvements. ous measures for reducing particulates such as dust and The new solution involves even greater pre-heating of the dirt in the air at Oxelösund. The steering group consists of air that is injected into the blast furnaces, resulting in extra representatives from SSAB, the Port of Oxelösund, and energy and a reduction in the use of coke in the blast fur­ Oxelösund Municipality. Dust in the air has been a problem nace. As a result, there will be a surplus of coke oven gas, for the local surroundings and SSAB is committed to seek­ which can instead be used in other parts of the process. For ing a comprehensive approach to identify possible example, in the rolling mill, it has been possible to reduce oil improvement measures. consumption thanks to the increased access to coke oven gas. Initial calculations for the new installations show savings From spillage to resource of SEK 75 million annually with potential for up to SEK 120 During the year, SSAB used a freeze technique in order to million a year when the Cowpers have been aligned. clean up older spillage in the ground in Luleå. Through the In Luleå, a project is underway to optimize the flow in use of freezing blocks and saltwater as a freezing agent, it the process from hot metal to steel. This involves efficiency was possible to remove old tar from the ground and from a improvements in several aspects, including resources and cooling water outlet no longer in use. Cleanup of older traces energy. It also will have a positive impact in the form of of tar in the ground using excavation machinery would have reduced carbon dioxide emissions. been a risk and had the potential of causing a detrimental effect on the environment due to particulates being roiled Environmental improvements with savings potential and distributed through the watercourse. Instead, SSAB was The steady improvement work also continued at the North able to remove entire blocks containing contaminants. American plants during the year. As result of the work, it has been possible to recycle One particularly interesting initiative is a project in 2,300 tonnes of tar as a raw material in the coking plant. Mobile to reduce the volume of deposited material by There also has been an oil trap on the site for many years, 18 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Environment / Environmental work during the year which effectively prevents tar from being spilled through the cooling water outlet. Unique solution reduces nitrogen Through the use of an existing technique in an entirely new context, SSAB in Oxelösund has created a unique solution resulting in a significantly reduced impact on the environment from the coking plant. Water from the coking process contains contaminants that are purified through the use of bacteria. In order to reduce the nitrogen content in the water before it is returned to the Baltic Sea, bacteria also is being used through a denitrification process, that has never previously been used in a coking plant. With the help of the process, the quantity of Administrative Board in Norrbotten County. nitrogen to the Baltic Sea will be reduced by 90 percent. Fol­ During the year, work began on an application for a new lowing successful trials, the technique is now in full-scale use. deposit site in Oxelösund because it is estimated that the cur­ rent deposit site will reach its limit within a couple of years. Renewal audits during the year Work continues to involve chemicals covered by the During the year, SSAB in Luleå and in Borlänge have under­ EU’s REACH directive. Extensive work is taking place on eval­ gone renewal audits of the ISO 14001 environmental man­ uating, approving and registering these chemicals. During agement system, which are executed every third year. Distinct the year, SSAB completed the registration of all chemical from the annual audits where routines and work methods are substances covered by REACH, and the work now involves checked, these audits are performed according to changes monitoring updates and changes in the regulations. over longer periods of time to ensure that activities carried During the year, the US Environmental Protection out actually yield results. The audits demonstrated key ratios Agency (EPA) studied a number of proposals for changes to have been developed in a positive direction and the environ­ regulations. Among other things, nitrogen oxide and sulfur mental deviations noted in previous audits could be consid­ dioxide levels were reviewed, and this may have an impact on ered rectified. The environmental certification has been the American part of the business. There also is a proposal extended for another three years. In Luleå, this also coincided regarding mercury emissions from electric arc furnaces, and with renewal audits of the quality and working environment thus, the Agency has requested information regarding emis­ management systems. sions from nine plants, including SSAB in Mobile. An audit of the ISO 14001 environmental management The County Administrative Board in Uppsala has initi­ system also has been carried out at the plant in Montpelier. In ated a study of the Dannemora mining district in order to addition to SSAB’s plant in Mobile, three cutting lines in North identify possible contamination. In its capacity as former America were reviewed and at all units, certificates were operator, SSAB is assisting in the production of data and extended without any major qualifications. The audit of samples for testing. The County Administrative Board in Mobile also started at the end of the year. Östergötland has started a corresponding study of sedi­ ment in the marine system, residing downstream from the Merox established in Luleå industrial area in Finspång where SSAB currently operates In line with the efforts of SSAB’s environmental council to opti­ an organic-coating line. mize the company’s environmental work, SSAB has begun to integrate byproduct work in Luleå within the framework of Merox. Participation in international cooperation Having one company concentrate all its efforts on byproducts Since 2010, SSAB has had a representative on two working and waste from operations increases the overall efficiency of the committees within the international trade organization and work and the potential for developing new solutions. the World Steel Association. Both organizations address environmental work within the steel industry. The Environ­ Permit matters during the year mental Policy Committee (EPCO) focuses on formulating SSAB in Luleå applied for, and received, a new and expanded its position on various environmental issues and serves as environmental permit. The previous permit for 2.5 million a platform for discussions among decision-makers and tonnes of slabs was increased in the application to 3 million governmental authorities. The newly established Technical tonnes of slabs. At the end of November, SSAB received a and Environment Committee (TECO) focuses on technical positive response from the environmental court; however, development that can reduce the environmental impact of parts of the decision have been appealed by the County steel production. SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 19 Environment / environmental impact during the production process More efficient processes lessen environmental impact By constantly improving and increasing efficiency in various stages of steel pro­ duction, it is possible to moderate the impact on the environment. The work also aims to reduce waste by returning byproducts to the processes or identify new areas of use as an alternative to depositing. SSAB’s steel is produced through two different process methods. 1. while the hot metal is transported for removal of sulfur. it is then placed onto the lD converter, or the oxygen converter. the energy­rich blast furnace and coke oven gases are recycled as a source of energy in steel production, meeting approximately 50 percent of the electrical power needed in Swedish operations. Deliveries of district heating takes place for more than 70 percent of the population in the urban areas of oxelösund and luleå, and to approximately 15 percent of the population in the urban area of Borlänge. the use of coal and coke to reduce iron ore to crude steel gives rise to carbon dioxide. thanks to the high quality raw materials in the form of iron ore pellets and high quality coke, as well as efficient processes, international compari­ sons show that SSAB’s blast furnaces have low carbon diox­ the coal used in the process (1) is purchased from, among ide emissions per tonne of hot metal compared with the other countries, Australia, the uS, and Canada. then, it is industry as a whole. Dust containing high levels of coal from transported by ship to luleå and oxelösund. At the coking the blast furnaces’ purification plants is returned to the blast plant, the coal is heated into coke, producing an energy furnaces in order to meet part of the coal demand. rich coke oven gas that can be used in place of oil as an lpG and oil also are used as fuel, in addition to blast energy raw material for furnaces, heat and power plants. furnace and coke oven gases. in all combustion processes, other byproducts obtained from the coking plant that certain emissions of nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide are could be used or sold on the market include tar, ammonium generated, as well as carbon dioxide. in order to minimize sulfate, benzene, sulfur and sulfuric acid. sulfur dioxide emissions, SSAB chooses low sulfur coal and Dust from steel production can sometimes derive from oil, and the burners are regularly adjusted to reduce sulfur the coking plant, and dust levels in emissions are measured dioxide emissions. regularly. All new plants satisfy stringent requirements regarding emissions and improvement work is constantly 2. taking place at the older plants, such as installation of the exhaust hood in oxelösund. iron ore pellets from lKAB are shipped by rail to luleå and from there by ship to oxelösund. the iron ore in the pellets is comprised of magnetite, which releases heat in the pellet production process. this results in lower use of energy when compared with pellet production based on hematite as the iron ore raw material. in the blast furnace (2), the iron ore pellets are mixed with coke, lime and additives and then smelted into liquid hot metal. At a normal rate of production, SSAB’s own coking plants satisfy most of the coke requirements. At the exit section from the blast furnace, the slag is sep­ arated from the liquid hot metal and collected in a slab ladle, 20 – SSAB SuStAinABility report 2010 Environment / environmental impact during the production process in the lD converter (3), the carbon content of the hot metal is reduced by the addition of oxygen which binds to the car­ bon, and the contaminants are reduced through the use of 3. lime. the process creates a surplus of heat, and scrap metal is added to achieve cooling. When the carbon content is sufficiently low, the hot metal is converted into steel. the steel is poured off from the lD converter into steel ladles where alloying materials are added. the temperature and composition of the steel is finely adjusted in various stages. one half of the slag formed in the converter is returned to the blast furnaces. the slag contains 15–20 percent iron and 40 percent burnt lime, reducing the need to add iron ore and limestone. in the continuous casting line (4), the steel is converted from liquid to solid form. Water is used in several stages in the process when the steel is cast into strands. 4. Water used in SSAB’s processes circulates primarily in closed systems, and is purified through sedimentation and filters before leaving the industrial area. through extensive monitoring of water quality, SSAB ensures all governmental authority requirements are fulfilled. the steel strands are cut into slabs and placed on cool­ ing racks before being transported to the rolling mill for processing into strip or plate. this involves various processes such as rolling, quenching, and annealing. the various heating ovens within Swedish operations uses coke oven gas, lpG, oil, and electricity as sources of energy. Absolute emissions, thousand tonnes 1) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Dust 732 576 881 926 939 nitrogen oxide 1,347 1,037 1,613 1,658 1,743 Carbon dioxide 2) 3,051 1 512 2,841 3,228 2,891 Carbon dioxide 1) 2) Nitrogen oxide 1) Dust 1) Kg/tonne produced steel Kg/tonne produced steel Kg/tonne produced steel 1,200 0.7 0.40 0.6 0.35 0.30 0.5 800 0.25 0.4 0.20 0.3 0.15 400 0.2 0.10 0.1 0.05 0 0.0 0.00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 1) relates to the Swedish steel operations. Due to the low production level during 2009, the efficiency went down and the emissions per tonne produced steel increased. 2) in 2010, values for carbon dioxide emissions per produced tonne were higher than in previous years. Among other things, this was due to the fact that during part of the year, when major repairs were carried out on the gas tank in luleå, the lD gas was burnt off instead of being used in the power plant. in addition, operational disruptions in oxelösund had a negative impact on emissions. in 2011, improved results are expected thanks to the measures and investments carried out in 2010, including new Cowpers in oxelösund, together with additional scheduled investments to ensure operational stability. SSAB SuStAinABility report 2010 – 21 Environment / Environmental impact during the production process Scrap-based steel In North America, crude steel is produced through recycled steel, or steel scrap, smelted in electric arc furnaces. Steel is one of the most recycled materials in the world. In North America, scrap steel is purchased on the open market. In Montpelier and Mobile, scrap steel is smelted in electric arc furnaces (1). Both of the plants have twin fur­ naces in which the scrap is pre-heated in one of the vessels through the use of natural gas. Meanwhile, the scrap in the other vessel is smelted using electric power. The high ten­ sion created when electricity is introduced into the scrap bath creates an electric arc. The smelted scrap becomes new crude steel which is tapped into ladles from the electric arc furnace. A certain quantity of coal and natural gas is used in electric arc steel production, which produces carbon diox­ ide. However, this is not to the same extent as when steel is produced from iron ore. This is primarily due to the fact that steel scrap is smelted using electric power. Worn out car tires can replace coal in the electric arc furnace and since 2004, over 2.6 million tires have replaced a comparable quantity of coal in Mobile. In addi­ tion, coal residue from waste is recycled as a coal source. This has reduced the amount of waste deposited and replaced up to 60 percent of the coal used in the electric arc furnaces. In ladle metallurgy (2), the crude steel is finely adjusted in accordance to specific recipes and among other things, through the addition of alloying materials. The carbon con­ tent also is adjusted. 1. 2. SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 23 Environment / environmental impact during the production process Just as in iron ore­based steel production (3), the liquid steel is cast into strands after being finely adjusted. the steel strands are cooled to create hardening and are cut 3. into slabs through use of oxygen lances. the slabs are treated in different processes – rolling, hardening and tempering – depending on the desired qualities. in the scrap­based process, plate steel is produced. natural gas is the primary source of energy in the various heating ovens for steel slabs in north America. the combustion gives rise to certain emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides. read more about the steel production process in the Steelbook at www.ssab.com Material and energy balance and carbon dioxide emissions for the production of 1 tonne of steel in the SSAB Group 2010 Flows also include the heat and power plants in luleå and oxelösund which mainly are using the process gases from SSAB’s operations. Electricity Oil+LPG+NG District heating Electricity 580 kWh 662 kWh 192 kWh 136 kWh Others 163 kg Carbon dioxide emissions Coal and coke 440 kg “To gas” 723 kg Purchased scrap 522 kg Blast furnaces Byproducts 324 kg and electric arc Processes and furnaces 756 kg furnaces Iron ore 922 kg Steel 1,000 kg Heat and power plant 559 kg Oxygen Aragon Air Water Waste heat 24 – SSAB SuStAinABility report 2010 Environment / Environmental impact during the production process Valuable byproducts characteristics, cannot be reused. At present, the waste is Thanks to the exact processes involved, steel production either destroyed or deposited. The company’s deposit sites generates a number of valuable, quality byproducts. SSAB are strictly regulated by governmental authorities in sells the byproducts on the market through its subsidiary, regards to management and security. Merox. Ongoing research projects are aimed at identifying The waste is handled in such a way that it may be pos­ new areas of use and conditions for converting additional sible to utilize these resources in the future. For example, byproducts into relevant offerings to the market. the zinc-rich dust from the electric arc furnaces in the Merox’s high-quality products include Hyttsten, which United States is now being sent to a recycling plant instead is used for road construction purposes to give the road a of being deposited. significantly longer life. Through its use, Hyttsten allows roads to be built using smaller quantities of materials like Railways an important means of transport cement and concrete, as well as Merit 5000 and Merolit, Transportation primarily takes place on railway and ship, which replaces burnt lime. The use of one tonne of slag as a but also by truck. All business areas within SSAB have their raw material in cement reduces carbon dioxide emissions own logistics department with the objective of making by one tonne, compared with the use of lime. Other prod­ transportation both efficient and economic. ucts include Paddex for riding tracks, as well as an organic In Sweden, raw materials are transported to Luleå and plant fertilizer called M-kalk. Another example is Black Iron, Oxelösund by train or ship. Transportation of slabs between which is sold for the manufacture of ferrite magnates. This the production plants takes place by rail. In Sweden this year, is included in almost all modern electronics, ranging from SSAB was awarded Green Cargo’s “Climate Certificate for mobile phones to cars. In the United States, the largest Transportation,” recognizing the company for meeting the cri­ byproducts are steel slag and oxide scale. These are used, teria established by the Swedish Society for Nature Preserva­ among other things, in asphalt and cement production. tion as a ‘good environmental choice for transportation.’ Prior to the construction of SSAB’s two electric steel Waste and future resources plants in Montpelier and Mobile, these locations were espe­ At present, waste products from production that have no cially chosen based on the potential market and access to environmentally or economically justified area of use, or scrap metal raw material. This strategy minimizes the envi­ are removed from the use cycle for environmental reasons, ronmental impact of transportation since all plants have are classified as waste. At SSAB, waste largely consists of access to railways. In North America, the inland waterway flue gas purification dust that, due to physical or chemical system also is used. SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 25 Environment / Focus: Climate Research is central for reduced climate impact SSAB’s niche products contribute to more efficient use of resources and can reduce the users’ impact on the climate. At the same time, new technology is required to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from production. Carbon dioxide continues to be a key issue for SSAB as well as the entire steel industry. More stringent regulation is now expected in various locations, including the US, in the form of increased reporting. New projects within ULCOS Together with the Swedish Energy Agency, SSAB and a The ULCOS (Ultra Low Carbon Dioxide Steelmaking) number of Swedish industrial companies are participating co­operation project began in 2004 under the auspices of in a project to develop expertise within the CCS area. The the EU and it has undergone several phases. The overriding project is aiming for a long-term reduction in carbon dioxobjective is to develop new technology to cut carbon dioxide emissions from base industries. The first stage of the ide emissions from steel production by half. SSAB participroject will lead to a number of proposals of necessary pates in the project through staff and financial contriburesearch investments. Proposals must take into account tions. With a budget of EUR 75 million, more than 80 diffenecessary conditions in the form of legislation, acceprent techniques have been studied and a number of the tance, transportation and storage possibilities in Sweden. most promising techniques are now being tested. Based on The BASTOR project was initiated in 2010. This is a colwhat has occurred thus far, SSAB has chosen to participate laborative project between companies in the Baltic region in two new sub-projects of particular interest. and the Swedish Energy Agency. The project is focused on The first and most important project is a demonstrastudying the potential for carbon storage in the region. tion plant for a new blast furnace developed within ULCOS. SSAB’s third project in 2010 will attempt to calculate the The objective is to convert an existing production plant in effects of implementing CCS technology in an integrated France into an ULCOS blast furnace, with the possibility for steel plant. The project is financed by the International carbon storage. At present, financing possibilities for the Energy Agency, the Swedish Energy Agency and a number of project are being explored. In order to comply with requirecompanies, including SSAB. Data from SSAB’s blast furnace ments for a demonstration plant and to qualify for subsiin Luleå and the rolling mill in Borlänge is being used as a dies from the EU, the carbon storage must be completed template for the calculations, and calculations also will be no later than 2015 and be available for at least 10 years. performed based on an ULCOS blast furnace. The second project in which SSAB is participating is called HISARNA. This is a pilot plant in the Netherlands Research into alternative fuels in the intending to use a new process for coal and iron ore in Swedish steel industry steel production other than coke and iron ore pellets. The During the year, Sandvik, Ovako, Outokumpu, Höganäs, advantages include a reduction in the number of stages in and Uddeholm, together with SSAB, launched a study on the process, since the need for coking and sintering plants using biofuel in the steel industry. Member companies in is eliminated. This project also depends on a functioning the Swedish trade organization and the Swedish Steel carbon storage method in order to reduce emissions. An Producers’ Association are supporting the project. application regarding a three-year trial period was submitted at the end of the year. SSAB publishes results from CDP For the third year in a row, SSAB participated in the extenStudies and surveys test carbon capture sive questionnaire survey from the Carbon Disclosure In support of other projects within ULCOS, SSAB also is Project (CDP), which evaluates the climate work of compaparticipating in three projects studying the effects of and nies. The results for the year are public information and conditions for Carbon dioxide Capture and Storage (CCS) available on SSAB’s web site at www.ssab.com, and from technology. CDP. The initiative has been backed by international and Swedish investors since 2003, and more than 2,500 companies took part in this year’s survey. 26 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Environment / Focus: Climate SSAB improved its score in 2010 from 72 to 78 (out of a No sales of emission rights took place during the year, maximum 100). This score is regarded as affirmation of a which it will make it possible to save a certain surplus for company’s transparency and qualified SSAB for inclusion in use during the next trading rights period of 2013–2020. CDP’s Nordic “Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index” (CDLI). Through the Swedish Steel Producers’ Association and the This index includes the top 20 companies with the highest European industry organization, EUROFER, SSAB is parti­ scores and that publishes their CDP disclosure. cipating in the dialogue with the EU Commission regarding formulation of the next trading period’s directive. ApplicaTrading in emission rights within the EU tions regarding the next trading period are expected to The trading system for carbon dioxide emission rights start as early as the spring of 2011. within the EU represents the work to reduce carbon dioxide emissions within the framework of the Kyoto Protocol. The Reporting of carbon dioxide emissions system covers approximately 13,000 plants throughout the may be introduced in the US EU, which is equivalent to 40 percent of emissions within A proposal for a carbon dioxide emissions trading system the Union. SSAB’s operations in Sweden are among the did not pass US Congress during the year. However, the US more than 730 Swedish plants covered by the system. Environmental Protection Agency is continuing to develop The intention is that companies will reduce their emisthe framework to facilitate the control of greenhouse gas sions when it becomes more expensive to purchase emission emissions by expanding existing legislation. For example, rights than it is to carry out environmental improvement the Clean Air Act may be enhanced in order to further limit measures. Thus, in order for trading to lead to reduced emisair pollution. The first stage involves increased monitoring sions, there must be a shortage of emission rights on the and reporting of existing emissions, and in the long term, market. The steel industry has, in part, obtained a free allothis potentially might result in increased energy costs for cation of emission rights to a large extent due to the fact steel producers. that it is exposed to global competition from countries not covered by the trading system. Most of the world’s steel proJoint report on climate changes duction is not included in the EU’s trading system. Every year, the steel industry generates an average 1.9 tonnes of carbon dioxide per produced tonne of steel. Carbon EU's According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), the dioxide trading Steel production emission system iron and steel industry accounts for approximately 4–5 Million Million percent of global carbon dioxide emissions. Over a period tonnes tonnes CO2 of 30 years, the steel industry has reduced its energy use Million tonnes steel CO2 per year by 50 percent per tonne of produced steel. 2004 2008 2004 2008-2012 The international industry association World Steel SSAB Sweden 4 4 6 7 Association is working to develop and demonstrate how Sweden total 6 5 53 23 the steel industry can contribute to a more sustainable EU (15) 169 168 4,001 approx. 1,500 future from a life cycle perspective. In November 2010, USA 100 91 6,049 the WSA issued a report from member companies showing China +Taiwan 281+20 500+20 5,010 their support for continued research into new technologies The world 1,069 1,329 27,246 aimed at further reducing emissions. The report also demonstrates the importance of having an overarching The trading period which commenced in 2008 will extend approach including reductions in consumers’ operations and through 2012. SSAB’s plants in Borlänge, Luleå and Oxelöin closing the eco-cycle gap through efficient use of steel. sund have been allocated emission rights for the entire period. The allocation of emission rights is based on historic emissions and forecasts made in 2006. SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 27 » SSAB’s most important social responsibility is to offer our employees a safe and progressive working environment. During the year, SSAB has intensified the focus on safety, formulating a vision of zero tolerance in regards to accidents and serious near-accidents, as well as establishing specific short-term targets. « 28 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Social responsibility / Employees / Work during the year Focus on safety and development during the year The work of developing the new organization has resulted in extra challenges for many employees, and new roles have been created. At the same time, SSAB also has experienced serious accidents which have affected employees and contractors. Target for increased safety organization provides improved conditions for synergy For a long time within SSAB, structured work has been perand cooperation. formed in order to increase safety and improve health. The bar was raised even higher during the year, as SSAB strives Specialist careers within SSAB to become one of the world’s leading steel companies SSAB is a knowledge-based company where technical spewithin the area of health and safety. The two steel plants in cialist expertise in SSAB’s strategic business is critical for Mobile and Montpelier have demonstrated extremely good remaining a competitive organization. results. In regards to safety, according to independent As part of its skills supply work, SSAB has identified key observers, they are among the leading steel plants in the skills and clarified the possibilities for specialist careers US in relation to safety and health. Top priority has been within the Group during 2010. There are three specialist given to achieving the same excellent results in the Swerole levels intended to secure and develop key skills within dish operations. areas relating to SSAB’s strategic business development. As part of the strategic plan of action through 2015, a The role as specialist includes contributing with knowledge long-term target has been established to achieve annual within the organization and developing personal expertise. reductions in the number of accidents and serious nearDuring 2010, 27 employees were appointed as special­ accidents. There shall be an annual reduction of at least 5 ists within EMEA. percent with the vision of achieving zero tolerance. Zero tolerance also is the name of the program developed to High response frequency and positive achieve the target. The activities are designed to emphasize results in Voice ‘10 a safe working environment as the highest priority. This is a SSAB’s employee survey, Voice ’10 covered the entire prerequisite for all work at SSAB’s plants. Group and was conducted during the year. The results from SSAB also has made it clear that a personal committhe survey show improvements in all areas and the ment by all employees is necessary to achieve a lower acciemployee satisfaction index was 84, compared with 79 in dent rate and to maintain it over time. The requirement that 2008. The overall response rate was 83 percent, represenall employees must always work in a safe fashion has been ting an improvement from 2008 when 79 percent of clarified during the year. employees participated. The survey seeks to identify strengths and areas for Employee development improvement within the organization. Based on the results All employees shall have annual performance and planning from Voice ’10, each manager must develop improvement interviews with their immediate superiors. The target for plans to address the areas highlighted for development. 2015 is that more than 90 percent of employees shall have an annual performance and planning interview. During Survey of preventive health work 2010, more than 80 percent of employees had such interIn connection with the formation of the new organization, it views with their immediate superiors. The percentage of was decided to survey and evaluate corporate healthcare, performance and planning interviews conducted serves as proactive preventive health care, and health within SSAB an important key ratio in SSAB’s work to become a highEMEA. Focus is being placed on the major production performance organization. plants in Sweden in an effort to create a future solution for health work based on the results. New organization Active managerial planning work and internal mobility were important factors in the successful implementation of the organizational change that occurred in 2010. The new SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 29 Social responsibility / Employees / Strategic personnel work Continuous work focusing on strengthening the organization Employees are crucial for continued success, and SSAB’s goal is to strengthen its brand as an employer. SSAB’s employees shall be motivated, proud, able to develop in their work, and enjoy a safe workplace. Some of the most important aspects of the strategic personnel work are presented below. Internal mobility contributes to development As a basis of the work, SSAB’s global manager supply proThe overarching goal of SSAB’s personnel strategy is to cess applies six common manager criteria. A good manager continue to develop the organization and strengthen it within SSAB shall create results, serve as an example, drive within a high-performance culture. The employees’ willingimprovements, give others an opportunity to develop, geneness to develop and mutual learning opportunities are key rate energy, and be aware of his or her own strengths and factors for SSAB as a knowledge-based company. weaknesses. These criterions are to be used when identifying, SSAB encourages internal mobility and skills developappointing, developing and evaluating SSAB’s managers. ment. The objective is to have an individual development plan for each employee, to schedule annual performance Training strengthens the organization and planning interviews between managers and employees, During the year, a number of training modules have been Criteria for a good as well as to use a common CV database when filling intercarried out for the Group’s middle managers. Together with managerial candidate: nal vacancies. Duke Corporate Education and IFL at the Stockholm • Creates results • Sets an example School of Economics, a training course has been develo• Carries through Sound management is crucial for ped focusing on strategy, change work and leadership. improvements SSAB’s continued success • Gives others an opportunity to develop SSAB primarily strives to recruit internally to managerial Diversity and equality • Generates energy positions within the Group. The goal is that there will be three Diversity strengthens the Company’s ability to develop and • Is aware of own strengths internal candidates for every vacant managerial position. achieve success, and for that reason, SSAB has advanced and weaknesses Organizational staffing for the business areas in the new its positions with an updated policy. Equal opportunity is a structure involves a high degree of internal staffing. self-evident part of the diversity concept. This demonstrates that SSAB has successfully identified SSAB’s diversity and equal opportunity work begins and developed employees with appropriate skills. Thanks to with the Group Executive Committee, in which there is a a conscious effort to address generational changes and wide range of ages and backgrounds. Of the Group Execuexchanges of skills, most management groups are charactetive Committee’s nine members, two are women and severized by a sound balance between years of experience, skills ral of the members were born outside of Sweden. and cultural backgrounds. The composition of the managerial corps in the new Number of employees Age structure at year-end 2010 2009 Change,% SSAB EMEA 6,569 6,351 3 Ages SSAB Americas 1,221 1,105 10 60SSAB APAC 104 91 14 Tibnor 838 857 -2 50-59 Other 58 50 16 Total 8,790 8,454 4 40-49 30-39 20-29 -19 -1,500-1,000 -500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 White-collar Blue-collar employees employees 30 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Social responsibility / Employees / Strategic personnel work business areas also reflects a varied number of diversity According to independent American studies, the North factors. This sends signals to the rest of the organization, American part of SSAB is one of the leaders in the industry and together with increased internal mobility, contributes in regards to health and safety. A special section in this to greater diversity on all levels in the long term. report focuses on the enhanced measures taken during the SSAB operates in a traditionally male-dominated induyear. Read more about this on page 32. stry, especially in regards to production workers. In 2010, the The cornerstones of the safety work comprise of systepercentage of women in the Group marginally increased to matic analysis, follow-up of accident statistics and exchanges 19 (18) percent. The percentage of female managers in the of knowledge between units for preventive purposes. Focus is Group has increased to 18 (16) percent, meaning the gap placed on order and tidiness through the SSAB One producbetween the percentage of female managers and other tion system, which is based on the Six Sigma program. female employees has diminished. This is in line with the Six Sigma involves structured work for measuring, coneffort to achieve a correlation between the percentages. trolling and reducing deviations. The work creates general In order to increase career opportunities for women quality improvements and increases efficiency. Order and within the Group, SSAB is working with mentor programs and tidiness contribute to avoiding many accidents, while at the women’s networks. Within SSAB, there are a number of same time creating other positive synergies, such as cost employees who have been identified as potential future and resource savings. managers; slightly over one-third of them are women, which is a positive factor for SSAB to achieve the established goal. Proactive preventive health care Follow-up of the investments made in potential future SSAB has made a major commitment to improve health managers since 2000 demonstrates that two-thirds of the and as a result, a number of preventive healthcare projects men and women who have undergone the development are underway. Examples include: support for hiking paths in program for managerial candidates have proceeded to the vicinity of the steel mills in Montpelier and Mobile, a manager or head positions. This confirms the development project involving the municipality to develop a preventive program was as positive for female candidates as for male healthcare center in Oxelösund, as well as the HälsoSAM candidates, despite the fact that there were fewer female than health project for the working environment and ergonomy male candidates in total. in Luleå. HälsoSAM also is now the model for the systematic health work in Borlänge. Top priority given to a safe workplace SSAB is making further investments in preventive Health and safety in the workplace are prerequisites for health care and proactive health work in order to achieve being an attractive employer, and can be attained through even better results. During the year, sick leave within the continuous work. During the year, greater focus has been Swedish part of the Group fell to 2.8 (3.4) percent. Sick placed on safety in the Swedish operations and a number leave dropped to 3.3 (4.3) percent for blue-collar workers of projects have been completed. and to 1.6 (1.8) percent for white collar staff. Sick leave Number of accidents % of worked time Per million work hours 8 20 7 6 15 5 4 10 3 2 5 1 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 31 Social responsibility / Employees/ Focus: Safety Safety has top priority During the year, the Swedish operations suffered from a number of serious accidents and one fatality in which an employee from a contracting company was killed. SSAB shall be a safe workplace for its employees and partners, and thus safety has top priority. Safety preparedness has been strengthened and a number of measures initiated in order to improve safety work. This has been accomplished through intensified routines and an expansion of safety awareness. Heavy industry and zero tolerance With the practical conditions existing at the site, it is the Steel production involves many elements which require a behavior of the employees that ultimately affect whether high level of safety preparedness. Molten steel measuring the accident statistics move in the right direction. Through roughly 1600°C, hazardous chemicals, noise, railway tracks clearer communication in all channels, it is SSAB’s goal to and engines, as well as heavy vehicles are just some exampimprove awareness of the importance of safety. les of potential risks for accidents unless safety awareness accompanies every decision and every stage of the process. Constantly challenging safety norms SSAB has formulated a policy of zero tolerance in to achieve improvements regards to accidents, with the intermediate goal being to Safety work must be constantly improved, and sometimes achieve a reduction of at least 5 percent per year in the it is important to challenge safety norms in order to evolve. frequency of accidents resulting in sick leave. Safety at the workplace can be improved through large and small measures. An important exchange of knowledge in Statistics are a tool – attitudes are an aid regards to safety work takes place between the Swedish Within all units in SSAB, every near-accident is reported for and North American operations. The American plants are analysis and to systematically prevent new accidents. Staregarded as a safety role model and a leader within the tistics serve as a tool to enable identification of risk areas American steel industry. Within the Swedish operations, and to measure the effect of increased safety measures. there is clear room for improvement. Despite the fact that in certain areas manual measures are In order to achieve a joint and more systematic still required, many hazardous elements have been autoapproach to constant improvements within the working mated to minimize contact with dangerous parts of machienvironment area, all Swedish production plants will be nery. certified in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 standard. SSAB provides equipment, training and monitoring to The operations in Luleå are already certified in accordance ensure that the working environment is as safe as possible. with the standard, and includes third party audits, certified safety routines and systematic improvements of the working environment. Borlänge and Oxelösund are now working to introduce this systematic methodology in their work with Lost-time injury frequency rate the ambition of completing implementation during 2012. Per 1 million hours worked In SSAB Americas, there has been a high degree of 20 activity within the safety area during the year. At the plants in Mobile and Montpelier, work has continued on the project that began at the end of 2009 to register and certify 15 safety work in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 standard. Both of the plants were granted certification in December 10 2010. One of the objectives for 2011 is to achieve 18001 certification for the cutting lines in Houston, St. Paul and 5 Toronto. 0 Newly established position in EMEA 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 The newly established position of head of health and safety SSAB EMEA SSAB Americas within SSAB EMEA is a direct measure to counteract a 32 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Social responsibility / Employees / Focus: Safety negative trend in safety statistics in the Swedish operations, particularly in 2010. The establishment of the position also includes a greater focus on transfer of knowledge between SSAB’s various areas of operation and between the various plants. The goal is to jointly identify the best and safest work methods to avoid accidents and ill-health. Cooperation with contractors At all of SSAB’s plants, contracting companies are used for various tasks, but primarily for maintenance work. For example, on average approximately 200 contractor employees work each day at the Swedish plants. In Sweden, SSAB has a statutory coordination responsibility and all contractors are carefully checked before contracts are signed. Every contractor employee must hold a valid entrance pass, which is similar to a driver’s license for working in the Swedish industry. Before the actual work begins, all contractor employThe aim is to place further focus on the issues and create a ees must participate in the local safety training for SSAB’s forum for the largest contractors. Twice a year, the contplants. Safety training courses are held regularly, approxractors meet and report on how they have followed up on imately one to two times per week throughout the year. reported events, as well as how they are systematically Some are held more intensively prior to the summer outworking to prevent accidents and near-accidents. age when a large number of contractor employees come into operations. Random drug testing and education Appointed coordination officers from SSAB conduct a Abuse of alcohol or drugs occurs throughout society. An risk analysis together with the contractor’s foreman regarexternal testing company has been hired to perform randing work duties. The situation is checked each day during dom drug tests within SSAB in Sweden, and one fourth of the course of the work and safety checks are performed the employees are expected to undergo drug tests each regularly and are sometimes specifically targeted. Any year. industrial injuries, near-accidents or critical elements which Within EMEA, contractor employees and consultants are reported are reviewed. also will undergo random drug tests. Starting 2010, SSAB also will report accident statistics In the fall of 2010, all employees in Oxelösund were for contractor employees in the Swedish operations. informed about abuse and dependence, and how to idenIn addition, SSAB EMEA decided to establish a special tify the warning signs. The purpose was to increase awaresafety committee for contractors at all production plants. ness and show how colleagues can intervene. Acknowledgements for the North American operations The American Steel Manufacturers Association carries out safety rankings of steel plants, representing 85 percent of total North American production. Both of SSAB Americas’ steel plants achieved top rankings. The plant in Mobile distinguished itself in particular with the lowest registered accident rate among all members of the Association. In addition, SSAB’s global safety officer, based in America, was awarded the Don Daily prize for involvement in safety work within the industry organization. These accolades are a great acknowledgement to the safety performance work of the American operations. SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 33 Social responsibility / Suppliers Increased coordination within purchasing Strategically speaking, the raw materials used in steel production are SSAB’s most important purchases. Purchasing transactions occur with a number of long-term suppliers from different parts of the world. During the year, important work was carried out on more efficient coordination of the purchasing process and the inclusion of principles regarding labor rights and human rights in contracts with suppliers. Joint purchasing of primarily raw materials cured locally in North America. In SSAB Americas, all Through the reorganization of SSAB’s operations during purchasing orders are accompanied by a sustainability the year, purchasing within EMEA is more formally coordideclaration. nated. Purchasing is now divided into several subcategoExperiences from the internal working group that starries, including raw materials, services, investments and ted in 2009 have been included as a basis, as well as expeenergy. The coordination has provided an important platriences from work with the members of the Swedish Coal form for operational analysis and for developing uniform Institute in 2009. During the year, the purchasing organiprocesses, training, contract templates and routines. All zation for raw materials has participated in training courses new offers or templates for invitations to tender within in order to strengthen knowledge on these issues. SSAB EMEA contain a special section regarding sustain­ ability issues and is based on the 10 principles in the UN Monitoring and control of suppliers Global Compact. SSAB strives to be an involved and knowledgeable purchaser In the first stage of the work, focus has been placed on to maintain long-term relations with suppliers. During the the raw materials category, which constitutes a prioritized year, the raw materials purchasing category in particular has part of purchasing in terms of both volumes and its critical worked on expanding responsibility provisions in various importance for the business. Through a project across the agreements. This also includes the right to have an unanGroup, purchasing of the alloys that constitute the largest nounced audit conducted by a third party. The work is reguvolume for both SSAB EMEA and SSAB Americas has been larly evaluated by the purchasing group within EMEA. coordinated and is taking place in accordance with the new The subsidiaries that have built relationships with the procedures. The other most important raw material for suppliers are responsible for monitoring the suppliers’ SSAB Americas consists of scrap steel, which similar to the compliance with SSAB’s principles. majority of purchasing volumes for the operations, is proSupplier industries or countries associated with risks in 34 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Social responsibility / Suppliers respect to fundamental human rights are usually the main rages the suppliers to comply with and respect it. respect priority in terms of monitoring. this takes place by obtaining for fundamental human rights is a part of the selection and verifying the codes of conduct of certain suppliers, or process with suppliers. obtaining certification that they comply with the united As a supplement to SSAB’s Code of Business ethics, nations’ Declaration on Human rights. Another method is to SSAB has developed instructions regarding the Giving and monitor conditions at factories and plants through site visits. Acceptance of Bribes. the instructions provide employees SSAB has begun a more systematic survey of risks as it with clear information on how SSAB defines bribery and relates to various suppliers, industries, and countries. this improper benefits. Additionally, it describes how employees will form the basis for continued development of the moniare expected to conduct themselves in relation to supplitoring work. ers, customers and other business partners in order to comply with instructions prohibiting the giving and accepGuidelines and governance tance of bribes. SSAB became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2010 and its principles are applied in the work with suppliers. Work with contractors SSAB’s Code of Business ethics, which reflects the GloSSAB also works with a large number of suppliers in the bal Compact’s principles and the un Declaration on Human form of maintenance contractors. A safe workplace is an rights, is the most important steering document for the important aspect of the cooperation. work involving suppliers. in dealings with suppliers, SSAB read more about SSAB’s work with contractors and also communicates its Code of Business ethics and encousafety on page 33. Iron ore pellets SWEDEN Injection coal USA Scrap metal RUSSIA Coking Coal Met coke JAPAN AUSTRALIA Coking Coal SSAB SuStAinABility report 2010 – 35 Social responsibility / Community SSAB in the community SSAB is an active member of the community in the locations where it operates. Additionally, the company wishes to contribute to and support local and international projects of importance to employees as part of its local presence. For that reason, SSAB maintains an open dialogue with politicians, governmental agencies, the media and the public. SSAB wishes to continue contributing knowledge about steel and steel production. Supporting local housing project of the most serious natural disasters of modern times and for the most vulnerable disaster aid to assist the population has poured in from SSAB Americas is engaged in extensive work to support throughout the world. In order to contribute to the rebuilding, local communities in the areas around the plants. This SSAB’s subsidiary Plannja contributed 60 tonnes of sheet to involves both financial contributions to a number of diffebe used for schools, orphanages and housing. The galvanized, rent projects, as well as active participation and initiatives organic-coated sheet is most suitable for roofing. by committed employees. As an example, SSAB Americas decided on a financial contribution to the local organizaLocal sponsorship in Sweden tion, Humility of Mary Housing (HMHI) in 2010. The organiIn Sweden, SSAB contributes to local initiatives that allow zation works to provide a secure accommodation for employees and their families to enjoy a wide range of recrehomeless families and single parents in Iowa. The donation ational activities in the various locations. This is a way of extends over five years and is designed to be matched by contributing to positive activities locally, while at the same other contributors. time promoting a positive image of SSAB as an employer. Examples include sponsorship of local sports organizations, Roofing sheet to Haiti and an exchange of knowledge with schools. SSAB also has In January 2010, Haiti was hit by an earthquake that caused the possibility of supporting associations primarily within, thousands of deaths and lay ruin to large areas around the sport and culture where employees are involved. capital of Port-au-Prince. The earthquake is regarded as one 36 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Initiatives and awards Initiatives and awards during the year It is important for SSAB to understand and take into consideration the expectations of stakeholders. Thus, priority is given to work committed to sustainability and responsibility issues. This focus involves the company taking initiative to, participating in, and sometimes being acknowledged by others, in respect of various activities within this area. OMX GES Ethical Sweden management level. SSAB was ranked as the fifth best The Stockholm Stock Exchange Nasdaq OMX, together with company in its sector (Materials) with a grade of 3, which the analyst firm GES Investment Services, has produced a was better than the average grade for the sector (2.7). number of indices based on various responsibility criteria. SSAB is included in two of these indices, namely OMX GES Higher grade in Carbon Disclosure Project OMXS30 Ethical and OMX GES Ethical Sweden Index. The The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an initiative backed companies included in the indices have qualified for incluby international institutional investors. An annual report sion because of sound preparedness within the areas of the ranks companies’ transparency regarding climate strateenvironment, social issues and corporate governance. gies and greenhouse gas emissions based on the companies’ responses to questionnaires. In 2010, SSAB participaEthibel Excellence Investment Register ted for the third consecutive year with more than 2,500 Since 2008, SSAB has been included in Ethibel’s Excellence other companies. Investment Register, an investment universe for share­ SSAB improved its score in 2010, from 72 to 78 (out of holders who wish to include the environment, social issues a maximum of 100). This score qualified SSAB for inclusion in and corporate governance in their investment decisions. CDP’s Nordic “Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index” (CDLI). Inclusion in the register is based on analyses conducted by This includes the top 20 companies with the highest scores Vigeo, a well-known analyst firm for responsible investthat publish their CDP reporting on CDP’s web site. SSAB is ments. The ultimate decision is taken by an independent doing this for the first time this year. The industry demonpanel of experts. SSAB’s inclusion in the register was con­ strates a relatively high degree of transparency on climate firmed at the beginning of 2011. issues, and in addition to SSAB, another four companies from the Materials sector are included in the Nordic CDLI. Folksam’s responsible business index The Folksam insurance company wishes to identify and SSAB receives award from Green Cargo draw attention to listed companies that assume responGreen Cargo is a state-owned logistics company that sibility. As part of that effort, Folksam reviews companies awards Climate Certificates to companies whose transporlisted on the Stockholm Stock Exchange Nasdaq OMX tation efforts meet stringent requirements regarding low based on the way in which the companies report their work emissions of greenhouse gases. on sustainability issues. The review is based on information The award was distributed for the first time in 2003 and provided by the companies in annual reports, sustain­ was granted to SSAB at that time. In 2010, 28 companies ability reports and on web sites. In the most recent review received the award, including SSAB EMEA. in 2009, SSAB was awarded the second highest score in its industry for its work on the environment and human rights. In total, 251 Swedish companies are included in the survey, and SSAB was ranked in 26th place for its environmental work and 37th place for its human rights work. For the seventh year in a row, Folksam also reviewed equal opportunities within Swedish listed companies in its equal opportunities index. The index covers 255 companies that were listed on OMX Nasdaq Stockholm at the beginning of 2010. The highest rankings are given to companies with the most equal gender breakdown on a group, board, and SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 37 Reference table for GRI GRI table SSAB self-declare the report to be Application Level C in same principles as in previous years. In some instances, the accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) changes which accompanied the reorganization in 2010 guidelines for reporting on sustainability work. SSAB is have been adjusted to obtain a fair comparison. engaged in producing joint key performance indicators for The table below states where information sought in the entire Group, but in certain aspects, data is reported GRI is available in the 2010 Sustainability Report. Since the only for the Swedish operations. The identity of the entities Report is a supplement to the 2010 Annual Report, the covered is revealed regularly and in connection with the table also includes references to that information, as indireporting of data. Also, reporting is in accordance with the cated by the initials ‘AR.’ The GRI table contains all core Page Degree of Page Degree of GRI reference reporting GRI reference reporting 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 1.1 CEO statement 2-3 nnn 4.1 Governance structure of 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and the organization 10 nnn opportunities 8-9 nnn 4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role in the organization 10 nnn 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE board members 10 nnn 2.1 Name of the organization Front nnn 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Inside nnn employees to provide recommendations to the board 10 nnn 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 10 nnn 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives AR 24, 75 nnn 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters Inside nnn 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board 10, AR 47-56 nnn 2.5 Countries where the organization operates AR 120 nnn 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of board members AR 47-56 nnn 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 10 nnn 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 6-7 nnn 2.7 Markets Inside nnn 4.9 The board's monitoring of sustainabi2.8 Scale of the organization Inside nnn lity work 10, AR 55 nnn 2.9 Significant changes during the 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s reporting period ÅR 1 nnn own performance 10, AR 49 nnn 2.10 Awards received during the Engagemang i externa projekt reporting period 37 nnn 4.11 Explanation of when and how the precautionary principle is applied nnn 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary 3.1 Reporting period 1 nnn codes, principles or other initiatives 6 nnn 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 1 nnn 4.13 Memberships in associations 17, 19 nnn 3.3 Reporting cycle 1 nnn 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 9 nnn 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of the report 1 nnn stakeholders with whom to engage 9 nnn 3.5 Process for defining report content 8-9, 38 nnn 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder 3.6 Boundary of the report 1, 38 nnn engagement 9 nnn 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have boundary of the report 1, 38 nnn been raised through stakeholder engagement 9, 37 nnn 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. AR 66-74 nnn 3.9 Data measurement techniques and 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS calculation principles AR 66-74 nnn EC1. Direct economic value generated 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any and distributed 13 nnn restatements of information provided in EC2. Risks and opportunities for the earlier reports 38, AR 66-74 nnn organization due to climate changes 12-13 nnn 3.11 Significant changes from previous EC3. Coverage of the organization's reporting principles regarding scope, defined benefit plan obligations AR 90 nnn boundaries, etc. 38, AR 66-74 nnn EC4. Financial assistance received from 3.12 Table identifying the location of the government 26, AR 76 nnn Standard Disclosures in the report 38-39 nnn EC6. Policy, practices and proportion of 3.13 Policy and current practice with spending on locally-based suppliers nnn regard to seeking external assurance for EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior the report AR 111 nnn management hired from the local community nnn EC8. Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes 36 nnn 38 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Reference table for GRI Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for 1.1 for Level C plus: Level B 2.1–2.10 1.2 OUTPUT G3 Profile 3.9, 3.13 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 Disclosures 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 indicators, as well as those additional indicators Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured that SSAB has considered to be relevant for its Standard Disclosures Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each operations. This is based on the Company’s most G3 Management Indicator Category Indicator Category OUTPUT Approach important sustainability issues. Disclosures Explanation: degree of reporting Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 n n n Fully reported G3 Performance Performance Indicators, at least one from each of Performance Indicators, at least one from each of and Sector Supplement* Indicator with due regard to OUTPUT Indicators & n n n Partially reported Sector Supplement Economic, Socal and Environmental. Economic, Environmental, Human rights, Labor, Society, the Materiality principle. n n n Not reported Performance Indicators Product responsibility. *Sector supplement in final version Page Degree of Page Degree of GRI reference reporting GRI reference reporting 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding EN1. Materials used by weight or volume 25 nnn operational changes nnn EN2. Percentage of recycled input LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, materials 25 nnn lost days, work-related fatalities 31-32 nnn EN3. Direct energy consumption LA8. Education, training, prevention and by primary source 25 nnn risk-control programs in place 32-33 nnn EN4. Indirect energy consumption LA1. Total workforce by employment type, by primary source 25 nnn contract and region 30 nnn EN5. Energy saved due to conservation LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age and efficiency improvement 18 nnn group, gender and region 10, 30 nnn EN6. Initiatives to provide energyLA4. Percentage of employees covered by efficient or renewable energy based 12-13, 18, collective bargaining agreements nnn products/services 26-27 nnn LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding EN8. Total water withdrawal by source nnn operational changes 34 nnn EN10. Percentage and total volume of LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, water recycled and reused 15 nnn lost days, work-related fatalities 34 nnn EN11. Location/scope of land owned near LA8. Education, training, prevention and protected areas/areas of biodiversity value nnn risk-control programs in place nnn EN12. Impacts of products and operations HR5. Operations where freedom of associon biodiversity nnn ation and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken 35 nnn EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 21, 25 nnn HR6. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse actions taken 35 nnn gas emissions nnn HR7. Operations identified as having signiEN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 12-13, 18-19, ficant risk for incidents of forced or comemissions 26-27 nnn pulsory labor and actions taken 35 nnn EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting SO1. Programs for evaluating the substances nnn operation's impacts on communities 9 nnn EN20. NO, SO and other significant air SO2. Business units analyzed for risks emissions 21 nnn related to corruption 7 nnn EN21. Total water discharge 19 nnn SO3. Employees trained in the organization's EN22. Waste by type and disposal method 25 nnn anti-corruption policies and procedures 7 nnn EN23. Number and volume of significant SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents spills 18 nnn of corruption 7 nnn EN 26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental SO5. Participation in public policy developimpacts of products and services 12-13, 20-23 nnn ment and lobbying 9, 17, 26-27 nnn EN27. Products sold and their packaging SO8. Monetary value of fines for materials that are reclaimed nnn non-compliance with applicable laws AR 98 nnn EN28. Fines and/or non-monetary PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and sanctions for non-compliance with safety impacts of products and services are environmental laws nnn assessed 16-25 nnn EN29. Environmental impact of transports 25 nnn PR3. Type of products and service information required by procedures, and percentage of products subject to such informa7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS tion requirements nnn LA1. Total workforce by employment type, PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, contract and region 30 nnn standards and voluntary codes for LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age marketing communications nnn group, gender and region 30 nnn PR9. Monetary value of fines for nonLA4. Percentage of employees covered by compliance with regulations concerning collective bargaining agreements nnn the use of products and services nnn SSAB sustainability report 2010 – 39 Glossary Steel Talk ABC – a glossary A After-treatment – Heat treatment, cooling, etc., in order H Hardening – Process that increases the hardness of R Recycling – Return of used products or byproducts to to endow the steel with certain qualities; also galvanizing, steel, i.e. the degree to which steel will resist cutting, abraenter a new cycle of production and use organic coating, and cutting to size sion, penetration, bending, and stretching Reduction agents – Carbon or hydrogen used to remove Alloy – A substance composed of two or more metals Hearth – Lower part of the blast furnace; area for collecoxygen from iron ore to produce iron Alloy Steel – An iron-based mixture is considered to be tion of molten hot metal Rolling mill – Any of the mills in which metal undergoes a an alloy steel when manganese is greater than 1.65%, siliHematite –Fe2O3, non-magnetic iron ore or blood ore rolling process. For plate, sheet and strip, these include con over 0.5%, copper above 0.6%, or other minimum High-strength steel – Strong steel with high resistance the slabbing mill, hot rolling mills, cold rolling mills, and quantities of alloying elements such as chromium, nickel, to tensile stress before fatigue and breaking may occur. A temper mills.. Any operating unit that reduces gauge by molybdenum, or tungsten are present. An enormous very strong steel that is able to withstand high loads application of loads through revolving cylindrical rolls; variety of distinct properties can be created for the steel before failure operation can be hot or cold. The elevated temperature by substituting these elements in the recipe Hot dip galvanization – Method for adding a rust prorolling mill is the Hot Mill and is capable of reducing the Alloying material – Material that is added to the molten tection surface layer. For example, adding zinc and alumigauge of a slab 92-99% metal during the steelmaking process and which combines num in hot molten form on the steel. The opposite to zincRoll pass – Number of times a billet or slab passes with iron or other metals and changes the metal's qualities plating, an electrochemical method of applying a coat of through a pair of rollers Annealing – A thermal cycle involving heating to, and molten zinc to the surface of steel for the purpose of Rougher – Two rough cylindrical rollers which press the holding at a suitable temperature and then cooling at a enhancing corrosion resistance steel to thinner dimensions prior to hot rolling suitable rate, for such purposes as reducing hardness, Hot metal – The name for the molten iron produced in a Runner – Ceramic-lined spout for controlling molten, improving machinability, facilitating cold working, produblast furnace. It proceeds to the basic oxygen furnace in hot metal cing a desired microstructure, or obtaining desired molten form or is cast as pig iron S Scrap – Ferrous (iron-containing) material that generally mechanical or other properties Hot strip rolling mill –A mill for rolling heated slabs is re-melted and re-cast into new steel. Integrated steel Application – Area of use; a product which uses a certain through a series of rolling stands to produce sheet steel in mills use scrap for up to 25% of their basic oxygen furnace grade of steel coil form charge; electric-arc furnace based steel mills may use Applications engineer – Trained specialists in the qualiHot rolling – A metalworking process in which slabs are scrap for 100% of the furnace charge ties of the material and its areas of use; problem solvers heated to high temperatures and then deformed between SEN – Submerged entry nozzle, a ceramic pipe which proand developers rollers to form thinner cross-sections tects the steel from exposure to air, in conjunction with B Base industry – Industry involving the extraction and I Injection coal – Coal powder which is injected into the casting processing of raw materials; fundamental for the Swedish blast furnace under high pressure without being converted Sintering – A process that combines iron-bearing particeconomy and other economies around the globe to coke les, once recovered from environmental control filters, Billet – A semi-finished steel form that is used for “long” Iron ore pellets – Iron ore particles rolled into small balls into small pellets. Previously, these materials were too fine products: bars, channels or other structural shapes. A biland compacted by heating to withstand the air currents of the smelting process and let is different from a slab because of its outer dimensions; L Ladle – A “bucket” lined with refractory (heat resistant) were thrown away. The iron is now conserved because the billets are normally 50 to 180 mm square (2 to 7”sq), while bricks, used to transport molten steel from process to chunks can be charged into the blast furnace slabs are 760 to 3,200 mm (30 to 126”) wide and 50 to process in a steel plant Skirt – Pipe around the blast furnace for the supply and 250 mm (2 to 10”) thick. Both shapes are generally contiLadle change – Switch from an empty to a full container allocation of hot blast air, also known as a bustle pipe nually cast, but they may differ greatly in their chemistry of steel Slab furnace – Furnace for heating steel slabs to rolling Blast Furnace – A shaft furnace lined with heat-resistant Ladle Metallurgy Furnace (LMF) – An intermediate steel temperatures (refractory) bricks, used by integrated steel mills to reduce processing unit that further refines the chemistry and Slabs – The most common type of semi-finished steel. and melt iron ore to iron. Its name comes from the “blast” temperature of molten steel while it is still in the ladle. The Traditional slabs can measure 150 to 400 mm thick (6 to of hot air and gases forced up through the iron ore, coke, ladle metallurgy step comes after the steel is melted and 15.7”) and up to 3,200 mm (126”) wide, while the output of and limestone that load the furnace refined in the electric arc or basic oxygen furnace, but the recently developed “thin-slab” casters is approximaBlast air – Heated air which is blown into the blast furnace before the steel is sent to the continuous caster tely 40 to 70 mm (1.6 to 2.7 ”) thick. Subsequent to casunder high pressure Ladle treatment method – Different methods for ladle ting, slabs are sent to the hot-strip mill or plate mill to be C Carbon dioxide – CO2, colorless gas, soluble in water to metallurgy rolled into coiled sheet and plate products form carbonic acid; included in carbonated drinks and LD converter – Oxygen steelmaking process employing a Slag – Solution of mainly liquid oxides. Flux such as comprises 0.03% of the atmosphere and is identified as a converter (vessel) and top blowing oxygen lance to refine limestone may be added to foster the congregation of greenhouse gas the blast furnace hot metal into crude steel. Named for undesired elements into a slag. Because slag is lighter than Carbon monoxide – Colorless and odorless energy-rich the Austrian towns of Linz and Donawitz, L-D. Often referiron, it will float on top of the pool, where it can be skimmed. gas which burns with a blue flame; noxious. Upon combusred to as Basic Oxygen Furnace (BOF) in North America Smelting reduction process – Process for smelting and tion, carbon dioxide is formed Low alloyed steel grades – A steel, other than a carbon removing unwanted substances from, for example, metal Charging – The act of loading material into a vessel. For steel, that requires the minimum content for each speciraw materials example, iron ore, coke, and limestone are charged into a fied alloying element to be lower than the applicable limit Steckel mill – A four-high reversing rolling mill, the blast furnace; a basic oxygen furnace is charged with for the definition for alloy steel Steckel mill allows the rolling of a large slab by providing scrap and hot metal, and an electric arc furnace is charheated coil furnaces or boxes on both sides of the mill to M Magnetite – Fe3O4, magnetic iron ore ged with steel scrap and fluxes store the increased length produced during rolling. These Martensitic steel – Steel with a very hard form of steel Coil box – Rolling machinery; box for coiled steel coil furnaces allow for additional heat retention and thercrystalline structure called martensite that is formed by employed to promote temperature uniformity during the mal consistency in the rolled piece, which in turn produces displacive transformation. The martensite is formed by hot rolling process improved uniformity throughout the rolled product rapid cooling (quenching) of austenite which traps carbon Coiler – Mechanical part which captures plate, sheet or Steel – Alloy of iron and carbon with a carbon content of atoms that do not have time to diffuse out of the crystal strip from the rolling mill and coils it less than 1.7% structure Coke – Dry distilled coal, the basic fuel consumed in blast Steel bath – The hot, molten steel in a container Material design – Control of the steel chemical composifurnaces in the smelting of iron ore. Approx. 450 kg Steel shuttle – Train system for transportation of steel tion and processing to achieve a microstructure that (1,000 pounds)) of coke are needed to process a ton of slabs between Luleå, Borlänge and Oxelösund production offers a combination of properties desirable for an intenpig iron, an amount which represents more than 50% of facilities ded product or application an integrated steel mill’s total energy use Strand – The continuous cast slab within the continuous Metallurgy – The science and technology of metals – Cold rolling – Metalworking process in which the thickcasting machine prior to cutting into individual slabs a broad field that includes, but is not limited to, the study ness of a sheet, strip or plate is reduced by rolling at Strength – Properties related to the ability of steel to of internal structures and properties of metals, and the ambient temperature oppose applied forces. Forms of strength include witheffects on them of various processing methods Continuous casting – A process by which molten metal is standing imposed loads without a permanent change in Mold – Casting mold solidified into a semi-finished billet, bloom, or slab for subshape or structure and resistance to stretching O Ore car – Railcar for transportation of lump ore, iron ore Structure – The steel's molecular form following different sequent rolling concentrate or pellets treatment methods; crystalline structure. May also refer to Cowper stoves – Heating apparatus; ceramic towers Oxide scale – An oxide of iron which forms on the surface the size, shape, and arrangement of phases within the steel used for pre-heating blast air of hot rolled steel Strip – Thin, flat steel that resembles hot-rolled sheet, but Crude steel – Steel in its solidified state directly after Oxygen lance – Pipe-shaped lance for treatment using it is normally narrower (up to 300 mm, or 12” wide) and casting. This is then further processed by rolling or other oxygen produced to more closely controlled thicknesses. Strip treatments, which can change its properties Cutting station – Place for cutting the steel strand into slabs P Pair of rollers – A pair of cylindrical rollers for rolling steel also may be cut from steel sheet by a slitting machine to thinner dimensions under high pressure Surface treatment – Cleaning, polishing or coating of D Decarburization – In oxygen-blown steelmaking procesParticulates filter – Purification plant for gas or air in surfaces; for example, through galvanization or organic ses, the reduction of the hot metal’s carbon content which particulates are separated and condensed for recycoating during refining by the use of gaseous oxygen cling T Temper Mill – A type of cold-rolling mill, usually a fourDesulphurization – Method for removing sulphur from Phases – Steel has different crystal structures at various high, single stand mill, used to provide a relatively light the hot metal; for example, through the addition of caltemperatures and the phase(s) present depend on heat cold rolling reduction to hot rolled, cold rolled, or coated cium carbide or magnesium oxide treatment, alloy quantity, hardening, quenching, etc. Best flat steel products to improve flatness, minimize surface Dry distillation process – Combustion without entry of known are the martensite (quick hardening) phase, ferrite disturbances such as coil breaks, and to alter mechanical oxygen phase (pure iron) austenite (non-magnetic) phase and properties Dual-phase steel (DP) – High-strength steel that has a bainite phase Tempering – Heating to 200-500°C degrees in order to one soft (ferrite) and one hard (martensite) microstrucPickling line – A processing line which chemically remomake steel tougher and less brittle ture which allows for desired combination of good formaves oxide or scale from the steel surface to obtain a clean Tensile strength – Ability to withstand tensile stress. (See bility with high strength surface for subsequent processing Strength) E Electric arc furnace (EAF) – Steel-making furnace where Plate – Flat rolled steel product which is typically classiTorpedo – Cylinder-shaped brick-lined railway car used scrap is generally 100% of the charge. Heat is supplied fied as over 1,200 mm (48”) in width and 4.5 mm (0.180”) for transporting hot, molten metal from electricity that arcs from the graphite electrodes to in thickness Tundish – An intermediate container in the casting prothe metal bath. Furnaces may be either an alternating Process gas – Gas from metallurgical processes; often cess to facilitate ladle change without disruption in the procurrent (AC) or direct current (DC). DC units consume less energy rich cess energy and fewer electrodes, but they are more expensive Process methods – Methods for extracting raw materials V Vacuum Degassing – An advanced steel refining facility F Fatigue – The progressive and localized structural and manufacturing products in a continuous cycle without that removes oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen under low damage that occurs when a material is subjected to cyclic disruption pressures (in a vacuum) to produce high quality steel for loading at stresses considerably below the ultimate tensile Process water – Water from cooling or treatment in the demanding applications. Normally performed in the ladle, strength processes. Always undergoes purification and can often the removal of dissolved gases results in cleaner, higher Four-high rolling mill – Mechanical equipment; compribe re-circulated quality, more pure steel (see Ladle Metallurgy) ses four cylindrical rollers with extremely high pressure Q Quenched steels – Hardened or toughened steel. SSAB's which press slabs into plate by repeatedly rolling backW Wear resistance – Ability to resist the erosion of material quenched steels are also high strength wards and forwards from the surface as a result of mechanical action, e.g. abrasion and friction 40 – SSAB sustainability report 2010 Addresses Group offices: SSAB AB Box 70 101 21 Stockholm, Sweden Telephone: +46 8 45 45 700 Fax: +46 8 45 45 725 Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 70, D6 www. ssab.com Business Areas/Subsidiaries: SSAB EMEA SSAB AB Box 70 101 21 Stockholm, Sweden Telephone: +46 8 45 45 700 Fax: +46 8 562 321 21 SSAB Americas SSAB Enterprises, LLC 801 Warrenville Rd., Suite 800 Lisle, Illinois 60532, USA Telephone: +1 630 810 4800 Toll free: +1 877 594 7726 Fax: +1 630 810 4600 SSAB APAC SSAB Swedish Steel (China) Co. Ltd. No. 123 Yuanfeng Rd. Kunshan P.R. of China 215300 Telephone: +86 512 5012 8100 Fax: +86 512 5012 8200 Tibnor AB Box 600 169 29 Solna, Sweden Telephone: +46 10 484 00 00 Fax: +46 10 484 00 76 www.tibnor.se Plannja AB 971 88 Luleå, Sweden Telephone: +46 10 516 10 00 Fax: +46 10 516 11 82 www.plannja.se Production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Print: Elanders i Falköping. Paper: Arctic Matt.
