Sustainability Report 1. LETTER BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2. WHO ARE WE... 3. TECNOCOM’S APPROACH TO CSR 4. CSR MANAGEMENT AT TECNOCOM 5. OUR BUSINESS 6. TECNOCOM IN FIGURES: GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE 7. STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS 8. EVOLUTION OF CSR 9. GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR THIS REPORT 10. INDEX – GRI INDICATORS 11. CONTACT 1. Letter by the Chief Executive Officer Javier Martín García CEO Dear Shareholder, It is a great pleasure for me to present Tecnocom’s Sustainability Report for the second consecutive year. This edition corresponds to FY 2010, and on this occasion was drafted according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guide for drafting Sustainability Reports. Tecnocom has adopted a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) implementation approach based on the integration of its values throughout all the areas of the organization. The values that guide the form in which Tecnocom acts are based on: customer orientation, a commitment to innovation, the commitment to our shareholders, sustainability, social commitment, and people. The Report presents the economic, environmental and social conduct organization and collects the most significant organization information about our relationship with the different interest groups that interact with Tecnocom. The most significant milestones in the organization’s activities are truthfully and reliably reflected here. Our desire and commitment to show full accountability are translated in the way in which we exercise transparency and detail in relation to all our interest groups. Our true commitment for this year, as a basic pillar of our corporate culture, was a commitment to a job well done, corporate social responsibility and excellence in performance. We can now be proud of our company’s achievements, although we are aware that the true challenge is in what lies ahead, and we want to focus all our efforts on that future. Therefore, we will continue to advance in developing an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable future. 2010 has been a year in which the economic crisis context has continued to set the agenda for many of the decisions that affect us as a business. Even so, Tecnocom has made a special effort to improve in all aspects that encompass Corporate Social Responsibility. I would like to point out a few I consider to be of special importance: From an economic point of view, in spite of the deep crisis we are experiencing, Tecnocom remains in excellent financial health and has a balanced proactive structure. The ongoing and conservative management we have been performing since previous years has enabled us to avoid traumatic business measures like personnel or debt restructuring. At the same time, we have adapted our organization and proactive system to the new dynamic set by the market. The outcome of this management has been satisfactory due to increased activity and operational improvements. Tecnocom closed 2010 with a consolidated profit of €3,952,000. The financial situation presented by Tecnocom is evolving in line with the previous financial year, maintaining debt-to-equity ratios at low levels. This financial position is an added advantage when it comes to facing growth opportunities. Consequently, in 2010 Tecnocom made major acquisitions like Procecard and Primma, which represent progress in the development of its strategic plan, and in addition have bolstered our catalog of solutions and higher valueadded services. At Tecnocom we are committed to innovation with long-term business sustainability criteria. This is another of our great challenges, and with this maxim we have developed major projects in 2010 like the evolution of our Means of Payment platform and its expansion in the Latin American market, the definition and automation of processes under the CMMi standard for application development and management solutions, or the implementation of a processoriented service model according to the ITIL model for our infrastructure management services. As for our employee-oriented activities, of note is the effort related to continuous professional development and training of company workers, their know-how, capabilities and motivation being our greatest asset. With regard to Tecnocom’s social action, it is important to highlight the close cooperation with different kinds of foundations, contributing to the job insertion of groups at risk of social and professional inclusion. In terms of sustainability, in the environmental aspect, all the efforts Tecnocom has made in order to disseminate the Green IT concept in our portfolio of ICT solutions, contributing to a reduction in the consumption of energy and paper and to the recycling of materials, are also worthy of note. I would also like to underscore Tecnocom’s commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact, to which we have adhered since 2002. In the coming years we will continue to deepen our commitment to integrating the principles of sustainable development in Tecnocom’s business management, as we are convinced that the business sector is a valuable ally in achieving our company’s goal in this area and will help us to successfully meet opportunities as they arise. Finally, we hope this Sustainability Report will meet your expectations and are at your disposal to solve any issues regarding its contents. Yours cordially, Javier Martín García 2. Who are we... Tecnocom is a Spanish multinational firm in the Information and Communications Technology sector. It is listed in the Madrid Stock Exchange, and is present in Portugal and Latin America. The Company has a strong regional presence that reaches most of the national territory. It has a network of offices in Spain in the Autonomous Communities of Madrid, Catalonia, Andalusia, Galicia, Castilla La Mancha, Castilla y León, the Autonomous Community of Valencia and the Region of Murcia, the Principality of Asturias, the Basque Country, and the Canary and Balearic Islands. This geographic coverage allows Tecnocom to provide coverage to its customers from various locations, and respond effectively to their needs. Its ability to be close to its customers has allowed Tecnocom to enhance its capabilities, from consulting to the design and development of business solutions to outsourcing processes and integrating applications in all the markets where it is present. Its principal place of business is located at c/ Josefa Valcarcel 26 – 28027 Madrid, Spain. Internationally, Tecnocom has a presence in Portugal, Peru, Colombia, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and the Dominican Republic: Tecnocom offers a wide range of business solutions (projects and applications and application management) and technology solutions (infrastructure management and integration of systems and technologies) that covers all sectors of activity in the public and private sectors (banking and insurance, public administration, industry, telecommunications and media). Since its creation in 1967, the Company has undergone a major transformation until reaching its current situation. In 2006 it began a business project with two clear objectives: the first, to lead the ICT sector in Spain, and the second, to become a benchmark in the rest of the markets. By 2010, Tecnocom has positioned itself among the top ICT companies in Spain. To maintain this position in the coming years, it ha<s defined a strategy based on achieving greater growth in Spain and a strong position in Latin America. Tecnocom now enjoys a privileged position thanks to a differentiated business model with regard to the sector’s standard model: Tecnocom has a clear leadership vocation in the ICT sector. Its differentiated model offers greater efficiency, flexibility and proximity to its customers than that of the major global companies, as well as a greater capacity, catalog of services and financial solvency than niche and regional companies. Tecnocom’s organization structure, implemented in 2009, has given the Company greater operational and organizational flexibility, which in turn has enabled it to adapt to a continuous change process and define new roles in the matrix organization with three dimensions: Vertical Specialization, Solutions and Regions. Governing bodies Our Corporate Governance is fully identified with the Company’s vision. Its principles and practices form part of our business culture. Board of Directors Body formed by ten members, with female representation, which is in charge of the administration, representation and control of Tecnocom, and is governed by the competencies established in the Regulations of the Board of Directors. Member Position Type Ladislao de Arriba Azcona Chairman and CEO Executive Javier Martín García CEO Executive CXG Corporación Caixa Galicia, S.A. Vice-Chairman Proprietary Leonardo Sánchez-Heredero Álvarez Vice-Chairman Proprietary Getronics International, B.V Director Proprietary Reverter 17, S.L. Director Proprietary Miguel Ángel Aguado Gavilán Director Proprietary Jaime Terceiro Lomba Director Independent Eduardo Montes Pérez del Real Director Independent Mónica Ridruejo Ostrowska Director Independent Executive Committee The Board of Directors delegates all its powers to the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee shall hold ordinary sessions on a monthly basis, and its decisions shall be notified to the plenary sessions of the Board of Directors. Members Ladislao de Arriba Azcona (Chairman) CXG Corporación Caixa Galicia, S.A Jaime Terceiro Lomba Javier Martín García Leonardo Sánchez-Heredero Alvarez Reverter 17, S.L Félix Ester Butragueño Secretary (non-member) Audit Committee The main function of the Audit Committee is to support the Board of Directors in its oversight task through the regular revision of the process of drafting economic and financial information, its executive controls and the independence of the external auditor, as well as the revision of compliance with all legal provisions and internal regulations applicable to the company. Members Jaime Terceiro Lomba (Chairman) Miguel Ángel Aguado Gavilán Reverter 17, S.L Ricardo Aragón Fernandez-Barredo Secretary (non-member) Nomination and Remuneration Committee Its functions are to propose or report on nominations and remunerations to the Board of Directors, in particular to the Board of Directors, Executive members of the different committees, and the senior officers of the Company. In general, it can make proposals on any matter relating to the foregoing as contemplated in the Company bylaws or regulations if so requested by the Chairman or by the Board of Directors. Members Leonardo Sánchez-Heredero Alvarez (Chairman) Getronics International, B.V Mónica Ridruejo Ostrowska Eduardo Montes Pérez del Real CXG Corporación Caixa Galicia, S.A. Ricardo Aragón Fernandez-Barredo Secretary (non-member) Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets on a weekly basis. Its main objectives include: managing the organization within a global setting and ensuring that Tecnocom’s offerings are differentiated by high added value. Consequently, its strategy is based on optimizing Company performance and on a greater specialization and knowledge of the sector. Member Position Javier Martín García CEO Vicente Díaz Sagredo Horizontal Solutions Manager and General Manager of Operations Enric Calderó Sánchez General Manager of Industry Juan Carlos Rodríguez Manzaneque General Manager of Public Administrations Francisco Javier Rey Aylón General Manager of Banking and Insurance Luis Miguel N Molina General Manager of Telco & Media Juan Carlos Rosique Villalba General Manager of Finance and Administration Ignacio Antonio Mut Pasos General Manager of Persons Tecnocom is a Spanish company listed on the Madrid Stock Exchange. As a result it follows the recommendations set out in the Code of Good Governance published by the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores (CNMV – Spain’s equivalent of the SEC), in compliance with the reporting obligation set by the Spanish Securities Market Law, and reflects the observance of the CNMV’s Code of Good Governance in its annual Corporate Governance report. All of Tecnocom’s stakeholders have access to all important company information with full transparency. Significant Changes The most significant changes that have taken place in the Company in the last year, as reflected in this Report, and referring to the size and ownership of the organization, include: Sale of CEC Portugal. Sale of Open Canarias, S.L. New member of Tecnocom’s Board of Directors. Appointment of Eduardo Montes Pérez as an Independent Director. Acquisition of 80% of Procecard, a Latin American company specializing in credit and debit card processing. Moreover, it offers other services such as core banking management, account statement printing, report printing, Visa and MasterCard brand consulting, and data migration support. With this strategic operation, the Company has taken a big step in the Means of Payment sector and in its direct growth process in LATAM. Appointment of Bruno Arcas as Director of Procecard. Acquisition of 100% of the capital of the Spanish company PRIMMA Software, SL, specializing in solutions for the insurance industry. With this strategic operation, Tecnocom reinforces its position in the insurance business and consolidates its position as one of the sector’s top consultants. These moves will allow Tecnocom to maintain its leadership position in the Spanish market and favor the internationalization process with proprietary solutions. These operations represent another step in the process initiated by Tecnocom 2 years ago through which it seeks to provide proprietary value-added solutions and continue with its expansion strategy in international markets. 3. Tecnocom’s approach to CSR Commitment to RSC At Tecnocom, our commitment to social responsibility is an integral part of our corporate culture. Our commitment lies in making the fulfillment of this responsibility compatible with protecting our environment, the professional and human development of the people who work at Tecnocom, and the creation of wealth for our shareholders and for the social setting in which our activities take place. All of this in a framework of transparency and the adoption of the best practices in corporate governance. Tecnocom takes on this commitment with its adherence to the United Nations Global Compact, where it shows its commitment to the ten principles of conduct and action in terms of human rights, work, the environment and the fight against corruption. For Tecnocom it is vital to be recognized by its customers, shareholders, suppliers, workers and all stakeholders in general as a leader in the ICT sector, offering top-quality services, and at the same time as a responsible company that abides by and protects human rights, social rights, sustainable development respecting the environment, and reviling all forms of corruption. To do this, Tecnocom implements corporate responsibility policies, applying them to its business activity and contributing to sustainable development. Mission To guarantee quality and integrity in all the projects in which we work, through our customer service and continuous improvement, enabling us to add value to our customers through innovation, efficient management and the specialization of our offerings. Professional performance and vocation of leadership are the driving forces for the materialization of our mission: to be the benchmark in our areas of activity. Vision Tecnocom is a company that is committed to the Information Society and technological development, whose vision is: To be a leading provider in the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector in Spain, Portugal and Latin America, in continuous growth: Developing the ICT market understanding technology as the most correct, safe and efficient way of making the most of resources and of business opportunities in the sectors in which we specialize: Banking and Insurance, Industry, Telco and Media, and Public Administrations. Serving the market and exceeding customer expectations. Recruiting the best talent to develop quality solutions and guarantee customer satisfaction. The values that guide the form in which Tecnocom acts are based on: Tecnocom Keys Identification of Stakeholders The stakeholders identified by Tecnocom constitute an essential element in the Company’s strategic planning. All these stakeholders benefit directly as a result of the decisions made by the Company. Style Manual A management document that includes a series of guidelines for designing and drafting Company documents. It is also associated with a code of conduct that stresses a series of rules that must be followed by all Tecnocom employees in the use of Company information, not only with regard to its confidentiality but also in the way it is transmitted via the communication channels established for the purpose. The manual also strives to promote the sense of unity among all employees through a proactive communication prompting the sharing, wherever possible, of professional know-how and experience. The Style Manual expresses the values of the Tecnocom brand that apply to three main areas: rules relating to how we care for our work environment, managing resources, and our relationship with stakeholders, based on three essential principles for Tecnocom’s employees: Performance of professional tasks always seeking the highest levels of quality and efficacy, developing the principle of defending the Company’s interests as their own. Maintaining a relationship based on honesty and trust with customers, suppliers, shareholders, and collaborators. Full compliance with the laws, regulations, and rules in effect in the areas where the Company carries out its business, as well as any corporate regulations affecting them. Code of Ethics The Code of Ethics is the existing framework of rules and integrity. It contains a set of rules that regulate how Tecnocom works. Through its Code of Ethics, Tecnocom shows the ethical values and principles of action that apply to the organization’s employees and officers. The code contains the basic guidelines for performing our activity, both in terms of internal professional relations and of external relations with customers, suppliers, shareholders and the community in general. The people included in the scope of application of the code must abide at all times by the basic principles of professional conduct in their activity, and are required to report, using ethical channels and confidential procedures to do so. We are working on reviewing and improving the Code of Ethics in order to adapt it to the best business practices, and compliance with the code will be required for all Tecnocom professionals. Adherence to the UN Global Compact Tecnocom considers this initiative to be a proposal of great value for the defense of human and labor rights, respect for the environment and the fight against corruption. On October 14, 2002 Tecnocom became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, making a commitment to gradually implement the ten principles of the Global Compact at all levels and in all the organization’s activities, and to see to its compliance. To facilitate the task of disseminating and implementing the principles, reference to them is made in the Integrated Quality, Environment and Occupational Risk Prevention Policy. Tecnocom shows proof of this commitment by annually submitting a Progress Report, which includes the most important actions undertaken in relation to each principle. These reports can be viewed at the Global Compact website (www.pactomundial.org). For the organization, supporting the Global Compact and maintaining its commitment to the 10 principles is key to implementing its Corporate Social Responsibility plans. 4. CSR Management at Tecnocom Tecnocom is an entrepreneurial project with a long-term sustainability vision linked to good governance practices in economic, social and environmental terms. To design and promote Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policies, in 2010 Tecnocom established an organization structure that would favor its implementation and evolution. It created a CSR Committee whose mission consists of promoting different social responsibility initiatives at Tecnocom. Tecnocom’s management fully backs the development of a business culture within the framework of social responsibility. Consequently, its involvement from the start of the project has been vital in all proposals involving activities and their supervision. The commitment to sustainable growth is intrinsic to all Tecnocom’s actions. Economic, environmental and social performance reports are regularly submitted to the Executive Committee, as are plans or policies for their approval. The CSR Committee’s main function is to actively manage all aspects relating to Corporate Social Responsibility, and in accordance with Tecnocom’s business strategy, it has the direct supervision and support of the Executive Committee, which in turn reports to the Board of Directors. The Committee is formed by personnel from all the Company’s areas of activity, which in turn are responsible for maintaining relations with the various stakeholders as shown in the chart below: The main functions of this Committee include: Annually drafting the planned objectives of the Tecnocom Sustainability Report, including the actions needed to accomplish them. Checking compliance with Tecnocom’s sustainability commitments. Monitoring indicators referring to economic, social and environmental performance. Meeting our stakeholders’ expectations in terms of CSR. Coordinating and drafting the Sustainability Report on an annual basis. The first action carried out by the Committee was to perform an analysis of Tecnocom’s position in terms of CSR, the result of which served as grounds for defining the planned objectives and performance indicators in the economic, social and environmental areas to be measured. The objectives are defined based on: Determining the strategic CSR lines for each period, which will serve to reinforce work in this field within the organization. Identifying social responsibility actions that can be aligned with Tecnocom’s strategic challenges. Achieving a joint vision and mission at Tecnocom with regard to CSR. Process for drafting the report: profile, extent and coverage Drafting the Sustainability Report was a dynamic process of combining information and participation by the heads of the organization’s various departments and interaction with the various stakeholders. This edition of the Report comprises the 2010 period and contains transparent and verified information about Tecnocom’s actions in the area of social responsibility and sustainability. This second edition presents a new structure compared to last year’s with regard to both contents and structure. The most significant change this year was to draft the Report following the guidelines set out in the guide for drafting Sustainability Reports in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). After the process of compiling and analyzing contents, we were able to glean information on performance indicators which allowed Tecnocom to adhere to the B Application Level of the GRI guidelines. For this first year, the Report does not include a history of performance indicators. Starting next year, however, a chart will be included showing the Company’s performance evolution. It is also important to note that in this Report it was not necessary to re-express information from the first report. This Report contemplates the actions undertaken and developed, and all Tecnocom’s corporate-level activities in Spain. As for Tecnocom’s activity outside Spain, significant corporate information is included, considering that no significant sustainability impacts are presented. Tecnocom has established an annual cycle for submitting Sustainability Reports. The CSR Committee has drafted this Report following the guidelines and indicator information defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which have been internally verified in order to assure their integrity and credibility. It being the first year in which we adapt to the GRI, we will continue working on improving the generation of reports and thus planning and culminating the process with an external verification. Our objective is to continue working to improve sustainable performance at Tecnocom and improve data measurement systems so that we can verify the increased quality of information presented in the Report every year. The chart below shows the work timeline followed to compile, analyze and process all the information needed to draft this Report: 5. Our Business 5.1. Description of Tecnocom’s Business Tecnocom is a supplier with a large portfolio of high value-added ICT solutions and services. Thanks to its network of offices it has the capacity to perform any project anywhere in the national territory. The wide coverage of its offerings in the Information and Communication Technology sector, linked to its production capacity and experience, are aspects that have enabled Tecnocom to position itself among the most influential and prestigious Spanish firms in the ICT sector. Perspective and strategy Tecnocom’s position among the top Spanish ICT companies is an added advantage, given the current trend toward concentration of suppliers among larger companies. Latin America presents a scenario of great opportunities for Tecnocom, which already enjoys a significant local presence and good positioning based on its experience and track record. The Company has defined a strategic plan based on achieving goals: Gaining market share through the new organizational model based on vertical markets, as well as focusing on solutions where we are market leaders both in Spain and abroad. Improving internal efficiency based on its software factory models, SLAs and implementation of process upgrade policies. Maintaining a healthy financial situation in order to be eligible for new contracts and be prepared to make the most of potential opportunities in Spain and abroad. External growth in Latin America, where the Company foresees a solid positioning enabling it to export its industry-leading solutions. Continuing its compliance with CSR policies, and integrating and implementing new plans in Tecnocom’s business management. Organizational model 2010 has been a strategic year for Tecnocom. It has consolidated the transformation process it began in late 2009, based on vertical specialization by sectors, the rationalization of our value proposal to the market and operational efficiency maintaining excellence in performance. All transformation processes bring with them a new internal organization for aligning the entire company and creating the Tecnocom management model, which encompasses the entire spectrum of Solutions and Services in the ICT sector. A matrix organization that allows the company to adapt to a continuous change process and define new roles in the organization with three dimensions: Vertical Specialization, Solutions and Regions. Vertical sectors: Banking & Insurance, Public Administrations, Industry and Telco&Media Horizontal Solutions: Grouped into Projects and Applications, Application Management, Systems and Texchnology Integration, and Infrastructure Management Regions: LATAM, Portugal and Spain (Northwest, North, Northeast, Levant, South and Central) The Horizontal Solutions dimension has a team distributed into four Management groups unified under the General Operations Management, which are in turn aligned with the commercial model, and whose mission is to define and lead applications, technologies and service models that can be applied transversally and that can also serve as a base for developing sector-specific solutions. The unification of operations into a single management unit with direct responsibility at the highest level has given the organization greater flexibility and operational efficacy, providing an environment of the highest quality and excellence, and also guaranteeing the integration of business and technology solutions stemming from the rationalization process of our market value proposal. In this way, business solutions are integrated in the Projects & Applications and Applications Management offerings, while technology solutions are integrated in the Systems Integration and Infrastructure Management offerings. Tecnocom’s portfolio of services is structured around two hubs (process outsourcing and business consulting), with four areas of note The operations team includes direct staff and production structures (software factories, customer care centers, remote service factories, etc.). At the regional dimension, a Regional Management has been appointed to each of the eight regions where Tecnocom is present: Spain (Northwest, North, Northeast, Central, Levant, South), Portugal and Latin America. Each of these Managements is responsible for managing the income statement of their region. Finally, in the vertical sector dimension, each of them defines and leads the portfolio for their market, being responsible for managing customers and the associated results. This specialization leads to increased sector-specific knowledge at Tecnocom, contributes to ongoing innovation and the development of differential solutions in all sectors of the economy, which in turn offers competitive advantages to our customers. Tecnocom’s portfolio of vertical solutions includes all business sectors, both private and public. The distribution by business sectors is shown below based on turnover: We firmly believe that the development of high-value proprietary solutions is a competitive advantage that Tecnocom offers its customers, so it was decided to focus on this strength. A clear example of success is found in the Means of Payment applications, where Tecnocom has a long, recognized experience in the Spanish banking sector, which it is applying to new customers and technological allies. Solutions At Tecnocom we innovate in order to offer new solutions and services that provide social, economic, technological or environmental benefits. Examples of this include: MRA: Anti-Fraud Rule Engine MRA is a software product designed by Tecnocom to generate authorization rules for assessing, resolving and cataloging authorizations based on known fraud patterns, and based on parametric rules defined by each customer. The basic aspect that defines or characterizes this application is its great capacity to define rules for fraud control based on a wide range of variables to be used. Customer Loyalty System SFC is Tecnocom’s software product designed for implementing customer loyalty programs. It is a tool that sets parameters for all aspects relating to the operational processing of loyalty campaigns for any company that manages customers: program conditions, setting rules for quantifying benefits, transactions for managing customer loyalty accounts, managing multiple reward systems, etc. Financial Institutions in Technology Integration EfiTec is a service providing support for the process of integration, merger or renovation of financial institutions from an IT perspective, which encompasses everything from the definition of integration strategies to their subsequent execution and management. It is based on an advanced management system that includes the implementation of best IT governance practices, demand, project and supplier management, and the measurement, analysis and control of activities. e-MAAT: Process for modernization of justice The challenge of a justice system that is faster, more efficient, interoperational and closer to the citizen has an exceptional ally in the development of new technologies at all levels of the system. The priority is to improve workload management in the courts without losing sight of critical aspects like information security and confidentiality, response times, performance and management of huge volumes of information. e-Maat is a solution that facilitates the procedural management of people or companies who are in judicial proceedings through the use of search engines in all databases. New trends for the Public Administration Tecnocom offers innovative, high-value, solid and tried solutions making it possible to: Guarantee the rights of citizens and companies to engage in electronic relations with the Public Administrations. Guarantee the existence of adequate channels with citizens and companies that ensure transparency and participation. Create cooperation structures between the different Public Administrations. Manage organizational change and the simplification of processes. Evolve toward a proactive administration. Improve and mediate service quality. Tecnocom has technology solutions that contemplate: Channels for dealing with citizens: citizens’ and corporate portals, integral Citizens’ Attention offices, e-Government, multichannel and multi communication platforms, citizens’ card. Electronic administration: digital signature, integration with common services (online payment, notices, etc.), physical and online I/O registration, electronic billing, electronic authentication, document and audio-visual archive management, workflow automation. Web 2.0 will be one of the inevitable steps that the e-Administration will have to take to move closer to the citizen, starting with the promotion of portals of public agencies, from the point of view of contents, usability, the image of institutional identity, indexing information in search engines and citizens’ collaborations. This will lead to an increase in the volume of loyal users and frequent visitors to alternative information services, and once again, our knowledge of them. SOX: Experience in Optimizing Security SOX is risk management supported by different services: Services associated with regulatory compliance. Network and system security solutions. Security solutions for 2.0 applications, web environments and collaborative portals. Protection of sensitive information and DLP solutions. Mobile Tec Mobile Tec is a specific late-generation software for mobile telephones. It was designed and developed by Tecnocom to provide coverage to the Banking and Insurance businesses, among others. MobileTec is a secure application, which adjusts to security levels and guarantees top-security encrypted and ciphered SSL connections between customers’ cell phones and the bank’s or insurance company’s servers. It helps to: exponentially increase the number of users of mobile banking and insurance, perform cross-selling, gain new customers, earn customer loyalty, reduce transformation costs, maintain permanent contact with customers, position oneself as an innovative company, etc. Contact Center: Product Family Tecnocom’s Contact Center product family makes it possible to manage internal and external customer relations and the associated process flows, using all existing means of communication: telephone, e-mail, fax, SMS text messages and Internet in real time. Secure Telecommuting Service Part-time telecommuting has become an essential tool for organizations. It helps increase productivity and competitiveness, saving costs in terms of space, infrastructure and services, as well as in commuting time, particularly in big cities. Tecnocom provides a full telecommuting service enabling any organization to have secure access via the Internet to any application, with VOIP and virtual conferencing. The service includes installation, configuration, management and secure support (ISO 27001 certification) without needing to purchase any infrastructure. Green IT This solution is oriented toward defining, disseminating and motivating energy efficiency in technology, reducing the environmental impact. Far from representing an economic effort in terms of implementation, it achieves cost savings, reduces the environmental impact, and is oriented toward a clear optimization of costs, generation of efficiency and competitive improvement. 5.2. Collaborations Professional Associations Tecnocom considers that participation in professional associations is an indirect source of value for the company and all its stakeholders. In this line, Tecnocom collaborates and actively participates with different professional associations: Symbol Acronym Name Information Technology Service ITSMF Management Forum Spanish Consulting AEC Association Barcelona Digital: A leading R&D, technology transfer and innovation promotion center bdigital serving the development of the Information Society, and a reference for Catalan companies and society at large. AUSAPE Spanish SAP Users’ Association Symbol Acronym Name Technology center specializing ITI in Research, Development and Innovation in software technologies Spanish Association of AUTELSI Telecommunications Users and the Information Society Spanish Association of Consumer Electronics, AMETIC Information Technology and Telecommunications Companies) Private foundation, nationwide DINTEL in scope, engaging in the dissemination of ICT in the public sector. ICT Business Association in the ESTIC Autonomous Community of Valencia Alliances Tecnocom has transformed the customer-supplier concept into a Technology Partnership relationship, with long-term relationships based on mutual trust and benefit. The goal of these agreements with leading companies and top technology solution providers is to complete our portfolio of services, achieve excellence in the implementation of solutions and enhance our growth into new markets. Maintaining alliances with industry-leading Technology Partners is also key to providing integral solutions to our customers. These actions make it possible to satisfy the needs of our customers effectively and efficiently thanks to the in-depth and specialized knowledge of their different business processes. Tecnocom’s main Technology Partners include: IBM, Microsoft, HP, Oracle, Cisco, SAP, Micro Focus The services offered by Tecnocom have a global reach thanks to its alliance with the Workspace Alliance, oriented toward workspace management. The Company, together with the six founding members of the alliance (APX, CompuCom, Getronics, Getronics Middle East, NTT DATA Getronics and ServiceOne Getronics) covers the European, North, Central and South American, and Asian markets. The purpose of the alliance is to unite its members in order to provide ICT support to globally linked organizations, with particular focus on workspace outsourcing services. In addition, the Alliance members share processes, methodologies and tools, which will impact on standardized service with a strong local presence, a stable international governance body and a shared innovation service as direct benefits to any international organization. Getronics Workspace Alliance is oriented toward helping our customers improve their business results. Through the commitment of any of the Alliance members, international organizations can connect to the extended service network. All of the members of the Alliance work together to predict service requirements and plan and manage resources stemming from such services. For the customer, this means a simplified contract management, an effective service evolution and a response that is in keeping with its requirements. Getronics Workspace Alliance also involves the implicit business growth of its members, who share marketing, business development and sales activities, and allows its members to offer customers a guaranteed international presence without the multiple operational maintenance expenses generated by subsidiaries around the world. This change will allow members to remain competitive in their offerings. 5.3. Participation in Events Tecnocom’s Marketing Division, in its bid to position the brand as a benchmark in the ICT sector, is responsible for seeking national, regional and international initiatives in which it can actively participate in encounters like conventions, seminars, and business forums where it can show and share know-how with existing and potential customers. Tecnocom participates as a sponsor in many events, giving it the chance to display its solutions on the exhibition floor and play a significant role in the event program. In other events it participates jointly with one or more of its Technology Partners, where it is also given the chance to participate in discussions and reflections. In 2010 more than 50 events were held, including: 13th edition of the CIT Spain’s top event for smart cards, identification and means of payment. More than 70 experts presented forecasts, trends, predictions, etc. for the sector during the sessions. Tecnocom presented its SAT, SIA and SFC means of payment solutions, and the new MRA, a versatile tool for assessing, resolving and cataloguing authorizations based on parametric rules defined by each customer. Tecnimap 2010: eleventh edition of the Information Technology Workshop for the Modernization of the Public Administrations A major European event that brings together representatives of the Information Technologies and Telecommunications from the various public administrations, the top sector companies, and a wide range of experts involved in the field to exchange IT and public service experiences, ideas and projects. The event drew close to eight thousand participants, close to three hundred companies and more than one hundred media outlets, who were able to participate in roundtable discussions, workshops and a large exhibition space, which served as the backdrop for discussions concerning matters of interest in the field of new technologies and electronic administration, as well as practical demonstrations of cutting-edge services, equipment and systems in this field. In this edition, Tecnocom presented its solutions and showed some of its most recent success cases involving the Public Administration. 13th Congress of the SEDAP (Spanish Society of Primary Care Managers) Under the title “Atención Sanitaria Integrada: La necesidad de adaptar el sistema a la realidad asistencial” (Integrated Health Care: The need to adapt the system to the reality of health care) current issues were addressed, providing ideas and practical solutions for the day-to-day work in this sector. Tecnocom sponsors and participates in SITE 2010 (International Technology Exhibition) A congress targeting managers in Banking, Telecommunications and Public Administrations, and especially aimed at directors of innovation systems and internationalization in all kinds of companies. An event focusing on innovation in banking, e-commerce and public administrations, and an exhibition space for discovering the most promising technologies and analyzing the most thought-provoking proposals by various world experts. Tecnocom participated both in the exhibition and in the conference program with a presentation on “Technology Trends: Mobility, Multi-Channeling and Innovation” and “Tool for Planning, Budgeting and Consolidation in the SAP Environment”. CIO3 Dialog: IT Strategic Management Encounter targeting Chief Information Officers (CIOs) and IT and Systems Managers of the country’s main public and private organizations. Some fifty experts gathered to analyze the strategic management of Information Technology and to network with their peers and solution providers. In this event ICT performance and management strategies were presented through emblematic practical cases, and with the advice of leading-edge technology firms in IT strategic management. 5.4. Awards or Distinctions Winners of the 1st edition of the Business Model Development Systems–ABC Award , with the collaboration of the Asociación para el Progreso de la Dirección (APD – Association for Management Progress). Tecnocom receives a special mention for Commercial DNA Tecnocom received a special mention for its Commercial DNA, which was granted before an audience of 200 Spanish companies. The jury, composed of executives from leading Spanish companies, studied all of the candidacies to find the best business model, i.e. the roadmap where companies define their mission and values, the “what” and “how” that turns them into key market players, capable of generating value for customers and shareholders. The analyzed variables ranged from results to adapting to the market, including the effectiveness of their implementation, their innovation, or the conveyance of the corporate vision, mission and values. In this first edition, the candidates vied for the prize for the Best Business Model and four Special Mentions for: Best Customer Strategy; Commercial Organization; Commercial Innovation; and Commercial DNA. 5.5. Major projects in different business sectors Tecnocom seeks to contribute to the creation of a more competitive and innovative society. As a result, its projects are based on change and modernization models, and therefore its investments are more aligned with innovation in technological solutions and services. During this year, Tecnocom has worked on various projects ad different sectors, including: Public Administrations Tecnocom implements the e-Maat solution to interconnect all the criminal courts in Andalusia Tecnocom has completed an ambitious project with the Department of Justice and Public Administration of Andalusia that has made it possible to interconnect the Andalusian courts thanks to its eMaat proprietary software solution. The eMaat solution is an information querying application that warns the judges and court clerks of the existence of search and arrest warrants or expiry of conditional imprisonment situations, as well as any outstanding court cases against any person. In defining the application, all critical aspects regarding the interconnection of the courts were taken into account, including information security and confidentiality, response times, performance and management of volumes of information, among others. The central database has records on 370,000 people with matters pending before the criminal courts. The number of cases accounted for with the tool exceeds one million. Tecnocom modernizes more than 700 classrooms in Galicia Tecnocom was awarded the Galicia Autonomous Government’s “Red.es” University Education and Organization competition. This competition forms part of the ABALAR; ESCOLA 2.0 project, which began in 2008. Its goal is the introduction of ICT as well as the modernization, computerization and integration of systems in non-university level public schools. The Company implemented the necessary infrastructure for multimedia education in Galician schools. The goal of the project is to facilitate visual and psychomotor learning by students, supplying whiteboards with interactive displays, smartboards and Epson projectors. In addition, students with special needs can easily view and read information, as they can touch the surface without needing the motor skills required to use a computer mouse. The Ferrol City Council provides teleprocessing services to its citizens The project is part of a plan aimed at modernizing and adapting the public administrations to Law 11/2007 on Electronic Administration. The project carried out by Tecnocom consisted of designing, developing and implementing an e administration platform and teleprocessing services. An online service will allow citizens to interact with City Hall to resolve administrative matters, apply for certificates and permits, etc. The Ferrol City Hall seeks to promote the use of e-administration among its citizens; consequently, it has simplified integration and communication procedures with the regional and national administrations. Industry Project integrating immersive telepresence and videoconferencing for Dimetronics Signals Invensys The project consisted of implementing a high-definition immersive telepresence and videoconferencing network on a global scale. The technology used permits the maximum realism in meetings where the participants are viewed on screen in real size, with extraordinary sharpness and fluid motions. The use of high-sensitivity cameras achieves a perfect visual contact between the participants. The directional audio system allows participants to listen from their remote locations as if they were sitting in on an actual meeting. The system also has 3 auxiliary monitors placed on the executive table for sending and receiving presentations in high-definition video sources. To enhance the experience, the system is completed with an immersive environment consisting of installing wood paneling on the walls in order to improve acoustics and blue glass panels that, together with a system of floor-mounted LEDs, achieve a visual effect that allows the participants to be viewed in 3-D. An MCU system allows multiple equipment connections providing support for the meeting, including PCs, extra cameras, document cameras, DVDs, VHS’s, audio equipment, or wireless microphones. Tecnocom is committed to sustainable development in organizations. The implementation of these types of solutions helps organizations hold meetings with their subsidiaries anywhere in the world, avoiding travel, promoting telecommuting, and helping to reconcile work and family life, doubtless contributing to more sustainable development. Tecnocom is the new technology partner of the Spanish Basketball Federation (FEB) and the Spanish National Team Tecnocom firmly backs CSR in sports as a vehicle for encouraging teamwork values, accompanying sport in its development through professional management and dissemination tools. As an official supplier, Tecnocom provides the FEB with a wide range of advanced ICT services geared toward improving efficient management. These services include the start-up, migration, housing and maintenance of PCs and servers, as well as email management and mobility applications. Tecnocom and the FEB participated in a work session focusing on the use of ICT for organizational and sports development. Representatives of several federations attended the session, sharing opinions about the situation of IT in their respective sports and analyzing their importance in the process of communication and operational improvement. Tecnocom provides technology support to the 2010 UEFA Champions League Final in Madrid Real Madrid has entrusted Tecnocom with setting up the entire technology infrastructure required to provide support for communications in broadcasting the final of the UEFA Champions League. This joint project between Real Madrid, UEFA and Tecnocom consisted of providing technical support with the aid of communications and systems engineers, as well as infrastructure materials so as to ensure the organizational success of the event and facilitate the work of all the parties involved in the event (special press envoys, photographers, UEFA personnel, etc.). Banking and Insurance IT support for FLC’s job integration program SILK, Serveis Informàtics “La Caixa” and Fundació “La Caixa” (FLC) entrust Tecnocom with the IT support of their Incorpora program. The project consists of the development, implementation and support of an IT environment that will serve as a platform for interaction between the different agents involved in the job integration program: social institutions, job insertion technicians, companies, and beneficiaries. The goal of the Incorpora program is to ensure the job integration of people who are in a situation or at risk of social exclusion. To this end, FLC works with almost 250 institutions throughout Spain, whose job insertion staff members match companies with job seekers and provide work support for more than 28,000 integrated persons. Telco and Media Barcelona Digital Technology Center entrusts Tecnocom with the infrastructure and multimedia systems of its innovative MediaTic building. Barcelona Digital Technology Center was the first company to locate a technology and research, knowledge transfer, dissemination and company creation center in its own offices. Among other advantages, the building has an innovative facade lighting and heat control system called ETFE, which manages to reduce energy consumption by up to 40%. Tecnocom was selected as the ICT provider, with a global offering and solid experience capable of designing and installing multimedia infrastructures and systems in the new MediaTIC building. In the initial stage, the company implemented the following services: structured wiring, CPD design, network electronics, VOIP, virtualization, security, multimedia, videoconferencing, screens, interactive whiteboards, video wall, sound feed, AMX control. 5.6. Investment and Innovation: Project Management Tecnocom considers R&D&i a key aspect in achieving its mission and vision, as well as being vital to the company’s growth. Its commitment to innovation is a cultural value that enables the creation and substantial improvement of new products and services, generating and adding technological and functional advances to its portfolio that allow it to respond to its customers’ needs. We are permanently seeking to enrich our portfolio with high added value, greater specialization, and making the most of our sector-specific know-how. Investments identified in the last two years have an approximate value of 8 million euros, with multi-annual projects to be carried out in the 2009-2011 period. An essential element that serves as an incentive for defining innovation projects is our ongoing collaboration with companies, universities and technology centers, as well as obtaining both national and international public aid to finance or subsidize part of the planned investments. Tecnocom’s constant effort in Research, Development and Innovation has enabled it to achieve the leadership position that it now enjoys. In accordance with its organizational scheme, the Company has opened research lines in each of its specialization sectors. The most important of these are highlighted below: Financial Sector: Automation solutions for cash management, passbook, card and special document management, automated service, automatic identification and mobility. Insurance Sector: Design and development of CRM multichannel management solutions, casualty document management systems, integration of call centers. Industrial Sector: Automatic management of logistics, billing and integration with SAP, document management integrating digital and analog assets, developments for process control and monitoring. Solutions in a CIM (Computer Integrated Manufacturing) environment. Public Administrations Sector: Electronic administration, multichannel services for citizens, archiving systems and document flow processes. Visual and psychomotor learning for education. Interconnection of courts. Models for improving efficiency in the health care sector. Telecommunications Sector: Engineering and deployment of cellular infrastructure in Metro Madrid (Metrocall). Design and development of fixed DWDM networks. Deployment of GSM/UMTS, SWAP technologies. Solutions for virtual mobile operators, M2M (machine-to-machine communications), Business Transformation and Numeric Portability. It is also important to note the resources dedicated to developing solutions oriented toward improving internal operations, including: Corporate developments and information systems in SAP environment and for finance, administration and people management areas. Implementation of a process-oriented service model per the ITIL standard and integration of IT services for users (ticket management) using SIEBEL and Web 2.0 technology. Definition and automation of application development and management processes based on Open Source and HP technology. Tecnocom developed the IdeaTec program in order to earn the buy-in of all employees in this innovation process. This program allows all employees to submit their ideas and suggestions in the Company’s Intranet. All proposals are included in a consideration process where their feasibility for industrialization and commercialization or internal application is analyzed. It also constitutes a channel for identifying innovative solutions with added value for customers enabling the company to differentiate itself, and it also involves and motivates employees. A sampling of the innovation projects with social objectives performed by Tecnocom is shown below: Voice-access online ECM service platform. A technological project for developing an ICT tool for managing digital contents and administrative and business processes, especially oriented toward medium sized companies and the local Public Administration. Tecnocom seeks to be a pioneer in achieving a web platform that integrates the technology solutions that medium-sized firms and Public Administrations need on a day to day basis both in their internal procedures and in their interaction with customers and citizens. This project is part of the legislative framework currently in force, Law 11/2007 of June 22, ensuring the electronic access of citizens to public services. This new platform seeks to guarantee full compliance through the use of the most advanced technologies, always keeping in mind that the services being offered reach the greatest possible number of citizens regardless of their physical limitations. In this regard, the inclusion of the new voice-activated access interface makes it possible to access all platform options by voice either via a computer or over the telephone, in addition to accessing digital contents by people with certain types of upper body motor disabilities. Additionally, access is given to services without the need to use common terminals like PCs with Internet access. It is even possible to do without other visual terminal types like PDAs, as only the use of a conventional telephone line is required. Another innovative project that was developed is the New Tecnocom Means of Payment Platform, which improves the internal infrastructure of financial institutions. This platform will provide the current Card Administration System (Sistema de Administración de Tarjetas SAT) with the necessary technological advances to achieve a significant product improvement, favoring flexibility, speed and security throughout the entire banking system. Citizens are constantly demanding more versatile, quicker, and above all more secure services. This project allows the internal infrastructure of banks to remain on the cutting edge of technology in order to respond to citizens’ needs with the best possible system. 6. Tecnocom in figures: Generated and distributed economic value One of Tecnocom’s priorities is to have a good accounting information system that conveys business results and facilitates economic decision-making processes. In this way we will achieve greater profitability in a secure environment that adapts to change and generates stable relations with our stakeholders. Tecnocom has a management control system in place and adopts general accounting and tax auditing practices. Economic data The result for FY 2010 in terms of the main figures has been positive: Consolidated profit (€000)(*) 3,952 Total assets (€000)(*) 333,458 Net financial debt (€000) (*) 39,781 EBITDA (€000)(*) 17,731 (*) Data obtained from the consolidated annual accounts Generated and Distributed Direct Economic Value The table below shows Tecnocom’s economic generation and its distribution among its various stakeholders: Generated Economic Value (GEV) 2010 Net sales of products and services (*) 355,531 GEV (€000) 355,531 Distributed Economic Value (DEV) 2010 Operating Costs Supplies (*) 93,896 Wages and Social Benefits Salaries and wages(*) 160,582 Social charges(*) 42,981 Payments to fund providers Dividends paid to shareholders(*) 3,628 Interest payable for loans(*) 3,441 Payments to Governments (Taxes) Corporate tax(*) 1,242 Investment in the Community DVoluntary donations and investment of funds in the community 216 DEV (€000) 305,896 Withheld Economic Value (WEV) 2010 WEV = GEV – DEV (€000) 49,635 (*) Data obtained from the consolidated annual accounts Significant financial aid received from Governments The importance of R&D&i at Tecnocom is key for achieving its mission and vision, and that is why it has made a real commitment to investment in research and innovation. In 2010 investment has continued in innovative projects that have developed new solutions and specialized services. Development expenses in 2010 were €1,252,000 (2010 consolidated annual accounts). Moreover, in 2010 Tecnocom received subsidies for investment purposes or for R&D and other types of financial aids from Governments. The amounts received are reflected in the table below: Means of Payment Platform Project: 2010 Switching, garnering loyalty and analytical solution Subsidy (€) 143,505 Loan (€) 353,244 CMMi level 3 Project 2010 Subsidy (€) 17,500 Internal Auditing Tecnocom has an Internal Auditing Division providing support to the Board of Directors and to Senior Management in order to ensure the internal control of all Tecnocom’s companies, providing analyses, objectives, assessments, recommendations and all types of relevant reporting on revised operations. In this regard, the Internal Auditing Division has established the following objectives: Verifying that the financial information, its management and operation are accurate, reliable and timely. That the risks are duly identified and managed. That employees’ actions are consistent with applicable policies, rules, procedures, laws and regulations. That resources are used efficiently, and are sufficiently protected (value conservation). Promoting ongoing improvement within the organization in the control process (value creation). Promoting the identification and dissemination of legislative or regulatory variations that can have an impact on the organization. Preserving the company’s image, proposing the necessary controls to prevent irregularities or fraudulent actions from occurring. These objectives are translated into the following functions: Reviewing the reliability, integrity and quality of the financial, operational and management information in general, and of the existing resources for identifying, evaluating, classifying and reporting this information. Verifying the existence and status of the assets and checking the suitability of the measures established to protect their integrity. Verifying and analyzing the correction of internal accounting and operational control systems. Reviewing, verifying and evaluating the degree of compliance of policies, plans, objectives, rules, procedures and regulations established at Tecnocom and its companies. Maintaining coordinated relations with the work performed by external audits as a complementary and not a subsidiary or substitution activity. Providing information to the Board of Directors, through the Audit Committee, to facilitate its assessment of the adequate and efficient use of Tecnocom’s resources. Formulating recommendations to contribute to correcting any anomalies that may have been detected in the performance of their work, the compliance with such recommendations not being mandatory for the audited executive line, as it is the Management’s responsibility to establish definitive corrective measures. In any case, it is the function of the Internal Auditing Division to supervise the execution of the established action plans. This Division is promoting and supervising the implementation of good Internal Corporate Control practices. A “Whistleblower Channel” has been set up between employees and the Internal Auditing Unit, through which any employee can, confidentially and entirely anonymously if he/she so wishes, make any suggestion, improvement or report any event affecting the Company’s ethical principles and values, especially of a financial, accounting and internal control nature, that may be to the detriment of the Company’s interests or of its image with regard to its shareholders or other external agents. The characteristics of this channel are: It is accessible to all the organization’s employees. It is anonymous. The information received is handled confidentially. Achieving improvements and/or reporting any irregularity. The objective of this communication channel is to reinforce Good Corporate Governance and contribute to promoting ethical behavior within Tecnocom, basically ensuring the honest conduct of employees in the performance of their functions. This year there have been no reports affecting the Company’s ethical principles and values. 7. Stakeholder Relations 7.1 Employees A human team that is fully identified with, and committed to, Tecnocom’s business project. The measures applied in terms of people management enhance the sustainability of Tecnocom’s business project, which is also borne out by the commitment of its employees. All in a dynamic, flexible environment characterized by respect for people. 7.1.1. Career Mapping Publication of the new Career Map, adapted to the Company’s current organization structure. This clarifies the organization structure and the definition of functional roles, in addition to guaranteeing internal equity. The objective of the Career Map is to achieve a competitive advantage that assures the survival and growth of the Company, which depends more and more on: Having a human team that is prepared, motivated and committed to objectives and the achievement of results. Having a flexible organization structure that can respond to change in real time. The objectives of the organization are to: Identify talent and make available the necessary resources so that they can be known and shared by all. Create a unique culture of development, with common values, so that the entire organization can move in the same direction and toward the same goals. Unify procedures, processes, values and ways of working to achieve a common vision. Achieve the commitment of professionals to their own growth in accordance with the Company’s objectives. The objectives for the employees are: Professional development: Helping to discover interests and skills, giving them the chance to choose between different career paths and transfer to positions that are more consistent with their objectives, according to their superiors and to the Company’s strategy. Acknowledgement: Actively participate in achieving new goals with the support and acknowledgement of their superiors. Economic: Impact on wage conditions and their revision for each employee. The principles of the model are: Generating commitment: Promoting the responsibility and commitment of all professionals to their own growth, at the same time that the Company is involved in providing the necessary means to ensure success. Flexible: Permits changes in career paths for Company reasons or for the professional’s own interest, always with the consensus between the employee and his/her superior. Aligned with the business strategy: Directed toward business objectives and contributing to maximize the value of Tecnocom through the development of its human capital. For this model to achieve success, everyone’s involvement is needed: from the Company Management to the most recent hire. Reliable and objective: This unique model is what will govern professional development throughout the entire organization and favor credibility, contributing to avoid subjectivities in assessment processes. Overall and individual: Applicable to all Tecnocom professionals and, at the same time, personalized for each and every one of them. Integral: Implies the involvement of Management as a reflection of the Company’s culture. Continued over time: Adapts to continuous changes and future scenarios. Transparent: Intensifies communication between professionals in the organization, generating commitment and involvement in the development of each of them. The Career Map is a public document and was communicated to all employees through a communication plan. First notice: General in nature, and directed to all employees by means of internal communication, informing of the new 2010 Career Map, adapted to Tecnocom’s organization structure. Second notice: Personalized to each individual employee via email, informing of the role, career and position each employee occupies in Tecnocom’s Career Map. 7.1.2. Workforce Distribution In 2010 Tecnocom increased its workforce: the Organization grows, and hence its human capital. The increase was 3.40% with regard to the previous year. Geographic Area No. employees Spain 4,917 Portugal 200 Latam 250 TOTAL 5,367 Tecnocom is committed to hiring highly skilled and high-potential professionals to adapt to the evolving needs of the organization and to maintain an up-todate knowledge of the sector. Professional Categories No. employees Senior Management 53 Management 135 Line Management 368 Expert 1,158 Technician 1,929 Operator 1,274 TOTAL 4,917 Tecnocom’s philosophy seeks to maintain relationships with its employees that are stable and continued over time. To do this, it strives to build a solid workforce and retain professional talent, with a positive impact on commitment to the organization’s business project. The attached chart reflects Tecnocom’s workforce distributed by type of employment and contract: Type of contract and employment No. employees Fixed-contract employees 4,020 Temporary contract employees 897 Temp agency personnel 89 Interns 95 Student Apprentices 187 At Tecnocom, indefinite contracts account for 81.76% of the total, compared to 18.24% temporary contracts. Of the 4,917 workers with fixed and temporary contracts at Tecnocom, 92.6% work on a full-time basis. At Tecnocom we are committed to our people. The development strategy is based on offering personal and professional growth. To do this, the Company offers: Growth: On a model of diversified professional careers, supported by a performance evaluation process and compensation and benefits linked to knowledge, experience and contribution. Knowledge: Broad range of training. 7.1.3. Recruitment and Selection Tecnocom has implemented an employment management process characterized by being transparent and clear. A series of guidelines for action enforcing non-discrimination and equality has been established. A total of 161 new job positions were created in 2010. As for local hiring procedures, most employees and managers are hired in their countries of origin, with percentages approaching 100% in all cases. In Spain, this percentage is 97.43%. There is a welcoming procedure for all new employees at Tecnocom with a view to facilitating their integration at the Company. There are two forms of welcoming procedures depending on the type of hiring: New personnel. A welcome session is held, explaining the basic aspects in day-to-day management within the organization: explanation of the employee portal application, applications for vacation time, checking payroll, who to go to for contract dealings, training, compensation measures, etc. After this session, the new hire is given manuals in digital format with the necessary information to facilitate their process of integration in the organization: Welcome Manual: Its intention is to make the integration of new hires in the company as quickly as possible so they can feel at ease from the outset. Style Manual: The code of conduct for Tecnocom employees based on corporate values, describing a series of principles they must follow and serving as a frame of reference and orientation for the development of professional practice. The objectives of this Style Manual are: To unify and reinforce the identity, culture and conduct guidelines for activities and employees. To facilitate the decision-making process and improve professional conduct. To provide a common action model within the frame of reference of our corporate values. Systems Manual: Its purpose is to establish rules for the use of the Internet and email at Tecnocom, so its knowledge and compliance is mandatory for all employees. Interns and Apprentices.. A welcoming event is held for apprentices who will work as interns at Tecnocom at our organization’s headquarters. The attendance of both the apprentices and their tutors is requested, addressing the following issues: Presentation of the company and of its business units. Importance of internships in the company’s recruitment and selection policy. Internal procedures for managing internships. At Tecnocom we promote internal turnover through its Internal Vacancy Program: A communication program that consists of sending a weekly email to employees, where they are informed of open vacancies in the different regions. The goal of informing of vacant in-house positions at Tecnocom is to offer equal opportunity and transparency to all employees. Tecnocom’s policy is to give priority to internal rather than external candidates. In this way it facilitates overall internal horizontal, vertical, and geographic mobility of employees, in keeping with our Professional Development program. Tecnocom has implemented a New Hires Prize Program: through an internal communication circuit, employees are asked to help search for candidates to cover specific job offers. Employees are prompted to send in the CV of a family member, friend or acquaintance who meets the requirements specified for the position. If the candidate signs the contract and satisfactorily completes the trial period after the selection process, the employee receives a cash prize. 7.1.4. Compensation Model The compensation model meets internal equity, transparency and recognition criteria, through which employees receive fair and equitable treatment. At Tecnocom, the average annual salary per employee (full-time equivalent) is 3.13 times higher than the minimum wage. 7.1.5. Training Tecnocom is committed to the continuous development of the knowledge and skills of persons as a means of guaranteeing the sustainability of its business project. To do this it makes a significant investment effort, bearing the cost of continuous training of its employees in a sector where recycling and innovation of knowledge is key. This investment is materialized in the training plan established annually and associated with the needs of Tecnocom’s professionals. Each development program is associated with a specific group, guaranteeing the satisfaction of specific needs. The training plan includes technical courses, skills development courses, language courses, etc. The purpose of training programs refers to the identification and development of the talent of people with high potential, improving the contribution of people and developing business skills and technical know-how. Tecnocom has an e-learning platform called TecnoComunidad, a new social and collaborative learning concept. All Tecnocom employees have access to the platform and can participate in it. It integrates contents and tools for managing corporate know-how. It helps improve skills and generate rich social environments where employees can share information, relate, teach, and learn. At TecnoComunidad everything revolves around the communities created in this platform. The platform includes a broad catalog of technical courses, skills development courses, and language courses like English, etc. It allows for the creation of forums, blogs, questionnaires and conferences. It also features the Amigos tecnoComunidad tool, a social network within the platform. School for Trainers A continuous program involving empowering, development and recognition of a group of professionals within the organization who work regularly in the transfer of knowledge and key skills for Tecnocom. The intended goals are: To create an in-house team of trainers capable of training other co-workers. To improve the skills and capabilities of in-house trainers in their function as transmitters of key knowledge for the company. To create a culture of quality in-house training. To generate a common style of training. All Tecnocom professionals can be trainers, even if they do not have prior teaching or training experience. The only requirements for submitting candidacies are: To be an expert in a specific technology or skill To be willing to convey knowledge and skills. Training Indicators: Study aid for external training Tecnocom employees can apply for economic study aid every year. The procedure consists of filling out an application allowing employees to choose professional training in: official degrees (technical or university), undergraduate or graduate professional training, monographic courses, language studies, or any other studies the company may see fit, after consultation and study with the workers’ representatives. 7.1.6. Professional Development Tecnocom performs a professional performance evaluation of all employees (100% of the workforce). The Company has established a process to evaluate annual performance levels in the employee’s job position, in accordance with its strategy. Specifically, it focuses on evaluating the degree of compliance with desired and observable conducts associated with the skills required for the proper development of the job position. It is an integrating, unique and equitable tool for all employees, which favors communication between the evaluators and the evaluated employees. The purpose is to develop the necessary competencies, skills and behaviors among employees to ensure the growth of the business, joining the employee’s individual professional development goals to the business’s goals. In short, it seeks to favor the success and employability of the evaluated professionals. This evaluation provides information to professionals regarding their performance and makes clear what is expected of them in relation to the desired conducts and behaviors in their jobs. It is a continuous process, which involves a mandatory self-evaluation on the part of the employees and a subsequent evaluation by the employee’s superior. This evaluation takes into account both the self-evaluation and the impressions exchanged in the evaluation interview. Each employee can view the final results of the evaluation by accessing the evaluation tool through the intranet. The results will show the strengths and areas of improvement on which a Development/Improvement Plan can be prepared for each of Tecnocom’s professionals, which in turn will serve to identify the potential existing in the organization, which can be materialized in action plans targeting employees who need to improve their performance or development plans for highpotential employees who wish to grow in the Company. Start-up of My CV” and Qualification Profile” The goal of the implementation of this program is to optimize processes of: Professional orientation and development Team and project management This program seeks to focus on the following utilities: 7.1.7. Internal Communication Tecnocom has established different communication channels aimed at promoting the sense of unity within the organization and enhancing relationships between all its employees in order to help achieve communication levels in all directions. The internal communication programs are designed to promote collaboration between employees and promote knowledge of all actions developed by Tecnocom: MiTecnocom: Company intranet that serves as a space for interaction between all Company employees, providing them with all kinds of information, including: corporate documents (templates, presentations, reports, bulletins, etc.), organization information (corporate processes and procedures, organization charts, internal memos, etc.), employee training and access to different programs and tools, including: Tools: Employee portal: A portal that allows the handling of all kinds of issues relating to People Management and Human Resources in the company: payroll inquiries, vacation applications, travel arrangements, people development, etc. Technical Assistance: Where employees put in requests for IT maintenance support. Access to network folders. Programs: Search-Offer: A bulletin board for Tecnocom employees, where they can exchange products, skills and services Offers for All: This section publishes all offers sent to us by suppliers and which we consider may include advantages for our employees. All kinds of specific promotions for our group can be found there. Throughout the year we can find offers relating to banks, real-estate, leisure, car rentals, restaurants, hotels, health care, etc. Promotions that benefit us only because we are a part of Tecnocom. In-house memos and notices: Email memos and notices informing the entire workforce of important company-related aspects: organizational changes, modifications or approvals of procedures, launch of new programs or in-house campaigns, etc. MisTecnoNoticias: Daily email newsletter to all employees with information about the company, announcing representative projects signed with customers, company successes or business agreements reached, and specifying the most important and significant news in the ICT sector. Bulletin boards: Another method for providing different kinds of information to employees. Implementation of the “Tecnocom Route: The Road to Success” Program. This program was developed with the goal of creating a two-way participation channel that directly brings the CEO closer to all Tecnocom employees. The idea is to share a breakfast with our CEO, enabling employees to receive first-hand information about the affairs of the Company, the division or the sector to which they belong, as well as local information about the business, job center or line. Employees also get the chance to propose new ideas and improvements and transmit our doubts, always in a constructive manner. This program consists of: Transmitting the Company’s most significant aspects, business strategy, upcoming challenges and business priorities by the CEO, and in turn, for the CEO to receive first-hand and directly the vision that Tecnocom professionals have about the Company, their professional concerns, doubts and improvement proposals. All ideas, comments and improvement actions proposed during these meetings will be gathered by professionals from the People Management Division in order to assess them. If they are feasible, the relevant action plan will be put in motion to implement them. During the first quarter of the year, Tecnocom holds its Internal Company Event, Kick Off 2010, an event targeting more than 300 senior and middle managers where all the Company’s strategies for the year are shared. 7.1.8. Managing Diversity At Tecnocom we are convinced of the need to work to integrate people with disabilities. To do this, we develop different initiatives within this field of action. People with disabilities make up 0.49% of the workforce LA13. This means that Tecnocom will continue to apply exceptional alternative measures, and in addition will continue working on other initiatives oriented toward integration. The following practices have been included in the selection process in order to favor the management of diversity within Tecnocom’s workforce, providing incentives for the hiring of people with disabilities. In each job offer included in employment portals the following statement is included: “Tecnocom facilitates the insertion of people with disabilities, prioritizing their candidacy”. In job interviews, the questionnaire given to each candidate includes a question to identify whether the candidate has some form of disability, in order to prioritize their candidacy over others if the candidate meets the required technical skills. 7.1.9. Equality Policies The areas of action in equality measures performed by the company include access to employment, promotion and development, training, compensation and reconciliation. Tecnocom wants to continue advancing in the development of a favorable setting for labor relations based on equal opportunity, non-discrimination and respect for diversity. To continue advancing in this commitment, and within the applicable legal framework, the organization has performed a diagnosis of the current gender situation, analyzing quantitative workforce data including age, seniority, classification by professional categories, as well as qualitative data on the different People Management procedures: selection, training, and promotion. Tecnocom has expressed its commitment to equality between men and women. In this regard, with the results of the diagnosis described above, it prepared a draft Equality Plan, and in 2011 it will draft the definitive Equality Plan, which will be approved by the Company together with the trade union representatives and an Equality Committee will be set up to monitor and assess the actions defined in the Plan. The Equality Plan will define a series of positive actions to promote real and effective diversity and equality between men and women in the Company. During the years of the Plan, measures will be adopted along the following lines of action: Tecnocom intends to create the best workplace environment among its workforce. All the measures adopted, and those that will continue to be implemented, seek to support the set course and achieve better levels of equality: Tecnocom is firmly committed to increasing the number of women in its workforce: The Company now has 1,315 female employees, which represents 20% of total Company hirings. In all, women account for more than 25% of the workforce. The percentage of women holding positions of responsibility has continued to increase within the Company. 37.10% of promotions involve women. In addition, 317 workers have reduced work time arrangements; 81.7% of these are women. The average age is 36.46 years for male employees and 37.19 years for female employees. Highly skilled personnel, a large proportion of the workforce, belonging to technician or expert professional categories. 7.1.10. Reconciliation Measures Tecnocom promotes balance between personal and work life, understanding that it is a key element for motivating and retaining employees. The advances achieved at Tecnocom in work-personal life reconciliation have meant significant improvements in the working conditions of all our employees. They represent a firm commitment to our human capital, which is beyond doubt one of our Company’s greatest values. Both the senior management and people management staff are aware of the key role played by all the members of our organization, so they continue to work to reinforce this firm position and implement initiatives and improvements that will allow us to enjoy greater degrees of flexibility and continue advancing in the valuable reconciliation of personal, family and work life. Tecnocom has implemented improvements that contribute to the effective development of work-personal life reconciliation of its employees. Every year Tecnocom launches a Children’s Christmas Card Competition, where employees’ children draw Christmas-inspired motifs. There are 3 age categories, and a gift is given by Tecnocom to the most original and creative drawing in each category. The awarded drawings are used in the corporate Christmas greetings sent by the organization to all its stakeholders. All of the participants receive a gift from the organization. The gifts were bought at a Special Employment Center. For an amount exceeding €1000, these gifts are educational games that encourage team play. 7.1.11. Compensation Measures Tecnocom implemented the TecnoCompensa program, a Flexible Remuneration and Compensation Plan aimed at all Tecnocom employees. It allows employees to optimize remuneration and adapt the way in which wages are paid to suit personal and family needs. In addition, a technological tool has been developed to facilitate access and management. Employees can join the Plan voluntarily, exchanging part of their monetary earnings for the products on offer. The Plan provides the following benefits to its employees: Tax savings: The goods and services included in the Plan have an advantageous tax treatment, enabling them to optimize their net earnings. Economies of scale: Discounts in the goods and services on offer: Employees can enjoy the more advantageous conditions the Company can achieve by bulk procurement of certain services for its employees compared to individual procurement. Saving time and convenience in procurement, as they are already preselected from among the best available offers. The basic goal of the Plan is to allow employees to optimize their net salaries, benefiting from a range of fiscally efficient products and services procured in favorable conditions thanks to Tecnocom’s purchasing power. For the organization, the goal of implementing the Plan is to motivate and garner the loyalty of its employees. To access the products and/or services, a system of keys has been established according to the position in the professional category classification. Employees can choose from among the following products and/or services: Levels Product Profiles Restaurant ticket Operator Day-care ticket Technician LEVEL 1 Medical insurance Expert Computer equipment Home insurance Line Rental of regular home Management LEVEL 2 Rental of second home Vehicle renting Management LEVEL 3 Life insurance and Senior Management The Flexible Remuneration and Compensation Plan offered by Tecnocom for 2010 registered a total of 617 workers benefiting from the Plan, representing a 12.52% participation out of the total workforce. The charts below show the distribution of products/services acquired by the workers. Compensation Measures No. Workers 1º Medical insurance 455 2º Restaurant ticket 65 3º Day-care ticket 58 4º Home connected to the Internet 36 5º Home insurance 1 6º Rental 1 7º Training 1 TOTAL 617 7.1.12. Workforce Stability And Absenteeism Guaranteeing the job stability of employees is one of Tecnocom’s commitments. This is because we are aware that our sector has one of the highest external turnover rates. Tecnocom studies leaves and resignations in order to obtain information about why employees decide to switch to other companies. It conducts interviews with the employee who decides to take leave voluntarily and with the person in charge of the environment in which the candidate’s workplace experience takes place. These interviews are based on filling out a questionnaire. The goal is to collect information about the employee’s stay at Tecnocom and analyze the reasons for leaving. The results are processed to obtain: Overall statistics: Reasons for leaving Degree of satisfaction with different aspects of the company (development, training, salary, relationship with superior, etc.) Degree of coincidence between the employee’s reason for leaving and the reason given by the employee’s superior Improved management processes. Identifying and proposing improvement plans that can be carried out to avoid cases of voluntary leaves or resignations. Stability has a positive impact on the employees’ sense of belonging and commitment to Tecnocom’s business project, as evidenced by an average seniority of over 7 years and an undesired external turnover of 11.07%. The system for measuring absenteeism is based on data entered by the employees in the corporate tool for clocking work time (SAP). Non-work days are included by each employee and vetted by their immediate superiors. In 2010 Tecnocom posted an absenteeism rate of 3.75%. This rate includes causes like sick leave, employee moving and medical visits, among others. The main cause of absenteeism is sickness, followed by legal leaves of absence. Maternity leave (0.59%) and paternity leave (0.14%) are measured separately, as their causes are different from those included in the absenteeism rate. 7.1.13. Safety and Health The organization’s occupational safety and health system has a Joint Prevention System in place, with occupational risk prevention technicians ready to provide service to all Tecnocom companies and able to address specialties like: occupational safety, industrial hygiene and ergonomics, and applied psychosociology. Tecnocom has outsourced the Occupational Medicine specialty to outside prevention services, working with different HMOs to cover the consequences of occupational accidents. Various Safety and Health Committees have been created at the regional, corporate or job center level. These committees meet on a regular basis to address specific Company safety and health issues. 80% of the total workforce is represented in these safety and health committees. Tecnocom is working to implement an Occupational Risk Prevention Management system following the OHSAS 18001 standard. It expects to achieve certification by mid-2011. One of the tools the organization deems to be essential to preventing occupational risks is training in knowledge relative to workplace safety issues: The employee occupational risk prevention management training program consists of training involving the specific risks of each job position, and also includes theoretical training on fire extinguishing and first aid. This training is compulsory and involves 100% of the workforce. The training program for emergency teams at the job centers consists of a series of theoretical-practical courses in first aid, fire prevention, and emergency and evacuation procedures. The training program on preventive resources and prevention delegates. Consists of 50-60 hour function-specific courses. Tecnocom considers it to be of vital importance to keep its employees continuously trained and informed, and therefore it works to provide preventive training based on the results of risk assessments and the analysis of company loss and accident data. In relation to the latter point, it seeks to implement a training module on Road Safety, since in itinere accidents are the main cause of workrelated accidents. The system for assessing occupational risks goes beyond employee safety and extends to suppliers who work with Tecnocom, providing both services and products. For this reason, the certification process carried out by the Company includes occupational risk prevention requirements, making sure that all its certified suppliers guarantee compliance with occupational safety regulations. If we also consider the work carried out in coordination with other companies, we have preventive resources to control the safety and health of all workers. Benefits of Prevention and Health Surveillance: Tecnocom makes its own medical service available to employees at four centers (Seville, Barcelona, Valencia and Madrid), where health surveillance and monitoring activities like check-ups are performed. In addition, it develops and implements other activities like health promotion campaigns, including: Flu vaccination campaigns. Back School, aimed at informing and increasing employee knowledge of back health problems. Informative campaign on heat stroke prevention. Eyesight campaign. Social action: Blood donation drives have been carried out with different associations. This activity has been carried out at the four Company sites with the most workers. 4.7% of the workers at these centers participated in these drives. Occupational safety and health indicators: Occupational Safety and Health 2010 Occupational Disease Rate (ODR) 0 Total no. of occupational accidents 61 No. of in itinere accidents 28 No. of (serious) occupational accidents with leave 0 No. of (minor) occupational accidents with leave 61 No. of lethal occupational accidents 0 Accident rate (IR) 0.23 Total days lost due to occupational accident and disease 1,407 Rate of days lost through industrial accidents and occupational diseases (RDI) 5.41 Accident and Sickness Rates 2010 No. occupational disease cases 0 Total no. of occupational accidents (except in itinere and relapses) 27 No. of (serious) occupational accidents with leave 0 No. of (minor) occupational accidents with leave 27 No. of lethal occupational accidents 0 Total days lost due to occupational accident and disease 928 Frequency Rate 0.52 Severity Rate 0.01 Incident Rate 555.55 Low Average Duration (DMI) 34.37 7.1.14. Trade Unions Tecnocom has a total of 165 trade union representatives on its workforce, distributed into 25 workers’ committees. There is also an Inter-center Committee comprising personnel from the various workers’ committees and Tecnocom personnel, where overall organization-wide information is provided. With so many workers’ committees, coordinators have been chosen (elected according to representation) to have more regular contact with the organization’s senior management. Tecnocom facilitates fluid dialog and communication with union representatives through different communication channels: Bulletin boards. In-house memos and notices. Time credits for union reps. Facilities for holding informative meetings at the work centers. Elections of workers’ representatives. Negotiations are based on seeking better working conditions for the people and the sustainable development of the company’s activities. Tecnocom has 4 collective agreements covering 100% of the workforce. 7.2. Customers Relationships based on trust with our customers Tecnocom’s business model is based on a culture that integrates businessoriented innovation, a focus on the customer, the quality of solutions, the talent of its professionals, and its commitment to society and to the environment. For Tecnocom it is of the utmost importance to ensure that each service provided generates “an added value for the customer” and direct our effort toward that customer’s satisfaction. This strategic focus generates synergies and reinforces Tecnocom’s relations and communication with its customers. Tecnocom’s maxim is to constantly improve the quality of its services and solutions, so it implements the necessary tools in its organization to control all projects involving its services and solutions, relying on highly skilled professionals, adequate work methods for project management, use of lategeneration technologies, thus meeting and even exceeding customer expectations. The following figure graphically depicts the main elements that make up Tecnocom’s Process Model. Our customers’ needs and expectations make it possible to determine policies and strategies or lines of action to adapt and develop processes. To verify the level of implementation of processes, specific metrics and other internal and external indicators are used. The metrics and indicators evaluate and identify potential aspects for improvement, and once the priorities are established, the Company begins to plan and implement the improvement projects that finally make it possible to improve operational results. This is a continuous improvement cycle that follows the guidelines and criteria established in the EFQM Excellence Model, as well as general ISO management standards and specific ICT sector, CMMI and ITIL standards. Tecnocom is aware that good quality creates new customers and ensures the loyalty of existing ones. Since 1994, when it obtained its first quality management certification (ISO 9001), new requirements have been gradually included and integrated in the management system. In this regard, highlights include certifications in environmental management (ISO 14001) and sector-specific models: CMMi L3 (Capability Maturity Model ® Integration): multiconstellation certificate (development and services). ISO 20000: IT service management aligned with ITIL best practices. ISO 27001: Information security management. ER-1055/2001 GA-2007/0665 STI-0009/2010 SI-011/2009 ER-0249/1994 GA-2004/0571 ER-0850/1998 GA-2002/0072 ER-1705/2008 Compliance with these models is the responsibility of the entire organization for the performance of projects and services, ensuring the highest levels of quality and forming part of their cultural values. Customer profile Tecnocom has a prevalence of major corporate customers (23 of the 35 companies that make up the Spanish IBEX index are Tecnocom customers) and banks. More and more local companies with dealings outside of Spain are starting to rely on Tecnocom on a global scale. We also work with mediumsized companies and with public administrations. Tecnocom has a well-balanced customer portfolio composed of those sectors where ICT has a high strategic value: Banking and Insurance; Public Administrations; Industry; Telco & Media, specialized and oriented to the customers’ specific needs. In the current business and economic environment, our customers’ ICT decisions are more meditated than ever. Tecnocom’s broad range of specific high valueadded services and solutions helps them to achieve benefits like: cost reductions, increased productivity, improved business processes, etc. Tecnocom’s main goal is to get to know and understand its customers, finding out their expectations so that it can define and adapt the service to their needs. To meet this goal, its workforce includes highly skilled, trained and motivated people. We are a customer-oriented organization with long experience in sectors like: Banking and Insurance: Accounting for 63% of the Company’s revenues, where it has always worked with the top banks and insurance companies, generating in-depth knowledge of their operation and of the banking business by our more than 5,000 professionals. Top sector customers include La Caixa, BBVA, Santander, Axa Winterthur, Allianz, Caifor, Aseval. Public Administrations Accounts for 16.5% of total revenues. Our commitment to the modernization process of public administrations is based on working in close collaboration with them in order to support their internal reorganization and improve their processes, facilitate information exchange between them, encourage the development of services for citizens and companies, and facilitate public access to citizens through different channels. The main sector customers include the Spanish Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Defense, Ministry of the Economy and Treasury, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Culture. Industry: Accounts for 13.99% of Tecnocom’s total revenues. Our knowledge of the needs of customers in this sector has led us to verticalize our portfolio into eight subsectors: Distribution, Energy, Tourism, Transportation, Manufacturing, Laboratories, Construction, and Services. We are entering a period of information transparency within a more regulated and demanding framework regarding corporate responsibilities. Tecnocom has experience in implementing interoperability solutions enabling the exchange of processes and data between heterogeneous systems. The main sector customers include Repsol, Cepsa, El Corte Inglés, BP Oil. Telecommunications: Accounts for 5.7% of revenues. In recent years this sector has gone from offering basic contracting services to an “a la carte” service model that has driven new forms of business and complemented its value-added product portfolio. In line with this evolution, Tecnocom provides a flexible, standard and businessand customer-oriented convergent business support platform (BSS). The main sector customers include Telefónica, Ono ,Vodafone, Orange, R Cable. These sector-specific structures are responsible for offering closer and more direct commercial attention and management to customers in each sector, and for the proactive generation of vertical solutions according to the specific needs of each business. Tecnocom has a total of 2,095 customers, with 88 of them accounting for 75% of sales. The distribution of customers by horizontal solutions and vertical sectors is as follows: Statistically, Tecnocom customers include: 60% of the country’s top 100 companies. 23 of the IBEX 35 companies. 100% of Spanish Ministries. 50% of the Autonomous Communities and presence in the top local institutions. The top financial institutions, including the top 10 banks and the top 10 savings banks. 70% of the rural savings banks. Our main strength is stability and proximity in our relationships with our customers, generating their trust and loyalty as values. As a result: Tecnocom is characterized by maintaining active and direct communications with its customers, providing priority attention to each of them. This is achieved through permanent contact with customers through various channels, which work as tools to detect strengths and weaknesses and to monitor their needs and expectations. Tecnocom implemented a procedure managing customer claims. The regular communication mechanisms with customers include: Website: Where all information about Tecnocom, technology partners, press releases, market information, knowledge management, etc. can be found. TecNews: An online quarterly featuring customer interviews, case studies, work with Partners, opinion articles by experts in different Company solutions, and news related to organizational changes, events, projects, etc. TecNews seeks to inform all our customers, shareholders, employees and Partners using a simple, comprehensible style. The goal is for all our stakeholders to understand the complex contents of the tech world. Each issue of TecNews tries to be more interesting, and it receives around 4,200 visits through the website. Another more personal and proximal form of communication is public relations through the organization of different events like sports tournaments or cultural events. Organization of events in the ICT sector, for interacting with different stakeholders. The goal of all this is to personalize Tecnocom’s range of offerings according to the target audience and to its customers’ needs. Some events are designed by Tecnocom with the intention of launching a proprietary and specific solution for one type of customer, but most are organized with the aid of ICT sector analysts, technology partners or media, etc. Customer satisfaction Tecnocom is a company that is firmly committed to seeking its customers’ satisfaction. As a result, it conducts an annual service quality satisfaction study through an external company, ensuring the objectivity of its results. The main goal of the customer satisfaction and quality program is to achieve the highest level of customer retention possible. The final goal is to specify the priority aspects that need to be enhanced/improved to achieve that maximum satisfaction and retention. The study is conducted by the company TNS Technology, using the TRIM system, a tool for measuring, managing and monitoring customer relations that identifies the satisfaction and loyalty of Tecnocom’s customers. The geographic scope of the study covers customers in Spain and Portugal. To identify key factors in customer satisfaction, customers have identified six areas in surveys: products and services; offers and contracts; project execution; project team; sales team; and administration. A total of 70 interviews were held with customers accounting for 75% of sales, obtaining a TRI*M rate, the customer retention rate,.which is based on the analysis of four questions: General appraisal Recommendation Repurchase intention Comparative advantages TRI*M FAQ Index Total 2010 The customer satisfaction study results are transferred to the sectors in order to analyze the results on an account-customer basis in order to undertake any improvement actions as may be required. Accordingly, the General Operations Management implemented an Expectation Management Process. Its goals are to: Achieve customer satisfaction. To do this, efforts focused on the aspects that most concern customers during the life of the project or service. Obtain measurable results for customers as a whole, enabling adjustments to be made in our process model. The Expectation Management Process consists of the following: To find out the customer’s expectations, a two-part questionnaire was devised (Customer Relation and Service and Project Execution) with factors that had to be prioritized and assessed, choosing five in ascending order of importance. An assessment is made at the start of the project and another at the end. 7.3. Suppliers Tecnocom tends toward sustainability, and therefore it also takes into account the impact its suppliers have and encourages actions aimed at contributing to sustainable development, and consequently, reducing the global economic, social and environmental effects associated with its products. Tecnocom has implemented a specialized and centralized purchasing model that guarantees the responsible management of the entire supply cycle, from issuing the order to paying the invoice. A model that seeks the highest quality and ensures compliance with the law, respect for human and labor rights, in this way achieving a reduction of order-related incidents. Aware of the influence its suppliers can have on continuous improvement of its activity, Tecnocom selects only those suppliers who meet quality standards that are aligned with those of the Company. The main guideline consists of always monitoring compliance of the obligations and responsibilities of each of the participants in the purchasing process, as established in the Purchasing Procedure, and applying principles of transparency, professionalism, objectivity, orientation toward results, equal opportunities, and non discrimination in the entire contracting process. The application of these principles achieves greater effectiveness in the different stages of the purchasing process. There are also purchasing rules and conditions with Tecnocom’s national and international suppliers. These guides specify the conditions for negotiating with suppliers, the goal of which is always to establish mutually beneficial relations. Supplier indicators: Tecnocom’s social commitment is also materialized through the purchase of products or serviced to Special Employment Centers, social-initiative companies that provide employment to people with disabilities. Favoring: The transfer of employment of people with disabilities from Special Employment Centers to companies that participate in the ordinary job market. The growth of activity of the Special Employment Center, and therefore the hiring of new workers with disabilities. Tecnocom’s Style Manual provides guidelines for relations with suppliers by employees, setting guidelines for their conduct with suppliers. Tecnocom has established reciprocal communication channels that favor and guarantee transparency in relationships and the understanding of mutual needs, and which will also allow new situations or opportunities that may arise between organizations to be known. At Tecnocom we are aware of how important it is to contribute to respecting the environment; consequently, we include environmental criteria in certifying our suppliers, transferring our commitment to the environment to the supply chain through the Good Environmental Practices Manual for Tecnocom Suppliers, to which suppliers must adhere in order to achieve certification. In this way we promote corporate social responsibility actions among our suppliers, making them aware of the importance of responsibly using consumptions and correctly segregating waste. The decisions that are made at the time of purchasing and procuring services can have a very important environment-friendly contribution. It is essential to adopt a responsible behavior, taking into account, when purchasing products and services: the way in which they are produced, their useful life and ability to reuse, recycle, and dispose of them, top consider the global impact of the product on the environment. At Tecnocom, green buying means integrating the environmental component in the decision-making process when it comes to purchasing goods and contracting services. Choosing products, whenever possible taking into account their composition, contents, packaging, recycling possibilities, the waste generated, energy efficiency... Helping to preserve our natural resources and save energy, and avoiding the generation of waste. Environmental criteria are applied to certain products and services used to a greater or lesser degree by the Company, including office materials and issues like sustainable mobility. Some of the sustainability criteria used in the purchasing and procurement of products/services include: Paper is one of the most used products, which is why we choose to use paper whose production is environment-friendly, i.e. ecological paper. When buying computers, printers, or any other type of IT material, we always do so from suppliers who are committed to reducing their environmental impact. Offering excellent, energy-efficient products, with safer materials and more eco-friendly packaging. Whenever possible, recycled toners are purchased. Acquisition of vehicles taking CO2 emissions into account. Our service suppliers are committed to the use of best environmental practices, signing a document to this effect in their certification process. 7.4. Shareholders Profitability, transparency, direct communication and equal rights are Tecnocom’s essential commitments to its shareholders. Commitment: Long-term value creation with maximum information transparency through fluid communication channels and encouraging shareholder participation in the Company. Tecnocom’s track record in the stock market: Tecnocom has been listed in the Madrid Stock Exchange since 1987. In 2006, Tecnocom embarked on a corporate expansion process with the goal of becoming the leader of the Spanish information technology market. The Company currently has 75,025,241 shares in circulation. Its treasury shares represent 3.98% of the Company’s equity. The Company’s major milestones in recent years include: Shareholding structure: Mechanisms for communicating with shareholders Maintaining a good communication flow with our shareholders and encouraging their active participation in the Company’s affairs is one of the areas where Tecnocom pays special attention. In this regard, the channels currently open to meet these goals include: Investors’ Area on the Company website, where economic information about the company is available to the public, including the corporate presentation and information about the General Shareholders’ Meeting. Information is also provided about the Company’s governing bodies, its shareholding structure, stock market information, latest reports published, significant events, and an agenda including upcoming events for investors. Through its Shareholder’s Office, Tecnocom provides direct communication channels (telephone and email) to shareholders and other third parties. The General Shareholders’ Meeting is the Company’s traditional channel for communication with its shareholders. In this regard, major steps have been made to encourage electronic voting and thus enhance shareholders’ ability to participate in the Meeting. Finally, investor presentations and regular reporting of results are another channel through which information is provided to any third parties interested in the Company’s affairs. The Company’s goals are to continue progressing in its relationship with its shareholders, encouraging their involvement and knowledge of dayto-day business at the Company. Evolution of stock in 2010: Tecnocom stock has remained stable throughout the year, and has evolved in line with the main benchmark indexes. Stock market indicators The main stock market indicators are detailed below: Total no. of shares 75,025,241 No. of free-floating ordinary shares 28,644,637 No. of treasury shares 2,985,175 Par value per share (€) 0.50 Trading frequency (%) 100 Minimum annual stock price (€) 2.00 Maximum annual stock price (€) 3.24 Stock price at close (€) 2.30 Average stock price (€) 2.75 Market cap (€) 172,558,468 Net profit per share (€) 0.05 Cash-flow per share (€) 0.16 Book value per share (€) 2.32 There are a total of 75,025,241 ordinary shares, each with a par value of €0.50. The Company has a total of 2,985,175 treasury shares, accounting for 3.98% of the total Company stock. Trading volume Company stock had a trading frequency of 100% throughout the year, with an average annual trading volume of 26,487 securities. 7.5. Society Tecnocom has social responsibility as a commitment to the development of activities that contribute to improving the quality of life of people. As a result, Tecnocom participates in projects that contribute to the social and economic development of society. Tecnocom forms part of society; therefore, it dedicates economic and human resources to projects that have a social impact, which contribute to social improvement and well-being. Education: Tecnocom considers education to be a tool for social integration and development. Tecnocom collaborates with the Master’s Degree course in Corporate Consulting and Management organized by the Spanish Consultants’ Association (Asociación Española de Consultoría – AEC) and the Technical University of Madrid (UPM). This master’s degree course focuses on graduates and young professionals whop wish to orient their career paths toward consulting. Its goal is to provide solid training in various business areas like strategy, finance, human resources, operations, marketing, the supply chain, and project management. The contents of the master’s degree course are divided into two lines, one oriented toward the development of management skills, i.e. directed at the personal development of professionals, and the other geared toward developing business management skills. With this master’s degree course, Tecnocom seeks to continue with its policy of supporting talent, a policy that has always characterized our Company. In addition, Tecnocom is committed to making it easier for employees to improve their professional future; as a result, it provides €6,500 scholarships to two employees so they can take the master’s course. Educational cooperation Tecnocom works together with various schools with a view to having recent graduates and/or students in their last years to join the organization on an apprenticeship or internship basis. The main lines of action in this area include: Scholarship program: collaboration with the best universities and business schools: where training is provided in: IT, telecommunications, mathematics, physics, chemistry, business administration, economics, statistics, industrial studies, labor relations, etc. Education cooperation agreements have been signed to provide professional scholarships, and in some cases for the hiring and professional development of students. Apprenticeship/internship program: collaboration with business schools providing professional training internships for students, including: Computer Systems Administration (CSA), Software Application Development (SAD), Computer Systems Operation (CSO), secretarial skills, sales and marketing management, administration.By accepting student apprentices, Tecnocom receives subsidies from some Spanish autonomous communities. Tecnocom reinvests the subsidies in the schools from which the student apprentices come. New talent program: Aimed at people who have completed their studies but have no experience and want to start their careers, participating in both national and international projects. Participation in employment forums Tecnocom participates in different employment-related events, including: Job Fair for People with Disabilities (Feria de Empleo para Personas con Discapacidad) – a trade fair organized by the Autonomous Community of Madrid’s Office for Employment and Women. The goal is to give the participating companies the chance to make themselves known directly to people with disabilities. It is a meeting place for disabled people looking to enter the job market and companies that are interested in recruiting and selecting people. During the trade fair applications are taken and included in Tecnocom’s database for open as well as future selection processes. V Feria de Empleo de Formación Profesional de la Comunidad de Madrid (Community of Madrid Vocational Training Job Fair), 2010. An initiative that gives people a chance to learn about the different job opportunities for vocational training students offered by companies in the region. With its participation, Tecnocom gives vocational training students a chance to get to know the company and the job opportunities they can find with us. University job fairs: In these events Tecnocom makes itself known directly to students and graduates, offering them interesting professional opportunities: Foroempleo 2010: Universidad Carlos III de Madrid Job Fair. Universidad Carlos III de Madrid (UC3M) collaborates in job insertion for its students, seeking through the Professional Orientation and Planning Service of the Fundación Universidad Carlos III to support the insertion of its graduates in the professional world. IT Talent Job Fair 2010. Universidad La Salle-Cisco. Event organized by this University and the multinational Cisco, in collaboration with several of its partners. It is a real meeting place for companies, industry professionals and students, where job supply and demand meet. 10th edition of the Employment Forum at the UPV (Universitat Politècnica de Valencia). X Foro Tecnolóxico de Emprego (Employment Technological Forum), University of Vigo. Foro de Emprego para Matemáticos, Físicos e Informáticos (Employment Forum for Mathematicians, Physicians and IT Specialists), Santiago de Compostela University. VI Foro de Empleo Deusto (Deusto Employment Forum), University of Deusto. URV Rovira i Virgili University UPC Vilanova i la Geltrú School of Engineering UPC FIB – Barcelona School of Informatics Favoring diversity Tecnocom’s commitment to groups with difficulty accessing the job market. This commitment has continued throughout the year. Tecnocom has worked hard to ensure that the greatest possible number of people have a job opportunity; to do this, the procedure it follows converges toward the search for the most efficient collaborations possible in terms of insertion. We focus our collaborations primarily on three groups, facilitating and achieving their job and social integration: Young people at risk of social exclusion People with disabilities High-level athletes Tecnocom has established various collaboration agreements oriented toward the job insertion of these groups: Tecnocom works with the Asociación Semilla within the Incorpora Program of Obra Social “la Caixa”, favoring more integration in the job market of people at risk of exclusion, primarily young people who are at risk of social exclusion. Tecnocom, makes it possible for especially sensitive groups to undergo training in the organization, and whenever possible, their subsequent hiring. Promoting the social and employment integration and training of people in situations of exclusion and improving their employability in the short and long term. Tecnocom follows up on the integration of people at its work centers and actively participates in the process of evaluation of the experience. Another line of action in this field is its collaboration with different foundations to achieve the job market and social integration of people with disabilities who encounter various difficulties finding a job. Fundación Randstad. Fundación Alares. ALCER National Federation Fundación Tomillo. On a weekly basis, Tecnocom sends a list of vacancies existing within its core business to all the foundations with which it works, so that, if they have candidates who fit the professional profiles sought, they can send us the CVs of these candidates to be considered in the selection process. In the case of profiles that are not within our core business, Tecnocom cooperates with Special Employment Centers so that people with disabilities may cover the vacancies. Tecnocom and the CSD (National Sports Council) have a cooperation agreement for social and occupational integration of high-level athletes. This agreement is part of the Athlete Care Program (Programa de Atención al Deportista – PROAD). The program helps high-level athletes to return to the job market once their athletic careers are over, providing them with an adequate insertion in the job market. The main resources available to high-level athletes include corporate collaborators, like Tecnocom, that offer them career plans that are suited to their interests and level of experience. To achieve this goal, Tecnocom offers different insertion pathways depending on the athlete’s professional profile: Direct hiring: if the athlete has experience in the area of reference. Remunerated training programs: candidates who, due to their personal and professional qualities, are eligible for training scholarships available at Tecnocom, will be considered in the selection process for insertion through this path, receiving the necessary technical training and then joining the organization through the Company’s different career plans. With all these programs we seek to favor collaboration and build bridges between the social and business fabric. Tecnocom plans to continue with these collaborations as part of its diversity management plan, while at the same time considering new ways of collaborating that may increase the number of people involved in such programs. 7.6. Environment Tecnocom seeks to integrate environmental aspects in its planning and activities to ensure sustainable development through the rational use of natural resources and the prevention and reduction of pollution. The environmental principles reflected in the integrated corporate policy of Quality, Environment and Prevention of Occupational Risks within the framework of the principles of the UN Global Compact are the scenario for Tecnocom’s commitment to the protection of the environment and provide the frame of action for establishing and reviewing the Environmental Management System implemented by Tecnocom. Tecnocom has an Environmental Management System in place taking as reference the UNE-EN-ISO 14001:2004 standard in 4 centers in Spain. This system is certified by an external company. Environmental Organization and Management Tecnocom defines and promotes environmental strategies and plans, performing the correct monitoring of these strategies and plans, at all times ensuring compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. In this way, Tecnocom maintains a preventive approach in its day-to-day activity. Being an ICT Services company, our business does not generate a significant environmental impact. However, it has identified the environmental aspects of our activity that relate to the office and building maintenance sectors. This preventive approach is maintained through: Personnel training and awareness programs. Preventive equipment maintenance. Correct waste management. Control of consumptions. Establishment of target plans for reducing consumption and waste. Control of subcontractors: adherence by subcontractors to the good environmental practices manual. Environmental Management Program The environmental impact of Tecnocom’s activities stems from its use of natural resources (water, electricity and paper) and the generation of waste at its work centers. Therefore, the proposed environmental goals are to rationalize the use of resources and minimize the generation of waste at its work centers. The goals are proposed in relation to environmental aspects that we can measure and control, applying the appropriate measures to achieve them. Tecnocom’s Environmental Performance WATER: Tecnocom consumed 10,362 m3 of mains water, 100% of it coming from the water supply network. All waste water generated by Tecnocom is disposed of in the public sewer system. PAPER: Paper is one of the materials that is most used. Consumption equaled 4,801 boxes. 100% of the paper used is eco-friendly paper. ELECTRICITY: Electric power consumption at the work centers was 5,071,387. 7 kwh, while natural gas consumption reached 76,431 m3. WASTE: The most important waste in terms of generation are divided into hazardous waste (electrical and electronic appliances) and non-hazardous waste (paper and cardboard). EMISSIONS: The direct emission of greenhouse gases (GHG) from vehicle use is studied, as well as the indirect emission of these gases from HVAC units in office buildings. NOTE: The data on Goals and Environmental Performance are from ISO 14001:2004 certified centers. Environmental Training and Awareness Tecnocom considers training to be an effective tool for the use of environmental know-how among people who have responsibilities in environment-related issues. It is also the driver of environmental awareness for all people who make up the Company. The participation, information and training of workers is of vital importance to achieve the environmental goals we have set. The various training initiatives include: Training of new hires: The Welcome Manual adds a point on the environment, explaining the guidelines to be followed at facilities with regard to the correct use of resources and adequate segregation of waste. Employee training: Good Environmental Practices Manual. Environmental guidelines are specified to promote the good use of office materials and shared resources, so that employees can contribute from their workspaces to reduce the consumption of resources (paper, electricity, water, etc.) and adequately segregate waste. Training for personnel performing environmental management activities: environmental management course taught by the General Services and Environment department. The personnel environmental awareness plan: consisted of placing informative signs encouraging savings in terms of the use of paper, water and electricity and Waste Management Instructions, where the form of segregating the different waste generated in our activity at the different work centers is specified. Best Practices Product supply takes into account environmental effects, prioritizing the acquisition of goods that do not pose an environmental hazard and are efficient in terms of energy consumption and use of natural resources. When buying new vehicles, Tecnocom takes into account the environmental factor: consumption, CO2 emissions, etc.). In buying office materials, sustainable purchasing practices are followed: Whenever possible, recycled toners are purchased for printers. Eco-friendly paper. In computer equipment: Only suppliers who are committed to reducing their environmental impact are used. Offering products that are innovative, energy-efficient, and with a design that is respectful of the environment. In addition to contributing to a more sustainable world. Materials and substances Packaging: Reduction of total weight and a minimal paper trail. Lower CO2 emissions. Energy efficiency. Contributes to energy savings by adjusting and supervising energy consumption. Rationalization of power supply management: Saving energy by activating idle states after inactive periods. Product reuse and recycling Long-lasting batteries Permanently eliminate all confidential data saved to hard disks, making it possible to reuse or donate older computer equipment. In our environmentally certified centers, R-22 gas has been replaced by another substance that does not deplete the ozone layer. Our environmentally certified centers have savings measures in place: Measures that reduce water consumption: Tap aerators and flow reducers. Energy consumption: light sensors. Environmental Solutions Tecnocom encourages the development of environmental projects that advance the Company’s sustainability policy. As the leading Spanish IT company, Tecnocom is committed to including in the business solutions it offers its customers: Solutions and Services for Sustainability: Green IT: Green Technology, Reduction, Efficiency and Recycling. Three aspects make up the concept: Paper savings: Most offices, regardless of the industry, generate a huge amount of working documents, both hard-copy and digital, that require some form of storage for subsequent recovery. Energy savings: Study of the number of servers that are actually needed to perform a task, and the effective use made of them at the Data Processing Centers (DPCs). Companies need to know the benefits offered by virtualization to consolidate their IT resources and reduce the energy costs of their DPCs. By means of a single physical machine, the use of resources is optimized, reducing the required physical space and the number of components. Recycling of materials: Reduction of harmful products used in manufacturing technological products and biodegradability or recyclability, recovering or reusing obsolete machines and encouraging recycling policies. In general, Green IT is applicable to all sectors in which Information Technology is used. The need to contribute to a society that is more and more committed to the environment and to social causes is an increasingly prevalent concern in organizations, which now face a new challenge: “becoming eco-friendly organizations, reducing consumption while increasing yields”. Therefore, the Green IT philosophy can be applied in innumerable business sectors, as long as the will to improve exists. At Tecnocom we are aware that each organization is different. That is why we adapt our focus to our customers’ specific needs, showing flexibility to reach the perfect solution. 7.7. Associations In the current business world, it is vitally important for a company’s success to know how to make the most of the opportunities it is presented with, and one of the best ways to do this is to work with associations in order to generate synergies that are beneficial to all. Tecnocom works and actively participates with the associations to which it belongs, through the joint organizing of events, helping with papers and presentations in technical seminars, etc. Examples of this dedication and cooperation include: AMETIC: Health, technology and quality of life forum. A meeting place for health care companies, Public Administrations, healthcare organizations and research groups, it is a unique opportunity for debating not only the feasibility and suitability of solutions, but also in sustainability aspects and in terms of creating new business ventures. The business opportunities that will arise in the ICT sector are put on display, providing solutions in areas like: home hospitalization, remote monitoring of chronic processes, lengthening of independent lives through Ambient Assisted Living (AAL), remote diagnostic systems, and finally, remote assistance and alarm systems. All of the above contributes to complete the “healthy life” cycle. Tecnocom participated in this encounter with a presentation on Saving costs and improving efficiency in the health care sector”. Barcelona Digital: BDigital Apps, BDigital Apps is a business opportunity catalyst in the emerging world of Apps, applications for mobile telephones (geolocation, social, or more professional tools). It is an encounter between developers of solutions based on mobile applications and the companies that wish to make the most of this new channel to improve their processes and communication with their customers, workers and suppliers. Tecnocom was present together with Caixa in the conference program with a presentation on Technology Trends: Mobility, Multi-Channeling and Innovation. Fundación Dintel Technical workshop on Web 2.0 and electronic administration, a concept that ranks ninth in Spain in terms of the use of social networks, and whose growth is truly spectacular. During the workshop, different Public Administrations and Tecnocom experts addressed the needs and opportunities of this concept. 2nd encounter with the public sector, which revolved around “The Sustainability of the ICT Ecosystem of Public Administrations ”. Tecnocom described the new trends it has been applying to its customers: e-participation: Consists of being able to interact with the Public Administrations regarding various issues through digital means. Citizens’ cards have been developed to provide integrated access to municipal services (culture, sporting events, work-related issues), and they have already been implemented in the A Coruña and Alcorcón City Councils. e-inclusion: The idea is to ensure the greatest possible access to underprivileged groups. The e-natura platform has been developed providing voice-activated access to websites in a Content Management environment based on free software. Health Care Event 12th “IT Professionals” 2010 Congress TESIC Tecnologías y Seguridad en Infraestructuras Críticas (Technologies and Security in Critical Infrastructures) . Tecnocom was one of the silver sponsors of this event. Trends as well as the needs and strategies of the Public Authorities with competencies on the subject matter, and the exporting potential and capacity of our national industry. 7.8. Technology Partners One more year, Tecnocom has achieved its goal in reaching agreements with leading companies and top technology solution providers to complete our portfolio of services, achieving excellence in the implementation of solutions and enhancing our growth into new markets. Therefore, it will continue to extend its agreements with current or new technology partners and achieve new certifications in our applications, as in 2010: Sage signs a cooperation agreement with Tecnocom in its Financial Solutions division. Tecnocom and Oracle become partners in Means of Payment Solutions Tecnocom achieves Cisco Channel Customer Satisfaction Excellence certification Tecnocom participates together with its technology partners in various events, deemed to be of vital importance for the Company, as they are points of convergence with its stakeholders, in addition to being a highly valuable mode of communication, representing unique opportunities for discussion in which issues affecting progress in the IT sector are addressed, not only in terms of assuring the feasibility of solutions, but also in their ways of contributing in sustainability aspects. Microsoft Optimization of workspace infrastructures (Windows7): Organizations know how important their employees are to achieve commercial success, and how vital their information technology (IT) departments are in developing and running an infrastructure that provides support to their employees and helps them to successfully perform their work. Finding compatibility among end-users, who want the necessary flexibility to work in a dynamic environment, and the IT department, which needs more control and administrative capabilities. The solution to this compatibility is an “optimized workspace” infrastructure, which describes the way in which the organization has achieved the correct balance in its desktop infrastructure, so that employees have the flexibility they need to be productive and the IT department has the required level of control, administrative capability and security. Tecnocom and Microsoft discover the strategies companies need to adopt to optimize their workspace infrastructure. Launch of Microsoft Dynamics NAV + e-billing solution: Different events targeting Spanish SMEs, public organizations, federations, etc. have been organized, as they need to adapt, now more than ever, to their customers’ needs in an unpredictable and constantly changing environment. At these technology workshops, Tecnocom shows the best solutions for each group combined with Microsoft’s best technology. CPS Event for Public Administrations. In a globalized world, Administrations need to be prepared to provide service to their customers (Spanish Law 11/2007 on Electronic Access by Citizens to Public Services). This event is an opportunity to inform and prepare the Public Administration for the new times, to find ways to make each town hall or public administration the perfect solution for citizens to consult doubts and make inquiries. First Virtualization Users’ Congress by Microsoft . An encounter that allows for the exchange of knowledge, ideas and experiences with some of the country’s most important companies, discussing solutions that have enabled them to improve their competitive standing, Microsoft Virtualization Solutions, including the Windows Server and System Center. IBM IBM Power System Platform: Presentation of the Platform, which allows companies to seamlessly migrate while gaining usability through their Windows environment and user flexibility, as it makes it possible to set parameters for and filter reports, new features, and integration with other modules like information analysis tools (dashboards). IBM Software Congress: Seminar in which IBM Software is helping organizations around the world to meet the challenges of the current business setting. Tecnocom presented its solutions and success cases through Document Systems Methodologies that, covering the analysis, design and implementation of Document Systems and Business Processes, assures success in the deployment and achievement of project goals. IBM Forum The workspace virtualization forum. Tecnocom was present at one of the round-table discussions. SAP 6th Edition of the GT Forum. Meeting point for the Spanish SAP Users’ Association (AUSAPE), but also for IT professionals in companies and in the Public Administrations. This event promotes teamwork in the SAP environment for the purpose of sharing information and training in everything relating to this platform, the search for appropriate solutions for IT department problems, or the pooling of “best practices”. SIMO Network 2010 The International Fair for ICT Services and Solutions targeting sector companies and professionals. Tecnocom was present within the SAP area, showing its solutions and services. CISCO Cisco UCS Presentation: In the current highly competitive economic scenario, cost-cutting in the corporate business has become imperative. Cisco UCS is capable of meeting the growing need to store data while saving costs, improving energy efficiency and reducing implementation time, converting technology into an important cost-reduction and efficiency-growth factor. New 3.0 Data Center: In this technical seminar attendants discuss the growth of the need to store data, increased energy consumption, energy supply expenses, and the cooling of data centers, which exceed corporate hardware budgets. Obviously, data centers are becoming a very important factor for reducing expenses and achieving growth in operational efficiency. Tecnocom and Cisco show how it is possible to unite network, computing and virtualization resources with the Unified System, thus meeting the challenges of data centers and improving corporate productivity. HP / Citrix Virtualization Event: Corporate business processes are based on applications, and their main goal is to enable user access to these applications in the most efficient and secure way possible, with Application Virtualization being a priority. Tecnocom provides a practical demonstration of End-to-End Virtualization, which includes the best technology for Application Virtualization. Showing the new strategy based on convergent infrastructure, eliminating server silos, storage and networks, creating virtual groups of resources designed to operate optimally for business services. 7.9. Market Analysts For a company like Tecnocom it is vitally important to maintain a constant relationship with market analysts. The exchange of information makes it possible both to access market-trend information and participate in sectorspecific studies. In addition, these studies provide information on the market positioning, share and results where we do our business. The results of these studies give us an analysis of the actual situation of the company and help us to identify development possibilities in offering solutions, strengths and weaknesses versus the competition, etc. Moreover, we participate and collaborate in different events organized by market analysts, being present in workshops and seminars with presentations by Tecnocom experts: 8th Content Management Event 2010: Analyzing the current situation of the Spanish market in this field, Web 2.0, security of social networks, etc. Data Center and Virtualization: Addressing future IT issues, Green IT, backup strategies, DPC resizing, advantages of DPC outsourcing, etc. 9th Outsourcing Event: Addressing outsourcing innovation and strategy issues. Business Intelligence: Addressing issues like the use of business intelligence solutions to improve an organization’s management systems. Banking 2010: Banking Technologies: Toward Intelligent Banking. Addressing issues like how to channel all improvements, efficiencies and latest developments toward achieving new relationship levels between banks and their customers. CIO Directions: Event addressing the new scenario characterized by the perfect alignment between ICT and business. This event targets both CIOs and CEOs of top Spanish companies, as well as persons in charge of ICT in the Public Administrations. 8. Evolution of CSR Tecnocom considers responsible management to be a central element of our strategy. In line with this responsible management approach, we have developed an in-house CSR action plan to be implemented over the 2010-2012 horizon. The action plan is being developed with a focus on efficiency and profitability. In 2010, the organization has worked to achieve the planned objectives. The initiatives carried out this year have been concentrated on either partially or fully achieving the set goals both at the internal organization level and through collaborations with outside organizations. We aspire to continue evolving and every year perform more actions that will enable us to meet 100% of the goals we set, in addition to setting new goals and achieving progress in our corporate social responsibility affairs. Goal 2010 Result Compliance Creation of the The organization structure set up by Tecnocom CSR Committee to design and promote CSR policies is through a Committee, created in 2010, which actively manages all CSR activities. The Committee is made up of personnel from the Company’s various departments who are in charge of relations with different stakeholders. Drafting of the The Company’s second Sustainability Report was Sustainability drafted in 2010, presenting advances in terms Report of content and structure with regard to the previous year’s report. The most significant change this year was to draft the Report following the guidelines set out in the guide for drafting Sustainability Reports in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We were able to glean information on performance indicators which allowed us to adhere to the B Application Level of the GRI guidelines. Publishing of The current Code of Ethics has been revised and a revised Code updated and the new review has been drafted to of Ethics reflect the reality at the Company. This proposal is pending internal review and approval by the Executive Committee. It will be disseminated and implemented once it is approved. Goal 2010 Result Compliance Collaboration Contribution to education: in Social Programs Collaboration with the Master’s Degree course in Corporate Consulting and Management organized by the Spanish Consultants’ Association (Asociación Española de Consultoría – AEC) and the Technical University of Madrid (UPM). Collaboration agreement with vocational schools providing student apprentices and trainees. For each student trainee Tecnocom receives a subsidy. Tecnocom reinvests the subsidies in the schools from which the student apprentices come. Tecnocom has also contacted with several NGOs to study the feasibility of participating in various initiatives next year, including donations, training schools, corporate volunteering, etc. The organization has performed a diagnosis of the Promoting current gender situation (conducted by an outside Equality consultant), analyzing quantitative workforce data Policies including age, seniority, classification by professional categories, as well as qualitative data on the different People Management procedures: With the results of the diagnosis described above, Tecnocom prepared a draft Equality Plan, and in 2011 it will draft the definitive Equality Plan, which will be approved by the Company together with the trade union representatives, and an Equality Committee will be set up to monitor and assess the actions defined in the Plan. Goal 2010 Result Compliance Managing Participation in job fairs like the Job Fair for People Diversity with Disabilities, organized by the Autonomous Community of Madrid’s Office for Employment and Women. Continuity of various collaboration agreements oriented toward the job insertion of groups presenting difficulties joining the social and employment world: Asociación Semilla as part of the Obra Social “la Caixa” Incorpora Program, Fundación Randstad, Fundación Alares, ALCER National Federation, Fundación Tomillo, National Sports Council (CSD). Cooperation with Special Employment Centers. External Creation of an email inbox. communication Participation in CSR rankings and competitions. These include the Social Action Ranking, the results of which were published in the Spanish economic journal Negocio & Estilo de Vida. Publication of the Sustainability Report on the corporate website. Publication of Tecnews, Tecnocom’s quarterly corporate newsletter. Attendance at ICT seminars, events, congresses, etc. Goal 2010 Result Compliance Internal Creation of an internal site for sharing information communication between the members of the CSR Committee. Welcome Procedure: So that new hires can comfortably find their way around the organization from day 1. New hires are given manuals with the necessary information to facilitate their process of integration in the organization and sharing the principles to be followed in their professional conduct. Creation of the “Whistleblower Channel”, a means of communication between employees and Internal Auditing through which any employee can communicate any suggestion, improvement or complaint affecting the Company’s principles and ethical values. Environmental Placing awareness-raising signs at ISO 14001 awareness and certified centers. communication action Inclusion of consumption and waste generation reduction initiatives in the Welcome Manual and the Style Manual. Accessibility to the Good Environmental Practices Manual, Style Manual and Welcome Manual via the Intranet. Goal 2010 Result Compliance Implementation of a The Joint Prevention Service has worked to Preventive implement the Preventive Management System, Management System and its certification is expected for 2011. to achieve OHSAS 18001 certification Increase training of Include in safety training: Occupational Safety skills A Road Safety training module. Preventive training using the results of company risk assessment or accident data. Suppliers Creation of a Corporate Purchasing Division: Shared Services Center Encouraging responsible buying Adherence to Good Environmental Practices Manual by suppliers within their certification process. Shareholders Launch of new communication channels with shareholders enabling the proposal of actions, active listening and response to shareholder initiatives: Regular report of communications with shareholders Shareholder forums 9. Guiding Principles for this Report Principles for defining Report Content The GRI Guide establishes the principles that should be used to define the contents of the report: materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness. Materiality. Tecnocom understands that the material issues which the Sustainability Report addresses reflect aspects related to corporate social responsibility and sustainable development, which are particularly significant for a company like Tecnocom. A study has been conducted to define the most important aspects that have to be included in the report. Stakeholder inclusiveness. Establishing an active dialog with stakeholders is a basic principle within Tecnocom’s strategy. The Company has defined its stakeholders, identifying their expectations and specifying actions aimed at establishing dialog and two-way communication. This stakeholder inclusiveness is specified in point 7 of the Report. Sustainability context. Given the strategic importance of corporate social responsibility for Tecnocom, the Report has attempted to analyze the company’s performance in the economic, environmental and social milieu of its social and market context, for the period covered in the Report. The organization’s record end evolution will be shown in the coming years. Completeness. The scope, coverage and period of the report are specified therein. The definition of the report boundary was set with the participation of the people responsible for the Company’s main management areas, guaranteeing that the essential aspects and impacts of Tecnocom activities are considered. Principles for defining Report Quality In drafting the 2010 Sustainability Report, Tecnocom has followed the recommendations for ensuring the quality of the reported information. Balance. The report reflects positive and negative aspects of the organization’s performance in 2010 and the degree to which it has achieved its goals, helping readers to make a reasoned assessment of the Company’s overall performance. Comparability. The report includes a section on the evolution of Corporate Social Responsibility, which reflects the action plan and its degree of completeness, enabling its evolution to be analyzed. There is no historical information in the indicators to show progress; this information will become available in the coming years. Accuracy. All of the reported information is presented accurately and in detail so that stakeholders may correctly assess Tecnocom’s performance. Quantitative as well as qualitative information reflected in the report has been provided by different departments within the organization. Timeliness. Tecnocom drafts its sustainability reports on an annual basis, and the report is presented together with all the other reports prepared by the Company (Annual Accounts, Corporate Governance Report and Management Report). Clarity. The report presents information in a manner that is understandable, accessible and useful to stakeholders using the report. Clear and simple language is used to make it as understandable as possible. Charts, diagrams and tables are used to make it more understandable. The digital version of the report is published on Tecnocom’s website to be consulted by all stakeholders. Reliability. The materiality or significance of the reported information, their accuracy and completeness, and whether they meet the requirements and concerns of stakeholders have been taken into account in defining the reliability of the reported data. Full transparency is used in reporting information on sustainability performance. 10. Index – GRI Indicators GRI Description Section of the Index Sustainability Report 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1. Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 1. Letter by the Chief organization about the relevance of sustainability to the Executive Officer organization and its strategy 1.2. Statement on the key impacts, risks and opportunities 5.1 Description of Tecnocom’s Business 2. Organization profile 2.1. Name of the organization 2. Who Are We 2.2. Primary brands, products, and/or services 5.1 Description of Tecnocom’s Business 2.3. Operational structure of the organization, including main 2. Who Are We divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4. Location of organization's headquarters 2. Who Are We 2.5. Number of countries where the organization operates, 2. Who Are We and names of countries 2.6. Nature of ownership and legal form 2. Who Are We 2.7. Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors 2. Who Are We served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) 7.2 Customers 2.8. Scale of the reporting organization 2. Who Are We 6. Tecnocom in Figures: Generated and Distributed Economic Value GRI Description Section of the Index Sustainability Report 2.9. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 2. Who Are We size, structure, or ownership of the organization 2.10. Awards and distinctions received in the reporting period 5.4 Awards or Distinctions 3. Report parameters Report profile 3.1. Reporting period 4. CSR Management at Tecnocom 3.2. Date of most recent previous report 4. CSR Management at Tecnocom 3.3. Reporting cycle 4. CSR Management at Tecnocom 3.4. Contact point for questions regarding the report 11. Contact. or its contents Report scope and boundary 3.5. Process for defining report content 4. CSR Management at Tecnocom 3.6. Boundary of the report 4. CSR Management at Tecnocom 3.7. State any specific limitations on the scope 4. CSR Management or boundary of the report at Tecnocom 3.8. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 4. CSR Management facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can at Tecnocom significantly affect comparability from period to period 5.2 Collaborations and/or between organizations GRI Description Section of the Index Sustainability Report 3.9. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, 4. CSR Management including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations at Tecnocom applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report 3.10. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information 4. CSR Management provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such reat Tecnocom statement. 3.11. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 4. CSR Management scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the at Tecnocom report GRI content index 3.12. TTable identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures 10. Index – GRI in the report Indicators Strategy and Analysis Organizational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Disclosure of Management Approach, per category Core Performance Indicators Any GRI Additional Indicators that were included Any GRI Sector Supplement Indicators included in the report Assurance 3.13. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 4. CSR Management assurance for the report If not included in the assurance at Tecnocom report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). GRI Description Section of the Index Sustainability Report 4. Governance, commitments and stakeholder inclusiveness Governance 4.1. Governance structure of the organization, including 2. Who Are We committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance 2. Who Are We body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state 2. Who Are We the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 7.1.7 Internal recommendations or direction to the highest governance Communication body. 7.4 Shareholders 4.5. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Annual Corporate governance body, senior managers, and executives (including Governance Report departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6. Processes in place for the highest governance body to Annual Corporate ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Governance Report 4.7. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of Annual Corporate the members of the highest governance body for guiding Governance Report the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. GRI Description Section of the Index Sustainability Report 4.8. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes 3. Tecnocom’s of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Approach to CSR environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing 4. CSR Management the organization's identification and management of at Tecnocom economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own 4. CSR Management performance, particularly with respect to economic, at Tecnocom environmental, and social performance. Commitments to external initiatives 4.11. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach 6. Tecnocom in or principle is addressed by the organization. Figures: Generated and Distributed Economic Value 4.12. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 3. Tecnocom’s charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Approach to CSR organization subscribes or endorses. 10. Index – GRI Indicators 4.13. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) 3. Tecnocom’s and/or national/international advocacy organizations Approach to CSR supported by the organization 5.2 Collaborations 10. Index – GRI Indicators GRI Description Section of the Index Sustainability Report Stakeholder inclusiveness 4.14. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 3. Tecnocom’s Approach to CSR 4.15. Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 4. CSR Management whom to engage. at Tecnocom 4.16. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 7.1.7 Internal of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Communication 7.2 Customers 7.3 Suppliers 7.4 Shareholders 7.7 Associations 7.8 Technology Partners 9. Guiding Principles for this Report 4.17. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 7.1.7 Internal stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has Communication responded to those key topics and concerns, including 7.2 Customers through its reporting. 7.3 Suppliers 7.4 Shareholders 7.7 Associations 7.8 Technology Partners 9. Guiding Principles for this Report GRI Indicators Aspect Description Coding Economic Dimension Management approach EC1 Economic Direct economic value generated and distributed, performance including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 Economic Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan performance obligations. EC4 Economic Significant financial assistance received from performance government. EC5 Market Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by presence gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Market Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on presence locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Section of the Sustainability Comment Report 5.6 Investment and Innovation: Project Management 6. Tecnocom in Figures: Generated and Distributed Economic Value 7.2 Customers 7.4 Shareholders 6. Tecnocom in Figures: Generated and Distributed Economic Value 7.1.11 Compensation Measures 6. Tecnocom in Figures: Generated and Distributed Economic Value 7.1.4 Compensation Model 7.3 Suppliers GRI Indicators Aspect Description Coding EC7 Market Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior presence management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. EC9 Indirect Understanding and describing significant indirect economic economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. impacts Environmental Dimension Management Approach EN1 Materials Materials used by weight or volume. EN3 Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. EN6 Energy Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN8 Water Total water withdrawal by source. EN16 Emissions, Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions effluents, and by weight. waste EN21 Emissions, Total water discharge by quality and destination. effluents, and waste Section of the Sustainability Comment Report 7.1.3 Recruitment and Selection 5.6 Investment and Innovation: Project Management 7.6 Environment 7.6 Environment 7.6 Environment 7.6 Environment 7.6 Environment 7.6 Environment Tecnocom’s effluents are from mains water, so the disposal is through the urban sewage system (no industrial production process). The effluent is estimated to be equal to consumption. GRI Indicators Aspect Description Coding EN22 Emissions, Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. effluents, and waste EN28 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Social Dimension Labor practices and decent work Management approach LA1 Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Employment Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. LA4 Labor/managem Percentage of employees covered by collective ent relations bargaining agreements. Section of the Sustainability Comment Report 7.6 Environment Tecnocom identifies legal application requirements and regularly evaluates compliance with environmental laws and regulations. There are no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. 7.1 Employees 7.1.2 Workforce Distribution 7.1.9 Equality Policies 7.1.12 Workforce Stability and Absenteeism 7.1.11 Compensation Measures 7.1.14 Trade Unions GRI Indicators Aspect Description Coding LA6 Occupational Percentage of total workforce represented in formal health and joint management–worker health and safety safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Occupational Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and health and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities safety by region and by gender. LA8 Occupational Education, training, counseling, prevention, and health and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce safety members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA10 Training and Average hours of training per year per employee by education gender, and by employee category. LA11 Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning education that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Training and Percentage of employees receiving regular education performance and career development reviews, by gender. LA13 Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown equal of employees per employee category according to opportunity gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Section of the Sustainability Comment Report 7.1.13 Safety and Health 7.1.12 Workforce Stability and Absenteeism 7.1.13 Safety and Health 7.1.13 Safety and Health 7.1.5 Training 7.1.5 Training 7.1.6 Professional Development 2. Who Are We 7.1.8 Managing Diversity 7.1.9 Equality Policies GRI Indicators Aspect Description Coding Human Rights Management approach HR4 NonTotal number of incidents of discrimination and discrimination corrective actions taken. HR6 Child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. HR7 Forced and Operations and significant suppliers identified as compulsory having significant risk for incidents of forced or labor compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Section of the Sustainability Comment Report 3. Tecnocom’s Approach to CSR 7.1 Employees The total number of reports due to discrimination incidents during the study year (lawsuits or incidents associated with discrimination due to race, color, sex, religion, political opinions, origin or social status) was zero. The business carried out by Tecnocom, namely Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), is characterized by needing highly skilled and trained human capital, which makes it impossible for problems related to human rights like child labor to appear. The business carried out by Tecnocom, namely Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), is characterized by needing highly skilled and trained human capital, which makes it impossible for problems related to human rights like forced labor to appear. GRI Indicators Aspect Description Coding Society Management approach SO3 Corruption Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures. S04 Corruption Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. S06 Public policy Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. S07 AntiTotal number of legal actions for anticompetitive competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and behavior their outcomes. Product responsibility Management approach PR1 Customer Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts health and of products and services are assessed for improvement, safety and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Section of the Sustainability Comment Report 3. Tecnocom’s Approach to CSR 6. Tecnocom in Figures: Generated and Distributed Economic Value 3. Tecnocom’s Approach to CSR 6. Tecnocom in Figures: Generated and Distributed Economic Value No contribution has been made to political parties. No legal action has been brought against Tecnocom due to monopolistic practices and practices against free competition. 7.2 Customers 7.1.13 Safety and Health GRI Indicators Aspect Description Coding PR2 Customer Total number of incidents of non-compliance with health and regulations and voluntary codes concerning health safety and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Product and Type of product and service information required service labeling by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Product and Total number of incidents of non-compliance with service labeling regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Product and Practices related to customer satisfaction, including service labeling results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR6 Marketing Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and communications voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Marketing Total number of incidents of non-compliance with communications regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Section of the Sustainability Comment Report No significant incidents linked to noncompliance of legal requisites or voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle have been recorded. 5.1 Description of Tecnocom’s Business Not applied. Tecnocom’s services are exempt from labeling mechanisms. 7.2 Customers Tecnocom markets the services it offers, not products, nor are any regulations violated. No incident resulting from non-compliance of regulations relating to marketing communications has been reported. GRI Indicators Aspect Description Coding PR8 Customer Total number of substantiated complaints regarding privacy breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Customer Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance privacy with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Section of the Sustainability Comment Report No complaints exist regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses and theft of customer data. There are no fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of services provided by Tecnocom. GRI and the United Nations Global Compact The following table specifies the principles and shows the relationship existing between the principles of the Global Compact and the indicators defined for the drafting of sustainability reports by the GRI: Global Compact Principles GRI Indicators Human Rights 1.Businesses should support and respect the protection HR4, HR6, HR7 of internationally proclaimed basic human rights LA4, LA6, LA7, LA13 within their sphere of influence. EC5 PR1 2. Business should make sure that they are not complicit HR6, HR7 in human rights abuses. Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association LA4 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4.Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms HR7 of forced and compulsory labor. EC5 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of HR6 child labor. 6.Businesses should uphold the elimination of HR4, LA13 discrimination in respect of employment and EC7 occupation. Global Compact Principles GRI Indicators Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach EN1, EN3, EN8, to environmental challenges. EN16, EN21, EN22, EN28 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote EN6 greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and EN6 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all SO3, SO4 its forms, including extortion and bribery. 11. Contact Tecnocom has a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee formed by personnel from the various departments involved in CSR aspects and in charge of communication with stakeholders: Department of Persons Marketing Department Environment Department Quality and Processes Department Shared Services Department (suppliers) Sector and Customer Control Department Accounting and Tax Consolidation Department Internal Auditing Department Legal Department Investment and Corporate Development Department For any issues relating to this Report, please contact: rsc@tecnocom.es To view the volumes Tecnocom Annual Report 2010 clicked on each link Management Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Annual Corporate Governance Report 2010 Annual Accounts 2010 D e s i g n , p ro d u c t i o n a n d i l l u s t r a t i o n s C R E A , C re a t i v o s A s o c i a d o s , S . A . Buen Suceso, 25 28008 Madrid Te l . : 9 1 5 4 7 2 0 7 7 w w w. c re a c re a t i v o s . c o m Te l e c o m u n i c a c i o n e s y E n e r g i a , S . A . J o s e f a Va l c a rc e l , 2 6 Edificio Merrimack III 28027 Madrid Te l . : 9 0 1 9 0 0 9 0 0 w w w. t e c n o c o m . e s
