Safe Sustainable Steel Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 2010 in figures Sales Number of employees1 at December 31, 2010 $78,025m Total 4EU272 106,166 4Other European countries 43,132 4North America 36,012 2010 78,025 4South America 26,696 4Asia 42,918 2009 61,021 Middle East 141 4Africa 18,746 Total 273,811 Steel shipped (tonnes) 1 Full Time Equivalent. EU27 includes Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, 2   85m Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Slovenia and the United Kingdom. Market presence Investments in Research & Development Net income 174 $322 m $2,916m In 2010, ArcelorMittal shipped its products to customers in 174 countries 2010 322m 2010 2,916 2009 253m 2009 157 Steel production (tonnes) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 91m Environmental Management System Certification LTIFR is the number of injuries which have resulted in an employee or contractor being away from work at least one day after the Iron ore production (tonnes) 95% 49m day it occurred, per million hours worked Industrial operations certified to the international standard for Environmental 2010 1.77 Management Systems, ISO 14001 2009 1.87 Coal production (tonnes) Health and Safety Management System Certification 7m 63% Industrial operations certified to the international standard for Health and Safety Management Systems, OHSAS 18001 About us What we do 65 ArcelorMittal is the world’s leading steel and mining company with a presence in more than 60 countries including an industrial presence in over 20 countries, spanning four continents. There are 65 ArcelorMittal steel operations across the world including integrated, mini-mill ArcelorMittal is the leader in all major global steel and integrated mini-mill facilities. markets, including automotive, construction, household appliances and packaging, with leading Research & Development (R&D) and technology, as well as sizeable captive supplies of raw materials and far-reaching distribution networks. 20 There are 20 key assets and projects in our mining business including iron ore, coal and non-ferrous mines. Where we operate 53% Approximately 53% of ArcelorMittal steel is produced in Europe 34% We are the leading steel producer in Brazil with a 34% market share of the country’s 36% In 2010, emerging markets accounted for approximately 36% of total steel shipments crude steel output at the end of 2010 What we have been doing in 2010 JANUARY FEBRUARY March April MaY JUNE ArcelorMittal Corporate ArcelorMittal USA ArcelorMittal ArcelorMittal ArcelorMittal’s Foundation donates Responsibility Forum receives third ENERGY celebrates fourth commences dust third Leadership $1 million to launched in Liberia STAR® honour annual Health reduction project Convention earthquake relief ArcelorMittal was the ArcelorMittal USA was and Safety Day in Zenica ArcelorMittal held efforts in Haiti leading company selected, for the third ArcelorMittal’s 2010 Engineering works its third Leadership The donation was given behind the creation consecutive year, as a global Health and started on a new Convention in Chicago, both in cash and in-kind, of the Corporate 2010 ENERGY STAR® Safety Day provided dust reduction USA. Over 600 leaders offering assistance in Responsibility Forum Sustained Excellence an opportunity for facility in Bosnia and gathered to discuss a new housing projects to Liberia, which will Award winner for Energy employees from across Herzegovina that is wide range of topics, rebuild Haiti. Financial provide a platform for Management. Each year, our operations to share part of a series of all supporting the support was provided facilitating the exchange the US Environmental best practice and installations designed overarching theme for an emergency of experience, Protection Agency reaffirm their to reduce the of competitiveness intervention from the knowledge, research and the US Department commitment to environmental impact and ‘winning in the organisation Médecins and good practices on of Energy honour ArcelorMittal’s ‘Journey of steelmaking in post-crisis world’. Sans Frontières in the corporate responsibility. organisations that to Zero’ continuous the city. Discussions focused capital of Port-auIt will also help mobilise have made outstanding improvement on Heath and Safety, Prince. private sector resources, contributions to programme. The range energy efficiency, and facilitate publicprotecting the of activities focused on continuous private partnerships in environment through core themes including improvement, capital support of national energy efficiency. nutrition and health at expenditure, emerging development initiatives work; traffic risks and markets and employee and objectives. rules; fire-fighting; engagement. and the importance of shared vigilance. JULY AUGUST september october november december Steel structure ArcelorMittal ArcelorMittal enters Corporate Construction International solutions launches Human the Dow Jones responsibility begins on the Volunteer for schools in Rights Policy Sustainability Index training programme ArcelorMittal Orbit Work Day South Africa ArcelorMittal’s Human ArcelorMittal became introduced A ground-breaking The ArcelorMittal ArcelorMittal Rights Policy articulates the fifth steel company Over 40 members ceremony was held in Foundation celebrated representatives met respect for all human to be included in the of the global corporate the Olympic Park, to its third annual with the South African rights, focusing on the Dow Jones World responsibility network mark the start of International Volunteer Department of areas that have been Sustainability Index, completed an online construction on the Work Day. During this Education to officially identified as priorities which tracks the share training programme ArcelorMittal Orbit – day, different activities hand over the Meetsefor the industry. This prices of the most that covered corporate London’s newest major were undertaken a-Bophelo school as part policy complements sustainable companies. responsibility topics landmark. The sculpture, to improve the lives of a partnership to build existing policies in areas The index includes the including: understanding designed by awardof people living in ten primary schools, such as Code of Business top 10% of the world’s the challenges winning artist Anish communities that using innovative light Conduct, Health and 2,500 biggest of sustainable Kapoor in collaboration surround ArcelorMittal steel frame construction Safety, Environment companies, selected development, with one of the world’s operations. ArcelorMittal methods, over a sevenHuman Resources and according to an approach stakeholder and leading structural employees spent over year period. the Anti-Corruption which measures environmental designers, Cecil 12,000 volunteer hours guidelines. long-term economic, management and Balmond, will become supporting local environmental and social managing people a major iconic attraction community projects performance. responsibly. in the future Queen as part of this annual Elizabeth Olympic Park. initiative. How we are doing it Contents ‘Safe Sustainable Steel’ sums Overview and strategy 2 Message from the Chairman and CEO up everything we are trying 4 Steel – the infrastructure of modern life 6 Steel is… resilient, resourceful, renewable 12 Corporate responsibility approach to achieve at ArcelorMittal. and performance highlights 13 Corporate responsibility governance and management We want our business to be 14 Stakeholder engagement sustainable in every sense Performance review 18 Investing in our people 24 Making steel more sustainable of the word – a business 30 36 Enriching our communities Transparent governance that is both profitable and 42 44 45 Key performance indicators Assurance statement Find out more responsible. We do this by keeping our people safe, and becoming ever more efficient at providing the steel the world needs for construction, transport, About this report manufacturing, and all This report covers all of ArcelorMittal’s significant operating subsidiaries, and the information covers the calendar year 2010. other aspects of everyday life. All financial figures refer to United States Dollars, unless stated otherwise. Owing to the spin-off of the stainless steel operations into a separate listed company, Aperam, on January 25, 2011, results and data have been adjusted accordingly, where appropriate and feasible. ArcelorMittal’s reporting cycle is annual and the last Corporate Responsibility Report was published in May 2010. For further information including all available policies and other relevant ArcelorMittal documents, see www.arcelormittal.com ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Introduction 1 Message from the Chairman and CEO What sort of year was 2010 for our business? It was a year when we saw the beginnings of a recovery in our markets, and renewed our strong commitment to our longterm goal of safe, sustainable steel. As we look forward into 2011, we see that worldwide demand for steel continues to recover, and we have been able to restart most of the production facilities we had to idle at the worst point of the economic crisis. This is good news for everyone, especially our own employees, who have remained committed and supportive through this challenging period. 5 key components for success 1 People and safety – as our people are our most valuable asset, Health and Safety is of primary importance, requiring significant allocation of attention and resources 2 Capital – we have been successful at transforming our balance sheet since the crisis; it is now a priority to leverage this strengthened financial foundation 3 Knowledge – our global presence fuels our unrivalled knowledge base in process improvement and product innovation 4 Growth – our emerging-market presence is a major competitive advantage and will propel our growth 5 Mining – we aim to continue investing and expanding our mining assets with the objective of reaching the target of 100 million tonnes of iron ore production by 2015 2 Message from the Chairman and CEO ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Safe Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We also have a new Code Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 1.8 Becoming the safest metals and mining for Responsible Sourcing, which sets out the company is the core tenet of our business minimum standards we ask our suppliers to strategy. My conviction is that safety is the meet, and how we will work actively with foundation of sustainable financial them to achieve this. Again, we engaged performance. Some parts of the business with external stakeholders like the UN Global made real progress in workplace safety in Compact Supply Chain working group in 2010: the Mining division reduced its Lost drawing up this code. Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) from 2.4 to In 2010, our employee and contractor Lost Time 1.5 per million hours worked, and Distribution Last year we increased our focus on employee Injury Frequency Rate was 1.8 per million hours Solutions from 3.8 to 2.7. Although we reduced training, largely through the ArcelorMittal worked. This was a reduction from 1.9 in 2009. our overall LTIFR from 1.9 per million hours University, which is one of the most worked in 2009 to 1.8 in 2010, we did not extensive and innovative initiatives of its meet our target to reduce it by 20%. kind in our sector, and concrete proof of our Looking forward, we acknowledge that while Unfortunately, the number of fatalities at our passionate belief in developing our people we have made good progress in our social, plants increased from 36 to 41 in 2010. I am and encouraging them to fulfil their potential. ethical and environmental performance, we determined to address this, and I will not be still face many challenges. We have a strong satisfied until we have met our ultimate goal of no workplace accidents at all. Steel policy framework, but we now need to ensure that it is implemented effectively and becomes I believe one of the reasons why we have a reality in our day-to-day decision-making Much of this is about having a shared belief fared relatively well through the economic across the Group. This is our priority for that the goal of zero accidents is both realistic crisis is the strength of our unique business corporate responsibility in the coming years. and achievable, and with this in mind I model. We are the largest steel and mining Likewise, our sector continues to be presented convened a dedicated two-day meeting on company in the world with operations in more with a unique combination of risks and safety in Canada at the beginning of 2011. than 60 countries. This spreads our exposure opportunities, especially in emerging markets, It brought together my Group Management across a number of different product and and on issues such as energy use, water Board colleagues, members of the geographical markets, and we intend to build scarcity, and carbon reduction. Management Committee, and a number of on this diversified presence over the medium our CEOs from around the world. This was a to long term. So as I look ahead I am realistic, but more milestone event for us, and I asked every than that I am confident, and I am proud. I take leader present to take the message about We are, for example, expanding our mining pride in the commitments we have made and our commitment to Health and Safety back business, and integrating it more fully to the progress we have achieved, despite a very to their respective business units and service our own steel mills. We have recently difficult economic environment in recent years. communicate it to everyone on the shop acquired a high quality iron ore deposit And I have the belief that with the clear floor. Everybody at ArcelorMittal is empowered in Northern Canada, and will be making strategy, shared ambitions, and proven to stop production if there are any safety significant investment for growth in steeltalent and energy of our people, we will fears. Everything else comes second. Health making in developing markets. As always, meet our goals. and Safety is, and will always be, our number we will aim to manage these expansions with one priority. care and an appropriate sensitivity to cultural and environmental issues, and according Sustainable to the standards set out in our policies. I am proud to say that we have stepped So how are we going to do this? Part of it is up our environmental investments in the last about having the right people and the right year, with over $347 million spent on strategy, and I am convinced that we have LakshmiNMittal environmental technology modernisation and both. We will focus on key business priorities, energy programmes which will help us to reach Chairman and CEO, ArcelorMittal which I believe will make us more competitive, our CO2 reduction target of 8% by 2020. We efficient, and successful. These are Health and also improved our levels of environmental Safety, world-class manufacturing, leadership May 2011 management certification across the Group to and culture, supplier of choice, and growth. 95%, although we fell short of our target Everything we do will be linked in some way of 100% certification by the end of 2010. to these imperatives, which are also closely However, we are still committed to achieving related to many of our corporate responsibility full certification. efforts, especially in the areas of Health and Safety, human rights, and responsible sourcing. In 2010, we launched our human rights policy, making us the first company in our sector to have a stand-alone policy covering these issues. The policy was developed in consultation with external stakeholders, and takes into account the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, the International Bill of Rights, and the International Labour Organisation’s ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 MessagefromtheChairmanandCEO 3 Steel – the infrastructure of modern life The life cycle of steel Assessing a product’s life cycle means looking at the entire ‘life’ of a product, from beginning to end (and sometimes back to the beginning again). ArcelorMittal is involved in all stages of the life cycle of steel including: raw material extraction, manufacturing, distribution, use and disposal. The development of Life Cycle Analysis tools for steel products has made it possible for us to analyse and understand places in the life cycle where environmental impacts are most critical, enabling project teams to develop effective solutions or alternatives that help minimise negative effects. MANUFACTURING Transport ArcelorMittal is the leader in all main steel markets from automotive to construction and from household appliances to packaging. Raw material STEEL extraction PRODUCTION USe phase Pre-consumer scrap ArcelorMittal’s mining business is one In 2010, approximately 65.6 million tonnes of Steel’s unique properties include a of the pillars of the Group’s growth strategy. steel were produced through the basic oxygen combination of low cost, high performance, In 2010, we produced 48.9 million tonnes furnace route and 21.8 million tonnes through strength, durability and functional flexibility. of iron ore. the electric arc furnace route. This diverse We work with customers to continuously approach gives us greater flexibility in improve steel’s properties further. raw material and energy usage. RECYCLING Post-consumer scrap Steel can be recycled an indefinite number of times. By sector, steel recovery rates are estimated at 85% for construction, 85% for automotive, 90% for machinery and 50% for electrical and domestic appliances. Recycling steel 25m Annually, we recycle about 25 million tonnes of steel, which saves around 36 million tonnes of carbon dioxide a year 4 Steel – the infrastructure of modern life ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Consumer benefits of steel Stronger construction energy transmission affordable housing Solar energy Smarter technology lighter cars connecting communities Renewable energy Food preservation interior design Quicker travel Farming machinery containers Safer roads Protective equipment Security musical instruments writing water management Fitness equipment ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Steel–theinfrastructureofmodernlife 5 Steel is… Saving Venice ArcelorMittal is at the heart of one of the most ambitious flood prevention projects ever – the $3 billion MOSE project is designed to protect Venice from future floods. As part of a highly innovative solution, large sheet piles from the Group’s Luxembourg operations are being put into position at three gates of the Venice lagoon as part of the project due to be completed in 2014. ArcelorMittal is a world leader in steel sheet pile technology and was chosen as the most efficient solution for the lock structures and for the foundations of the steel barriers. 6 Steel is… ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 resilient Today’s world would be very different without steel – imagine a world without cars, modern buildings, home appliances, or state-of-the-art industrial machinery. Steelmaking is, undoubtedly, a carbon-intensive industry, but real progress has been made to reduce its impacts, and steel can offer some of the most innovative solutions to help create a more sustainable future. Construction Steel in construction is a key component to buildings that are energy efficient, and addressing the challenges of over-population, low on price. Every aspect of construction is poverty and climate change. We are developing covered, from roof, to floors, to internal new forms of steel that build on its intrinsic and external walls. It is highly flexible, wellflexibility and recyclability to create durable, insulated, and can accelerate construction time. affordable, and energy-efficient materials for everything from the tallest skyscrapers to the KUBIK™ shares many of the same qualities, simplest low-cost homes. and makes particular use of intelligent lighting and heating systems, and the ability to combine Our range of high-strength lightweight steels conventional and renewable energy sources like HISTAR®, is making it possible to construct such as geothermal, solar and wind. The iconic buildings like the Freedom Tower in New approach is a collaboration with Tecnalia York, the Emirates Tower in Dubai, and the Corporación Tecnológica of Spain, and our Diamond of Istanbul, and to do it in a more Basque Country R&D centre in Spain. carbon-efficient way. Using HISTAR® instead of ordinary steel can cut the carbon emissions Protea™ has been developed with the needs of generated during construction by up to 30%. emerging markets in mind. Using steel instead When you consider that we produce 50,000 of concrete minimises the water needed during tonnes of this material every year, that adds construction, and cuts CO2 emissions. It also up to a saving of 14,000 tonnes of carbon makes housing affordable for more people, dioxide (CO2). and can deliver a serviceable house ready for occupation in just four days. And what steel does for skyscrapers can be done for low-rise buildings too. Our Research & Development (R&D) teams have contributed to three pioneering approaches to construction, Skilled scientists two focusing on energy efficiency, and one 1,400 designed specifically for affordable homes in developing countries. It took three years to develop the Tecoia™ prefabricated construction system from initial idea, to prototype, to market launch. Tecoia™ is With 1,400 skilled researchers, ArcelorMittal is a completely new way to build small residential well positioned to understand customer needs and to work in partnership with them to develop new and enhanced solutions ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Steel is… 7 Steel is… Continued resourceful Nothing illustrates the endless flexibility of steel as a modern material better than its use in transportation. Transportation Modern infrastructure relies on steel for In addition to the automotive sector, we are bridges, viaducts, roads and rails, making them one of the leading manufacturers of steel rails quicker to construct, more hard-wearing, and to the passenger and high-speed rail industry, less demanding of natural resources such as with customers in over 30 countries. In Spain, water. At the same time, our newly-developed for example, we are supplying the rails for one steel materials help the automotive industry of the country’s 2,000 km high-speed develop a new generation of lighter, safer and network, one of the longest such rail systems more fuel-efficient cars. in the world. We also make the rails for similar networks in Germany and Turkey, and our One of ArcelorMittal’s latest flagship Research rail-making plant in Steelton, Pennsylvania USA, and Development (R&D) initiatives has is investing $54 million in advanced energy and been our new S-in motion project for the environmental technology for the US market. automotive industry. This groundbreaking programme has resulted in a portfolio of 60 The Millau Viaduct in the South of France is a new lightweight steel solutions. It shows good example of what steel can bring to roads, that further vehicle weight reduction can as well as railways. The bridge is over 2,000 be achieved with improved passenger safety, metres long, built on seven pillars that range in vehicle and environmental performance. Our size from 77 metres to over 240 metres, and technical experts have calculated that these contains 7,000 tonnes of ArcelorMittal rolled developments could cut carbon emissions by steel. It is a feat of engineering whichever way up to 13.5% during a car’s lifetime on the road, you look at it, but even more so when you and a further 15% could be saved during the consider that it took only 38 months to build production phase. and weighs less than half of what it would have done had alternative materials to steel been used. Safety barriers ArcelorMittal contributes to improved road safety through the design of safety barriers. Steel is increasingly chosen as the preferred material for road safety barriers, being strong enough to withstand the impact of even heavy goods vehicles, and yet less likely to cause serious injuries to drivers than alternative materials. 8 Steel is… ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Cutting carbon -13.5% Using lightweight steel components to reduce a vehicle’s weight could cut carbon emissions by up to 13.5% during a car’s lifetime on the road ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Steel is… 9 Steel is… Continued Wind turbines 85% Approximately 85% of the world’s wind turbines are installed on tubular steel structures, and one in three uses ArcelorMittal steel. (Source: World Steel Association) 10 Steel is… ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 renewable Renewable energy is one of the world’s great hopes for a more sustainable future that still allows for economic growth, social development and shared prosperity. Energy Almost every form of renewable power generation depends on steel to make it a reality, whether it is advanced steel grade for wind turbines, electric motors, and nuclear power installations, or steel construction materials for towers and tubular structures. Steel is the single most essential component in wind generation, supplying the base, tower, and many of the moving parts. Around 85% of the world’s wind turbines are installed on Did you know… tubular steel structures, and one in three Solar uses ArcelorMittal steel. Our Research & Development centres are working on new We have developed a number of unique and techniques that could allow turbines to be innovative new products that use photovoltaic installed on towers over 100 metres high, technology to generate electricity from solar which would maximise the performance of energy. The solutions developed by Amhelios, like higher capacity wind generators. Ekinoxe™ and Kalypso™, make this new capability an integral part of construction and roofing ‘Steel Winds’, one of the first urban wind materials, which can be used on everything from farms in the USA, was made possible by private homes to large commercial buildings. ArcelorMittal. Built on the shores of Lake Erie in New York state, we were able to utilise a brownfield tax credit to turn a former steel Over 20 years a three-megawatt plant into an eight-turbine 20 megawatt wind turbine can deliver 80 times wind farm. Once fully operational it will supply enough clean, renewable electricity more energy than is used in its to power around 6,000 homes. production and maintenance. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Steel is… 11 Corporate responsibility approach and performance highlights Our corporate responsibility Investing in our people Making steel more sustainable approach is structured We want to make each and We are using our expertise in steel around four areas, which every person working on our to develop cleaner processes and reflect the key priorities behalf feel valued. greener technologies. of our business and our stakeholders. Key performance indicators Key performance indicators · Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate · Total Group carbon dioxide (CO2) (per million hours worked) emissions per tonne of steel produced · Percentage of operations certified to the · Percentage of industrial operations Health and Safety Management System certified to the Environmental standard, OHSAS 18001 Management System standard, · Hours of full-time employee training ISO 14001 at the ArcelorMittal University · Total environmental and energy · Number of social dialogue interactions at capital expenditure ($) corporate level 2010 highlight 2010 highlight · Training hours at the ArcelorMittal · Environment and Energy investments University increased by 28% to over increased to $347 million, from 403,000 hours $224 million in 2009 Pages Pages 18-23 24-29 Enriching our communities Transparent governance We play an important role Our business strategy, operations in all the communities and everyday practices where we operate. are all underpinned by transparent governance. Key performance indicators Key performance indicators · Estimated economic contribution ($) · Percentage of employees receiving Code · Number of community of Business Conduct training engagement plans · Number of significant operating · Number of community grievance subsidiaries with whistleblowing mechanisms in place notification systems in place · Number of direct beneficiaries from · Number of significant operating “All the evidence over the last ten subsidiaries undertaking annual Board ArcelorMittal Foundation projects years is that those companies which self-assessments positively embrace a sustainable agenda and make the necessary investments in people, products and 2010 highlight 2010 highlight processes, and place the highest · The ArcelorMittal Foundation supported · 94% of relevant employees were trained priority on safety are the ones that over 585 local community projects in the new anti-corruption guidelines are the leaders in our industry and generate superior performance.” Pages Pages Ian Christmas Director General, World Steel Association 30-35 36-41 12 Corporate responsibility approach and performance highlights ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate responsibility governance and management Over the last three years Managementandreportingstructure Our Board of Directors takes ultimate performance as part of their job description, and they are expected to be champions in our governance structure responsibility for corporate responsibility at their own operations. They are supported in ArcelorMittal. Summary reports are presented this by a network of corporate responsibility and management at every Board meeting, and there is always coordinators, many of whom have professional particular emphasis on Health and Safety. There expertise in related areas like communications processes for corporate are also regular and more detailed updates on or Health and Safety. The coordinators responsibility have evolved our environmental performance, community activities, and employee engagement. ensure that our Group corporate responsibility policies and standards are implemented fully and increasingly become The Group Management Board (GMB) is the at local level, and give particular priority to the development and execution of effective part of how we run our executive function and runs the Company on stakeholder engagement practices. The a day-to-day basis, by making operational oversight for corporate responsibility resides business. We continue to decisions, including those relating to corporate with local corporate responsibility committees. responsibility. The member of the GMB Some of our operations have set up committees benchmark our approach responsible for corporate responsibility is or advisory fora that include local community against other leading Gonzalo Urquijo. His other responsibilities include Long Products, Tubular Products, the leaders. This has proven to strengthen decision-making and helps to establish businesses, which helps ArcelorMittal Foundation and Chair of the Investment Allocation Committee. Other trust and confidence on both sides. to ensure that we have GMB members’ specific responsibilities include We also have an online resource centre Health and Safety, climate change, employee that includes practical advice, case studies, robust procedures in relations, and the environment. Corporate new and emerging topics, an events responsibility strategy and performance is calendar, and material specific to particular place and that we can discussed at the GMB regularly, with Health countries and business segments. Regular anticipate change and and Safety performance the opening item on the agenda at every weekly meeting. Each information and training sessions, known as ‘online masterclasses’ support the respond to new challenges. GMB member’s remuneration is linked to the Group’s Health and Safety performance. ongoing communication between sites and different governance levels as well as building local capacity for addressing A dedicated team puts our Group corporate corporate responsibility topics. responsibility strategy and policies into action, acting both as a support to employees at site level, and ensuring that Group standards are Group corporate responsibility followed and implemented. This corporate team governance structure issues policies and practical guidance. It also offers training and capacity building, and manages the process of collecting the data Board of Directors required for this report. The team has particular expertise in reporting, human rights, supply Group Management chain management, and community Group Board Corporate Management Board Responsibility engagement. It also engages with global Representative stakeholders, including Socially Responsible Investment funds, academia, customers, lenders, and international non-governmental organisations (NGOs) on corporate Corporate Function responsibility-related matters. Corporate Corporate Assurer’s commentary Responsibility Team Responsibility Coordination Group The team also draws on the experience We have seen evidence that ArcelorMittal has and skills of the Corporate Responsibility responded to some of the recommendations Coordination Group, which brings together we provided at the conclusion of our Segment Corporate Local Corporate senior managers from other departments Responsibility Responsibility last assurance engagement. Specifically such as Legal, Risk, Internal Assurance, Functions Network recommendations relating to the materiality Company Secretary, International Affairs and Local Corporate determination process, the structure of the Communications. This group meets regularly Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Coordination Group (CRCG) meetings and the dissemination and to review, prioritise and coordinate corporate Segment CEOs Committees sharing of knowledge across its network of responsibility activities. CEOs/plant managers corporate responsibility practitioners have been addressed. In line with good practice, Bureau Thelocalcorporateresponsibilitynetwork Veritas recommends that ArcelorMittal makes There are established accountabilities and a formal response to this year’s assurance reporting structures for corporate responsibility statement in its next corporate responsibility at both segment and local level. Every plant Segment Corporate Local Corporate manager and local CEO takes ownership for Responsibility Responsibility report identifying the actions it has undertaken Coordinators Coordinators as a result of the process. corporate responsibility activities and ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporateresponsibilitygovernanceandmanagement 13 Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder map We rely on good relationships with our Key issues of interest for our stakeholders stakeholders. Whether that means profitable Ways of engaging with our stakeholders trading links with our suppliers and customers, or connections with other stakeholders who Why are our stakeholders important to us? are influenced by, or interested in what we do, and how we conduct our business. Why are we important to our stakeholders? s omer Cust Emp of pro ducts loye ality • Qu ty in prod ucts •W es fe chnologies, o • W rker he • Sa ewable te n y sound products o • Ca rking alth a • Re ironmentall r c n env • O eer de ondit d sa per f ts atio velop ions ety e visi ed publications and event • Sit tomer-orient s • In nal m • exc ent Job Rem • s tran g • C u e rs hips e.g. engineering teams in •N et elle se cu une cin P a rtn ’ pla nt s ew nc e rit ra ur • omers • Tr slett y cust aini ers •C • Tr ng ade pro an rds e ces o cal ovative partnerships dp wa Su ti • Q de f nt s r lo ide inn Prov tainable growth. Un gra ion m ublic re pp ou ip ou o Cen rel me at nd • O ualit r re cc nsh ith u s t by d ral to ion na lie tio nt w for s ati s on tio • E era y of spon p s rs e ite thi tio pr e alu vice s. qua em the lity o n s su c s -s o sib d v ser ing and trati cess and ca l b nal e duc le s o y products •D go and urc ide qualit lea ng p of Prov d value. ent us x of cts e so de ro o ent ine ce ts o velopm ialo o Pro du sibl at go v rsh du enr ide a ic de s m gu ss llen ip. es nom nm n sin ies • R anag e th ich s Provide an insight into the pr c exp ing afe bu y, eco portunit ver ur tivit nd Non-Governmental Organis ac ss erie wo an p eg em ro nc rk d c al a ent o tment need s of soci et y and the u ma lar en gh u ine e. oc i es Go us s te m na t s. • S ploy g inv environment . ge eng rela a tie pria ition o d m • E ttract in Se me ag co n c and ure nt em •A gues a l o ing engagements nt de on al di speak ors q nomic orm ces and teering groups Regulat Me ua liv e eco Monitor our perfor ation :1 f • En l req etin ity ry e erat n cs m Gen th thro ugh • 1 onfere -specifi in meeting the nee ance eetings • Formal m uir g pr es, ntry w ds em re o gro nues, tax •C nd economic developm en spo u • Social a of stakeholders, Pro e t o ts rev and produc •C acc vide ir and transparent ent s s vulnerable group . fee ovation. ing, fa • Correspondence and events s op ess fair inn rovid rading conditions. conditions to p • Working and society. p t et an rto o Key petitiv d u b com • 1:1 meetings pa ap ni vironmental protection ym pr lth and safety a e e G • H gr e n e he h to t ft sh ow rate Add tive ng o ces m nd pro c i i . colle and ct te ar th e h a n s u s ta ers t pra mo und sible pro r bo ve o resp on an d o u and old d ina b os u r in d u st r y t h i n st r er le Ro t fi sh w i d e s. In ad na are e ret ral ty a ci d u ac n h nc h cap on an ppro at io Pro urn 1 : v e s sh o ial o l d e r B uil d ti ni s e s. Si 1 m tor ws per c late a orga n is a e er ep ga , or pe tre vide te form apital s o n d s i n d u st rt v i s e et i d a y s Multi d ri v ance and n t in uro nd a a n c i a l , e a s we l l a r y p p o ic . e su m e S R EI T I E n c o it s g s l ve in vo C S D atio n , C , ate de n con vironm s Provid conom m rp o , re t i ve lim le for loca ent . lim plo rate gu • A c i n g W ss o c B i •C n omi e n ta l d l A ac t c info I l ar or at y e e g o in c lu s ge tio m ld S Wor bal Co tee m p len mp hal onsu Bu r m a ti o n . d e v el o p a po e c he ve con fere a n il d a n nis an UN G lo yc str ter c y ra ha alt rna nce indu a t ns pro d rais d pro te ng h nc calls dL rm s • W safe l • an e l o ca re e ga g-te • Lon an Righ lth an t d du e aw tec t r sp ds th • c ts eputat st w i a on afe en Or ea and reness m g ion, • Hu oyee h ourcin B u i l d t r u it i e s . s ib • ty de pl s •S ope of • E m o ns i b l e ratio our com m u n op s ilit• ss • P ite v ym rs • Res p n s h ha s. • I ress isits or k anaC ne ng • nt w gem usi e nte r E r v i el ea s e me • C en t ew e s n g a g o r ti n g • C ve &B •I s a n d e • Local l rep • sto • n d us g io n a at • E H ea l t r y c • Local re rs in g s io ns n v t h a h a ll iro n e • 1 :1 m e e t ous es ces s es In nm d Sa n ges a • Op en h t pro ent fety nd d me n al c e v e lo gag e Me o nc e rn s p m en t s • Co m m u n t it y e n dia • Environm e n nt e st m e • S o ci a l i n v ities l Commun Loca 14 Stakeholder engagement ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 How we work Understanding the expectations people have of ArcelorMittal is essential to effective stakeholder engagement. This helps us determine our priorities, establish realistic goals, and develop plans that are appropriate to local circumstances. We aim to be open, honest, and objective at all times, with the aim of building trust and credibility for the long-term. Meaningful and proactive community engagement is mandatory for all of ArcelorMittal’s industrial sites, as stipulated by our Community Engagement Standard. On this page we look at three specific examples of engagement from 2010. These relate to three of our priority areas: human rights, responsible sourcing and water management. Human rights Responsible sourcing Water management Employees Customers Employees Investors and Lenders Investors and Lenders Investors and Lenders Multilateral and Business Organisations Multilateral and Business Organisations Multilateral and Business Organisations Non-Governmental Organisations Suppliers Non-Governmental Organisations We published our first stand-alone Human We started in 2010 to actively promote ethical Water is becoming an increasingly important Rights Policy in 2010. We invited input and behaviour through our supply chain. In the issue of concern for many of our stakeholders, feedback during the drafting process from last 12 months we formalised our approach as public awareness grows of the impact of prominent human rights non-governmental across the Group, and established our Code for climate change, and the needs of an increasing organisations (NGOs), academic institutions as Responsible Sourcing. In developing the Code world population. According to the Water well as from opinion leaders in this field. There we drew on the theoretical knowledge of Resources Group, by 2030 there will only was broad agreement that the draft policy was leading experts in this field, and the practical be enough water to supply 60% of global a commendable effort, particularly in relation experience of other companies that face similar demand, and less than 50% of demand in many to the sections covering communities and the challenges to us. For example, we took part developing regions. Water is used as part of provision of commensurate compensation and in the United Nations Global Compact Supply the steelmaking process and therefore it is also access to land and water. As a result of the Chain working group, and consulted relevant an issue that we take proactive measures to input given by the external experts, we industry associations, as well as our own manage. In 2010 to coordinate our water were able to make the final policy more suppliers, NGOs and other major international management practices, we set up a Water comprehensive, and more specific about the businesses. Some of the insights we have Steering Committee. To help inform our challenges we face. gained from this consultation include the decision-making, we engage with a number importance of involving senior line managers of important stakeholders, including NGOs You can read more about our approach to in supplier assessments, so that they and members of the investment community human rights on page 31, and the full text get first-hand experience of the social, involved in the Carbon Disclosure Project of the policy is available at www.arcelormittal. environmental and ethical issues that relate (CDP) Water Disclosure initiative. Engagement com/humanrights to sourcing. We also took advice from some with these stakeholders and participation of our investors and lenders, including the in the inaugural CDP Water Disclosure initiative European Bank for Reconstruction and in 2010, has helped us to identify clearer Development, who were able to give us priorities and accelerate our progress. particular input on supply chain issues in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). You can read more about our approach to water management on page 27. You can read more about our approach to responsible sourcing on page 39, and the full text of the Code for Responsible Sourcing is available at www.arcelormittal.com/ responsiblesourcing ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Stakeholder engagement 15 Stakeholder engagement Continued Our approach to engagement We strive to engage in a meaningful way with The concept of stakeholder engagement is everyone who is affected by our presence in a Working with our community based on a recognition that what we do has an particular community, though we will naturally in Hamilton, Canada impact on others. Some of these impacts are place the highest priority on engaging with negative, and should, where possible, be groups that neighbour our facilities that are avoided or minimised, while others, like our either influential, or dependent on contribution to local economic development, ArcelorMittal. Influential stakeholders are are desirable. We need to understand exactly those that can directly affect our operations, what these impacts are, and manage them our assets, our reputation, or our ‘licence to responsibly, while taking other people’s rights operate’. This includes governments, the media, and priorities into account. and certain high-profile community or activist groups. Dependent stakeholders are those that So who are our stakeholders? The simple rely on us for their livelihood, either directly or answer is that a stakeholder is anyone who has indirectly, or those whose health, safety, or an interest in how we behave as a company. wellbeing could be affected by how we This might be because they supply us with behave. This includes our employees, suppliers, goods or services, we have operations near business partners, and the people who live where they live or work, or we are a significant close to our sites. ArcelorMittal Dofasco was one of the first of industrial operator in their country or region. our operations to establish a dedicated Community The number and nature of our stakeholders All our operations are expected to have their Liaison Committee, or CLC. The committee is a varies according to the size and character of own stakeholder engagement plans, and to collaboration with the Ontario Ministry of the our sites; it also changes over time, as new report on their activities. Each plan sets out Environment, and includes local stakeholder projects and developments affect different the operation’s programme for engaging with organisations and community members. The people in different ways. stakeholders in a culturally appropriate manner, CLC is managed by the local ArcelorMittal General so that stakeholders get information in a Manager of Environment and aims to: The value of stakeholder engagement format that is accessible to them, and have the • keep the community informed of how We believe a genuine and committed approach chance to express their views and concerns, well the company is complying with recent to long-term stakeholder engagement: regardless of their gender, background, or environmental certifications; status in the community. • gives us a better understanding • keep the company informed of any community of local concerns; concerns about the operation’s environmental The reason we spend time and effort on • identifies potential problems early; engaging with as many people as possible impact; and is that it can lead to better management • be a forum for discussion, review and exchange • helps us to be proactive in decisions. People directly affected by an issue of information relating to the operation’s identifying and addressing issues; or project can often offer a new perspective, environmental performance. • makes a positive contribution to local social and ensure that the decisions we make are and economic development; more robust, even if some may still disagree As well as the formal CLC meetings, there are with them. more informal monthly community drop-in meetings • ensures that we play a full part which are open to anyone. There, local residents in shaping our future operating environment; have the chance to put questions on any subject • safeguards and reinforces to the company. Dofasco also issues a regular our ‘licence to operate’; neighbourhood newsletter to 2,300 homes and businesses close to the facilities, which covers the • helps gain acceptance and support for new operation’s current projects, and any news that might projects; and be of interest or concern to people nearby. • builds and protects our brand and reputation. 16 Stakeholder engagement ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Materiality matrix High ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION CLIMATE CHANGE COMMUNITY HEALTH WORKPLACE SAFETY Community Investment HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENTAL Employee relations Occupational MANAGEMENT/ Stakeholder concerns health INVESTMENTS BIODIVERSITY WATER ENERGY WORK PLANNING and DEVELOPMENT PRODUCT INNOVATION Community engagement RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PROCESS INNOVATION ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES Low Low High Impact on our business (Reputation, Regulatory, Financial, Operational) How do we decide which issues  Group’s risk management framework. Utilising cost savings and in meeting efficiency targets, to focus on? the skills and experience of our Corporate energy has been addressed separately in this We face many different challenges across a Responsibility Coordination Group, we held matrix, rather than under the wider topic of whole range of corporate responsibility issues. a workshop to strengthen the corporate ‘climate change’. Some of these are large scale and current; responsibility team’s materiality approach and, others are more remote, but may prove where possible, integrate the risk management Furthermore, we have identified human rights increasingly significant over the medium to process into it. as becoming more important to our business long term. Conducting regular materiality and our stakeholders in the future and, as such, mapping exercises helps us define our key The matrix above shows the key issues of it is given a clear, distinct focus in this year’s topics and enables us to assign our resources concern of our global stakeholders assessed corporate responsibility report. according to the right priorities, and identify alongside the Group corporate responsibility new and emerging issues. priorities we observe day-to-day. This exercise is undertaken annually in an effort The process we follow takes into account the to demonstrate how we see these issues recommendations of the Global Reporting moving from year to year. For example, whilst Initiative (GRI). In other words, we assess our good employee relations will always be a social, environmental and ethical impacts, as priority for the Company, as we have been well as the risk of not meeting our corporate restarting much of our production capacity responsibility objectives. In addition, we look at in 2010, it is not perceived to be in the critical our relationships with our customers, and the position it was the previous year. In contrast, way we interact with our supply chain. We also there is more emphasis on the importance consider the regulatory framework, and the and management of occupational health so expectations the public and media have of its placement in the materiality matrix has Assurer’s commentary corporations. We want to be open about the moved, becoming more important for both outcomes of this process, so that those our business and our stakeholders, primarily We have seen evidence that ArcelorMittal has outside the business can understand why our employees. reviewed its materiality matrix, taking into we focus on some topics more than others. account our recommendation to include For this year’s materiality matrix we have consideration of the Group risk management Corporate responsibility is an area where the split more general themes into specific issues. framework into their approach. The publishing issues are constantly and rapidly changing. After Water management and biodiversity have been of specific issues within the matrix, rather than publishing our materiality matrix in last year’s introduced as individual subjects rather than the broader issue categories reported in the report we took some of the recommendations being included within the topic of ‘impact on past prevents direct comparison with previous of our external assurers, who suggested that natural resources’. Also, given the importance assessments. However, it is expected that this we align the process more closely to the of energy management to our own potential increased transparency will enhance future reporting of the materiality assessment process. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Stakeholder engagement 17 Investing in our people Our 10 Golden Rules of Safety 1. I will come to work in a ‘fit and able’ condition 2. I will use fall protection or prevention equipment whenever and wherever required according to our standards 3. I will follow the lockout/isolation procedure when working on equipment 4. I will follow the confined space entry procedure before entering, as well as during the full duration of the task 5. I will respect all the rules of load handling at all times and never stand under a suspended load 6. I will respect all the traffic rules 7. I will respect rail priority and stay out of the close clearance area without proper precautions being taken 8. I will respect the rules for entering and working in hazardous gas areas 9. I will not disable safety devices 10. I will respect all the Health and Safety basic rules, standards and signals and I will wear the required Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) 18 Investinginourpeople ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Whether it is keeping them safe, promoting Q. What progress have we made on safety this year? Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate – Group (Mining and Steel) their wellbeing, or Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is the number of injuries which has resulted in an developing their talent, our people are and remain A. Our first priority is the safety and health of those who work for us and with employee or contractor being away from work at least one day after the day it occurred, per million hours worked. our most important asset. us. We have been on our ‘Journey to Zero’ in relation to workplace accidents since 2008, The last two years have not and have made steady improvements on this 2010 1.77 in the last 12 months. But safety is only half 2009 1.87 been easy, but the reason of the equation: health and wellbeing are just we have been able to as crucial. 2008 2.50 manage through this period Starting with safety, this remains, as our CEO has said, ‘the number one priority for this as well as we have is down organisation’. We did make progress in 2010, to the commitment and and some parts of the business, like the Mining and Distribution Solutions segments, made support of our employees substantial steps forward. The Mining segment reduced its Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate around the world. For our (LTIFR) from 2.4 to 1.5 per million hours worked, and Distribution Solutions from 3.8 part, we are committed to 2.7. While we reduced the Group LTIFR from to ongoing consultation 1.9 per million hours worked in 2009 to 1.8 in 2010, we did not meet our Group target United Nations Global Compact with all our people, both to reduce our LTIFR by 20% in the year. This section covers: Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the Regrettably, the number of fatalities at our informally and formally, operations increased from 36 to 41 in 2010. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining through our Trade Unions, This is not acceptable, and we will not meet our new target of a LTIFR of 1.0 by the end Principle 4 – Businesses should support and we always do this in of 2013 with this level of performance. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour a spirit of openness and Realising this, we now have a strengthened Principle 6 – Businesses should work to mutual respect. commitment to strong, concerted action on safety from the very top of the Company. eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation We have undertaken in-depth analysis of previous fatal accidents, so we know where they are most likely to occur, and gain clearer Global Reporting Initiative insights into how to prevent them. In 2009 This section addresses in full, or in part, the following and 2010, there were 26 fatal incidents related GRI indicators: to crushing from vehicles, rail and machinery, LA4, MM4, HR5 – Collective bargaining and a further ten fatal incidents from falls agreements; labour disputes from heights. Fatality prevention standards LA7 – Injury rates and number of fatalities exist for these areas so emphasis has to be continually placed on enforcement. We have LA8 – Disease prevention training also strengthened our Fatality Prevention Audit LA9 – Health and Safety topics covered in Trade system to improve the development of Union agreements follow-up action plans. LA10, LA11 – Training hours; skills management programmes ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Investinginourpeople 19 Investing in our people Continued This complements our existing systems such action plans developed during previous site Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate – as the Return of Experience (REX) & Alert visits. Mining operations service, and a database has been built to per million hours share best practice. We have also improved 2010 also saw our fourth annual global Health the level of safety management system and Safety Day, with events organised across 2010 1.53 certification, OHSAS 18001, across our the business under the theme of ‘Leading by business and by year-end 2010 63% were Example’. The day is always arranged to 2009 2.42 certified, compared to 45% the previous year.* coincide with the International Labour All remaining operations are in the process of Organisation’s World Day for Health and Safety 2008 3.40 obtaining certification. at Work. It encourages both employees and contractors around the world to share best Our mining sites in Kazakhstan have made practice and deepen their understanding of particular progress in recent years. There are our ‘Journey to Zero’ improvement programme technical challenges, given the high methane by attending workshops on issues related to Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate – content of the coal extracted in this region, safety at work, as well as on health at work, Steel operations which increases the risk of gas outburst or traffic risks and fire-fighting. The 2011 Health even explosions. We have an extensive mining and Safety Day will cover topics like fatality per million hours modernisation programme underway, and since prevention standards, contractor management, 2010 1.80 2007 we have spent $365 million upgrading industrial hygiene, as well as dealing with our equipment and production techniques. This medical emergencies and wellness. 2009 1.79 commitment to investment was maintained during the recent economic crisis. For the last Looking forward, we believe there is the 2008 2.40 four years our Kazakhstan operations have possibility to make significant progress in been working with the acknowledged safety our safety performance by harnessing the specialists, Du Pont, to help train our staff. acknowledged expertise of our Research We have new and more stringent auditing & Development teams. They are already procedures both internally and externally, developing tools that will help create a virtuous and as a result the eight mines in the region circle of continuous learning and improvement, are set for full OHSAS 18001 safety including the use of computerised support management certification by June 2011. systems of critical processes like power switch-off situations. A real-time detection Many of our sites can be considered as system called SICRET has been developed in best-in-class in safety performance within the order to improve employee safety during industry. In September 2010, ArcelorMittal maintenance works. It uses web and mobile Costa Rica received a ‘Premio Global Preventico’ technologies and replaces the manual award from the National Institute of Security, ‘shut-down request form’ procedure, thus in recognition of its outstanding achievements contributing to a safer situation for work being in Health and Safety. Our site in Caldera has done on equipment. In 2010, the system operated without an accident for two years, and the site in Tibás for four years. Progress like this requires commitment and Research & Development focus on the one hand, and effective tools and monitoring systems on the other, so that every incident or near-hit can help us prevent the next one. We are now doing more to share good practices like this across all our sites, in both our steel and mining operations, through formal mechanisms like the Joint Global Health and Safety Committee, and through the Health and Safety section on our intranet, which details all our policies and procedures, and the ArcelorMittal ‘Golden Rules of Safety’, which you can see on page 18. The Joint Global Health and Safety Committee includes representatives from both management Our Research & Development teams have and Trade Unions, and it convened four times developed a special simulator that uses the latest during 2010. Subjects discussed included the virtual reality techniques to help train crane importance of establishing local Health and operators. Replicating the actual experience of Safety committees, the enforcement of working the crane through state-of-the-art ArcelorMittal standards and follow-up from the graphics, sound systems, LCD projectors, and movement sensors help to improve the skills of inexperienced workers, and increases safety *This figure excludes ArcelorMittal Distribution Solutions, which is throughout our operations. primarily an in-house trading and distribution arm of ArcelorMittal. 20 Investing in our people ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 “We have witnessed the efforts ArcelorMittal are making to improve their own safety performance and lead the industry to create a better working environment in Kazakhstan. Against a challenging backdrop the company has taken some positive steps forward over recent years but their commitment cannot waiver if it is to meet its Journey to Zero accidents goal.” Alistair Clark Corporate Director, Environment and Sustainability Department, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was successfully trialled at our operations in In 2010, some of our operations, such Asturias, Spain, and is being deployed at other as those in France, have been piloting a Red Scorpions red hot ArcelorMittal operations in 2011. new Government-led approach to stress on Health and Safety management at work. This is a collaborative effort with our Trade Unions as partners, and Q. What are we doing to improve health in the workplace? aims to work towards a culture in which we can openly talk about stress and ensuring that our employees are aware of the impact of the illness, both for themselves and for their colleagues. Each site will have its own A. The health and wellbeing of all of our employees is as important as ensuring their dedicated committee, which will run training and information programmes, and keep a watching brief on potentially difficult situations, safety. However, our focus and progress in and take action to deal with them. the past has not always reflected this belief. As such we have put more emphasis on health In the course of 2010 we also ran our issues over the last year. In 2010, we instituted first workplace disease prevention training The Red Scorpions are a team of Health and Safety six additional health standards, bringing the course, attended by occupational hygiene champions at our smelting plant at Saldanha, total to ten. These cover issues including representatives from 14 countries. In South Africa, who had the task of promoting high substance abuse, burns, heat stress, respiratory November, 40 separate ‘Health Weeks’ were standards and preventing accidents during the and hearing protection, and the management run at our sites, in collaboration between $28 million refurbishment of two furnace towers. of facilities like showers, restrooms, and local management and Trade Unions. Each Works like this often produce higher rates of canteens. The aim behind these standards is site developed their own programme, but accidents than normal operations, not only they typically included exhibitions, workshops, because they are technically demanding, but to create a world-class system for managing because they also bring new workers on site, who occupational health hazards, so we can prevent film screenings, competitions, and the opportunity to take part in physical activities. usually operate in intensive shift periods. Similar workplace diseases and promote employee projects at other sites had lasted up to 146 days wellness. As part of this work, we are setting Health Week will become mandatory for all of our sites in 2011, with a greater emphasis on with between 1,800-2,500 workers on site each up communities of practice across the Group, day, and anything up to 17 serious injuries. pooling expertise on issues like HIV/AIDS, physical exercise, and on ensuring that every addictions, disability and stress management. employee has the chance to get involved. The Saldanha team wanted to complete their We have also put new processes in place to We will also lead detailed health hazard training project quicker than this, but do that without any assess and report employee heath risks, and programmes in Kazakhstan, the Ukraine, injuries. They started by instituting daily alcohol monitor the treatment and recovery of those Russia, and South Africa in the coming year. and random drug testing, and empowering injured at work. In 2011, we will be focusing employees to take a more active role in safety on improving our methods for protecting our management. One way this was done was to bring employees against the long-term impacts of together a group of current employees as safety noise, dust and heavy loads. officers for the project, equipping them with distinctive red helmets. They managed daily We are particularly proud of the new staff and weekly safety communications, undertook shopfloor visits, monitored compliance, and clinic we have opened at our operations in attended safety meetings. The results spoke for Kryviy Rih, Ukraine. This includes a dedicated themselves: work was completed in 76 days, with modern medical facility for the Steel and no lost time injuries for a total of more than 4,400 Mining Division and 23 ‘walk-in’ points contractor personnel. The Red Scorpion approach throughout the site. Nearly 27,000 employees has since received an ArcelorMittal Performance will be able to have a professional medical Excellence Award for Health and Safety in June check-up this year as a result, benefiting from 2010, and is being shared across the Group as state-of-the-art medical techniques and best practice. equipment. Likewise, we have run a number of successful preventative programmes in Liberia, including an anti-malaria campaign which you can read more about on page 32. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Investing in our people 21 Investing in our people Continued Did you know… Q. How do we develop and train our people? award from the European publication e.learning age, and one of the Health and Safety modules won a Human Resources Grand Prix award from paperJam magazine in Luxembourg. Looking ahead, the University will A. We want all our people to fulfil their full potential and seize every opportunity be aligning its programmes more closely to the five strategic priorities recently identified for the Group, which are Health and Safety, leadership and culture, manufacturing to develop themselves and their careers. excellence, customer excellence, and growth. The ArcelorMittal University Some of this can be done through formal For example, there are already new courses training courses, but on-the-job support introduced 18 additional is just as important. available in occupational hygiene and safety programmes in 2010. From leadership. providing steel-making modules The ArcelorMittal University is at the heart Our individual sites and operations also develop of all our training and development activities. to occupational hygiene training, This is one of the most advanced and extensive and run their own local training courses, to it is one of the leading training address issues unique to their own market. initiatives of its type in our industry, and offers For example, ArcelorMittal Dofasco, Canada, functions in the industry. courses designed to help our people develop will soon have to deal with an industry-wide their personal and professional skills. The shortage of skilled steel-makers, with around University works with a number of internal 1,500 employees retiring in the next five and external training suppliers, and makes years. As a result the plant has set up its learning available online and has successfully own programme to fill this anticipated gap, reintroduced classroom delivery of its core and speed up the process of training fullytraining programmes during 2010. Most of its qualified steel-makers. courses use a wide range of different media to give our employees the best possible mix ArcelorMittal Mexico has focused much of types of tuition, especially adapted to the of its development efforts in the last year subject in question, from written materials, on leadership skills, with a tailor-made to webinars, and to interactive e-learning team-building workshop called ‘Leading packages people can work through in their by Example’. This covers subjects like own time. understanding the cultural differences between Latin America and Western markets, and the Leadership and management skills can elements of a high-performing team. Other be studied at the University’s dedicated local initiatives included plate making for Academies, and nearly 4,000 people have technicians in Spain, and ‘Metallurgy for done so since 2007. The University also offers Professionals’ in the USA. highly-specialised technical training in mining and steel-making skills, including coke making, On-the-job training is also important for us, hot rolling, slag management, sintering, and and we often make use of the ‘train-themaintenance. 1,500 employees attended such trainer’ model to transfer practical skills and courses in 2010. The University responds insights, which benefits both the learner and actively to new requests for customised the trainer. For example, ArcelorMittal Ghent programmes, and now offers, for example, in Belgium uses this approach successfully to a new module on ‘Leading virtual teams’. help production workers improve their skills Some programmes are especially tailored and progress in their careers. The plant has for certain markets like the Commonwealth concentrated in particular on clarifying the of Independent States (CIS), and take into combination of skills required for specific roles, account the particular challenges likely to helping individuals identify any gaps, and then be encountered in such emerging countries. gain the skills they need to move to the next The University also offers language coaching, level, often through e-learning. especially in English, and professional and skills training for specific functions like Human Assurer’s commentary Both our local and global University training Resources, procurement, and finance – the includes special modules designed for young University now has ten functional academies. people, whether new graduates, apprentices We have been particularly impressed how the In 2010, over 15,000 employees attended or young engineers. But we invest in talent ArcelorMittal University programmes have come University training, which added up to a total through the economic crisis to offer a refined for the future in other ways too. Our operations of over 403,000 hours of learning; a 28% and focused programme. Out of adversity, in Ostrava, Czech Republic, is a good example. increase on the previous year. the University extended the use of remote and The plant is the country’s biggest steel-maker, web-based learning, the success of which now with a clear interest in ensuring that there is We have always been proud of the quality of means that it is integral to its business model. a reliable future supply of suitably skilled the training provided by the University, and in Anecdotally, it is clear to us that the courses technicians and engineers. The plant is now 2010 this received external recognition too. are valued at the site level leading to an increase giving financial support to five local technical Our Global English programme won a silver in the hours of classroom training provided. 22 Investing in our people ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 of life, provides leadership development Training hours of full-time employees schools and colleges in Ostrava, where students can study subjects like metallurgy and makes it possible to reconcile the and coke making. economic objectives of the business, with 2010 403,280 the professional and personal interests 2009 314,520 ArcelorMittal Mines Canada has a similar of individuals. partnership with a local higher educational 2008 317,616 college, Sept-Îles Cegep. Its new wing will be We place a continued emphasis on employee named the ArcelorMittal Institute of Mineral relations and in the last year developed a Technology, and will focus on the teaching of new policy, new guidelines on best practice, metallurgy and technological transfer in and new training modules to ensure that our industrial maintenance – all vital skills for the processes are implemented across the mining sector. Likewise our mines in Prijedor, business in a consistent way. We have made Bosnia and Herzigovina, have a work notable progress on all these fronts – our experience programme with local high schools, European Framework Agreement, ‘Anticipation to give pupils practical as well as theoretical of Change’ in particular, has helped us to knowledge, which helps improve their job enhance the quality and frequency of our prospects when they leave full-time education. dialogue with Trade Unions across all our European sites. Many of the discussions this Other employee development initiatives year were based on the need to recognise are focused specifically on sustainability. For and respond to changes in our industry, which example, 100 of our US steelworkers from has in turn produced improvements in our Burns Harbor and Indiana Harbor will get the productivity and competitiveness, and our chance to take two months of expert training ability to identify new trends and prepare on sustainable workplace practices at the more effectively for them. nearby Purdue University. The topics covered include dealing with solid and hazardous waste, Over 85% of our employees are covered by as well as air, water and energy management. collective bargaining agreements. Through Those who complete the programme will continuous, open dialogue we are minimising receive a Green Manufacturing Specialist the risk of labour disputes. Including European Certificate, and can go on to sit the exams Works Council activity, European Social for the Society of Manufacturing Engineers’ Dialogue Group meetings, Health and Safety Green Manufacturing Specialist qualification. Joint Global Committee meetings and Group Management Board activity we had 34 formal The University has also developed a special social dialogue interactions in Europe in 2010. online training programme for corporate The benefits of open dialogue can be translated responsibility. The course covers the context quantitatively. In 2010, we only lost 0.135% and challenges of sustainable development, of man days through labour disputes across ways to improve our relationships with the Group. This was a small increase on the stakeholders, and the practical implications previous year but well below industry average, Trade Union representation of managing a responsible business. There and accounted for largely by European national 85% are also optional courses on communication pension reforms rather than company-specific skills, with a specific focus on stakeholder action. Moreover, during the year we engagement. 42 people from across the world introduced Employee Relations Diagnostics have finished the training programme, all of across priority sites – this is an internal them members of our dedicated corporate focus group constituting employees and responsibility network. management to gauge the true employee relations climate and an effective way of Approximately 85% of our employees are covered monitoring and assessing the application of the Q. by collective bargaining agreements, maintaining relevant policies at these sites. the same level on the previous year How do we engage with Diversity is another area of ongoing focus for us. our employees? We believe passionately that every employee can contribute equally, and should be treated Labour dispute action A. equally, regardless of age, disability, race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, background, 0.135% Much of our success as a business is the direct result of the productive relationships or nationality. Last year our site at Bergara, we have with our employees, both informally Spain, received an award for the promotion of and through ongoing dialogue with our Trade equal opportunities from the Basque Institute Unions. Our Human Resources function has for Women, while in Brazil our operations are three key objectives: to foster and reinforce running a high-profile diversity campaign in the this dialogue; to ensure that everyone observes workplace to raise internal awareness about our Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy, alongside Labour dispute action within our business remained our Code of Business Conduct; and to create a low compared to the industry average, with just work environment that acknowledges the community initiatives which help people with 0.135% of man-days lost in 2010 importance of our employees’ quality disabilities back into the job market. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Investing in our people 23 Making steel more sustainable Environmental management systems 95% In 2010, 95% of steel industrial operations were certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management system standard 24 Making steel more sustainable ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 In our company, steel Total Carbon Dioxide and sustainability are (CO2) footprint inextricably linked. We (million tonnes) believe that steel has 2010 199 a vital part to play in 2009 164 securing a more 2008 224 sustainable future for us all, which we enable CO2 emissions per tonne of steel (tonnes) through our leading Research & Development 2010 2.150 (R&D) practices creating 2009 2.245 new products and more 2008 2.184 efficient processes. Yet we know that we must also improve United Nations Global Compact our own environmental This section covers: performance, which is a Principle 7 – Businesses should support a key element of our overall precautionary approach to environmental challenges sustainability footprint. Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Global Reporting Initiative This section addresses in full, or in part, the following GRI indicators: EN2 – Recycled input materials EN3, EN5, EN6 – Energy consumption, conservation, and efficiency initiatives EN8 – Water consumption EN12, EN13, EN14 – Biodiversity management EN16, EN18 – Greenhouse gas emissions EN22 – Waste disposal EN26 – Environmental impact mitigation initiatives ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Making steel more sustainable 25 Making steel more sustainable Continued Q. What have we done to improve our carbon Q. What environmental investments did we make Our plant at Kriviy Rih in the Ukraine will be investing $30 million in environmental protection in the next 12 months – a quarter of its total capital expenditure. Works completed performance? last year? in recent years include two electrofilters for the blast furnaces at a cost of $35 million, and A. A. the approval of the refurbishment of primary steel plant de-dusting equipment at a cost Our overall approach to reduce carbon As the economic crisis has abated, of $118 million. In recognition of improved emissions is led by our Climate Change Steering we have been able to reinstate many of the environmental performance, the plant was Committee and best practice performance has environmental investments that had to be recently presented with an award for ecological already been achieved in some of our plants, postponed or suspended during the last two excellence in a national ‘Environmental quality which are now shared and implemented across years – increasing our expenditure in energy and safety’ competition. the whole Group. This means using ‘lean’ and environment projects to $347 million. carbon technologies like scrap based steel Kriviy Rih is one of a number of sites that has production (as we now do with 30% of our Our plant at Ghent in Belgium has completed also successfully completed its re-certification manufacturing). The target of an 8% reduction a project to recover waste gas, which will save to the ISO 14001 environmental management of our CO2 footprint will be met by a about 2,300 Terajoules equivalent to around system standard. We have continued to combination of process improvements and 129,000 tonnes of CO2 and the annual energy implement our programme to certify all our actions to increase energy efficiency. Reflecting consumption of approximately 36,000 homes. sites to this standard, and while we missed our this commitment, we also participate in the A similar project has been started in Bremen, overall target this year, we now have 179 sites annual Carbon Disclosure Project – the Germany, which aims to save 2,000 Terajoules covered, which equates to 95% of our main independent, not-for-profit organisation which of energy per year which is equivalent to production and finishing sites. holds a global database of primary corporate around 112,000 tonnes of CO2 and the climate change information. For more annual energy consumption of approximately information visit www.cdproject.net 31,000 homes. The project is part of a Environmental and Energy $167 million modernisation programme, A number of our operations were temporarily half of which will be spent on improving Capital Expenditure idled during the economic crisis. This meant environmental performance and energy $ (million) that we were not comparing like for like in efficiency. At the same time, our site at Indiana terms of carbon emissions and other indicators. Harbor, USA, is re-using waste gases in a new 2010 347 The partial recovery we saw in 2010 allowed process that is expected to generate enough us to return to a reasonable level of capacity electricity to power 30,000 homes for a year. 2009 224 utilisation and therefore realign our annual This project will cost $63.2 million and will 2008 235 performance to that of previous years prior to create a number of new jobs over the next the economic crisis. Although this crisis period 18 months. presented a setback in terms of performance improvement, caused by the delay of some Other highlights this year included the global process improvements, we nevertheless first phase of new works at the coke oven of remain committed to meeting our long-term the Fos-sur-Mer site in France designed to targets, as our performance data from 2010 reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO2), indicates. We aim to reduce carbon dioxide ammonia, naphthalene, and tar, as well as a (CO2) emissions by 170kg per tonne of steel 17% reduction in SO2 emissions at our power by 2020, equivalent to an 8% reduction plant at our site in Ostrava, Czech Republic. in normalised emissions (from the 2007 Ostrava will soon have one of the cleanest baseline). With the restart of some capacity sinter plants in the world, having installed a during the last year, our total absolute state-of-the-art de-dusting facility, which will emissions increased to 199 million tonnes of reduce these emissions by more than 70%. CO2 but our emissions intensity reduced to Other work on de-dusting in 2010 included 2.150 tonnes of CO2 per tonne of steel (see a new $27 million emission control system chart on previous page). at the Vereeniging plant in South Africa, and an investment for the construction of the de-dusting system in the steel plant at Zenica, Bosnia and Herzegovina. ArcelorMittal Zenica has also recently completed the installation of two steam silencers, which will reduce noise for the local community. 26 Making steel more sustainable ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Q. energy? How do we manage initiative further. This will encompass identifying, evaluating and realising best practices in energy efficiency projects, and Primary energy consumption Gigajoules per tonne of liquid steel implementing a formal energy management system for continuous improvement. 2010 18.5 A. Steel production is energy intensive. 2009 2008 17.8 19.0 Q. Reducing our consumption is an important driver for our competitiveness and improved energy efficiency will be absolutely central in How are we involved in achieving our 2020 carbon reduction target. carbon markets? We aim to do this by benchmarking our A. performance against best practice, sharing proven and successful ideas, and making investments in new energy-efficient We continue to work with policymakers technologies, with the support of our R&D to ensure the implementation of the European teams. By the end of 2010, 57% of the 26 Union Emissions Trading Scheme is effective Energy Efficiency Best Practices were already in ensuring competitiveness while achieving deployed in 32 steel mills. Our goal is to a lower carbon economy. Due to the economic increase the deployment rate to 65% in these crisis, not all operations were running at full operations by the end of 2011. Savings capacity, which led to a temporary excess in potential from the effective implementation allowances. This presents an opportunity of our first three sites’ energy roadmaps have to accelerate our energy improvement plans. been estimated to be 20,000 Terajoules per During 2010, ArcelorMittal sold Emissions year, equivalent to savings of 1.6 million Trading allowances to the market. We sold tonnes of CO2, and approximately $200 million 7 million tonnes of excess allowances for a year in cost savings by 2014. €105 million. The sales are to be dedicated exclusively to energy efficiency project funding. Some of our plants are already leaders in the The projects currently identified within the field of energy management. Our plant in Group are located in Belgium, France, Poland, Weirton, USA, for example, was named an Romania, and Spain. Energy Champion by the US Department of Energy last year, and our USA operations as a whole were recognised with an ENERGY STAR award from the US Environmental Protection Agency and US Department of Energy for the third consecutive year. In the USA alone, we Q. How do we manage our water use? achieved more than $22.7 million in ongoing annual energy savings by implementing 24 energy savings projects over the past two years. The company also expanded the number of sites engaged in its energy programme A. Our own overall water consumption figure for 2010 was approximately during 2010, with 90% of its US sites using 2.8 billion m3. There is a large range of the ArcelorMittal Energy Management System performance variation between our sites Model. Our operations in Indiana Harbor across the world, largely because of local also won an Association for Iron and Steel circumstances and regulations. Some of our Did you know… Technology Energy Achievement Award. In sites have access to major water sources such Spain, our Olaberría plant has now met the as large lakes or seas, others have implemented demanding EN 16001 standard for energy closed loop cooling water circuit technology management – our first site to do so. that results in a zero-effluent operation. Companies that achieve this standard can see their energy costs reduce significantly. However, we accept that water scarcity is going to become an increasingly challenging We also have formal energy management issue. Water is used as part of the steel-making Across the whole steel sector, processes in our mining operations. In 2009, in ArcelorMittal Mines Canada we initiated an process and therefore we have started CO2 emissions per tonne of crude implementing water efficiency measures. We steel output are now 50% lower energy efficiency and cost reduction initiative. have in place a dedicated Water Steering By the end of 2010 we had reduced our energy Committee and our technology team than what they were 40 years costs by more than 2% and we estimate that undertook a survey of our production sites in ago. Many plants – especially in in 2011 we will reduce our greenhouse gas 2010, using the Global Water Tool developed emissions by nearly 36,000 tonnes of CO2 Western Europe – are now near by the World Business Council for Sustainable equivalent. Based on this initial success we Development. This assesses a region’s water the technical limit of what can be have put in place a team to improve this availability in the context of its population and achieved with existing technology. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Making steel more sustainable 27 Making steel more sustainable Continued industrial growth. 134 plants were covered by the survey, which found that 23% of them are located in areas that are already under water Q. What is our approach to biodiversity? Protecting biodiversity in France stress, and 20% in those facing water scarcity. Plans are now underway to achieve a significant cut in water use across the Company, with the support of our R&D function. We will be measuring and monitoring our water use, A. Many of our operations across the world are involved in projects to help protect recycling and reusing water, using seawater the local environment. We know our operations and rainwater wherever this is feasible, can have an impact on the local environment, and continuing to work actively with local which means we have a responsibility to municipalities and the scientific community. minimise that impact, and support local biodiversity where we can. Consequently, we launched a Water Mapping Project which involves the development of a ArcelorMittal Dunkerque and Mardyck, two of the Our leading conservation programme in Liberia guideline for the assessment of water use. sites that make up ArcelorMittal Atlantique, are continues to move forward. The reserves of It also includes the identification of the risks taking part in neighbourhood efforts to preserve iron ore which we will start to mine in 2011 related to water use, sharing of case studies local biodiversity areas. This is accomplished are in the remote and environmentally-sensitive on water use reduction, and the provision of through the assessment of wildlife and plant Nimba mountain range, generally considered species currently found there, as well as working guidance on flow metering techniques to our to be one of the top five biodiversity areas with local conservation experts to develop action operations. In 2010, we worked closely with in Africa. An independent environmental plans to ensure that they remain there. They have some of our shareholders who have an interest assessment agency endorsed a compensatory also organised guided tours for over 300 local in water management and participated in the programme that will achieve forest conservation residents and employees, enabling people to inaugural CDP Water Disclosure initiative, through community-based resource learn more about the importance of protecting which assisted us in articulating the risks and management and the development of local local biodiversity. opportunities relating to our own water use agricultural systems. We have started to and the impact on our business. For more develop a detailed management plan for information see: https://www.cdproject.net/ the programme, which will be used as a water-disclosure consultation document before starting its implementation during 2011. Some of our mines in the USA have unique challenges in managing water. In 2007, an Biodiversity management is not just limited environmental review for our East Pit expansion to our emerging markets. Some of our programme identified a potential impact on an operations in France have undertaken adjacent abandoned iron ore pit that holds the important biodiversity projects. Fos-sur-Mer city of Biwabik, Minnesota’s water supply. Since is working in partnership with a biological then we have worked closely with city officials survey centre focused on the conservation and the Minnesota Department of Natural of Mediterranean wetlands; and Basse-Indre Resources to form a long-term mitigation plan have helped rehabilitate mud flats north-east to reduce our impact on water. In 2010, this of the plant, which has improved the area plan included the coordination and purchase of as a habitat for wildlife. a pump barge to improve the water supply. Also in France, we work with the French In addition, at the request of the city of Virginia environment agency to develop effective we divert excess capacity from a freshwater solutions for treating contaminated soil at pumping station into two lakes. This practice, former industrial sites. We used one of our Did you know… undertaken seasonally since 2008, improves former sites, which used to be an integrated water quality and mitigates the impact on the steel factory, as a test site in order to develop lakes from warm water discharge from the the soil treatment methodology. city-owned public utility boilers, used to generate electricity. This new practice has In Canada and the USA, we continue to fund deferred the need for capital investment in a the ‘Sustain Our Great Lakes’ programme, cooling tower by the city. In 2010, our mining which is a partnership between the US operations pumped over 360 million gallons of Environmental Protection Agency, and other water into the local lakes. government departments. In 2010, 25 projects were selected to help protect and restore the Great Lakes’ vital aquatic and terrestrial environments. More steel is recycled worldwide annually than all other materials put together. More than 500 million tonnes of scrap is melted each year. 28 Making steel more sustainable ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Q. How do we promote the recycling of residues? Q. How can steel make modern life more sustainable? In the last few years we have also launched three international scientific networks around the world on steel construction, steel forming and physical metallurgy. In 2010, ArcelorMittal announced that we will fund, through the A. At ArcelorMittal we refer to residues rather than waste materials – what may be A. Modern life would be very different without steel. Even if it cannot be seen on the ArcelorMittal Foundation, a new chair of Façade Engineering at the University of Luxembourg. The research will be aimed at promoting the development of energy-efficient classified as waste in one country might not outside, steel is at the heart of our buildings, high-tech buildings made out of steel, necessarily mean the same thing in another cars, home appliances, and industrial machinery. composites and glass. location. As such, a residue is defined as any Steel is already indispensable – our challenge is material, excluding gas, generated by processes to make its production more sustainable. In addition to focusing on applying the Life in addition to the original intended products. In Cycle Analysis methodology to steel, our R&D 2010, a total of 37 million tonnes of residues One way we are doing this is through our team is also involved in the SOVAMAT (Social were recycled internally or used for external continued support of European Ultra Low CO2 Value of Materials) initiative. This gathers purposes. This represents a re-use rate of 82% Steel-making initiative, or ULCOS. Phase I leading scientists and material producers to (in 2009 the reuse rate was 86%). Non-used of the project brought together over 50 study the impact of structural materials on our residues are sent to landfill or stored on site companies in the steel supply chain, as well society. The goal is to identify the emerging awaiting potential use in the future. Less as research laboratories and universities, to role of structural materials in a carbon-neutral than 7% of residues were sent to landfill devise the breakthrough technologies that world and educate stakeholders on the value during 2010. A joint exercise between could reduce CO2 emissions from steel-making chain of materials. For more information visit the Environment teams and By-products by at least 50%. ULCOS has now entered www.sovamat.org management teams resulted in a 45% Phase II where a number of potential projects increase in the number of residue action plans are in the pilot phase. This includes top gas There is more about the work of our started by facilities across the Group recycling blast furnace technology and Carbon R&D department and the role, value, and in 2010. Capture and Storage projects, at a cost of sustainability of steel in the features sections around €623 million, at our operations in at the front of this report. In South Africa, our Vanderbijlpark operations Florange, France and Eisenhüttenstadt, have taken a strong position on residue Germany. More information can be found at disposal. An old waste disposal site of 170 www.ulcos.org hectares has been operational since the 1960s with approximately 40 million cubic metres The trend for more sustainable products of waste disposed in that time. Its use officially and processes is particularly important in ceased at the end of 2010 but remediation developed countries and its importance is commenced earlier at a cost of approximately growing in emerging markets. With a budget $4 million. Through the introduction of a of $322 million and 11 major research sorting area and by-product storage area, centres around the world, our Research and this will reduce the impact on groundwater Development (R&D) activities in 2010 were and create more value added by-products. focused on product and process development The project is overseen by an independently that support greater value creation for the chaired waste disposal multi-stakeholder business, as well as bringing technological committee consisting of government and and environmental benefits. non-governmental organisations. At the beginning of 2011, 40 hectares had already ArcelorMittal’s R&D team has been rated been rehabilitated into grasslands. number one for product development and technical support by most automotive We continue to do our best to recycle the customers in 2010, thanks to the by-products of steel-making, so we can commitment, skills and abilities of more than avoid sending them to landfill. Our operation 1,400 researchers. Furthermore, our activity at Tubarão, Brazil, for example, has now with several universities around the world is an Assurer’s commentary produced one million tonnes of its ‘Acerita’ important way of improving the efficiency of product. Acerita is made from slag – a our scientific network and attracting the best Stakeholders expect an organisation such as by-product of steel – and is used mainly students to the Group. ArcelorMittal to be able to provide more data in paving and in road building. It is durable, regarding environmental performance and low-cost, and only one of over 30 new improvement trends at a Group level. Bureau products that have been developed at Veritas welcomes the additional data on water, the site from by-products, as part of Tubarão’s energy and waste (residues) as a step in the commitment to maximum reuse, continuous right direction. We have also seen evidence at recycling, and minimum disposal. site level that detailed performance data across the full range of environmental emissions is available and regularly monitored. Further consolidation of site level data comprising more environmental indicators should be an area of focus for ArcelorMittal in its future reporting. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Making steel more sustainable 29 Enriching our communities Employee volunteering 12,000 During ArcelorMittal Foundation’s 3rd annual International Volunteer Work Day, employees spent over 12,000 hours supporting 200 different community projects across the world 30 Enriching our communities ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Every ArcelorMittal operation across the Q. What is our approach to Community investment $37.7m human rights? world is an integral part of its local community. We contribute to local A. We are committed to respecting all human rights and we are proud to be the first The ArcelorMittal Foundation invested $37.7 million in local community projects in 2010 economic development company in the steel sector to have a standalone human rights policy. by providing jobs and Our Human Rights Policy was developed opportunities for local in consultation with external stakeholders, businesses to supply and is derived from the United Nations (UN) Universal Declaration of Human Rights and our operations as well the two International Covenants making up the International Bill of Rights, and the International as supporting local Labour Organisation’s Declaration of education and health Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the United Nations Global Compact. initiatives. That said, we In addition, the Policy development coincided know that steel-making with the drafting of the Guiding Principles by the UN Special representative of the Secretary and mining can have General on Business and Human Rights, John adverse consequences Ruggie. Our approach to implementing the Human Rights Policy is aligned to these draft for the surrounding area, Guiding Principles. and that makes it even The ArcelorMittal Human Rights Policy more vital that we was approved in August 2010. Our Group Management Board will now review its engage actively, and implementation on a quarterly basis, and United Nations Global Compact report our performance against it to the constructively, with those Board of Directors. The policy applies to every This section covers: Principle 1 – Businesses should support whom we affect. ArcelorMittal employee, as well as contractors working at our sites. It covers Health and and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Safety, and labour rights such as pay, freedom of association, child and forced labour, unlawful Principle 2 – Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses discrimination, and harassment, as well as issues such as indigenous people’s rights, Principle 5 – Businesses should support the security arrangements, and impacts on land effective abolition of child labour and water. We are one of the first businesses in the world to include issues relating to water and land in our human rights policy, following Global Reporting Initiative the recognition of access to water as a human This section addresses in full, or in part, the right by the United Nations in July 2010. following GRI indicators: EC1, EC9 – Economic value generated SO1 – Community impact management HR3 – Human rights training ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Enriching our communities 31 Enriching our communities Continued The full text of our Human Rights Policy is During 2010 we also continued to support available on the ArcelorMittal website at local infrastructure projects and economic Did you know… www.arcelormittal.com/humanrights development initiatives in countries such as Brazil and Kazakhstan. All our employees should receive a copy of the policy in one of the 17 most commonly used Our mining development in Liberia is one of our languages in ArcelorMittal, and complete important investments for the future, where training by the end of 2011, either face-toiron ore shipments will commence in 2011. It face or online. ArcelorMittal is one of few will be the first time this war-torn country will companies to give training to every single benefit from mining in several years and we employee. There will be a special priority for want to ensure that our investment into Liberia enhanced training in countries where the will have a long-lasting and positive legacy. In protection of human rights raises particular the last 12 months, for example, we have run issues, as identified through our external nine road safety workshops in partnership with The ArcelorMittal Human Rights consultations, such as India, Liberia, Brazil, the local police force, with the aim of reducing Policy has been translated into Algeria, China, and Kazakhstan. We will also be the high number of road accidents in Bong, 17 different languages and we starting human rights risk assessments in Grand Bassa, and Nimba Counties. We have these same countries during 2011. also funded an extensive programme, in aim to have all employees trained partnership with USAID, to tackle and prevent on this topic by the end of 2011. We are now developing specific performance malaria in the Yekepa and Buchanan areas. measures and indicators to monitor our Malaria is one of the major causes of premature progress, so that we can make further death in sub-Saharan Africa, and we worked improvements internally, and report more with both government agencies and NGOs to comprehensively externally. supply specially-treated mosquito nets, spray vulnerable houses with insecticide, raise awareness about ways to prevent malaria, and distribute anti-malarial drugs. The hope is that Q. What are we doing to promote the development of this will cut the incidence of malaria in the region, leading to its eradication within the year. Local healthcare is also one of our most our communities? important priorities in Senegal. Last year we ran a third round of medical camps in Kédougou A. and Saraya, offering free treatment to over 2,000 local people. The camps organised As we have detailed in previous antenatal care and HIV/AIDS testing for corporate responsibility reports, we play a pregnant women, a vaccination programme for vital role in our local communities. In some babies, and preventative programmes relating developing countries, for example, the to HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and diabetes. Over establishment of an ArcelorMittal operation 40 people also had their sight restored through means that roads get built, infrastructure is free cataract surgery. put in or improved, and essential services like healthcare are made available to local people A similar programme is underway in India, for the first time. Wherever we are in the where we are working in partnership with world, we make it our business to support Sight Savers International and the Mahatma sustainable long-term economic growth and Gandhi Eye Hospital to give local people in fair and equitable business practices that Orissa the ‘right to sight’. As a result of this benefit the country and its people. work over 100 people have received cataract surgery and 350 people have benefited from As in previous years we have attempted to free consultations to date. Assurer’s commentary quantify our estimated economic contribution taking into account taxes, wages and salaries, Work like this in emerging economies can The development of a Human Rights Policy has contracts, capital expenditure and social have a significant impact, but that does been a key area over the reporting period. We investments (see page 33). As we move out not lessen the value of what we do in more have seen evidence of ArcelorMittal taking a of the downturn our estimated economic considered approach to developing this policy developed markets. In 2010, Corporate contribution has increased significantly in many to be meaningful to its operations through Knights magazine ranked ArcelorMittal Dofasco undertaking both internal and external key areas, particularly with our supplier and one of the top corporate citizens in Canada, in engagement on what human rights means for contractual payments. We have also been able recognition of its contribution to sustainability the Company. We have seen guidelines and to increase our investment activities through and its positive role ‘at the heart of Canada’s training programmes that have been developed capital expenditure and our spend in Research economic and social fabric’. Over 3,000 for deployment over the coming reporting and Development. This means that our total companies were assessed for the award period. Key to the success of this new policy will indirect economic contributions is an estimated against ten baseline indicators, which included be how efficiently ArcelorMittal integrates its $73.6 billion for 2010. the contributions made through taxes, requirements into existing internal performance environmental performance and innovation. monitoring and reporting mechanisms. 32 Enriching our communities ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 “We welcome ArcelorMittal’s move to adopt leading human rights practices, and now will look for evidence this will deliver. Of course a successful programme is measured in ‘the disaster that didn’t happen’, but the key will be transparency about successes and challenges, particularly the effectiveness of training and grievance mechanisms, and the results of risk assessments.” Karina Litvack Head of Governance & Sustainable Investment, F&C Management Ltd. Q. How are we engaging with local communities? training workshop. The workshops are held in three stages: the first offers specific training on stakeholder engagement techniques and We have had formal grievance processes in place at many of our operations for a number of years. Grievance processes are a central develops the engagement plan; the second element of our Human Rights Policy, and focuses on the necessary administrative and helps ensure issues are addressed as soon A. We are proud of the fact that ArcelorMittal sites have an active programme communication skills and seeks the input of local stakeholders; and the third supports the process of compiling and publishing a local as they arise, which avoids delays to our projects or activities, and saves legal and other costs. For example, in Dunkerque, corporate responsibility report. France, the environmental team uses quarterly of engagement with their local stakeholders. grievance reports to help inform future We understand the value of productive The workshops help local management and environmental investments. relationships, and work hard to build trust, staff understand the value of stakeholder understand local concerns, and participate engagement, and the importance of ensuring Every stakeholder must be able to raise positively in the local community. that all such activities are appropriate to legitimate concerns with us, and we require local customs and culture. They also relate all our operations to make communication The ArcelorMittal Stakeholder Engagement stakeholder engagement to key business channels available to do this which are free, Standard is mandatory for all our industrial processes like Environmental and Social Impact appropriate, and accessible to everyone. operations, requiring every unit to identify its Assessments, and international standards such All complaints must be recorded and stakeholders and key issues of concern and also as the Equator Principles and the International acknowledged, and the steps taken to address opportunities for improved local development Finance Corporation’s Performance Standards. them monitored and documented. The way and growth in our business, as well as we manage stakeholder grievances is a vital implementing a robust grievance mechanism. In 2010, we ran seven workshops across component of our daily interaction with local These activities are then included in a local operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ukraine, communities and by doing so in an open, stakeholder engagement plan. The corporate Macedonia, Kazakhstan and Romania, and have accountable and fair way we build trust team supports local operations to implement further events planned for 2011. Examples and credibility with all our stakeholders. the Standard by publishing guidance on of continuous local stakeholder engagement international good practices and by sharing can also be found at many of our operations. In knowledge and ideas across our network of 2010, in Kazakhstan, a stakeholder engagement corporate responsibility coordinators. In 2011, meeting was held to discuss environmental we will be introducing detailed guidance on issues with local NGOs, residents and the local how to address local grievances and managing authorities. This was followed up with a series stakeholder relationships. of small focus group sessions with external stakeholders to better understand key issues A good example of this in practice is our of concern. programme of stakeholder engagement workshops. In March 2010, the local management team in Prijedor, Bosnia and Herzegovina participated in a three-day ArcelorMittal’s 2010 estimated economic contribution ArcelorMittal Steel Estimated economic contribution products Indirect contributions – $73.6 billion Social Employees Suppliers1 Contractors Shareholders Government2 Investment Shipments of investments (including minority activities 85.0 million (ArcelorMittal shareholders) tonnes Foundation) $37.7 million Wages and Supply Contractual Dividends Corporate Capex3 R&D salaries payments payments $1.3 income tax $3.3 spend $9.7 $53.2 billion $5.0 billion billion and local taxes billion $322 billion $803 million million Society 1 This figure does not include electricity and local utility payments. 2 The amount of corporate income tax paid in 2010 is lower compared to 2009 mainly due to the combination of low reported results and important tax reimbursements. 3 Capital expenditure. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Enriching our communities 33 ArcelorMittal Foundation Q. How does the ArcelorMittal Foundation Also in Poland, the ArcelorMittal Foundation has been developing language labs at local schools to help students improve their Emergency relief in Haiti language skills. Focusing on schools that contribute to community are situated within 15 km of ArcelorMittal operations in Poland, 13 language labs development? were opened in 2009, a further ten in 2010 and another six are planned for 2011. A. Last year the ArcelorMittal Foundation supported more than 585 community The project won an internal ArcelorMittal Performance Excellence Award in 2010. development projects across the world, In China, students from the Xinhuamen investing a total of over $37.7 million. The Primary School, which the Foundation helped ArcelorMittal Foundation focuses on Education, to rebuild in 2009 after an earthquake, took Health, and Social promotion projects that part in a ‘Zero Carbon Journey’ summer camp encourage long-term economic growth and with ArcelorMittal employees’ children which entrepreneurship, while aiming to respect local included a visit to the Shanghai Energypeople and address their needs. The priority conservation Exhibition Center. is always to support projects that have the potential to be self-sustainable and will The Foundation also organises annual summer contribute to the United Nations Millennium camps for children in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Development Goals. Czech Republic, Mexico, Kazakhstan and After the devastating earthquake in Haiti in Ukraine. January 2010, the ArcelorMittal Foundation set aside $1 million for disaster relief. This donation Education In Kazakhstan, ArcelorMittal joined forces was given both in cash and in kind, offering During 2010, we strengthened our with the NGO, Otrazhenie, to take part in the assistance in new housing projects to rebuild Haiti. partnership with the Ministry of Education in international environmental campaign ‘350’. We cooperated with Habitat for Humanity, and South Africa. The aim is to build ten schools The campaign seeks to increase environmental Médecins Sans Frontières. Habitat for Humanity awareness, promote CO2 and energy saving is already one of the Foundation’s long-standing over a seven year period, utilising innovative ideas, as well as supporting the implementation partners, and it has enabled them to construct technologies, such as light steel frame 2,000 emergency shelters for people made construction methods, insulated panels and of environmental projects. One of the first actions was a tour of ArcelorMittal’s Steel homeless by the earthquake. More than 200 energy-efficient technology. The first, a local people were able to get employment in the 1,200-pupil school in the Mamelodi township, Division for students from a local high school. construction work through our support. was completed in around a quarter of the time it would have taken using conventional Health materials, and was opened in August 2010. This partnership will create new jobs and Supporting community health is also a key on-the-job training opportunities – around 80 focus for the Foundation, and good examples people were employed at the Mamelodi site, can be found in Italy, where we partner and some of them were also given training in with the local municipal police to organise an the installation of the thermally-insulated steel annual road safety competition. It encourages panels. Work is now underway at the second students to develop road safety awareness site in Idutywa, in the Eastern Cape, and campaigns, over 600 students participated the project has already won a Community in 2010. Development Award from the South African Institute of Steel Construction. While at ArcelorMittal Point Lisas in Trinidad and Tobago, a partnership with the Ministry Did you know… Another important education project supported of Education and the local Lions Club saw the by the Foundation was the sponsorship of launch of ‘Beyond Sight’ – a programme to the International Baccalaureate programme in provide free vision and audiometric screening Bosnia and Herzegovina, which supported 98 for under-privileged primary school students students who received their diplomas in May in nearby communities. 2010. For two years we have supported students from countries that have suffered In Costa Rica, the ArcelorMittal Foundation has conflicts in the recent past. Going forward, been organising blood donation campaigns for funding will now be given to a professional its employees since 2007. The most recent development project for teachers in Romania campaign took place in July 2010 and over and Poland. 2,000 employees from our Caldera unit donated enough blood to save 54 lives. Similar blood collection campaigns are held at many other ArcelorMittal sites, including those in Brazil, the Czech Republic and the USA. The ArcelorMittal Foundation supported more than 585 community projects in 2010. 34 ArcelorMittal Foundation ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Social Promotion The Foundation’s third area of activity – Social Promotion – looks to encourage Q. How do we encourage our employees to get involved Minigrants for maxi-benefits inclusivity and participation, especially of traditionally marginalised groups. An important with their local communities? project is carried out in Prijedor, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Most Mira Festival promotes reconciliation among children from different ethnic backgrounds through interactive A. One of the Foundation’s main priorities over the next five years is to bring the workshops conducted by over 60 skilled organisation closer to ArcelorMittal employees international and local volunteers on topics all over the world. This is why support for such as drama, arts, dance, music and activities such as the International Volunteer photo-journalism. Work Day is important. The International Volunteer Work Day is held every December, Since 2007, the ArcelorMittal Foundation in and unites ArcelorMittal people across the Argentina has worked with the international world in a single day of active participation for NGO, Ashoka, and its ‘Let’s go forward’ the good of their local communities. This year programme, which inspires and supports was our third International Volunteer Work Day, young people to launch and lead their own and employee volunteers spent over 12,000 social initiatives, helping young Argentineans hours participating in over 200 community become agents for social change. Over the projects, which included the refurbishment of There was one particularly innovative new past three years, 22 social projects have been a local school, visiting sick children in a hospital, project introduced in 2010 – the ‘minigrants’ developed as a result of the partnership and working in a soup-kitchen and collecting toys, programme. Our operations in Ostrava, Czech have benefitted more than 3,500 residents in books and clothing. Republic developed the programme which the communities of San Nicolás and Villa gives employees a unique chance to get financial Constitución. Another important ArcelorMittal Foundation support from the company for projects that initiative launched in 2010 is called they are involved in with local community groups. In Macedonia, a partnership with Junior ‘Solidarity Holidays’. Through this programme 45 projects were approved in 2010, the projects Achievement, resulted in a Creativity & ArcelorMittal employees are given the ranged from helping deaf children at a local Innovation Challenge Biz Day. The event opportunity to spend a week volunteering kindergarten, to providing sports equipment allowed over 100 local secondary school for a Foundation project in another country. for school summer camps. students to develop their business and Successful pilot projects were organised entrepreneurial skills with support from in Senegal, where employees supported a The minigrants programme has been so successful teachers from 18 vocational schools medical camp, and in Mexico, where a different that it is being replicated at other ArcelorMittal throughout Macedonia. group of employees worked with Habitat for sites around the world. One of the first countries to replicate this programme was Luxembourg. In Humanity to build houses for local residents. With a focus on providing low-cost housing July 2010, a local committee selected five projects Several new Solidarity Holiday projects will be proposed by employees that the Foundation solutions, the Foundation’s partnership with organised in 2011, with the first taking place will support. Habitat for Humanity has resulted in three in South Africa in April. innovative steel-framed houses in Moinesti, Romania, that were unveiled in April 2010 and provided housing for 12 families. Each home is designed for four families and the energy efficient, steel-frame houses also offer an ideal solution for regions prone to natural disasters. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ArcelorMittal Foundation 35 Transparent governance Anti-corruption training 94% Around 94% of employees in relevant roles were trained in the new anti-corruption guidelines in 2010 36 Transparent governance ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 People have never had higher expectations of Q. What governance structure Code of Business Conduct 90% does ArcelorMittal have? corporations than they do now, and have never demanded more exacting A. ArcelorMittal is listed on six stock exchanges across Europe and North America, Approximately 90% of employees had completed Code of Business Conduct standards of ethical, and as such we are subject to strict regulatory demands relating to our corporate governance. training by the end of 2010 environmental and social That said, our ambition is always to go beyond what is required, and set new standards for our performance. We see this sector in this crucial area. as a positive opportunity We have nine directors on our Board of to make the responsible Directors, eight of them are non-executives, and six directors are independent. Our Chief and sustainable conduct Executive Officer is the only executive director. of our business into a The Board has set up committees for Audit; Appointments, Remuneration, and Corporate long-term competitive Governance, and, since June 2009, Risk Management. advantage. We want to Since 2008, the Board has conducted be an acknowledged an annual self-assessment designed to identify leader in the quality of our potential areas for improvement, and ensure that the Board continues to have the right level governance, the openness and mix of skills. The process is coordinated by the Company Secretary under the of our communications, supervision of the Chairman and the Lead and the scale of the positive Independent Director. Its findings are examined by the Appointments, Remuneration, and impact we can have on Corporate Governance Committee and recommends developments in areas like our supply chain. strategy, marketing, human resources, corporate governance, and regulation. United Nations Global Compact This section covers: The operational direction of ArcelorMittal is Principle 10 – Businesses should work against the responsibility of the Group Management corruption in all its forms, including extortion Board (GMB). The GMB members are and bribery appointed and supervised by the Board of Directors and the GMB is headed by Lakshmi N. Mittal as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Global Reporting Initiative as well as being the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The GMB is supported by a team This section addresses in full, or in part, the of 12 Management Committee members, all following GRI indicators: working towards delivering the best possible SO3 – Anti-corruption training and response performance to all stakeholders, including to incidents continuously working to improve Health and SO5 – Public policy positions Safety results. SO7 – Legal action related to anti-competitive behaviour ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Transparent governance 37 Transparent governance Continued Q. What ethical standards do we observe across the world? We also keep a watching brief on emerging trends and new issues as they arise, and develop new policies and training wherever CR Forum Liberia this proves to be necessary. A good example would be the need to comply with any new A. Fair and ethical business practices are at the heart of the ArcelorMittal way of economic sanctions imposed by the UN, EU, or specific national governments on certain countries or regions. A new training programme relating to this specific issue was launched in working. These principles are enshrined in our the beginning of 2011. Code of Business Conduct, and reinforced by specific policies and training programmes on We have a whistleblowing procedure in place. issues such as antitrust, anti-corruption, The global system conforms to the US insider dealing, conflicts of interest, and Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The purpose In February 2010, ArcelorMittal, in partnership with non-discrimination. the German government department, Gesellschaft of the whistleblower process is to identify any serious concerns with regard to irregularities Fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ, now renamed Last year the Compliance function within our GIZ), established the Corporate Responsibility (CR) in accounting, auditing, banking matters or Legal Department continued to use a variety Forum Liberia, designed to encourage responsible bribery at the earliest possible moment. of different channels to raise awareness of investment, good corporate citizenship and Additional local level processes allow the importance of ethical business conduct, collective action for sustainable development. employees to report any suspected accounting including face-to-face and online training, irregularities, auditing and financial, as well as and a dedicated intranet portal. All our CR Forum Liberia launched its inaugural project, any other fraud issues. Employees are made employees go through Code of Business ‘Capacity Building for Better Business in Liberia’, aware of the systems via the intranet, email, Conduct training, which has to be renewed last year. newsletters and notice boards. At the every three years. This training is offered in end of 2010, 21 operations had implemented Close to 200 businesses, public sector agencies person and online, with electronic modules a localised whistleblowing system. Owing to and non-governmental organisations participated available in English, French, Portuguese, national legal constraints we were unable to in a series of corporate responsibility-related Russian, and Spanish among others. 90% of introduce a further two as originally planned. workshops. employees were trained by the end of 2010, and 94% of those in relevant roles have now Our new Human Rights Policy is an integral The first year of the Forum has focused on key completed the programme on anti-corruption. part of the Compliance Programme and it issues such as human rights and sustainable This training will now be extended to sales applies to every ArcelorMittal employee, as development. Moving forward, the Forum has set agents and other business partners. During well as contractors working at our sites. All our four strategic priorities in Liberia’s journey toward 2010, a number of breaches of the Code of economic prosperity, each to be delivered over the employees will receive detailed training on the Business Conduct occurred, some of which next two years, including: implications of the policy, either face-to-face lead to legal action and dismissals. or online, and there will be a special priority • Development of a strong network for training in countries where the protection of Forum members In June 2010, the European Commission of human rights raises particular issues, such • Promote best practices and capacity imposed fines totalling approximately as India, Liberia, Brazil, Algeria, China, and building on corporate responsibility issues €317 million on current and former entities of Kazakhstan, as identified through our external ArcelorMittal relating to alleged anticompetitive • Corporate social investment stakeholder consultation. practices of European manufacturers of • Partnerships and collaboration pre-stressed wire and strands steel. The ArcelorMittal has signed up to the investigation, pending since 2002, related to In 2010, the United Nations Development European Commission’s Register of Interest alleged anticompetitive practices dating back Programme (UNDP) joined the Forum as an Representatives where the Company sets to a period over 25 years ago – long before ‘official observer’, which makes the Forum eligible out the activities it deploys in its relations the ArcelorMittal Group, as it is known today, for UNDP technical and financial support. This with the European institutions as well as the partnership supports the Liberian government’s was formed. The decision of June 2010 has financial resources the Company dedicates to aim to achieve its Poverty Reduction Strategy since been materially amended twice by the ensuring that its views are communicated and and the UN Millennium Development Goals. European Commission to take into account understood by European policymakers. We calculation and other errors. In September cooperate with European Union institutions For more information visit www.crforumliberia.org 2010 the fine was reduced by approximately by bringing our expertise on the elaboration €50 million and in April 2011 it was reduced of policies in the areas of the environment further by approximately €185 million to and climate change, trade, social policy, €82 million. ArcelorMittal introduced and and Research and Development. For more continues to develop a strong compliance information see https://webgate.ec.europa.eu/ programme across all its subsidiaries to help transparency/regrin/welcome.do. ensure all business activity is conducted in accordance with the highest ethical standards, We have been part of the Extractive Industries minimising the risk of malpractices in Transparency Initiative (EITI) since January the future. 2009. This sets out voluntary standards for companies in the extractives sector, governing how they communicate their payments to governments and governmental entities. 38 Transparent governance ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 “The partnership we established with ArcelorMittal Liberia was instrumental to the initiation and launch of the Corporate Responsibility Forum of Liberia. Future success and effectiveness of the Forum will depend on continued engagement of the member companies – most importantly through partnership projects and peer learning on environmental, social and governance issues. It is our hope that ArcelorMittal Liberia will rise up to this challenge and continue to mobilise member companies for concrete partnerships.” Doris Popp GIZ Centre for Co-operation with the Private Sector It is generally agreed that it has a key part The third phase will be an ongoing programme to play in encouraging sustainable economic of work to coach and communicate with Supplier engagement in Brazil development. The EITI has already made our suppliers and buyers. This is vital to the significant progress within a number of success of our programme, and we will develop individual countries, and has substantially online training, case studies, practical tools, improved the level of engagement between and new opportunities to share knowledge governments, companies, and NGOs. The next and experience. We will also have internal challenge is to find better ways to help local ‘responsible sourcing champions’ for each communities benefit from the mineral wealth category of purchasing, who will help embed in their own areas. ArcelorMittal is a founding these principles into our existing systems and member of the Liberia EITI and Liberia became ways of working. We are now in the process of the first African country to be compliant with establishing this network. the EITI process. The fourth element will be what we call the ‘Supplier Added Value Excellence’ programme. This will be a series of collaborative partnerships ArcelorMittal Brasil has had particular success in Q. with suppliers, focused on key areas for mutual engaging with small local firms, with the aim of benefit. Projects may include improvements in helping them compete for, and win, contracts with How do we work their operations. This helps build capacity locally, the use of technology, energy efficiency, Health with our suppliers? and Safety, and the recycling of waste, and will enhances the equality of suppliers available to us, aim to identify initiatives that create significant and encourages economic development. A. A business like ours can make a significant contribution to raising social and cost savings as well as environmental and social benefits. Our units at Tubarão and Cariacica are both major players in the Integrated Programme of Suppliers’ Development and Qualification (or Prodfor), which environmental standards in its supply chain. The final phase will be to put into place a focuses on helping small and mid-sized companies This is why we launched a formal Responsible range of internal performance indicators, implement a quality management system, so that Sourcing Programme in December 2010, which will make it easier for us to review our they can achieve the supply standards required by which promotes our standards of Health progress, and report against clear benchmarks large customers. The scope of the programme has and Safety, human rights, ethics and to external stakeholders in reports such as this been growing in recent years, and now includes environmental stewardship to our suppliers. one. We have already made progress in this certifications in environmental and occupational This builds on the projects and initiatives that area, and have identified key performance Health and Safety systems. existed within the Group, and formally brings indicators such as the number of buyers these together. trained on responsible sourcing, the number ArcelorMittal Brasil is also a signatory of the of suppliers that have acknowledged the National Pact for the Eradication of Slavery Work, Code as a percentage of our total spend, which involves organisations such as the Instituto There are now five clear elements to Observatório Social, Instituto Ethos, and the responsible sourcing at ArcelorMittal. The and the number that have completed the evaluation process. International Labor Organization. We seek to first phase of this was to establish a Code for share good practices like this across the Group Responsible Sourcing, and we have engaged and with our business partners. with customers, suppliers, peer companies, Many of the elements of the new global and NGO experts in drawing up this code. It approach to responsible sourcing have been sets out the minimum standards we ask our followed by our larger operations around the suppliers to meet, and describes how we will world for several years. Our South African work with them to achieve this. In 2010, we operations have an additional obligation to launched the Code for Responsible Sourcing work within the Broad-Based Black Economic to our suppliers, and will continue this Empowerment framework, or BBBEE. This is engagement in 2011. We are convinced that designed to ensure economic equality between this collaborative process further strengthens different racial groups, and covers issues such the relationship with our suppliers. as procurement, enterprise development, equity ownership, and skills development. The next stage will be to integrate responsible There are more details about our compliance sourcing into our overall procurement with BBBEE in the ArcelorMittal South Africa processes, such as tenders, new supplier annual report. approvals, and supplier evaluations. Work on this is now underway. During 2010, we In 2010, we also continued our active enhanced the integration of responsible participation with the United Nations Global sourcing evaluation criteria in the existing Compact Supply Chain working group. This annual supplier performance monitoring forum helps us to share best practices with system. Suppliers are assessed on these new other industry leaders, and develop standards criteria, alongside commercial factors such as and good practices for all members. In 2010, price and quality. we contributed to the guidance document ‘Supply Chain Sustainability: A Practical Guide to Continuous Improvement’. This aims to provide practical guidance to help business to embed sustainability into their supply chain. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Transparent governance 39 Transparent governance Continued Q. How do we work with our customers? Q. How do we report our performance and policies to Did you know… local stakeholders? A. A. During the past year we have focused on strengthening our customer relations. We feel we have always had a positive relationship This is the fifth corporate responsibility with our automotive customers and have report we have issued as the ArcelorMittal attempted to duplicate this business model Group, but many of our local businesses have approach for other market segments. been issuing reports to their own stakeholders for longer than this. We encourage more of our Importantly, we also undertook a survey operations to do this, and have issued a ArcelorMittal is a member of the of a select group of important customers. guidance manual to help them report in an Dow Jones Sustainability Index Whilst the results of the survey showed that open and consistent manner. the majority of our customers see us as a and was recognised in 2010 as commercial and technological leader within We firmly believe that reporting at local level a ‘SAM Sector Mover’. the industry, and are satisfied with their is just as important as reporting at Group level relationship with us, the outcome also – indeed, many of the corporate responsibility identified opportunities for improvement. issues we face have their greatest impact on These include ensuring delivery consistency, local communities, and reporting is one of the improving flexibility on terms and utilising best ways of engaging with them. Some local eBusiness services more extensively in corporate responsibility reports are good the future. models for others to follow – both within the Group and outside. The reports issued by Brazil, South Africa and Argentina are particularly comprehensive examples. Our operations Q. What sustainability indices are we a member of? in India and the USA published their first corporate responsibility reports in 2010 and using the new guidance, several other sites plan to do so in the coming years. A. On the following page we show some highlights from countries that published local corporate Since 2007 we have been a member responsibility reports for their own stakeholders of the FTSE4Good index and have recently in 2010. In 2011, we expect the number been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability of local corporate responsibility reports World and Europe indices; which evidences the to increase as other operations will produce progress ArcelorMittal has made in areas their first reports including Kazakhstan of governance, social and environmental and Ukraine. management. Moreover, as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the top-scoring 15% of the companies in each of the 58 sectors assessed are eligible for inclusion in ‘The SAM Sustainability Yearbook’. ArcelorMittal received two distinctions as a ‘SAM Sector Mover’ and as a ‘SAM Bronze Class’ company. Within Assurer’s commentary the top 15% of each sector, the title of ‘SAM Sector Mover’ is awarded to the company that Through the publication of more local reports achieved the biggest proportional improvement with more clarity concerning key performance in its sustainability performance compared with indicators ArcelorMittal can better monitor the previous year. performance across the Group. The operations that have produced their own reports state that they have seen benefits from the process as a logical progression from their continuing focus on local community engagement towards comprehensive disclosure to stakeholders. However, ArcelorMittal must continue keeping these reports relevant to local and national stakeholders. 40 Transparent governance ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Local corporate responsibility reports ArcelorMittal USA ArcelorMittal South Africa ArcelorMittal India Ltd ArcelorMittal USA published its first report ArcelorMittal South Africa issued its fourth ArcelorMittal India Ltd. published its first in June 2010. Highlights included a reduction report in 2010. Despite a 40% drop in steel local report in May 2010. In this report, in Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate of over production on the previous year the ArcelorMittal highlights its commitment 10% on the previous year, and 100% of operations did not need to downsize or to supporting the realisation of the United steelmaking facilities receiving ISO 14001 curtail spending on skills development Nations Millennium Development Goals. This environmental management certification. and training. A weaker year in terms of report would go on to achieve the runner-up It also made progress towards achieving safety performance led to comprehensive prize in the Best SME (micro, small and increased transparency with stakeholders, investigations into the causes of two major medium-size enterprises) reporting category holding approximately 300 formal accidents. This was followed up by corrective of the CRRA, global Corporate Responsibility engagements, and implementing a community actions that were communicated across the Reporting Awards in 2011. The report also information phone line at nine of its facilities. entire ArcelorMittal Group. received recognition in the Best First Time Report category. ArcelorMittal Argentina ArcelorMittal Brasil ArcelorMittal Argentina’s performance ArcelorMittal Brasil is one of the Group’s most and management is detailed in their local experienced reporters. In its 2009 report, the reports, with their sixth corporate responsibility company detailed its ‘World Cup Group’, in report published in 2010. The operations were preparation for the forthcoming sporting able to demonstrate a reinforced training event, to demonstrate the advantages of steel policy despite the challenging local economic in civil construction. Another major highlight environment. Argentina also continued to was an award-winning Clean Development strengthen their overall approach to quality, Mechanism project that has saved over safety and occupational health including the 400,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. evaluation of 85 critical suppliers, exceeding Furthermore, reducing impacts on biodiversity objectives set in its customer satisfaction is one of ArcelorMittal Brasil’s environmental All local reports are available on www.arcelormittal.com monitoring, and the development of objectives, and it has strong investment and Also, look out for the latest publications from more an alcoholism prevention programme. environmental monitoring programmes in place. countries to be added continuously. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Transparent governance 41 Key performance indicators We have defined key performance indicators to monitor the four areas of our corporate responsibility strategy. We report on our progress against these criteria and have established some quantitative targets. Key areas Key Performance Indicator (KPI) Definition Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (per million Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is the number of injuries which has resulted hours worked) in an employee or contractor being away from work at least one day after the day the accident occurred, per million hours worked. Percentage of operations* certified to the Health OHSAS 18001 is an international standard for Health and Safety management systems. and Safety Management System standard, OHSAS 18001 Investing in our people Number of hours of full-time employee training Number of hours of full-time employee training at the ArcelorMittal University. at the ArcelorMittal University This excludes Health and Safety training and local, formal and on-the-job training. Number of social dialogue interactions at Formal worker representation at European level, this includes core employee relation corporate level activities such as Plenary Assemblies, Select Committees, European Works Council Secretariat meetings as well as Health and Safety working groups and Trade Union training. Total Group carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions per Total Group CO2 emissions per tonne of steel produced. This excludes data tonne of steel produced (tonnes) from mining activities. Making Percentage of industrial operations certified to the ISO 14001 is an international standard for environmental management systems. steel more Environmental Management System standard, sustainable ISO 14001 Total spend on environmental and energy capital Any investment in environmental improvements, such as water treatment facilities, expenditure ($) de-dusting equipment and technology upgrades. This excludes environmental operating expenditures that are incurred as a result of continuous improvement. Estimated economic contribution ArcelorMittal’s estimated economic contribution figure is based on the Company’s indirect economic contributions and includes wages and salaries, contractual and supplier payments, capital expenditure, Research and Development spend, corporate income tax, local taxes and shareholder dividends. This does not include electricity and local utility payments and ArcelorMittal Foundation investments. Number of community engagement plans The ArcelorMittal Community Engagement Standard defines minimum community engagement requirements that all significant operating subsidiaries must meet. These Enriching our requirements include: undertaking a stakeholder mapping exercise, where stakeholders and issues are identified, the establishment of communication channels that stakeholders communities can use to raise concerns, and the documentation of engagement activities. Number of community grievance mechanisms A mechanism to receive and act upon local community grievances. in place Number of direct beneficiaries from ArcelorMittal Direct beneficiaries include individuals, organisations and neighbourhoods. Foundation projects Percentage of employees receiving Code of Business The ArcelorMittal Code of Business Conduct covers all our dealings with companies, Conduct training suppliers and individuals, and addresses specific compliance issues such as anti-trust, anti-corruption, insider dealing, conflicts of interest, non-discrimination, Health and Safety and environmental performance. The training applies to all employees. Number of significant operating subsidiaries with Significant operating subsidiaries are required to supplement the Group’s centralised Transparent whistleblowing notification systems in place whistleblowing procedures with additional local level processes that enable employees to report suspected accounting irregularities, auditing and financial issues, as well as governance any other fraud matters. Number of significant operating subsidiaries Significant operating subsidiaries are required to undertake annual Board undertaking Annual Board self-assessments self-assessments which cover issues such as strategy, values and performance. These assessments help Board members to identify areas for improvement. * This figure excludes ArcelorMittal’s Distribution Solutions, which is primarily an in-house trading and distribution arm of ArcelorMittal. 42 Key Performance Indicators ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Progress Key Good progress Progress No significant progress Progress 2008 2009 2010 Management commentary Page 2.50 per million 1.87 per million 1.77 per million Improvement was seen in Health and Safety performance in 2010, based on employee 19 hours hours hours and contractor injury frequency rate, but the Group target was missed. A revised Group target has been set to reduce LTIFR to 1.0 per million hours worked by 2013. 37% 45% 63% Ongoing investment in Health and Safety management systems in 2010. All industrial sites 20 are certified or in the process of certification. The target is to achieve 100% certification of industrial sites by mid-2011. 317,616 hours 314,520 hours 403,280 hours In 2010, ArcelorMittal was able to increase many of its classroom training programmes. 22-23 28 formal 29 formal 34 formal We are committed to maintaining ongoing open and regular dialogue, with employee 23 consultations consultations consultations representatives and Trade Unions. 2.184 tonnes of 2.245 tonnes of 2.150 tonnes Total CO2 emissions increased in 2010, compared to 2009, but emissions per tonne of steel 25 CO2 per tonne of CO2 per tonne of of CO2 per tonne decreased by over 4% on the previous year. Our target is to reduce emissions by 170kg per steel produced steel produced of steel produced tonne of steel by 2020 – equivalent to an 8% reduction in emissions per tonne of steel, compared to the 2007 baseline. 91% 93% 95% In 2010, 95% of steel production plants were certified to the ISO 14001 standard. This 26 fell short of our target of achieving 100% certification in 2010. The certification process is underway at our mining operations. $235 million $224 million $347 million As ArcelorMittal recovered from the financial crisis we were able to announce planned and 26 new investments in environmental and energy saving projects amounting to $347 million. $30.8 billion $48.5 billion $73.6 billion In 2010, this figure included $9.7 billion in employee wages and salaries, $53.2 billion 33 in supplier payments, $5 billion in contractual payments, $192 million in corporate income tax, $611 million in local taxes, $3.3 billion in capital expenditure, $1.3 billion in dividends and $322 million in Research and Development. Not applicable 2 10 All industrial operations continue to improve compliance with the Community 33 Engagement Standard through the identification of local stakeholders and issues, and developing an engagement action plan. In 2010, ten locations produced formal community engagement plans, exceeding our target of eight for the year. Not applicable Not available Not available A number of local grievance mechanisms already exist within the Group. We are currently 33 collecting best practice examples in order to develop group guidance on local grievance mechanisms that will be finalised in 2011. Not applicable 8.8 million 9.1 million In 2010, the ArcelorMittal Foundation supported more than 585 projects across the 34-35 world, which resulted in more than 9.1 million direct beneficiaries. 90% 92% 90% Approximately 90% of employees had some form of training on the Code of Business 38 Conduct in 2010 compared to 92% the previous year. Good progress was made in the supplementary training in anti-corruption, antitrust, and Insider Dealing Regulations. 12 21 21 At year-end 2010, 21 localised whistleblowing systems were in place. The target to have 38 23 systems in place by the end of the year was hindered by legal restrictions in certain countries of operation. Not applicable 1 1 The second Board of Directors self-assessment was completed in 2010 and the results 37 presented to the Appointment, Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committee. We are meeting our aim to complete self-assessments year-on-year but have yet to implement similar self-assessments in the boards of significant operating subsidiaries. ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 KeyPerformanceIndicators 43 Assurance statement Bureau Veritas’ Independent Assurance Statement To: The Stakeholders of ArcelorMittal Materiality – The internal materiality determination • The analysis of any future breaches of the Human Bureau Veritas UK has been engaged to provide process results has been strengthened by input from Rights policy is important for the effective external assurance to the stakeholders of the Group risk management framework and management of potential risks and opportunities ArcelorMittal over its Corporate Responsibility continues to provide a comprehensive and balanced for the Group. ArcelorMittal should ensure this is Report 2010 ‘Safe Sustainable Steel’ (the report). understanding and prioritisation of ArcelorMittal’s key managed accordingly through the provision of material corporate responsibility issues. However, the appropriate training and resources to the internal The preparation of the report is the sole responsibility continued investment and expansion of its mining compliance function. of ArcelorMittal. The objectives, scope, methodology activities means that there remains scope for the and limitations of our work are detailed below. company to more fully incorporate consideration Limitations and Exclusions of the impact of its mining activities on its overall The opinion above has been formed on the basis of, Scope of Assurance materiality matrix. and is subject to, the inherent limitations outlined The assurance process was conducted to meet the below in this independent assurance statement. requirements of a Type 2 assurance engagement Responsiveness – The report provides a as defined by AA1000 2008 Assurance Standard comprehensive response to the many issues and Excluded from the scope of our work is information (AA1000 AS). The assurance process was designed stakeholder concerns relating to its activities. relating to: to provide a high level of assurance concerning the Through the assurance process it is evident that • Activities outside the defined reporting period; nature and extent of ArcelorMittal’s adherence to ArcelorMittal is responding to concerns raised by the AA1000 AS accountability principles and a specific stakeholder groups and seeking proactive • Company position statements (including any moderate level of assurance of the reliability of discussions to ascertain their views and progress expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, specified performance information within the report. towards addressing any grievances. At the sites expectation, aim or future intention provided by visited it was apparent that stakeholder views were ArcelorMittal); and The report was also subject to an evaluation against being listened to and that site level management are the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability • Financial data which is taken from ArcelorMittal’s willing to work with local communities to achieve Reporting Guidelines. Annual Report and Accounts, audited by an suitable solutions. external financial auditor. Methodology Specified Performance Data – Performance data This independent statement should not be relied To conduct the assurance we undertook the within the report continues to be gathered through upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements following activities: a variety of data systems and processes. We consider that may exist within the Report. the data as presented in the report to be reliable but • Interviews with a number of senior managers also highlight our previous recommendation that Statement by Bureau Veritas of Independence, and other key individuals at ArcelorMittal’s ArcelorMittal reviews the data, gathering inputs Impartiality and Competence Luxembourg and London offices to review the against the key performance indicators (KPIs) stated Bureau Veritas is an independent professional ongoing development and implementation of in the report to ensure that performance against services company that specialises in quality, the overall Corporate Responsibility Strategy; these metrics can be consistently and regularly environmental, health, safety and social accountability • A review of ArcelorMittal’s process for reviewed and continue to provide accurate and with over 180 years history in providing independent identification and management of key issues reliable information. assurance services, and an annual turnover in 2009 and risks to the Company and its stakeholders, of €2.7 billion. and justification for subsequent inclusion within Evaluation against Global Reporting Initiative Our assurance team has extensive experience in the report; (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines conducting assurance over environmental, social, Bureau Veritas undertook an evaluation of the report • Verification of performance data and factual ethical and Health and Safety information, systems against the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. information (for the period 1 January 2010 to and processes in accordance with best practice. This included cross checking the online GRI index 31st December 2010) contained within the The assurance team does not have any involvement table against all listed documents to provide an report through a process of document review, in any other Bureau Veritas projects with ArcelorMittal opinion on the self declared GRI application level. data sampling and interrogation of supporting and there is no conflict between the other services databases and associated reporting systems; and Based on our work, it is our opinion that the provided by Bureau Veritas and that of our report has been prepared in accordance with the assurance team. • Visits by Bureau Veritas to two operational facilities GRI Reporting Framework including appropriate (Dunkerque, France and Galati, Romania) to Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics consideration of the Reporting Principles and evaluate integration and implementation of across its business which ensures that all our staff necessary indicators to meet the requirements corporate responsibility at site level as well as maintains high ethical standards in their day to day of GRI Application Level C+. assessing the reliability of data collection systems business activities. and reporting at a site level. Recommendations Bureau Veritas UK Ltd Bureau Veritas also presents these additional London, May 2011 Adherence to the AA1000 AS principles priority recommendations for consideration by Inclusivity – ArcelorMittal continues to deploy ArcelorMittal below. These and further detailed robust processes for engaging with key stakeholders recommendations have been provided to the including undertaking centralised stakeholder management of ArcelorMittal in a separate internal engagement with key audiences such as Socially Management Report: Responsible Investors and non-governmental organisations. The site visits also indicate that • Ensure increased integration of the mining operations regularly engage with local stakeholders. business within the overall corporate responsibility The willingness of ArcelorMittal to engage with strategy, implementation and reporting to reflect stakeholders in order to develop its approach to the growing importance of mining activities to the relevant issues has been particularly evident during overall ArcelorMittal business strategy. this reporting period through activities undertaken in • Undertake a review of the availability of the drafting of the Human Rights Policy. performance data at a site level (e.g. environment) and the mechanism by which it is collated and reported at a Group level to increase transparency of performance reporting. 44 Assurance statement ArcelorMittal Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Find out more Memberships and guidelines To develop and inform our internal reporting systems and disclosure we use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 sustainability reporting guidelines as a reference, www.globalreporting.org We are an active member of CSR Europe – a business network To assist readers in the navigation of this report and other for corporate social responsibility with a mission to act as the ArcelorMittal publications we have included a full table of the European platform for companies and their stakeholders to GRI G3 indicators which we currently report on. This can exchange and cooperate to make themselves and Europe be found at www.arcelormittal.com/corporateresponsibility global leaders in sustainable competitiveness and societal wellbeing. For more information see www.csreurope.org As a participant of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact The World Business Council for Sustainable Development we support the initiative committing businesses to align (WBCSD) provides a platform for companies to explore operations and strategies with ten universally accepted sustainable development, share knowledge, experiences principles. How we report against these principles can and best practices, and to advocate business positions in be found online and in this report. More details of the initiative these areas. There is more information on this and can be found at www.unglobalcompact.org ArcelorMittal’s involvement at www.wbcsd.org We have been a member of the Extractive Industries We are leading members of the World Steel Association where Transparency Initiative (EITI) since January 2009. This sets the industry is committed to a vision where steel is valued as out voluntary standards for companies in the extractives a major foundation of a sustainable world. We contribute sector, governing how they communicate their payments to to the industry-level sustainability report, which can be found governments and governmental entities. For more information at www.worldsteel.org see www.eiti.org This Corporate Responsibility Report contains forward-looking statements that represent the expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives of ArcelorMittal’s management regarding ArcelorMittal’s financial and operational performance in 2010 and beyond, and assumptions or judgements based on such performance. Future performance expectations are forward-looking and accordingly involve estimates, assumptions, judgements and uncertainties. A number of factors may cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from the expectations of our management. These risk factors are outlined in ArcelorMittal’s Annual Report on Form 20-F filed each fiscal year with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and available at www.arcelormittal.com in ‘Investors and Shareholders – Activity Reports and Documents – SEC Filings’. Designed and produced by Salterbaxter Cover printed on Hello Matt – an FSC Certified grade Photography by wide.lu and, Julie Remy (page 34) manufactured at a mill which is accredited with the ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental management Printed by Fulmar Colour. standards. Text printed on Revive 100 White Premium Fulmar Colour are ISO14001 certified, CarbonNeutral®, Uncoated – a 100% Recycled FSC Certified grade Alcohol Free and FSC and PEFC chain of Custody certified. manufactured at a mill which is accredited with the The inks used are vegetable oil based. ISO 14001 environmental management standard. Published in May 2011. To receive a copy of the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report, please contact: ArcelorMittal 19, Avenue de la Liberté L-2930 Luxembourg Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg www.arcelormittal.com crteam@arcelormittal.com
