Cleveland Clinic Health System 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report A communication on progress to our community Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Cleveland Clinic Health System 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report A communication on progress to our community Dear Friends: We are pleased to present the 2011 Cleveland Clinic United Nations Global Compact, Communication on Progress, for your approval. Here, you’ll find data on Cleveland Clinic’s compliance with the 10 universal principles set forth in the United Nations Global Compact. The United Nations Global Compact is a valuable document. We share its principles. These principles reflect our commitment to the health and well being of the communities we serve. They affirm our support for environmental sustainability, diversity, fairness and integrity. The United Nations Global Compact enhances Cleveland Clinic’s culture of caring. It enunciates worthwhile goals, promotes the exchange of best practices among enterprises, and reinforces good citizenship in the community and responsible stewardship of the environment. In 2008, Cleveland Clinic became the first healthcare provider to sign the United Nations Global Compact. In 2011, we continue to support its goals and aspirations. This report will show you how far we have come in the intervening years, and what we plan to accomplish in the future. Thank you for reading and considering this Communication on Progress. I hope it will inspire you to improve our world. Sincerely, Delos M. Cosgrove, MD CEO and President Cleveland Clinic This report was compiled with the participation of the following key internal structures focused on supporting the principles of the UN Global Compact: • Office of Diversity • Community Outreach • Wellness Institute • Office for a Healthy Environment • Facilities, Construction and Real Estate • Human Resources • Compliance Office • Government Relations • Executive Administration 1 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work The United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact brings business together with UN agencies, labor, civil society and governments to advance 10 universal principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Through the power of collective action, the United Nations Global Compact seeks to mainstream these 10 principles in business activities around the world and to catalyze actions in support of broader UN goals. With 5,000 stakeholders from more than 120 countries, it is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. For more information, please visit: www.unglobalcompact.org. The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1: proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3: recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 4: compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect Principle 6: of employment and occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7: environmental challenges. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8: environmental responsibility. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Principle 9: environmentally friendly technologies. AntiC orruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principle 10: including extortion and bribery. 2 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Human and Labor Rights Cleveland Clinic is committed to protecting human rights, directly and indirectly, through our employment and business practices and community engagement. We respect and uphold the labor laws of the United States, including protections against workplace and employment discrimination, the freedom of association, the right to organized labor, and the elimination of child and compulsory labor. As the largest employer in Northeast Ohio, with enterprises in Greater Cleveland, Florida, Nevada, Canada and the Middle East, we strive to foster a healthy, respectful and inclusive workforce, and to bring its benefits to our stakeholders in every community we serve. Structural Support for Human and Labor Rights Community Benefit To activate this commitment, we have established the Cleveland Clinic believes that the health of a city begins Division of Community Relations and Diversity, a Wellness with the health of its people. We’re committed to Institute and a robust and progressive Human Resources promoting nutrition, fitness and healthy habits in Cleveland team. A sub-committee of the Board of Directors governs and its neighboring communities. We’re empowering community and diversity strategies. A multi-stakeholder people with the tools and education they need to take Supplier Diversity Council helps us find and nurture local responsibility for their health and safety. We’re bringing and diverse businesses in our region. Numerous employeeneighbors, physicians and community organizations led wellness teams and diversity councils throughout the together to energize change, and to make Northeast Ohio enterprise enact strategies at our various facilities and engage our workforce directly. Our Human Resources a model of wellness for the nation. The community benefit business partners are embedded directly within workgroups we provide is wide-ranging, from providing healthcare to provide direct support to front-line managers and to for the neediest among us, to funding innovative medical ensure compliance with our comprehensive policies. research that leads to new treatments and cures. The Cleveland Clinic health system subsidizes or supports a More detailed description of our community, diversity, and healthy workplace measures, including formal reports, can be found online at: clevelandclinic.org/about clevelandclinic.org/community clevelandclinic.org/wellness clevelandclinic.org/2008_code_of_conduct clevelandclinic.org/diversity clevelandclinic.org/annual_reports clevelandclinic.org/communitybenefit2009 clevelandclinic.org/sustainability 3 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work comprehensive array of benefits, including charity care, medical research and education, outreach programs, Cleveland Clinic Health System community partnerships and community contributions, Breakdown of Community Benefit 2009 all of which are designed to continue our longstanding $497.7 Million tradition of serving others. Outreach Programs Education Community Engagement and Inclusion Initiatives $42.2 M $176.2 M The structure of the Division of Community Relations and Diversity promotes wellness, education, economic Subsidized Health Services empowerment, cultural competency and inclusion, and $16.4 M Research enriches the face of world-class care. In each area of $65.1 M work, we engage in research and community dialogue Medicaid Shortfall** to determine need and materiality. Programs include: $78.3 M Charity Care $119.50 M Community Outreach: **Net of HCAP benefit of $15.9 million Heath, Wellness and Prevention Our system is built in an area of unique neighborhoods, awareness of available healthcare services. all of which are invited to develop an ongoing healthcare and community services relationship with Cleveland We leverage our major economic presence in Northeast Clinic. Cleveland Clinic Community Outreach builds and Ohio to enhance equal access to potential business supports relationships with these communities through opportunities among qualified women-owned, minoritya wide variety of health and wellness programs and owned and small businesses. The supplier diversity program educational opportunities. By bringing quality health at Cleveland Clinic has two main objectives: develop a pool screenings, education programs and our project-driven of diverse suppliers for increased participation in Cleveland human resources to surrounding neighborhoods—in Clinic’s procurement opportunities and increase the number partnership with community groups and organizations— of local residents trained in skilled building trades and Cleveland Clinic helps individuals and neighborhoods to working on Cleveland Clinic construction sites. Cleveland make positive health and wellness choices and engage in Clinic received the 2010 Supplier Diversity award from the productive programs for the short and the long term. Northern Ohio Minority Supplier Development Council. Employee Community Service Civic Education We encourage leaders to participate on community boards The Office of Civic Education Initiatives was established to and all employees to engage in the communities we serve fulfill Cleveland Clinic’s commitment to promote education by offering a number of service opportunities throughout throughout Northeast Ohio. In partnership with area schools, the Greater Cleveland area and beyond. local businesses, and fellow nonprofit organizations, the Office creates innovative programs designed to enhance Diversity & Inclusion children’s education in the areas of math, science, health This department provides strategic support for creating an and wellness, the arts, and innovation. inclusive organizational culture. This is done through cultural competency education, pipeline development programs Human Resources Policies and Metrics for women and underrepresented minorities, employee We strive for consistent policies and practices across the development and internal/external collaborations on diversityCleveland Clinic enterprise. Our organization has grown related initiatives. Cleveland Clinic ranks as one of the top organically, and legacy policies and practices remain. five hospitals for diversity and inclusion by DiversityInc. At the current time, Human Resources is working to We cultivate strategic educational partnerships with the standardize the health system’s policies and processes communities we serve; provide cultural competency training; in order to provide a consistent employee experience and work toward decreasing health disparities by increasing 4 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Human and Labor Rights across the entire Cleveland Clinic health system. Human The Code of Conduct at Cleveland Clinic is a plain guide Resources professionals are proactively retooling our policies to making the right decisions. All Cleveland Clinic Board to incorporate best practices and develop policies that members, staff, employees, volunteers and service providers apply universally. Work has been completed on the first are required to observe this Code of Conduct, abide by our components of a Human Capital Management system. legal and regulatory compliance policies, and conduct their A manager’s dashboard has been implemented with key activities in an ethical manner. The seven principles that metrics for human resource management. The system are supported by the Code of Conduct include: Legal and for managing organization policy documents has been Regulatory Compliance, Business Ethics, Conflict of Interest, updated and made more accessible for employees. Process Appropriate Use of Resources, Confidentiality, Professional reengineering and standardization are under way in a Conduct, and Responsibility. number of HR business practices in anticipation of the next phase of software and reporting updates which are Employee Wellness planned to go live in early 2012. At Cleveland Clinic, wellness is an important part of our culture. Our employee wellness programs are designed to Fair Labor Practices enhance employee well-being and improve their quality The Cleveland Clinic health system’s compensation system of life. Every year, a million people die of diseases caused is designed to provide wages that are externally competitive by poor lifestyle choices. More than 30 million Americans and internally equitable; it includes a review process for suffer from chronic disease as a result of smoking, lack of any market-driven salary offer that has the potential to exercise, poor nutrition choices and substance abuse. Our disrupt internal equity. Timekeeping systems and policies wellness program offerings focus on smoking cessation, are designed to comply with applicable federal and state food choices and portions, increased physical activity and regulations regarding pay, including accurate calculation stress reduction to help prevent Cleveland Clinic employees of overtime compensation. Hospital policies prohibit from becoming part of those statistics. off-the-clock work for non-exempt employees as well as Cleveland Clinic has demonstrated an ongoing commitment supervisory behavior that permits, encourages or requires to the health of its patients and employees by not hiring off-the-clock work. Human Resources policies address smokers and by strictly prohibiting smoking or the use appropriate use of independent contractors, student interns of any tobacco-related products at all Cleveland Clinic and hospital volunteers. Cleveland Clinic health system locations. A free Tobacco Cessation program is available adheres to state regulations regarding working hours, to all employees. To promote nutritious eating habits, we duties and breaks for employees who are minors. eliminated trans fats from all public and patient menus, launched a weekly farmer’s market for employees and the Code of Conduct community to provide increased access to locally grown, Setting clear expectations is key to creating a culture of fresh foods during the growing season, and most recently, compliance and respect. All employees are required to read eliminated sugared beverages in Cleveland Clinic cafeterias and acknowledge our Code of Conduct, which outlines and vending machines. To engage employees in increasing expectations for all employees, regardless of role. The physical activity, free memberships to Weight Watchers, Cleveland Clinic Code of Conduct is part of our overall Curves, and Cleveland Clinic-owned fitness centers are program of corporate compliance. It states the ethical available. Additionally, we offer employees the opportunity principles that rule our business and determine our actions to participate, at no charge, in Shape Up & Go!™, an ongoing in the workplace. Medical decisions can be complex. team-based walking and fitness competition. To assist in 5 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work stress management, the Stress Free Now online program is available to Shape Up & Go! participants for a nominal fee, and yoga classes are offered at no cost to any group of five participants or more. Healthful behaviors are further encouraged through free Wellness Tips offered online at the Cleveland Clinic Wellness website, and through other online programs that promote exercise, stress management, and healthy, nutritious eating habits. Cleveland Clinic recognizes that healthy employees are more productive, enjoy lower medical costs, and have more energy for our primary mission of putting patients first. Our 42,000 employees and their families represent a considerable part of Greater Cleveland. We continue to look for new ways to evolve our culture of wellness. By strengthening our commitment to a healthy lifestyle for our employees, we make a significant impact on the wellness of our community. Environmental Health and Safety The personal safety and health of each employee, patient and visitor is of primary importance to Cleveland Clinic, as standards and all rules and regulations which are applicable is the protection of the environment in each community we to his or her own actions. Only through a cooperative effort serve. It is our policy to maintain an environmental health by supervisors and employees can an effective accident and safety program conforming to all applicable local, state prevention program be established and preserved. and federal environmental, health and safety standards and regulations. Since these standards and regulations only The Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Department define minimum requirements, it is the position of Cleveland oversees a wide variety of programs that pertain to Clinic that every effort will be made to exceed them employee, patient and visitor safety and environmental whenever practical. protection, including: injury risk and exposure assessments, accident prevention and investigation, fire safety, laboratory The Environmental Health and Safety Programs are safety, biosafety, radiation safety, and hazardous materials predicated upon sound engineering, training and education. management, including hazard communication, waste We provide safe working conditions for all employees and disposal and transportation safety. In addition, EHS make available, where necessary, special equipment for the coordinates the implementation and sustainment activities prevention of accidents and personal injuries. of the 5S Program, a workplace organization methodology, The responsibility for environmental health and safety at which is being implemented throughout the enterprise. The Cleveland Clinic extends through the entire supervisory force 5S Program is aimed at assisting employees create clean, to every employee on the job. The prevention of accidents organized, waste-free work environments that improve and injuries requires that each member of the organization efficiency and patient experience. accepts a full share of responsibility for safety. Each employee shall comply with environmental health and safety 6 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Environmental Stewardship Cleveland Clinic supports healthy environments for healthy communities. We understand that environmental health and human health are linked and that we have a responsibility to take a precautionary approach to environmental stewardship through our operations and our community leadership. Healthy Buildings: We are committed to designing Better Buying: We are committed to using our buying and building safe, green buildings using the U.S. Green power to help transform the healthcare sector and Building Council’s LEED system and evidence-based prevent waste at its source. design, which results in healthier environments in which Finding Champions and Innovators: We are committed to work and heal. to engaging and educating our workforce and our Healthy Operations: In connection with creating a visitors, while helping our region’s communities become healthier built environment, we strive to design and “Green Cities on a Blue Lake.” We seek to pioneer implement operational processes that reduce waste and sustainable healthcare on a national scale by leveraging chemical use, improve energy efficiency and promote Cleveland Clinic’s brand equity and expertise in energy independence. sustainable healthcare. Structure for Environmental Stewardship environmental performance of the organization’s operations. Cleveland Clinic’s Office for a Healthy Environment OHE is supported by employee-led green teams located (OHE) was created in 2007 in response to a heightened at all major facilities in the system. Green team leaders awareness of our organization’s impact on our regional report up to a system-level green team to allow for a shared environment and on climate change at large. This office approach to sustainability at all locations. sets the strategic direction for environmental stewardship In 2010, recognizing that progress varied by location, the at Cleveland Clinic, provides operational support, and OHE engaged our green teams in a concerted effort to directs employee engagement in pursuit of improving the drive consistency in participation and practice, with the 7 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work goal of a unified approach to sustainability across our Stewardship in Action organization. Broadly defined, the functional principles Waste underlying this effort include: Waste management is a critical challenge to the healthcare • A single strategy with uniform deployment to ensure sector and we continue to work collaboratively with our that the sustainability objectives of the organization are supply chain to reduce the amount of waste generated matched by related efforts at each location. from our operations. In 2010, our main campus recycling program diverted 30 percent of the total waste we • Consistency in project oversight and quality to standardize generated from landfills. One major success at this site the process of implementing operational improvements. has been our paper recycling program which has achieved • Standardized programming and messaging so that a 58 percent increase in recycled paper over the last two sustainability at Cleveland Clinic looks and feels the same years. Last year, we indicated that we would report a to all our patients and employees regardless of which landfill diversion rate for the enterprise beginning this year. hospital they visit or work in. This metric is a top priority, and we will soon transition to • Standardized and centralized metrics and external a new environmental data management platform that will reporting so that all sites speak the same language and enable us to begin compiling this data. manage to common metrics to promote system-wide In addition to minimizing waste byproducts from our accountability. product consumption, we actively repurpose a good • Broad-based cultural integration and employee amount of internal materials. This includes the reuse engagement to drive transformative organizational change of 49 tons of furniture during this reporting period, and through individual “ownership” from each caregiver at a donation of 34 tons of medical supplies and other Cleveland Clinic. materials to in-need populations in 2010. As a first step in this journey, a multi-disciplinary As we optimize our conventional waste management team—with representation from each major location— and recycling practices, we are working to make further collaboratively outlined a baseline for sustainability reductions in the waste we generate by working with local at Cleveland Clinic to which all sites should be held businesses and authorities to develop recycling markets for accountable. Installing and optimizing this baseline for materials unique to our industry. sustainability is a major initiative for 2011. Transportation In addition to our network of green teams, we have put Cleveland Clinic operates a fleet of 247 vehicles that together an enterprise-wide Energy Committee to provide includes passenger shuttles and police and courier vehicles. multi-stakeholder guidance for energy contracts and In 2010, we realized a 9 percent improvement in the overall energy efficiency investments. Among other affiliations, fuel efficiency of this fleet, conserving an estimated 25,000 Cleveland Clinic is an Energy Star Partner, a member of gallons of fuel. This success is attributable, in part, to an Practice Greenhealth and the U.S. Green Building Council, anti-idling policy that was adopted in 2009, as well as the and an active participant in Sustainable Cleveland 2019. acquisition of more fuel-efficient vehicles. We have drafted 35% Interim Goal Main Campus Landfill Diversion Rate PERCENT We measure all of our varied waste streams to calculate our landfill diversion rate, which includes recycling, reuse and donation. The Landfull Diversion Rate (+C&D) data are key measures of our total waste Landfull Diversion Rate (-C&D) impact. We are developing this metric at an enterprise level in 2011. 2007 2008 2009 2010 YEAR 8 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report 300 Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Environmental Stewardship a new vehicle procurement policy that emphasizes hybrid Energy and low emission vehicles whenever it is cost effective. As Cleveland Clinic approaches energy management with our a result, we now have five hybrid vehicles in the fleet. We patients foremost in mind as we strive to reduce the cost of will rely heavily on this policy as we pursue an aggressive healthcare delivery. Beyond reducing costs to our patients, goal of 20 percent improvement in fuel efficiency for our energy programs are viewed as a direct contributor to 2011. Additionally, the Cleveland Clinic Police Department the overall health of the community. Although currently not supplements patrols with bicycle and electric vehicle the case, Northeast Ohio is often listed as a non-attainment mounted officers to provide security without emissions, and area for air quality due to particulate matter. Electricity our parking patrol vehicles have been entirely transitioned to generation in our area is heavily dependent on coal. We all-electric GEM cars. In 2011, we anticipate the installation can, however, directly affect community health by reducing of our first electric car charging station at our main campus the need to build new plants or by eliminating the need for for use by our fleet operators as well as employees. older, less efficient plants. In addition to improving the way we manage the We have taken leadership roles on a number of levels in environmental impact of our fleet, we are taking steps to order to broadly communicate this message. Locally, we are encourage low-carbon employee commuting behavior. a founding member of the Cleveland Energy Alliance and We offer rebates to our employees who purchase qualified we are excited to participate in Sustainable Cleveland 2019, low-emission vehicles, and we offer discounted parking a 10-year strategic initiative to re-envision the Cleveland rates to employees who drive hybrid or fuel-efficient vehicles region, by among other things, celebrating the Year of Energy and to those who carpool. However, our employee base is 35% Interim Goal Efficiency in 2011. Regionally, we are a founding member heavily reliant on single occupancy vehicles to commute to of the Ohio Energy Efficiency Collaborative and helped drive work, and we are focused on getting better at encouraging one of the most aggressive state energy efficiency portfolios alternative commuting behavior overall. Last year, we through testimony and engagement with our Public Utilities PERCENT reported that a 2010 goal was to increase transit emphasis Commission. Nationally, we chair the U.S. Department of and program enrollment. To that end, we conducted an Energy’s Healthcare Energy Alliance and the Commercial extensive survey of our employee base to understand Building Alliance’s High Efficiency Lighting Committee, and current commuting behavior and identify areas where we are working directly Landfull Diversion Ratemanufacturers with (+C&D) to design more we might better support those who are open to making sustainable Landfull Diversion Rate (-C&D) and efficient products. Internationally, Cleveland a shift in their commuting practices. We look forward to Clinic is proud to be the only healthcare organization acting on these insights 2007 in 2011. 2008 2009 represented in the Clean2010 Energy Ministerial’s Global Superior YEAR Energy Performance program. Enterprise Energy 300 Utilization Index kBTU/SF The Energy Utilization Index (EUI) is a measure of the total energy consumed Goal 250 per square foot of our building portfolio. It is a measure of efficiency that allows us to benchmark our performance against like facilities. 200 2007 2008 2009 2010 YEAR 9 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Cleveland Clinic became an ENERGY STAR Partner in March 2008, and as part of this formal commitment, we appointed an Energy Director with specific duties that mirror those recommended by Energy Star’s Guidelines for Energy Management Overview. Our progress to date has culminated in our recognition as an Energy Star Partner of the Year by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). This recognition highlighted the outstanding contribution we made to protect the environment through energy efficiency. We also added two new Energy Star awards during the 2010 reporting period which acknowledge buildings that operate in the top 25 percent of comparable buildings nationwide in Cleveland Clinic Community Farmers Markets terms of energy performance; this brings our portfolio total to six. In addition, Cleveland Clinic’s Solon Family Health Farmers markets support our local economy; provide increased Center participated in the inaugural EPA National Building access to fresh, healthy produce; encourage biodiverse, small Competition as the only healthcare facility and placed sixth scale farming; and reduce the environmental impact of food in a field of 14 commercial building participants; Solon transportation. A joint project with Community Outreach, the achieved a 14 percent reduction in energy usage over the Wellness Institute and the Office for a Healthy Environment, course of the competition. Cleveland Clinic’s flagship weekly grower-certified farmers market is held on its main campus during the growing season. We continue to approach energy conservation through both New in 2010, in an effort to provide healthy local foods for infrastructure investment and employee engagement. As a those in need, our farmers market began accepting coupons result, we demonstrated a 5 percent decrease in electricity from government agencies for qualifying individuals through usage and an 8 percent decrease in natural gas usage in USDA Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program, Cuyahoga 2010 despite an overall increase in the square footage of our County Women, Infant and Children (WIC) Program and portfolio. For 2011, we are evaluating a number of potential Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Also in locations for solar installations in an effort to continue to 2010, we started farmers markets at four additional locations expand our alternative energy generation portfolio. in our health system. Local Food It remains our commitment to improve the healing procurement standards with a goal of purchasing at least 10 environment with appropriate and responsible food percent of annual food supplies from sources within a 200 selection, professional preparation standards and a rigorous mile radius of Cleveland Clinic in 2011. dedication to consistency and service. Food production and transportation is recognized as a significant contributor Healthy Buildings to total U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. To reduce this impact, stimulate our regional agribusiness, and promote In 2009, anticipating the possible construction of two major a healthier diet for our patients, employees, visitors and buildings on our main campus, Cleveland Clinic embarked community members, we continue to offer a number of on a master planning process to ensure that near-term seasonal local farmers markets throughout our health construction would be a wise long-term investment for the system. In addition, we have further expanded the amount future. The campus is 170 acres with 13,000,000 square of locally sourced foods that are incorporated into the retail feet in 50 structures where 20,000 employees work. We buffets and inpatient food service we offer at our locations. quickly realized that we were master planning not only a Using the Green Guide to Healthcare as guidance on local medical campus, but a small city. procurement, we are in the process of developing local food 10 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Environmental Stewardship rooms with views and corridors that are located along the edge of buildings to bring in natural light. The plan also identifies the need for multiple indoor and outdoor courtyards to create calming views, places of rest, and areas for group activities. As the campus is developed, buildings will be designed to minimize the operating impact on natural resources. The plan promotes building orientation and façade design that takes advantage of sunlight inside and in adjacent courtyards. We envision using solar energy to help heat the buildings; roofs may be green or used to capture energy with solar panels. Efficient fixtures in buildings will reduce water consumption. Rainwater will support native plants while bio-swales manage water run-off. The master plan is a road map for the future and it is a “Cleveland Clinic’s outstanding accomplishments demonstrate that improved energy performance can living document that will be revised as the future unfolds. benefit the bottom line and protect the environment Experience and research will present new information about at the same time. Your commitment to smart energy better ways to heal and new approaches to manage our management, your ability to track and measure impact on the environment. your progress, and your effort to communicate the Currently, all new major construction projects follow LEED importance of energy efficiency to a wide audience standards, with certification as our minimum and silver distinguishes Cleveland Clinic as an industry leader.” certification as our target. We have more than a dozen — Jean Lupinacci, Chief ENERGY STAR Commercial projects in the pipeline, a number of which are on target and Industrial Branch United States Environmental for LEED certification in 2011 or 2012. Additionally, for all Protection Agency new construction projects, demolition projects, and facility renovations we send all debris to be recycled, and we are achieving 76 percent to 98 percent diversion rates on Goals were established to direct plan development that those loads. included the enhancement of patient care, improved operational efficiency, removal of obsolete buildings, improved wayfinding, sustainability, and the creation of Toxics an inviting outdoor environment. Taking a precautionary approach, we are reducing patient and employee exposure to toxics by: maintaining a virtually Creating healthier built environments for our patients and mercury-free environment; procuring Green Seal-Certified our employees was of the utmost importance. In addition cleaning products that have the minimum human and to current construction standards that promote the use environmental health impacts, while maintaining hospitalof environmentally preferable building materials and nongrade effectiveness; furthering our latex-safe environment; toxic finishes (as well as building system design practices reducing PVC and DEHP exposure; and reducing foodthat prioritize indoor air quality), evidence-based design to-plastic contact. We also are reducing the toxicity in concepts to support healing and enhance the patient our built environment through the use of safer adhesives, experience were integrated into the plan. The master sealants, furnishings and finishes. Last year, we indicated plan promotes future building designs that feature patient a goal for 2010 of developing a metric for PVC-DEHP 11 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Awards reduction in our clinical supply portfolio. We endeavor to Cleveland Clinic health system has earned numerous develop a number of metrics to measure the impact of our national awards for environmental stewardship from the U.S. environmentally preferably purchasing activities. We expect Environmental Protection Agency and Practice Greenhealth, a that a new environmental data management platform being nonprofit membership organization founded on the principles implemented will allow us to build out this suite of indicators of positive environmental stewardship and best practices by over the coming years. organizations in the healthcare community. In 2010, we received the following awards: ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Cleveland Clinic was named an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy for performance during the 2010 reporting year. We were one of 40 organizations, selected from more than 20,000 ENERGY STAR partner organizations nationwide, to be named Energy Star Partner of the Year for strategically and comprehensively managing our energy use. Practice Greenhealth Environmental Excellence Awards Environmental Leadership Award This award is the premier and most competitive award recognizing facilities that exemplify environmental excellence and are setting the Climate Change Action highest standards for environmental practices and sustainability in Cleveland Clinic health system has developed its first healthcare. Our main campus was honored with this award for the greenhouse gas inventory for its U.S. operations and is 2010 reporting year. tracking direct GHG emissions from our main campus Partner for Change plant. This inventory revealed that 82 percent of our scope Eight of our hospitals and eight of our family health centers received one and scope two emissions result from our consumption this honor, which recognizes top performers that maintain at least a of electricity. As we have recognized that our biggest 15 percent recycling rate and show progress in most other areas. opportunity to lessen our carbon footprint lies in reducing our electricity consumption, our climate change action is Partner Recognition focused primarily on improving the energy efficiency of our Two of our hospitals and one of our family health centers received operations. Over time, we hope to expand the boundary of this honor, which recognizes facilities that have organized for our greenhouse gas inventory to include our international change and made progress in several areas. sites. We also endeavor to educate our employees, patients and the community on the public health effects of climate Making Medicine Mercury-Free change. One way we have begun to take the lead in our This one-time award was granted to one of our family health industry is by commissioning a study to better understand centers that made a commitment to and implemented mercury the role that the healthcare industry has both as a management and minimization best practices. We have seven contributor and a first responder to climate change. other facilities that have achieved this recognition in years past. We hope to share this work in late 2011. System for Change Our enterprise was recognized with this award in 2010 for the third straight year for our system-level approach and structure which has generated progress at each of our facilities. 12 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Anti-Corruption Cleveland Clinic is committed to an ethical, transparent business environment, discouraging corruption in all its forms. Structural Support for Anti-Corruption practices and pledge to act in an ethical manner. We also Cleveland Clinic has a designated Chief Integrity Officer held two onsite forums with hundreds of Cleveland Clinic who reports directly to the Board of Directors. This officer vendors in attendance, which included a focus on ethical oversees a 20-FTE internal audit office, which is responsible business practices. for auditing expenses and invoicing every year; checking that Cleveland Clinic has a Chief Government Affairs Officer protective services conducts background checks; ensuring who oversees a team of government relations professionals. foreign corrupt-practices training; and audits directed at This team collaborates with elected officials at all levels detecting fraud. The officer also oversees a 12-FTE Corporate of government to promote health and wellness and shed Compliance department that ensures compliance with light on the challenges and opportunities within our sector. federal, state and local laws and regulations, and operates As part of the development of federal healthcare reform, a whistle-blowing hotline. An annual risk assessment Cleveland Clinic management assisted government officials is performed to identify risks in the health system. This in understanding our medical practice model which has involves interviewing approximately 100 employees been recognized as a best practice. We ensure that ethical and communicating findings and mitigation efforts to practices are maintained by completing detailed reports of management and the Board using a risk matrix. contact with elected officials and government agencies, and In 2010, Cleveland Clinic sponsored a Northeast Ohio by filing federal lobbying reports for the money and time business ethics forum, which brought together more spent by individuals from the Office of Government Relations than 200 area companies to focus on ethical business and Cleveland Clinic for advocacy efforts. 13 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Structural Support for Conflict of Interest Conflict of Interest Office and the Chief Governance Officer, Since its founding in 1921, Cleveland Clinic has been a through the Law Department, coordinates with these leading medical innovator. Discoveries made here have committees to administer the conflict of interest program. saved millions of patients’ lives, and many innovations are standard practice in medicine today. Cleveland Clinic Regulatory Compliance believes that medical innovation significantly benefits patient Cleveland Clinic is committed to a formal Corporate care. At the same time, we recognize that innovation must Compliance program that is intended to ensure that be managed with extraordinary sensitivity and transparency. employees, contractors and vendors conduct activities in We are fully committed to a process that ensures integrity full compliance with applicable federal, state and local in innovation and places the interests of our patients first. laws, regulations, policies and ethical standards. In May 1996, the Board of Directors formally adopted the program To assure professional and commercial integrity in all and, in June 1998, the Office of Corporate Compliance matters, Cleveland Clinic maintains a comprehensive was established under the direction of the Chief Integrity conflict of interest program for staff physicians, other Officer. In January 2003, the responsibilities were employees and trustees that is designed to ensure that expanded to include the Privacy Office, established all potential conflicts, including institutional conflicts, are in response to the Health Insurance Portability and transparent and properly addressed. We were the first Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). academic medical center to openly disclose the industry ties of our physicians via our public website. Our policies require regular reporting and updating of interests that A Culture of Transparency may present a conflict. These interests are then formally Employees are encouraged to hold one another and our reviewed by one or more authorities within Cleveland leadership to our Code of Conduct, regulations and ethical Clinic, such as the Conflict of Interest committees of and safe workplace policies. We operate anonymous hotlines the Professional Staff and/or the Board of Directors. (115 calls in 2010) and email accounts (34 emails in The Board of Directors promotes a culture of awareness 2010), for a total of 149 compliance-related reports, from and sensitivity at all levels to potential conflicts of alleged Human Resources breaches, to issues of privacy interest, recognizing that it is ultimately responsible for and business ethics. In addition to formal hotline calls, maintaining and preserving a balance between innovation Corporate Compliance staff directly received more than and transparency. The Conflict of Interest Committee of 500 compliance-related inquiries in 2010, further evidence the Board of Trustees oversees conflict of interest matters that our organization has a culture of integrity. All reports at Cleveland Clinic; this includes having oversight of the and inquiries are broken down by type and location, and Professional Staff Conflict of Interest Committee. The responded to in a timely manner. As a leader in healthcare, Cleveland Clinic views our responsibility to the health and well-being of our communities and beyond as an extension of our healthcare mission. We are privileged to highlight our accomplishments around human and labor rights, environmental stewardship and anti-corruption in this, our second, United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress. 14 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work Putting the Compact to Work Cleveland Clinic strives to embrace, support and enact the core values expressed by the 10 founding principles of the UN Global Compact. Our second Communication on Progress highlights some of the myriad ways in which we as an organization are working to support Cleveland Clinic’s mission of better care of the sick, investigation into their problems, and further education of those who serve, while also seeking to meet our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Cleveland Clinic’s numerous and wide-ranging activities in this arena are embedded in our daily operations. The way we manage our supply chain exemplifies this approach. The Cleveland Clinic Supply Chain Management team brings together caregivers from across the organization to effect positive changes that enhance Cleveland Clinic’s ability to deliver quality patient care, improve efficiency and reduce expenses. At the same time, Supply Chain Management endeavors to cultivate a diverse organization and supplier base that operates ethically and upholds the Global Compact’s core values of Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environmental Stewardship and Anti-corruption.  Human Rights and Labor Rights our mission of delivering world-class care. Supply Chain Cleveland Clinic recognizes that individuals and populations Management engages with clinical leaders across medical both inside and external to our organization are affected specialties to ensure appropriate assessment of new by the products and services the organization purchases. technology, full evaluation of new products and thorough Supply Chain Management strives to make financially clinical testing of equipment prior to purchase. responsible procurement decisions that support products Cleveland Clinic also strives through our purchasing and services that are produced and sold ethically. policies to support the health and human rights of our Approximately 66 percent of our total annual spend of $1.9 employees, as well as those who provide products and billion is for clinical products and services. In keeping with services to Cleveland Clinic. Cleveland Clinic successfully Cleveland Clinic’s philosophy of “Patients First” and the changed primary cleaning chemicals used throughout the organization’s position as a leader in quality and innovation, hospitals to non-toxic alternatives that not only protect our Supply Chain Management takes great care to ensure patients’ safety and health but also reduce potentially toxic that all clinical products and services are consistent with exposure for our Environmental Services employees. During 15 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report Human & Labor Rights Environment anti-Corruption Putting the Compact to Work bid processes, Supply Chain requires vendors to answer  Anti-Corruption questions about workplace safety, employee benefits and Cleveland Clinic vendors play a key role in the organization’s their employee selection process, where appropriate. growth and success in delivering world-class care. Together Supply Chain is committed to a diverse supplier base with our vendor partners, it is important to stay focused on and tracks and manages purchasing practices so that our goal of supporting the Cleveland Clinic mission. Supply organizations holding special business status, such as Chain routinely evaluates new and existing vendors to ensure femaleand minority-owned and small businesses, have they meet our criteria and are not listed as Federal excluded equal opportunity to bid. The most recent quarterly data parties. Additionally, Cleveland Clinic utilizes a third-party available shows that, including both purchasing practices vendor management company to conduct background checks and construction contracting, Cleveland Clinic did business and training on the Cleveland Clinic code of conduct, conflict with 224 female-owned enterprises and 84 minorityof interest and other vendor-related policies and procedures. owned enterprises. These metrics are reported quarterly to an Advisory Council comprised of the Cleveland Clinic Office of Diversity, Operations division, and external community partners that hold us accountable to continuous improvement in these areas. This venue provides for twoway communication and for Cleveland Clinic to express current and forecast future needs to community business development groups; these groups, in turn, can assist local, small, femaleand minority-owned businesses in positioning themselves as viable options for future consideration as suppliers.  Environmental Stewardship Purchasing decisions are critical to sustainability at Cleveland Clinic’s conflict of interest policy and purchasing Cleveland Clinic and have significant potential to reduce procedures are provided for vendors during their initial our environmental impact. We work in partnership with orientation; they are also included as standard language vendors to stop waste at its source by identifying products in contract terms and conditions. Under terms of the with reduced, recyclable or reusable packaging; recycled policies, no employee is to ask for or receive anything of content and/or energy-efficient attributes. In 2010, value from the vendor that could influence the judgment of Cleveland Clinic conducted a large-scale transition of the employee in the execution of the supplier relationship. photocopiers throughout the organization and worked with Vendors are given specific steps to follow to ensure our supplier to design a “zero-waste” delivery process in compliance with this policy, and vendors and employees are which all packaging waste from the project was collected asked to report any violations to the Chief Integrity Officer and recycled. We also continue to seek out non-hazardous or the Law Department. As another check against potential alternatives to conventional products; our ongoing search conflict of interest, both the vendor and internal parties for new approaches to reducing patient exposure to PVC involved in making a purchasing recommendation or decision in medical products is one such example. must report any affiliations a Cleveland Clinic employee or immediate family member has with the vendor. Any potential We are confident that Cleveland Clinic can continue to work conflict of interest that arises from that discovery process is with suppliers to develop innovative solutions for reducing dealt with using a clearly defined process. waste, cost, energy consumption and risk while improving service, transparency, patient experience and safety by We also work to identify any potential institutional conflict of making more sustainable choices. We also focus internally interest that may arise as a result of an institutional financial on improving our efficiency in using products and resources. interest (including Board of Directors/Trustees member Our Supply Chain team has adopted the philosophy that interests) in a vendor. To monitor this potential for conflict, “Every Piece Counts” to stress the importance of individual Supply Chain Management supplies the Law Department behaviors and choices in preventing waste. with a quarterly purchase history report. 16 | Cleveland Clinic 2011 United Nations Global Compact Report 2010 Supporting and more detailed documentation is available on the web at: clevelandclinic.org/about clevelandclinic.org/wellness clevelandclinic.org/diversity clevelandclinic.org/community clevelandclinic.org/annual_reports clevelandclinic.org/sustainability
