Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report Kikkoman’s Promise To fill the world with the joys of food by delivering wholehearted flavor ●To provide high-quality products and services with integrity by continuously improving on our long tradition of techniques and know-how. ●To propose a well-balanced and nutritious diet that brings out the flavor of the ingredients and bring happiness to the world everyday by helping to support a healthy mind and body. ●To create exciting new flavor experiences by fusing food cultures from around the world and to propose a rich and varied foodlifestyle that matches the times. What is Kikkoman’s Promise? It was long ago during the Edo period that we began making soy sauce. Over time, we’ve come to supply soy sauce along with a variety of other products and services to more than 100 countries. Recognizing that our responsibilities to society have grown along with our business, we sought to craft a clear statement of our commitment what we hope to accomplish through our business and how those ambitions will inform our goals by getting back to the basics as embodied by our philosophy of “the customer comes fi rst.” That effort culminated in Kikkoman’s Promise. 1 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 About This Report Contents Editorial Policy Kikkoman has published an environmental report Kikkoman Group Overview 3 each year since its first Environmental Report was Message from the CEO 5 published in 1998. In 2006, we expanded the social component of the report and changed its name to Kikkoman’s Approach to Corporate Citizenship 7 the Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report. Since 2010, Kikkoman has made each year’s report available in a printed edition (only available in Japanese) designed to provide an overview of the Kikkoman Group’s activities for a broad audience of Environmental Report readers and a PDF edition (this report) that focuses Environmental Management 9 on communicating activities undertaken during the fiscal year under review and their results. Preventing Global Warming 11 Reference Guidelines Reducing and Recycling Wastes and Byproducts 13 • G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines published by Global Reporting Initiative Promoting Environmental Management System 15 • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2007 Promoting Environmental Communication 16 Version) published by Ministry of the Environment of Japan Environmental Risk Management 17 Scope Energy, Resource and Discharge Flows 18 This report covers the activities of the Kikkoman Group, comprising the Group’s holding company, Kikkoman Environmental Accounting 19 Corporation, as well as its 62 consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method subsidiaries and affiliates (as of March 31, 2011). This report refers to the Kikkoman Group as “Kikkoman Group” or “the Group,” to Kikkoman Corporation as “Kikkoman Corporation,” and to Kikkoman Corporation, Kikkoman Food Products Company, Kikkoman Social Report Beverage Company, and Kikkoman Business Services 2010 Highlights 21 Company collectively as “Kikkoman.” Otherwise companies are referred to by name. FoodChemifa Co., Ltd., changed For Our Customers 23 its name to Kikkoman Soyfoods Company effective April 1, 2011. The company’s activities during FY2011 may be noted For Our Employees 28 under its former name. For Our Shareholders and Investors 33 Reporting Period Fiscal 2011 (April 1, 2010-March 31, 2011) Working with Suppliers 34 This report may contain references to certain activities that were initiated prior to March 2010 or after April 2011. As a Member of the Local Community 35 Date of Publication December 2011 Previous report: December 2010 Next report: Scheduled for December 2012 The Kikkoman Group’s Shokuiku Activities 37 Note on Forward-looking Statements In addition to information about past and present activities undertaken by the Kikkoman Group, this report includes Management Report forward-looking statements in the form of plans and projections current at the time of its publication. These Compliance 39 statements reflect the judgment of management based on information that was available at the time of their Corporate Governance 41 inclusion in the report. Changing conditions may cause the results of future business operations and other events to Framework to Promote Corporate Social Responsibility / differ from projections. Risk Management 42 List of Principal Initiatives and Data 44 Third-party Opinion 45 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 2 Kikkoman Group Overview (as of March 31, 2011 *Except President and CEO) Date of Establishment: December 7, 1917 Number of Group Companies: Head Office: 250 Noda, Noda-shi, Chiba 278-8601, Japan 62 (includes consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method Phone: +81-4-7123-5111 subsidiaries and affiliates) President and CEO: Mitsuo Someya, (as of July 1, 2011) Paid-in Capital: ¥11,599 million Note: The data refers to Kikkoman Corporation except for “Number of Number of Employees: 5,268 Employees” and “Number of Group Companies.” Affiliates Overseas Businesses Domestic Businesses Foods Manufacturing and Sales Foods Manufacturing and Sales Sales Manufacturing and Sales ●KIKKOMAN SALES USA, INC. ●KIKKOMAN AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED ●Kikkoman Food Products Company ●KIKKOMAN TRADING EUROPE GmbH ●KIKKOMAN TRADING ASIA PTE LTD Manufacturing ●Heisei Foods Company ●Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd. Manufacturing ●Edogawa Foods Company ■Higeta Shoyu Co., Ltd. ●KIKKOMAN FOODS, INC. ■PRESIDENT KIKKOMAN INC. ●Hokkaido Kikkoman Company and 3 other companies ●KIKKOMAN FOODS EUROPE B.V. ■KUNSHAN PRESIDENT KIKKOMAN BIOTECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. ●KIKKOMAN (S) PTE. LTD. and 7 other companies Sales ●Kikkoman Beverage Company Sales ●DEL MONTE ASIA PTE LTD Kikkoman Corporation Manufacturing and Sales ●FoodChemifa Co., Ltd. and 2 other companies Manufacturing and Others ●SIAM DEL MONTE COMPANY LIMITED and 2 other companies Manufacturing ●Nippon Del Monte Corporation and 1 other company Manufacturing Shanghai Shen Wan Brewery Co., Ltd. Manufacturing and Sales ●Manns Wine Co., Ltd. ●Terra Vert Corporation ●Nagareyama Kikkoman Company Manufacturing and Sales ●COUNTRY LIFE, LLC ●ALLERGY RESERCH GROUP LLC ●KI NUTRICARE, INC. ●REACTION SALES CL UK LIMITED Manufacturing and Sales and 13 other companies, ■Riken Vitamin Co., Ltd. Kikkoman Delica Co., Ltd. ●DESERTESSENCE. COM, LLC including 11 equity-method and 5 other companies, subsidiaries and affiliates ■Riken Food Co., Ltd. including 4 equity-method subsidiaries and affiliates Foods Wholesale Sales ●Pacific Trading Co., Ltd. ●JFC DEUTSCHLAND GmbH ●JFC INTERNATIONAL INC. ●JFC (UK) LIMITED ●JFC INTERNATIONAL (CANADA) INC. ●JFC FRANCE S.A.R.L. Others ●HAPI PRODUCTS, INC. ●JFC RESTAURANT GmbH ●JFC DE MEXICO S.A.DE C.V. ●JFC HONG KONG LIMITED ●Kikkoman Business Service Company ●PACIFIC MARKETING ALLIANCE, INC. ●JAPAN FOOD CORP (AUST) PTY LTD ●Sobu Logistics Corporation Kikkoman Restaurant, Inc. ●JFC INTERNATIONAL (EUROPE) GmbH and 13 other companies ●Sobu Service Center Inc. and 6 other companies ■Kibun Fresh System Co., Ltd. ● Consolidated Subsidiaries (41 companies) ■ Equity-method unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates (21 companies) 3 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Domestic and Global Network Europe Canada Japan United States China Taiwan Thailand Singapore Kikkoman and its domestic subsidiaries and affiliates Australia ●Manufacturing Bases Overseas (Soy Sauce) New Zealand ▲ Manufacturing Bases Overseas (Other Food Products) ■Sales/Wholesale Bases Overseas Financial Highlights ●Net Sales ●Net Sales by Business Segment (FY2011) (Millions of yen) 440,000 413,938 412,649 392,611 377,500 Overseas Foods Wholesale 315,000 30% 285,690 283,463 Domestic Foods Manufacturing and Sales 252,500 Overseas Foods 53% 0 Manufacturing and Sales 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Domestic Others 14% 3% ●Operating Income/Recurring Income (Millions of yen) ■ Operating Income ■ Recurring Income 23,854 24,000 21,646 22,388 ●Operating Income by Business Segment (FY2011) 20,983 20,368 21,085 21,000 19,136 19,208 17,966 Eliminated or companywide Eliminated or companywide 18,000 16,751 20% 1% 15,000 Domestic Foods Manufacturing and Sales 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 29% Overseas Foods Domestic Others ●Net Income Manufacturing and Sales 8% (Millions of yen) 42% 11,447 12,000 10,739 8,602 Figures in “Net Sales by Business Segment” do not include transactions 9,000 7,770 between segments. 6,000 2,746 3,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) *As of March 31, 2009, TONE Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Ltd., was removed from the scope of Kikkoman’s consolidated accounting. This change will affect business results starting in FY2011. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 4 Message from the CEO our products under these circumstances, we were reminded that our business is based on ties with many different people. We look forward to the early restoration and reconstruction of the affected areas and we will do what we can to contribute to the recovery of the Japanese economy. International Exchange of Food Cultures We understand that a fundamental element of our corporate social responsibility lies in the carrying out sound daily operations. The core mission for food companies is to reliably supply safe products of high quality at reasonable prices. Building on this mission, we also recognize the importance of contributing to society by making as much of a social contribution as we can. This thinking has encouraged us to promote an international exchange of food cultures. In our distant past, we presented soy sauce at the 1873 Vienna International Exposition and at the 1900 Universal Exposition in Paris. At the Japan World Exposition 1970 in Osaka, we operated an underwater restaurant where we introduced many people to the excellent compatibility of soy sauce with wine, meat, and other Western cuisines. In more recent years, at Expo 2010 Shanghai, China, we created an I was appointed CEO of the Kikkoman Corporation and took exhibition on food cultures at the Japanese Industry Pavilion, the helm on June 23, 2011. My commitment now is to listen to and ran a Japanese-style restaurant named Murasaki. Aided by our consumers so that we at Kikkoman can provide them with many people in both Japan and China, we were delighted to valuable products and services, while being proactive in fulfilling serve visitors with first-class Japanese cuisine, hospitality, and our corporate social responsibility so that we attain Global Vision ambience. 2020, our vision for the future. Our broader aspiration is to be a company that is valued by people around the world. Creating a Good Working Environment Our operations are expanding across the world and our busiGreat East Japan Earthquake ness portfolio is also growing. This makes it increasingly important that we bolster our efforts to create an environment On behalf of the Kikkoman Group, I offer my sincere condothat encourages our diverse workforce to operate at its best. lences to the victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake that In Japan, we have introduced various training programs as struck on March 11, 2011, and extend my sympathies to the well as employee support programs such as the childcare leave people in the affected regions. program launched in 1981. Outside Japan, we have been hirThe disaster caused only minor direct damage to our ing and promoting local people under a basic policy of localGroup, but it did have an adverse impact on a number of asizing management. pects of our supply chain. Continuing to operate and supply 5 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 In fiscal 2010, we introduced an internal venture program, called K-VIP, as well as another initiative under which The Ten Principles of the Global Compact employees aim to achieve ambitious targets disclosed in advance. With these programs, we seek to motivate our employees to take up new challenges. I think that creating an environment in which everyone can feel fulfilled in their work and enthusiastically go about their tasks is an indispensable component of both human resources development and corporate growth. What is the United Nations Global Compact? The Global Compact is an initiative proposed by then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the World Economic Forum held in 1999 and was officially launched at UN Headquarters in 2000. The Global Compact asks participating companies to embrace, support and Kikkoman’s Position on Corporate Social Responsibility enact ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. We recently produced the Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship Framework to present our position on corporate social responsiPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and bility to our stakeholders. This chart reflects our conviction that respect the protection f internationally proclaimed human fulfilling our corporate social responsibility requires that we do Human Rights rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not three things: First, we must be responsible in our business as complicit in human rights abuses. a public entity. Second, as a food company, we must promote Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the rich and healthy food lifestyles. And third, we must become an freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to integral part of the global community through activities unique collective bargaining; to Kikkoman. In addition, the chart implies that these initiatives Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of Labour Standards forced and compulsory labour; must conform to our management principles. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and The day-to-day actions of each and every one of our emPrinciple 6: the elimination of discrimination in ployees are related in some way to these three requirements. respect of employment and occupation. Individual actions accumulate to form major corporate initiatives Principle 7: Businesses should support a that help bring joy to people the world over. precautionary approach to In 2001, Kikkoman became the first Japanese company environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote to sign the United Nations Global Compact. Our activities to Environment greater environmental responsibility; and address the challenges specified in the Kikkoman Corporate Principle 9: encourage the development and Citizenship Framework mean that we pursue the ten principles diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. defined in the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, Principle 10: Businesses should work against labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, Given that we now deliver a broad array of products and including extortion and bribery. services to customers in over 100 countries, we are aware of the growing importance of acting based on the Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship Framework if we are to fulfill our responsibility to help solve global issues. Mitsuo Someya Chairman and CEO JULY 2011 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 6 Corporate Citizenship Since its establishment, Kikkoman has always regarded a connection with society as being of great importance. This attitude is reflected in our Management Principles. Now that we have come to supply a variety of products and services to customers in more than 100 countries worldwide, we recognize that our responsibilities to global society have grown together with the growth of our business. We aim to become a company that is valued by people around the world and we will continue to implement activities that are aligned with our Management Principles. The basics of our Management Principles are that we carry out our day-to-day business activities in a reliable and trustworthy manner and that we contribute to the realization of rich and healthy food lifestyles through our products and services. In addition, we aim to fulfill our responsibilities as a public entity and contribute to society through activities that are unique to Kikkoman. We believe that the cumulative pursuit of each and every one of these activities is our corporate social responsibility. Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship Framework The Kikkoman Group Management Principles 1. To pursue the fundamental principle “consumer-oriented” 2. To promote the international exchange of food culture 3. To become a company whose existence is meaningful to the global society Responsible Products / Actions for Operations Services global society 7 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Key Aspects Areas of Focus Responsible Operations ●Compliance Fundamental responsibilities ●Corporate governance of a corporate citizen We carry out responsible business ●Communication with stakeholders operations that respond to the trust and expectations of each of our ●Environmental activities stakeholders; that comply not only with the law but also with social ●Building talent and fostering a norms and standards of propriety; and positive workplace that are in harmony with the environment. Products / Services ●Product and service innovations Fundamental functions of a food company ●Food safety and quality We deliver products and services of high quality and safety in a stable ●Stable supplies manner while promoting research and product development that create new ●Delivering new and healthy food value. We also propose new food experiences lifestyles through the fusion of international food cultures. Actions for global society ●Promotion of Japanese food culture Kikkoman’s initiatives We contribute to the sustainable ●Exchange of food cultures across development of global society mainly the world in the areas of “food and health” by promoting activities that are unique to ●Shokuiku (Food education) Kikkoman. ●Commitment to society through food and health Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 8 Environmental Management In keeping with its Environmental Philosophy, the Kikkoman Group strives to ensure its corporate activities are compatible with the natural environment while working to preserve the global environment and build a recycling-based society. Environmental Philosophy The Kikkoman Group will respect the working of nature, and contribute to the realization of a society comfortable to live in through our corporate activities keeping harmony with the environment. Action Guideline We act on our Environmental Philosophy with vigor and creativity. 1. Each of us will try to keep in harmony with the environment in performing one’s own duties in all sectors development, procurement, production, sales and support . 2. In addition to observing laws, we will formulate and observe the rules and regulations of our own. 3. As a member of society, we will participate actively in environmental preservation activities in our local communities. 4. We will study the environment and deepen our understanding. 5. We will think and act from a global point of view. Environmental Preservation System The Kikkoman Group has established the General Environment ● Framework to Promote Environmental Preservation Preservation Committee as the decision-making body with responsibility for environmental preservation throughout the General Environment Preservation Committee Group. The President and CEO of Kikkoman Corporation serves Chairperson: Kikkoman Corporation President and CEO as the chairperson of the Committee, whose responsibilities Secretary: Officer in Charge of the Environment include drawing up, implementing, and managing the MediumMembers: Officers with environment-related responsibilities Presidents of major Group companies and Long-Term Environment Policy. The Environment Preservation Promotion Committee, whose membership includes environmental management Environment Preservation Promotion Committee officers from Group companies, operates beneath the General Environment Preservation Committee to manage and guide Chairperson: Officer in Charge of the Environment environmental preservation activities from a Group-wide Secretary: Environment Department Members: Representatives of ISO 14001-certified perspective. Group entities Environment Preservation Committees at each Group worksite take the lead in orchestrating specific activities, while Environmental Manager Information Exchange Meetings linking Major domestic ISO-certified Group entities manufacturing companies major companies provide a venue for sharing information and technologies of importance to the entire Group. Environment Preservation Environmental Managers Committee Information Exchange Meetings 9 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Environmental Management Environmental Report Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goals The General Environment Preservation Committee adopted the following Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goals in FY2011 Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 1 Preventing Global Warming Objectives 1) To reduce total CO2 emissions at major domestic companies at least 15% from FY2006 levels by FY2013 2) To reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production at major domestic companies and major overseas manufacturing companies at least 1% year-on-year Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 2 Reducing and Recycling Wastes and Byproducts Objectives 1) To increase the recycling rate at domestic manufacturing companies and major overseas manufacturing companies to at least 99% by FY2015 2) To improve methods for recycling wastes and byproducts 3) To work actively to increase use of environmentally friendly containers and packaging materials Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 3 Promoting Environmental Management System Objectives 1) To have all facilities acquire ISO 14001 certification by FY2012 2) To actively utilize the PDCA cycle 3) To provide environmental education for employees Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 4 Promoting Environmental Education Objectives 1) Gather and disclose environmental information 2) Undertake activities with environmental groups Kikkoman Group companies have pursued an effective program of environmental preservation activities under the management and leadership of the Environment Preservation Promotion Committee. During and after FY2012, the Group will continue to establish new objectives and conduct its business activities in an environmentally friendly manner. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 10 Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 1 Preventing Global Warming To reduce emissions as effectively as possible, the Kikkoman Group manages CO2 emissions from the dual perspectives of total emissions associated with production activities and emissions per unit of production based on process management. Objectives ● Total CO2 emissions (major domestic companies) 1) To reduce total CO2 emissions at major domestic companies (t-CO2) at least 15% from FY2006 levels by FY2013 150,000 100% 93.8% 95.6% 88.5% 86.2% 86.9% 2) To reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production at major 144,976 138,634 140,000 135,994 domestic companies and major overseas manufacturing companies at least 1% year-on-year 130,000 128,368 124,919 125,971 120,000 Scope Target (1) Reducing total CO2 emissions 110,000 Total of 11 companies: Kikkoman Corporation; Kikkoman 100,000 Food Products Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Nippon 0 Del Monte Corp.; Tohoku Del Monte Co.; Manns Wine Co., 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Ltd.; FoodChemifa Co., Ltd.; and Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd. (Baseline) Target (2) Reducing CO2 emissions per unit of production Total of 14 companies: Kikkoman Corporation; Kikkoman Reducing emissions per unit of production Food Products Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Corp.; Nagareyama CO2 emissions per unit of production for major Kikkoman Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Nippon Group domestic and overseas manufacturing companies in Del Monte Corp.; Tohoku Del Monte Co.; Manns Wine FY2011 totaled 0.171 t-CO2 /ton, or 102.4% of the FY2010 Co., Ltd.; FoodChemifa Co., Ltd.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; level (an increase of 0.004 t-CO 2 /ton), missing the target. KIKKOMAN FOODS, INC. (KFI, United States); KIKKOMAN (S) These results reflect products reassessment undertaken by PTE. LTD. (KSP, Singapore); and KIKKOMAN FOODS EUROPE Manns Wine and Nippon Del Monte. Going forward, the B.V. (KFE, Netherlands) entire Group, including its overseas companies, will strive to lower CO2 emissions per unit of production. Initiatives ● CO2 emissions per unit of production Unit FY2010 FY2011 YoY change (1) Review and improve manufacturing processes Total CO2 Optimize and reduce energy consumption by consolidating emissions t-CO2 150,855 156,206 103.5% factories and achieving greater efficiency in manufacturing Product tons 904,257 913,361 101.0% processes. Per unit of (2) Upgrade equipment t-CO2/tons 0.167 0.171 102.4% production When renewing equipment, switch to more energy-saving and thermal-efficient types to help reduce CO2 emissions. (3) Improve efficiency in energy use Reduce reliance on grade A fuel oil and switch to natural gas, and use electricity more efficiently to reduce the environmental impact of operations. FY2011 review Reducing total emissions Total CO2 emissions for the Kikkoman Group’s major domestic companies in FY2011 fell 19,005 t-CO2 to 125,971 t-CO2, or 86.9% of the FY2006 level. Consolidation of the Noda Factory and the conversion of boilers to run on natural gas contributed to the reduction. 11 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 1 / Preventing Global Warming Environmental Report Case Studies Lowering energy use at the ingredient processing stage Kikkoman Food Products At Kikkoman Food Products’ Noda Factory, water is added to soybeans to steam them before they are sent to the next process for Koji culture production. By reviewing the conditions under which the beans are steamed, engineers were able to lower ingredient processing energy by 38%. Management of the ingredient processing stage Lowering energy use in the sterilization process FoodChemifa (Kikkoman Soyfoods) At FoodChemifa’s Gifu Factory, soy milk is cooled with a heat exchanger as part of the carton packaging process after heat-sterilization. The number of tanks used to store water used in the heat-exchange process (10 t/hr to 40 t/hr at 50°C to 60°C) was increased in order to boost the volume of water that can be reused as cleaning water or boiler water. The facility had been heating 15°C cleaning water to 80°C, but by using water that is already hot, the facility has lowered the amount of energy needed for heating, reducing emissions by 183 t-CO2 per year. (FoodChemifa’s Gifu Factory became Kikkoman Soyfood’s Gifu Factory in April 2011.) Heat-exchange water storage tank Lowering energy use by updating equipment Nippon Del Monte Nippon Del Monte’s Gunma Factory began using what had been an idle high-performance pump in order to recover hot water from the building that manufacturers sauce and supply it to a boiler, thereby increasing the volume and temperature of hot water being reused as boiler water in an effort to lower the boiler’s use of heavy fuel oil. The facility also installed a control device on each of four compressors used on the filling line, enabling the number of compressors used to be regulated according to the rate of air consumption and lowering energy use. These measures combined to reduce the plant’s emissions by 163 t-CO2 per year. Compressor equipped with a control device Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 12 Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 2 Reducing and Recycling Wastes and Byproducts In addition to raising the recycling rate for waste products and byproducts, the Kikkoman Group is pursuing qualitative improvements in recycling in keeping with the objective of the Food Recycling Law as well as Kikkoman’s Guidelines for Containers and Packaging. Objectives FY2011 review 1) To increase the recycling rate at domestic manufacturing Improving the recycling rate companies and major overseas manufacturing companies The recycling rate for major domestic and overseas manuto at least 99% by FY2015 facturing companies during FY2011 was 95.6%, a 1.5% 2) To improve methods for recycling wastes and byproducts improvement over FY2010’s rate of 94.1%. Sludge recycling 3) To work actively to increase use of environmentally friendly at FoodChemifa’s Kamogawa Factory contributed to the imcontainers and packaging materials provement. Going forward, we will redouble our efforts to achieve our target recycling rate of 99% (FY2015). Scope Improving methods for recycling wastes and byproducts Objective 1: Domestic manufacturing companies and major overseas manufacturing companies The Kikkoman Group is working to more effectively recycle Objective 2: All Kikkoman Group companies byproducts such as soy sauce cake, soy sauce oil, okara (bean Objective 3: All Kikkoman Group companies curd refuse), and processing residues as well as wastes such as sludge, cleaning residues, and waste plastic. During FY2011, we focused on the effective utilization of food-related waste products (soy sauce cake, soy sauce Initiatives oil, okara [bean curd refuse], mirin cake, apple residue, grape residue, seaweed extraction residue, and bonito and kelp soup (1) Improve the recycling rate. extraction residues), in particular by boosting reuse as feed, a Actively promote the 4Rs high-priority area in the Food Recycling Law. As a result, we (refuse, reduce, reuse, and recycle). were able to recycle almost 100% of all soy sauce cake gener(2) Improve methods for recycling wastes and byproducts. ated by domestic and overseas manufacturing companies as Strive to more effectively utilize wastes and byproducts, for feed. Other initiatives involve use of sludge as fertilizer. Going example by optimizing production volumes, reducing mateforward, we will work to utilize wastes and byproducts effecrial use, and improving process yields, in order to reduce tively in a way that adds greater value, for example bydisposal byproducts such as soy sauce cake, soy sauce oil, okara (bean to fertilizer, from fertilizer to feed, and from feed to food curd refuse), and processing residues as well as wastes such products and functional food products. as sludge, cleaning residues, and waste plastic. (3) Work actively to increase use of environmentally ● Change in the waste and byproduct recycling rate at friendly containers and packaging materials major domestic and overseas manufacturing companies Step up efforts to promote environmentally friendly con(%) tainers and packaging materials under Kikkoman’s Guide100 lines for Containers and Packaging while reviewing their materials, volume, usage, and post-consumption collection 98 and processing methods. 96 95.6 94.1 Kikkoman’s Guidelines for Containers and Packaging 94 1. Reduce containers and packaging. 91.8 2. Use returnable and reusable containers and packaging for 92 91.4 91.0 our products. 3. Consider applying shapes, designs and materials to 90 containers and packaging that facilitate simple collection and reuse. Repackage current products in new containers 0 and packaging in compliance with the relevant laws and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) regulations of each country. 4. Make greater use of sustainable resources. 5. Increase procurement from environmentally conscious suppliers and vendors. 6. Use materials whose chemical compositions and shapes have been verified as being safe to humans. 7. Incorporate feedback from customers and information on where and how they purchase and use our products into the development of new containers and packaging. 8. Develop containers and packaging with universal designs to make them easy to use for a diverse range of customers. 13 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 2 / Reducing and Recycling Wastes and Byproducts Environmental Report Working actively to increase use of environmentally Nippon Del Monte changed the outer material used in pillow friendly containers and packaging materials packaging (a method for automatically wrapping products During FY2011, Kikkoman Food Products reduced the weight in film) for Western Food and Rice Seasonings, reducing its of its 1 L plastic bottles from 33 g to 29 g (a reduction of about weight from 53 g to 43 g (a savings of about 15%). 12%). In May, the company also began using Otor 8 cartons (a design with an octagonal top and bottom) for plastic bottles to reduce weight (by 50 g, or about 11%, for a carton containing 15 one-liter plastic bottles). In October, it began using Baritt boxes (boxes that double as product displays when the top part is removed) for its Uchi-no-Gohan Osozai-no-Moto series of products, reducing carton weight by about 32%. Otor 8 carton Baritt box Case Studies Utilizing wastewater sludge residue FoodChemifa (Kikkoman BioChemifa) During FY2010, FoodChemifa’s Kamogawa Factory discharged about 3,400 t of wastewater sludge residue, of which only about 1.3% was reused as soil conditioner (the remainder was disposed of at landfills). During FY2011, about 24% of total wastewater sludge residue volume (about 3,400 t) was reused for purposes such as road maintenance cooperating with an outside recycling facility of a process for converting the residue into slag. (FoodChemifa’s Kamogawa Factory became Kikkoman BioChemifa’s Kamogawa Plant Recycled slag for use in road maintenance in April 2011.) Reducing the weight of 1 L plastic bottles Kikkoman Food Products Kikkoman Food Products has adjusted the spacing and depth of grooves on the bottom of the 1 L plastic bottles used for offerings such as its flagship Kikkoman Soy Sauce product. Thanks to the changes, which increased the container’s lateral strength and reduced the thickness of the material while maintaining continuity of the product’s image, the company was able to reduce the weight of each bottle from 33 g to 29 g (a savings of about 12%). New, lightweight 1ℓplastic bottle and grooved bottom Recycling the containers used to import alcoholic beverages Manns Wine Manns Wine is working with the Yamanashi Environmental Counselors Association to reuse one-way containers used to import wine, brandy, and other alcoholic beverages (sturdy plastic drums with a capacity of about 200 L) as residential-use rainwater storage tanks. During FY2011, 37 of the containers were recycled. Reusing one-way containers Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 14 Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 3 Promoting Environmental Management System The Kikkoman Group is pursuing ISO 14001 certification for all major domestic facilities as a whole in order to build a more efficient Group-wide environmental management system and implement more sophisticated environmental management. Objectives of the document review process, and certification was earned in June 2011. 1) Acquire ISO 14001 certification of all major domestic Kikkoman Group facilities as a whole by FY2012. 2) Step up use of the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) management cycle. 3) Provide environmental education for employees. Scope Objective 1: Kikkoman Corp., Kikkoman Food Products Co., Kikkoman Beverage Co., Kikkoman Business ISO 14001 meeting Service Co., Nagareyama Kikkoman Co., Hokkaido Kikkoman Co., Heisei Foods Co., Edogawa Foods Co., Nippon Del Monte Corp., Conducting internal environmental audits Manns Wine Co., Ltd., and FoodChemifa Co., During FY2011, internal environmental audits were conducted Ltd. at Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd., (July); Kikkoman General Hospital Objective 2: applies to all Kikkoman Group companies. (July); Sobu Logistics Corporation (August); and Nihon Shoyu Objective 3: applies to all Kikkoman Group companies. Kogyo K.K., (October) in Japan, as well as at PKZ (Shijiazhuang, China; October) and KFE (October) overseas. Despite being the first time such audits were undertaken at Takara Shoyu, Sobu Logistics, Nihon Shoyu Kogyo, and PKZ, Initiatives the process went smoothly. (1) Acquiring ISO 14001 certification for all major domestic Group facilities Work to earn certification for all facilities through specific activities in each workplace. (2) Perform internal audits Establish objectives and policies concerning environmental preservation activities from a Group-wide perspective, put the Group on a footing that facilitates the exchange of information while regularly reviewing the results of worksite efforts to Internal environmental audit at PKZ meet objectives and follow policies, and leverage these activities to improve the environmental management system. Education for New Employees Continue to conduct internal environmental audits of doIn April 2010, Kikkoman’s Environment Department offered mestic and overseas group companies. a broad-ranging program of environmental education to a (3) Provide environmental education for employees 10-person team of new employees, addressing such topics as Offer training for new and mid-level employees to give them a environmental preservation activities and corporate social reglobal and ecological perspective as well as an understanding of sponsibility, the significance of the Kikkoman Group’s Environthe importance of environmental preservation, and to motivate mental Philosophy, and specific examples of how to deal with them to work to address related issues. Provide highly specialaccidents. The team exhibited a good understanding of the ized training for environmental managers and administrators. material and went on to present it to other new employees using materials they had developed, spreading a shared recogFY2011 review nition of the importance of environmental issues among all 31 new employees. Acquiring ISO 14001 certification for all major domestic Group facilities During FY2011, the Kikkoman Group pursued specific work to earn ISO 14001 certification for all major domestic Group facilities as part of an effort to implement more sophisticated environmental management, including by establishing environmental policies, general objectives, and targets and by structuring operations around supervisory manuals. On-site reviews were completed in May 2011 following the conclusion Presentation given by new employees 15 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 4 Promoting Environmental Communication The Kikkoman Group strives to facilitate the mutual sharing of information in an effort to practice environmental preservation more effectively by disclosing such information to stakeholders and soliciting their views and opinions. We also work closely with environmental groups so that we can bring the Group’s information, technologies, and experience to bear on environmental preservation activities. Objectives Case Studies 1) Gather and disclose environmental information. 2) Undertake activities with environmental groups. Kikkoman Food Products announces carbon footprint calculation results at the Japan Soy Sauce Technology Center Scope All Kikkoman Group companies In June 2010, Kikkoman Food Products announced at the Japan Soy Sauce Technology Center’s 70th research presentation session that it had calculated the lifecycle carbon footprint (CFP) for the Extra Fancy Whole Beans Soy Sauce 1 Initiatives L bottle as 673 g. The research attracted the interest of attendees as the first soy sauce-related CFP presentation using (1) Gather and disclose environmental information. Kikkoman’s proprietary calculation method. Compile and publish environmental data from the Corporate Citizenship Report, environmental accounting data, and the Environmental Preservation Activities Case Book. Hold seminars and give presentations at exhibitions and tradeshows. (2) Undertake activities with environmental groups. Work in partnership with industrial, governmental, and educational groups as well as NPOs to undertake various activities. Take steps to strengthen the gathering of information related to the preservation of biodiversity. 70th research presentation session at the Japan Soy Sauce Technology Center FY2011 review Kikkoman announces Eco-Learning program ● Principal environmental communication results at a business and biodiversity seminar programs undertaken during FY2011 Target No. of In August 2010, Kikkoman’s Environment Department gave Name Date particia presentation at the Chiba Prefecture Office of Biodiversity audience pants Strategy Seminar about its Eco-Learning program, which Publication of the Corporate June 2010 General public is held for elementary school students in Shimizu Park in Citizenship Report Students at the city of Noda, as an example of a biodiversity preservaChiba University Internship August 2010 Chiba 2 tion activity undertaken in cooperation with schools. The University initiative, which introduced students to a variety of living Revision of the Environmental creatures in their natural habitats and communicated the September Preservation Activities Case General public Book 2010 importance of preserving an environment in which a diverse Companies range of organisms exist, attracted attention as a corporate Funai Consulting Seminar activity undertaken in partnership with schools. It was also October 2010 that dispose of 15 report waste introduced as one of Chiba Prefecture’s activities at COP10 October 2010 in Nagoya in October. Eco-Learning Program Fifth-graders 140 March 2011 Eco-Products 2010 exhibit December 2010 General public 180,000 National, prefectural, and Activities with outside Throughout city environmental groups year governments as well as other companies Publication of Environmental Throughout Group News year companies Publication of legal Throughout Group information year companies Presentation about biodiversity preservation activities Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 16 Environmental Risk Management In addition to ensuring compliance with environmental laws and regulations, the Kikkoman Group strives to reduce environmental risk as part of its daily operations by observing voluntary management standards. Principal Environmental Risk Management Case Studies The Kikkoman Group’s main approach to environmental management includes the following components: Emergency drill on preventing soy sauce spills Kikkoman Food Products (1) Water Pollution Prevention In October 2010, the Facilities Group and General Affairs We establish voluntary standards and pay particular attention Group joined freight operators in an emergency response to the maintenance of wastewater quality and prevention of drill at Kikkoman Food Products’ Takasago Factory, where river water pollution, as we use and discharge large volumes they simulated the spillage of 1 kL of soy sauce from an overof water in our manufacturing and cleaning processes. turned shipping container into a rainwater drainage channel. Following emergency response procedures, workers notified (2) Manual for the Proper Disposal of Industrial Wastes involved parties after the accident was discovered at the site, We separate industrial waste before disposal, work to generissued emergency orders, deployed sandbags around the peate as little industrial waste as possible, and pursue recycling. riphery of the accident site, closed wastewater gates leading In Japan, we contract the collection, transfer, processing, and off the premises, connected the rainwater drainage channel to the process wastewater channel, and began to pump out disposal of industrial waste to licensed service providers. We the spilled liquid. Officials verified the consistency of this compiled the Kikkoman Manual for the Proper Disposal of workflow with the emergency response instructions. Industrial Wastes and strive to ensure that waste is disposed of in an appropriate manner. (3) Noise, Vibration, and Odor Prevention In an effort to prevent noise, vibration, and odors, we have been installing quieter machines and soundproof/soundabsorbing walls in our factories. Noise and vibration levels are regularly monitored along the boundaries of our factories to Emergency drill based on a simulated accident ensure that they do not exceed the levels prescribed by local community regulations. Adoption of factory work rules Nippon Del Monte (4) Air Pollution Prevention In addition to observing regional regulations on the concentraNippon Del Monte’s Gunma Factory developed a series of tions and total amounts of sulfur oxides (SOx), nitrogen oxides written factory work rules in December 2010 to ensure (NOx), and soot and particulate emissions, we seek to control that outside construction and transportation contractors these emissions by establishing voluntary standards at each of operating at the factory can conduct their work smoothly, safely, and in a manner consistent with the company’s our factories. environmental preservation goals. In addition to general provisions such as rules governing workers’ arrival and de(5) Black Mold Pollution Prevention parture from the facility as well as their bringing in items Trees, roofs, and walls of houses in the vicinity of soy sauce that might contaminate food products at the site, the rules and mirin factories could become darkened due to the presaddress topics such as accident prevention and response ence of Aureo basidium, a microbe that propagates through and require that all contractors observe standardized work the intake of alcohol and whose presence can generate a procedures while on-site. Gunma Factory held five lectures black pigment on material surfaces. In consideration of local for outside contractors in FY2011 to ensure that these residents’ potential reactions to such infestation, Kikkoman rules are properly followed. Group hermetically seals the source of emissions, installs cleaning devices on air ducts, and recovers alcohol content from discharged gases in order to prevent the microbe from spreading to residential areas. Nippon Del Monte’s Gunma Factory 17 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Energy, Resource and Discharge Flows The Kikkoman Group is striving to reduce the environmental impact of its operations by controlling the consumption of energy and materials on production lines, making manufacturing processes more efficient, and developing more readily recyclable containers and packaging for its products. Environmental Products Lifecycle Management We also attempt to reduce the environmental impact of products after consumption by developing and using more readily The Kikkoman Group manufactures and sells an assortment of recyclable containers and packaging materials such as glass products, including soy sauce, soy sauce derivative products, and plastic bottles and cartons. beverages, ketchup, wine, and soymilk, etc. to customers both within and outside Japan. In the process of manufacturing these products, we consume not only raw materials but also Scope The data presented in this diagram applies to the following energy, water, and packaging materials; and we discharge 13 companies: Kikkoman Food Products Co.; Hokkaido solid, liquid, and gas waste products. Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods The Kikkoman Group strives to minimize the environCo.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Nippon Del Monte Corp.; Tohoku mental impact of its manufacturing activities by seeking to Del Monte Co.; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; FoodChemifa Co., consume less energy, water, and materials in manufacturing Ltd.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; KIKKOMAN FOODS, INC. (KFI, processes; improve efficiency in manufacturing and energy United States); KIKKOMAN (S) PTE. LTD. (KSP, Singapore); use; and reduce wastes. and KIKKOMAN FOODS EUROPE B.V. (KFE, Netherlands). ● Energy, Resource and Discharge Flows for FY2011 The numbers shown in the diagram are based on what we have reported in our environmental accounting for FY2011. INPUT Energy and water Raw materials Containers and packaging materials Electric power: 140,871,000 kWh Soybeans, wheat, salt, Plastic bottles, glass bottles, Grade A fuel oil: 15,926 kℓ tomatoes, grapes, etc. cartons, etc. Utility gas: 24,742,000 m3 403,142 tons 76,355 tons Water: 8,273,000 kℓ Production Activities OUTPUT Solid and Gas emissions Products liquid emissions Wastes and byproducts: CO2: 156,206 tons Soy sauce, seasonings, 77,711tons NOx: 98 tons beverages, wine, etc. Wastewater: 7,490,000 kℓ SOx: 19 tons 913,361 tons Wastes and Plastic bottles Glass bottles Cartons byproducts Recycled: 74,255 tons * Recycling rate: 77.5% * Recycling rate: 97.5% * Collection rate: 100.6 % Recycling rate: 95.6 % *The recycling rates for plastic bottles and glass bottles and the collection rate for cartons reflect action by customers. These figures have been calculated based on information published by respective trade organizations for FY2010. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 18 Environmental Accounting The Kikkoman Group quantifies and assesses from multiple perspectives the costs and benefits of its operations in relation to environmental preservation. This helps us pursue efficient environmental preservation practices. Environmental Accounting Scheme STEP 1 Identify and quantify investments and expenses STEP 2 Assess environmental preservation benefits in accordance with the Environmental Accounting Guidelines. The following costs are aggregated • Controlling the environmental impact of manufacturing and service activities • Energy-use reduction benefits and energy (fossil fuel) use control benefits • Physical distribution • Waste and byproduct reduction benefits • Administering environmental preservation activities • Waste and byproduct control (recycling) benefits STEP 4 Analyze and review the cost-benefit data and STEP 3 Value benefits in yen devise future plans • Convert reductions in energy usage and waste to CO2 emissions, • Evaluate the cost-benefit relationship using the formula in the Evaluation Program proposed by the Ministry of the Environment • Examine how to improve investment efficiency and strengthen the financial structure • Obtain the monetary equivalent of the calculated CO2 emissions using the FY2011 year-end price (as of March 28, 2011) for the Nikkei-JBIC • Devise updated investment and expenditure plans Carbon Quotation Index Environmental Accounting for FY2011 Scope of reporting Kikkoman Food Products Company Hokkaido Kikkoman Co., Nagareyama Kikkoman Co., Heisei Foods Co., Edogawa Foods Co.; Nippon Del Monte Corp. Tohoku Del Monte Co.; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; FoodChemifa Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Foods, Inc. (KFI, United States); Kikkoman (S) Pte. Ltd. (KSP, Singapore); Kikkoman Foods Europe B.V. (KFE, Netherlands) ..........................April 1, 2010 March 31, 2011 Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd. .....................................................................................................................January 1, 2010 December 31, 2010 Kikkoman Nippon Del Manns Takara Food FoodChemifa Category Monte Wine Co., Shoyu Co., KFI KSP KFE Total Products Co., Ltd. Corp. Ltd. Ltd. Co. Environmental preservation investments and expenses Environmental preservation investments 237 37 10 264 14 79 3 1 645 Environmental preservation expenses 1,340 218 31 320 52 155 12 31 2,159 Environmental preservation benefits Energy use reduction -4 1 0 -3 0 -1 0 -1 -8 Energy (fossil fuel) control 5 — — — — — — — 5 Waste and byproduct reduction -2 -2 1 -21 0 -1 0 0 -25 Waste and byproduct control (recycling) 61 11 1 54 2 30 3 3 165 Total 60 10 2 30 2 28 3 2 137 (Rounded to the nearest million yen) 19 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Environmental Accounting Environmental Report FY2011 Review Environmental preservation investments Environmental preservation investments in FY2011 totaled ¥645 million, an increase of ¥288 million from FY2010. The increase is primarily due to higher pollution mitigation investments associated with addition of a new filling facility at Kikkoman Food Products’ Noda Factory. Environmental preservation expenses Environmental preservation expenses in FY2011 totaled ¥2,159 million, a reduction of ¥197 million from FY2010. The decline was primarily due to a decrease in resource recycling expenses related to industrial waste at Kikkoman Food Products. Environmental preservation benefits Environmental preservation benefits in FY2011 totaled ¥137 million, a reduction of ¥7 million from FY2010. The decline was primarily due to a reduction in waste and byproduct reduction benefits due to increased manufacturing volume at FoodChemifa. For detailed information about the method used to estimate environmental preservation benefits and a complete environmental accounting report, visit our website. URL http://www.kikkoman.co.jp/csr/ Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 20 2010 Highlights This section introduces some of the major stakeholder initiatives pursued by the Kikkoman Group in 2010. ● Stakeholder Initiatives Customers • Quality Assurance to Provide Safety and Peace of Mind Employees • Frameworks for Providing Safety to Customers • Creating Workplaces that • Quality Assurance in Facilitate Employee Self-fulfillment the Product Development Phase • Improving Employee Skills and • Quality Assurance in Fostering Career Development the Product Manufacturing • Occupational Safety and • Frameworks for Providing Peace of Health Management System Mind to Customers • Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Customers Employees Kikkoman Group Local Shareholders Communities and Investors Shareholders Suppliers and Investors Local Communities • Timely and Appropriate Disclosure • Supporting Employees’ Volunteer Activities of Information • Programs to Provide Hands-on Experiences • Promoting Open General Shareholders’ Meetings • Education and Sound Development of Youth • Distribution of Profits • Contributing to Making Communities Safer • Credit Ratings • Community Outreach Programs • Donations Suppliers • Promoting and Developing Food Culture • Conducting Fair Business Transactions • Developing Good Working Partnerships with Suppliers • Joint Procurement by 5 Group Companies • Ensuring Ingredient Quality • Environmental Considerations in Procurement 21 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 2010 Highlights Social Report Developing products that reflect voice of customer In response to feedbacks from singleand two-person households indicating that customers wished products were available in a size that would last about a month, Kikkoman launched a Customers 750 mL container of Tokusen Marudaizu shouyu (Extra Fancy Whole Beans Soy Sauce), which falls between the 1 L and 500 mL sizes. We adopted environment-responsive easy-opening, onetouch cap design, which can be easily removed after the product has been used up. Hiring top athletes Acting on its support for the Japanese Olympic Committee’s Ath-Navi program, which helps Employees companies navigate the process of hiring top athletes, Kikkoman hired two top athletes who have represented Japan in international competitions: swimmer Haruka Ueda and canoeist Yuriko Takeshita. Kikkoman will continue to support both Ueda and Takeshita. Pursuing investor relations activities to promote a better understanding of the company Kikkoman places importance on information disclosure and investor relations that focus Shareholders on fairness, timelines, and expeditiousness. During FY2011, we held four meetings with and Investors management for analysts and institutional investors as well as one workshop on the topic of the food products wholesale business. We also held 10 seminars introducing the company for individual investors and 1 for stockbrokers. We pursued environmental measures together with suppliers Kikkoman Business Service Company Purchasing Department works with ingredient and material suppliers to encourage them to adopt packaging that minimizes the amount of waste products, Suppliers introduce rules that keep delivery vehicles from being allowed to idle while parked, and take other steps to improve the environmental friendliness of their operations. During FY2010, we asked 181 suppliers to implement these measures. Offering hands-on opportunities for parents and children to” food experience” The Kikkoman Group offers hands-on learning programs for parents and their children. At the Local “Whole Tomato Event in Gunma” program held in August 2010, elementary school students Communities and their parents who had already grown tomato seedlings from Del Monte at home harvested tomatoes from a Nippon Del Monte contract farmer’s tomato fields and tried their hand at making a dish with the freshly picked produce. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 22 For Our Customers In addition to providing safe and high-quality products through product quality assurance activities, we utilize feedback from customers in initiatives to improve customer satisfaction. The Kikkoman Group’s Approach Quality Assurance for the Purpose of to Safety and Peace of Mind Providing Safety and Peace of Mind The Kikkoman Group considers the safety of the products and The Kikkoman Group pursues a range of quality assurance services it provides to be its highest priority. In order to supply activities conceived to provide safety and peace of mind. Our safe products to our customers, we rigorously and scientifically quality assurance examinations extend from the product deexamine quality assurance in every process, from ingredient velopment stage to ingredient production sites, processing, selection to the final product stage, as part of a robust food manufacturing, sterilization, product packaging, and labeling. safety system. We also examine product patentability along with trademark At the same time, we emphasize providing customers and related regulations, and the Quality Assurance Commitwith products that inspire peace of mind. At the Kikkoman tee only approves the manufacture of a new product after it Group, we believe that peace of mind consists of building repasses examination. lationships of deep trust by communicating the safety of our To ensure customers’ ability to enjoy peace of mind, we products in an easy-to-understand manner. both provide appropriate information in an easy-to-understand In short, we strive to improve customer satisfaction by asmanner and work to incorporate customer feedback into our suring product safety and customers’ psychological peace of operations. mind. Kikkoman Group Quality Policy We strive to contribute to improving the dietary lives and health of people worldwide with our safe, high-quality products and services. 1) The customer comes first: We listen to our customers and make the customers’ point of view our guide to providing better products and services. 2) We are committed to quality, safety and reliability: We constantly strive for safety and higher quality to earn complete customer confidence in our products and services. 3) Trust is our greatest asset: We value our customers’ trust above all else, and maintain it by complying with all laws and regulations, as well as by providing clear and easy-to-understand information. ● Quality Assurance at the Kikkoman Group Kikkoman Group Ingredient safety • Pesticide residues • Allergies Providing products and services Careful manufacture • Genetically modified crops • BSE, etc. Customers Strict Container safety examinations • Hygiene compliance • Environmental responsibility Sound product Opinions, etc. Product labeling development • Regulatory compliance 23 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 For Our Customers Social Report System for providing safety to customers Kikkoman Group Quality Assurance System Group Quality Assurance Coordination Committee Following its October 2009 conversion to a holding company In October 2009, the Kikkoman Group established the Group based organization, the Kikkoman Group has been pursuing Quality Assurance Coordination Committee with participaquality assurance activities under the direction of the Kikkoman tion by all Group companies’ quality assurance departments in Corporation Quality Assurance Department. Quality assurance order to strengthen its quality assurance activities. The Comdepartments have been established at each Group company, mittee strives to raise the level of quality assurance practiced and we strive to provide safe products and services that comply by Group companies by identifying and discussing how to with all applicable laws and reflect the principle of social fairaddress issues that affect particular companies as well as the ness through the activities of the Quality Assurance Committee Group as a whole, addressing current topics of concern, comand Group Quality Assurance Coordination Committee. plying with regulatory changes, and sharing information about quality accidents and other incidents. Quality Assurance Committee Kikkoman established the Quality Assurance Committee in Quality Assurance Department 1986 with a membership consisting primarily of department In 1985, Kikkoman became one of the first food industry comheads and top management in order to spearhead efforts to panies in Japan to establish a Quality Assurance Department. ensure the safety of the company’s products. Since then, the department has adopted the customer’s perThe committee was reorganized in October 2009 to cut spective as it conducts rigorous quality assurance reviews of all across the Group horizontally, with participation from managprocesses from ingredient procurement to product sales from ers from research and legal affairs departments; production the standpoint of assuring safety, legal compliance, and social administration, sales, and product development departments fairness. Products that do not pass these reviews, which form at Kikkoman Food Products Company and Kikkoman Beverthe lynchpin of Kikkoman’s quality assurance program, are not age Company; ingredient procurement departments and the brought to market. Kikkoman Consumer Center at Kikkoman Business Service Kikkoman Corporation’s Quality Assurance Department Company; and quality assurance departments at all Group also serves as the secretariat of the Quality Assurance Comcompanies. We will continue to pursue Group-wide quality mittee. Working with individual Group companies’ quality assurance activities in an effort to enact Group quality policies assurance departments, the department strives to provide safe and guidelines; address issues; and supply safe products and products and services that customers can use with confidence services that comply with all applicable laws and reflect the and peace of mind. principle of social fairness. ● Group Quality Assurance System Kikkoman Corporation Quality Assurance Officer Kikkoman Customer Feedback Consumer Center Quality Assurance Committee Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Department Coordination Committee Kikkoman Food Kikkoman Nippon Del Monte Manns Wine Kikkoman Kikkoman Takara Shoyu Products Beverage Corporation Co., Ltd. Soyfoods Biochemifa Co., Ltd. Company Company Company Company Hokkaido Kikkoman Nagareyama Overseas companies Edogawa Foods Heisei Foods Partners Partners Partners Partners Partners Partners Company Company Company Kikkoman Company Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 24 Social Report For Our Customers Quality Assurance in the Product Screening for Residual Agricultural Chemicals Development Phase Kikkoman screens all domestic and imported ingredients and materials for agricultural chemicals. Since 2004, we have takAt Kikkoman, using safe ingredients and materials is a top prien the additional step of ensuring food safety by conducting ority in ensuring food safety. We track country of origin inforvoluntary checks for residual agricultural chemicals contained mation on all of our ingredients and materials and thoroughly in farm produce, such as grains, beans, vegetables, and fruits, examine them for safety and legal compliance, covering the to verify that their usage is properly controlled. following areas: In response to the Positive List System for Agricultural Chemical Residues in Foods under the revised Food Sanitation ● Kikkoman’s Process for Verifying Ingredient Act, we developed efficient and accurate analytical methods in Specifications 2007 to enable about 300 commonly used agricultural chemiKikkoman cals to be analyzed at once, facilitating more effective and reliable testing for pesticide residues. Ingredient supplier Primary check Secondary check Purchase Quality Use of Non-GMO (Non-genetically Modified) Produce Planning/ Pass Kikkoman uses IP-handled*1 non-GMO marudaizu*2 (soydevelopment Assurance beans), a raw ingredient for soy sauce. Regular voluntary indepartments Department spections ensure that such raw ingredients and materials are Send 差し戻し non-GMO products. We have also shifted to non-GMO prodback Send back ucts for our defatted soybeans. Database management *1 Marudaizu: Soybeans that are not defatting-processed. *2 IP (identity preserved) handling: IP handling controls the sorting of nonInvestigating and Verifying Allergens GMO produce and GMO produce in each phase of production, distribuWhen any of the 7 ingredients legally required by the Food tion, and processing so that the two types of produce are never mixed. Documentation verifies the details of these controls. Sanitation Act to be listed on labels as “known to cause allergic reactions” or any of the 18 ingredients for which listing is recommended are used in a product, we specifically list those Microbial Treatment ingredients on product packaging. We also work to increase We conduct fine-grained examination of such aspects as sterthe reliability of our allergen labeling by conducting voluntary ilization and filling conditions from the new product planning inspections of ingredients as necessary. and development stage to ensure safety from microbes. The variety of microbes that affect food products and the range of microbe resistance deriving from food characteristics make it nec● Ingredients legally required or recommended to essary to adopt sterilization methods that have been optimized be listed on labels to provide maximum safety on a product-by-product basis. Specifically, we target bacteria for sterilization depending Ingredients legally Eggs, milk, wheat, buckwheat, peanuts, on the salinity, water activity, pH level, and other characterisrequired to be shrimp, crab listed on labels tics of the food product in question, and we check for populations of the target bacteria using indicator bacteria. AdditionAbalone, squid, salmon roe, oranges, kiwi Ingredients fruit, beef, walnuts, salmon, mackerel, ally, we measure the heat resistance of bacteria targeted for recommended soybeans, chicken meat, bananas, pork, sterilization in each food product and ultimately determine to be listed on matsutake mushrooms, peaches, yams, sterilization conditions based on judgments concerning comlabels apples, gelatin patibility with the manufacturing plant, containers, and other aspects of production. Checking the Safety of Ingredients and Materials Made from Beef Container and Packaging Safety To address the issue of BSE (bovine spongiform encephalopaAll containers and packaging that we use are checked to ensure thy, commonly known as mad cow disease), we use only inthat their materials and designs meet the standards of the Food gredients and materials made from beef that has been verified Sanitation Act as well as our own internal safety guidelines. as totally safe. Whenever possible, we substitute ingredients and materials that are not made from beef. 25 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 For Our Customers Social Report Quality Assurance in the Product Appropriate Product Labeling Production Phase Kikkoman strives at all times to provide clear, easy-to-understand labeling from the customer’s perspective, going beyond Quality Assurance in the Production Phase legal requirements if necessary. In order to supply customers with safe, high-quality products, the Kikkoman Group has received certification under the ISO ❹ ❽ 9001 international quality control standard for most of its ❻ Japanese plants. ❸ ❶ Furthermore, Kikkoman Food Products Company man❾ ages its production activities in accordance with a proprietary ❼ ❷ quality control system that combines (1) an ISO 9001 system ❺ (an international model for quality control systems for products and services), (2) GMP standards (standards for equipment Example of product labeling for Extra Fancy Whole Beans Soy Sauce and work procedures at facilities that produce food products), (1) “Tokusen (extra grade)” and (3) the HACCP concept (a mechanism for preventing Indicates that the product contains more umami-related compounds food accidents). The company also strives to manufacture safe than special grade soy sauce. products by conducting quality inspections as necessary during (2) “Whole Beans Soy Sauce” each production process. Indicates that whole soybeans were used as ingredients in the production of this soy sauce product, and that defatted soybeans were not used. Monitoring Quality Control (3) “Naturally Brewed” We have put in place a system for monitoring quality control Indicates that the product was made using traditional Japanese methto ensure that customers can use Kikkoman brand products ods for slowly fermenting and brewing moromi mash. with confidence and peace of mind no matter where in the (4) Nutrition label world they are. Managers with specialized knowledge extendContains labeling information mandated by the JAS (Japan Agricultural ing beyond the plant in which they work provide comprehenStandard) and Food Sanitation Act. sive and regular monitoring of food product hygiene, equip(5) Expiration date ment management, and other aspects of operation at the Indicates that latest date at which the full flavor of the unopened product can be enjoyed, assuming that it has been stored in accordance Group’s Japanese and overseas manufacturing plants. with instructions on the nutrition label. (6) “After opening” Indicates that the product should be kept in the refrigerator after openSystem for Providing Peace of ing and used as quickly as possible. Mind to Customers (7) JAS mark Indicates that the product qualifies as special-grade soy sauce under the Complying with laws concerning product labeling and JAS (Japan Agricultural Standard) classification system of special grade, upper grade, and standard levels of quality. truth in advertising Kikkoman rigorously checks the veracity of product labeling (8) Nutritional information Indicates nutrient content so that customers can choose the products and advertising to verify compliance with the JAS (Japan Agthey buy based on appropriate information. ricultural Standard), the Food Sanitation Act, the Act against (9) Disposal method Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations, the Indicates how the container should be recycled at the time of disposal. Fair Competition Codes, the Health Promotion Act, the Liquor Tax Act, the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act, and industry guidelines. If any problem is detected, we immediately take correcCommunicating information through our website tive action before products reach the market to ensure that The Kikkoman Consumer Center’s website features a Q&A our product labeling complies with these laws and regulations. section based on questions and comments from our customers as well as a “Utilizing Customer Feedback” section that Ensuring Social Fairness introduces examples of how products have been improved. Working from the customer’s perspective, Kikkoman verifies We not only accept customer the absence of excessive or inappropriate claims on product feedback, but also apply it to packaging and in advertisements based on internal guidelines our corporate activities and and other guidance. At the same time, Kikkoman’s Intellectual communicate the results to Property Department plays the lead role in checking as necescustomers through our prodsary that copyrights held by other companies are not being ucts and website. violated. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 26 Social Report For Our Customers Pursuing Customer Satisfaction CS Improvement Committee Not all comments and suggestions received from customers Basic Approach can be dealt with by the Kikkoman Consumer Center alone. The Kikkoman Group is working to improve customer satisfacThe Customer Satisfaction (CS) Improvement Committee, tion through initiatives designed to reflect the consumer’s perchaired by top management and counting departmental ofspective in order to put into practice the tenets of Kikkoman’s ficers as its members, takes care of inquiries that fall beyond Promise as adopted in FY2009. In the same vein, Kikkoman is the scope of the Center’s responsibility in order to improve the seeking to develop a shared understanding of the customer’s Company’s products and services. perspective companywide through such means as the sharing of customer information internally and employee training. The ● How Kikkoman Acts on Customer Feedback overall goal is to make customer feedback an even more inteKikkoman gral part of the Company’s management. CS Improvement Kikkoman Consumer Center Forwarding Kikkoman Consumer Center Comments / Committee Customer Inquiries / Kikkoman has established a Kikkoman Consumer Center to Feedback Improving or Modifying Suggestions Existing Products Customers serve as the primary channel through which the Company communicates with customers. The Center strives to provide Quality Assurance accurate, speedy, and heartfelt service to customers in accorResponses to Evaluating Committee dance with a basic policy of “Speed, Precision, and Sincerity.” New Products Customer Feedback Assessing New Products to Questions and comments received from customers are from Customer’s Ensure Their Safety, Point of View stored in a database that is utilized companywide in order to Legal Compliance, help provide speedy, accurate service and to take full advanand Social Fairness tage of customer feedback as a management resource. Furthermore, customer feedback is summarized and shared internally with executives, managers, and supervisors nationwide in the form of weekly reports. Participation of the Kikkoman Consumer Center in the Case Studies Quality Assurance Committee helps bring customer feedback to bear in our efforts to both improve existing products and develop new ones. Drawing on customer feedback to launch Extra Fancy Whole Beans Soy Sauce in a medium-size container ● Customer inquiries at the Kikkoman Consumer Center Reflecting the increasing number of singleand two-person households, customers occasionally indicated that they Total FY wished our popular Extra Fancy Whole Beans Soy Sauce prodinquiries Comments Inquiries Suggestions uct were available in a size that would last about a month. 2007 20,341 1,149 17,672 1,520 In response to this feedback, Kikkoman launched a 750 mL container, which falls between the 1 L and 500 mL sizes. 2008 22,446 1,432 19,249 1,765 The container’s easy-opening, one-touch cap design provides 2009 24,343 1,234 20,958 2,151 additional environmental friendliness since it can be easily removed after the product has been used up. 2010 25,552 1,711 21,869 1,972 2011 25,839 1,665 21,271 2,903 New 750 mL Extra Fancy Whole Beans Soy Sauce (center) 27 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 For Our Employees In addition to respecting the diversity of employees and supporting their efforts to improve their skills, we strive to create safe, pleasant workplaces that facilitate employee self-fulfillment. Creating Workplaces that Facilitate Emphasizing Fairness and Employee Independence in Employee Self-fulfillment Human Resources Kikkoman’s human resources system employs an ability based Basic Approach grading process that comprises several subsystems, including We have a basic policy of “respecting every employee’s human human resources utilization, training and education, perforrights” in the belief that “a company can fare well only when mance reviews, and compensation. its employees lead healthy and happy lives.” Under this policy, Each employee’s individual performance is reviewed under we believe in employees’ potential, avoid practicing or cona goals-and-objectives system whereby supervisors conduct indoning unlawful discrimination, ensure equal opportunity, and terviews with their staff. Prior to the interviews, all supervisors pursue fair employment practices. are required to receive assessor training in order to ensure the In 2001, Kikkoman announced its participation in the fairness of reviews. We strive to support employees’ individual United Nations Global Compact. The principles set forth in the career objectives through self-assessment, a Career DevelopGlobal Compact’s “Human Rights” and “Labor Standards” ment Program (CDP), and a Career Challenge Program, all of sections are fully compatible with those stipulated in our Labor which allow employees to develop their skills and make their Agreement, Working Regulations, and Labor-Management own decisions when applying for new positions within the Joint Declaration. Company. Moreover, to ensure fairness across the entire human resource management system, we have created a Human ● New hires (non-consolidated basis) Resource Management Verification Committee comprising (Employees) labor union and management representatives, and the Human 100 Resources Department periodically conducts interviews of in80 68 dividual employees in offices and plants in Japan and overseas 61 66 60 51 55 to monitor implementation of the system. 40 20 Preventing Harassment 0 Kikkoman regards sexual harassment and abuse of power 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) (“bossing”) as human rights violations and prohibits them in the Company’s working regulations. Human resources departments are responsible for preventing and handling harassment ● Average employee* years of service (non-consolidated basis) issues, and we have opened counseling offices at major work(Years) sites. Furthermore, we continue to raise employee awareness 25 of this issue through activities such as training programs for 20 18.7 18.6 18.1 17.6 managers and supervisors. 17.1 15 10 Barrier-free Initiatives and Promoting Employment of 5 People with Disabilities 0 Kikkoman believes in creating a work environment in which 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) people with disabilities can keep their jobs based on the prin*Includes temporary employees. ciple of “normalization” the concept of creating a society in ● Human Resource Management System (Kikkoman) Discovery of individual aptitudes Development of professional abilities Selection of job positions based and career development and personnel development on personal aptitude Career Development Program (CDP) Education & Training Programs Self-Enumeration Compensation based on Personnel utilization ability and performance (right person in the right position) Compensation system Ability-based grading system Career Challenge Program (CCP) Setting and achieving Fair evaluation goals and objectives and personnel development Goals-and-objectives system Performance review system In-house open recruitment Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 28 Social Report For Our Employees which able-bodied and disabled people can live and work Among these, we introduced childcare leave 10 years before its together on equal terms. Accordingly, we are actively creating enactment in law and family care leave 20 years before its enbarrier-free work environments for all employees. In FY2011 actment in law. A total of 362 employees have taken advantage the proportion of employees with disabilities at Kikkoman Corof the childcare leave program since its introduction, while 50 poration and Kikkoman Food Products Company was 1.53and employees have utilized the family care leave program. 1.76 respectively. Maintaining Sound Labor-Management Relationships Respecting Employees’ Work-Life Balance Under the Labor-Management Joint Declaration, which was In order to support and encourage employee efforts to announced in 1998, Kikkoman has established and mainachieve a healthy balance between rewarding work and tained sound labor-management relationships based on mufulfilling private lives, Kikkoman has implemented a set of tual trust and respect. Additionally, the Company has adopted Company-developed support programs designed to create an a union shop labor agreement. environment whereby employees can make the most of their abilities in a healthy and energetic manner. Socially Responsible Corporate Pension Management Kikkoman has a contract-based defined-benefit pension plan ● Flexible Work Arrangements (Kikkoman) to ensure the stability of our corporate pension fund in reWork Arrangements Description sponse to changes in employees’ needs and employment conditions in Japan. • Can be taken from the time of birth of a child until the first April 30 after the child attains In 2006, Kikkoman became a signatory to the United NaChildcare leave the age of 18 months. One extension and one tions Principles of Responsible Investment. The move marks reduction of leave period are permitted. (since 1981) • (Short-term childcare leave) the Company’s commitment to fulfilling its social responsibility Up to one week of paid time can be taken during by incorporating environmental, social, and corporate goverthe first eight weeks following birth. *Only male employees are eligible for this program. nance issues into investment decision-making and stock ownership practices with respect to its pension fund. Shorter work hours • An employee can take up to two reductions for childcare in regular work hours totaling a maximum of (since 1996) two hours daily from the time of conception TOPICS until the child enters the fourth grade. Supporting the next generation Morning sickness through Kurumin certification leave In 2009, Kikkoman received Kurumin certification from • Up to 15 days can be taken during pregnancy. (since 2000) the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, authorizing the company’s use of the Kurumin logo in accordance Child nursing care with the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support leave • Up to 5 days per year per child can be taken Raising Next-generation Children (since 2003) until the child in question reaches fourth grade. and recognizing it as a “company that actively works to support Family care leave raising next-generation children.” (since 1978) • Up to 2 years can be taken at any interval. Shorter work hours • An employee can take up to two reductions in for family care regular work hours totaling a maximum of two (since 1998) hours daily in one or more 1-month blocks for a total period of up to 1 year. Recognized as a great place to work for the third year running Nursing care leave • Five days of nursing care leave can be taken per (since 2010) sick or injured family member requiring care per For three years running from 2007 to 2009, Kikkoman year. participated in a survey conducted by the Great Place to Work ® Institute Japan and was selected as one of • Updates on company and workplace information the Best 25 Companies. Communication are communicated to employees on leave via with employees on newsletters and emails so that they will not feel leave left out. Flextime plan, staggered work hours, use of • Offering a variety of work arrangement options Shinkansen to meet employees' needs. bullet trains for commuting 29 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 For Our Employees Social Report Improving Employee Skills and Employee awareness survey Fostering Career Development Kikkoman conducts an employee awareness survey to assess employee satisfaction. Analytical results are fed into the Translating the Human Resources Development Vision PDCA cycle in order to implement a range of policies and into Reality measures, facilitating further improvements in satisfaction. In keeping with the Human Resources Development Vision, Kikkoman’s educational programs are designed to offer support so that individual employees take joy in learning, work Self-improvement Training Programs to strengthen their specialized skills, and continue to grow In addition to tier-based training for groups such as new emthrough lifelong learning. ployees and employees in management positions, Kikkoman The Human Resources Development Vision aims to foster offers a broad range of self-improvement training programs the development of professionals for the 21st century by helpfor employees, including courses at business schools; “My ing employees develop skills and grow personally so that they Challenge Training,” which allows trainees to select from sevcan participate in their jobs in an engaged and energetic maneral courses; correspondence courses; and e-learning courses. ner and contribute to organization innovation. Through these educational and training opportunities, we During FY2011, Kikkoman enhanced a range of activities, support employees’ autonomous skill-building and career deincluding training for young employees (a program in its secvelopment efforts. ond year), selective training, and self-improvement programs. ● Number of participants in major self-improvement training programs in FY2011 Improving employee satisfaction Kikkoman is involved in a variety of measures conceived to imTraining program Number of participants prove employee satisfaction and energize the Group. Correspondence courses 554 Business school scholarships 11 Organizational revitalization vision In pursuing Kikkoman’s organizational revitalization vision, Scholarships for business management courses at 16 individual supervisors develop their own vision for the universities organization’s mission, future role, and human resources My Challenge Training 64 training objectives and communicate it to their subordinates. Kikkoman is also applying the vision to some Group companies in an effort to revitalize the workplace. ● Human Resource Development Chart (Kikkoman) Training by Tier or Self-Improvement On-theDivisional/ by Appointment Training by Life Stage Selection Training Departmental Training Support job training Training for selected employees Training for selected candidates for executive managers New life planning training Professional skills Supervisor training and expertise training Management ・ O・J T Training for selected managers Training for newly appointed managers My Challenge Training (self-selective training) Correspondence education Business programs at universities External business schools Basic management training Training at overseas affiliates Career training Mid-career employees “Step Up” training Divisional/Departmental Training Training for newly appointed second-grade managers Career Development Program Mentoring Training (CDP) training Phase II training Awareness-raising training (e.g., Sales & Marketing, International New employees Young employees Operations, Information Systems, R&D, New employee training period 3rd year training 2nd year training Phase I training Manufacturing and Engineering divisions) Follow-up training Orientation Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 30 Social Report For Our Employees TOPICS and health risks and take corrective action. There were two accidents resulting in work stoppages Hiring top athletes during FY2010. We remain committed to strengthening efOn April 1, 2011, Kikkoman hired two top athletes who forts to eliminate accidents by applying risk assessment prachave represented Japan in international competitions: tices companywide. swimmer Haruka Ueda and canoeist Yuriko Takeshita. In addition to working to improve occupational safety and Kikkoman’s decision to participate in the Japanese Olympic Committee’s Ath-Navi program, which helps health standards throughout the Group by holding two annual companies navigate the process of hiring top athletes, meetings for domestic Group companies to share information reflects its support of the JOC’s goal of having comabout safety and health initiatives, we are striving to prevent panies support top athletes in terms of both providing recurrences of accidents by promptly sharing information employment and sponsoring their activities in order to about both the specific incident and related policies whenever provide a stable living environment for these competian occupational accident occurs at a Group company. tors, in return for which the athletes will contribute to the companies’ community service programs and help ● Changes in frequency rate*1 create a sense of solidarity in the organization. Kikko(non-consolidated basis) man will continue to support both Ueda and Takeshita. (%) 0.6 0.531 0.4 0.284 0.287 0.238 0.2 Occupational Safety and Health 0.000 Management System 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) *1 Frequency rate: An indicator of the frequency of disasters/accidents, repBasic Approach resented by the number of casualties resulting from occupational accidents Kikkoman believes that providing a safe and pleasant work per 1 million work hours. environment for employees is a fundamental principle of corporate management. Accordingly, the Company’s Central Safety and Health Committee, made up of labor and manage● Changes in severity rate*2 (non-consolidated basis) ment representatives, plays a central role in implementing its occupational safety and health management system (OSHMS). (%) 0.014 0.015 Promoting Safety and Health Activities 0.010 The committee reviews and determines policies and key ob0.004 0.005 0.002 jectives for companywide safety and health initiatives, and its 0.000 0.000 0.000 decisions are made known throughout the Company. Daily 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) safety and health activities are undertaken through local 2 * Severity rate: An indicator of the severity of disasters/accidents, repsafety and health committees. In addition, monitoring teams resented by the amount of work time lost due to occupational accidents consisting of labor and management representatives conduct requiring absence from work per 1,000 work hours. periodic monitoring inspections at both the central and local levels, and the Company works to assess the causes of safety ● Safety and Health Management Organization (Kikkoman) Kikkoman Corporation President and CEO Group Overall Safety and Health Controller Companywide Secretariat Central Safety and Health Committee (Human Resources Department) Local Overall Safety and Health Controller Local Safety and Health Secretariat Local Safety and Health Committee Industrial Worksite Overall Safety and Health Controller physicians Worksite Safety and Health Committee Health controller Worksite Safety and Health Controller Safety controller General employees 31 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 For Our Employees Social Report Encouraging Employee Physical and Mental Well-being In addition to having an occupational medical nurse follow up with employees needing re-examination following their medical check-ups and providing a health databank by means of which employees can access their health data, Kikkoman has opened a 24-hour telephone hotline for health and medical questions in partnership with an outside institution as part of its ongoing commitment to helping employees maintain good physical and mental health. Our mental health program includes both counseling and employee training components. To prevent health problems and accidents caused by overwork, a special agreement between labor and management limits overtime. We also utilize an overtime management system and have monthly “No Overtime” days. Furthermore, supervisors whose employees accumulate excessive overtime are warned, and employees have interviews with industrial physicians. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 32 For Our Shareholders and Investors Kikkoman strives to enhance transparency in management through timely and appropriate information disclosure and to secure earnings through sustainable growth that enables appropriate distribution of profits. Timely and Appropriate Disclosure Distribution of Profits of Information Kikkoman Corporation considers the dividend policy as one of Timely and Appropriate Disclosure of Information our key management issues. In this area, our basic policy is to Kikkoman Corporation places importance on information disreward shareholders through consistent distribution of profits closure and investor relations (IR) activities that focus on fairbacked by strong consolidated financial performance, while ness, timeliness, and expeditiousness. In addition to holding using funds to invest in strengthening its corporate foundaIR meetings not only in Japan, but also in the United States tion and future businesses. As a result of this approach, the and Europe, we promptly disclose a variety of IR information dividend for FY2011 is expected to be ¥15 per share. on our website for the benefit of investors who are unable to In addition, we have a special benefit plan for shareholdparticipate in the meetings. ers aimed at deepening their understanding of the Kikkoman In FY2011, we held four meetings with management for Group’s products and encouraging their ongoing support. analysts and institutional investors and a workshop on the From a long-range perspective, we intend to deploy interfood wholesale business. We also held 10 seminars introducnal reserves in ways that create robust corporate value. Future ing the Company for individual investors and 1 for stockplans include investments in expanding our international operbrokers. Going forward, we remain committed to pursuing ations, streamlining production facilities, conducting research activities designed to promote a better understanding of our and development for new businesses, opening and expanding businesses while bringing feedback from shareholders and inmarkets to cultivate new demand, and pursuing strategic investors to bear. vestment activities. Promoting Open General ● Composition of shareholders (as of March 31, 2011) Shareholders’ Meetings Individuals, etc. Financial institutions 27.92% 30.61% 81persons, To encourage higher attendance, Kikkoman Corporation 30,038 persons, 58,733,000 shares schedules the annual general shareholders’ meeting to avoid 64,407,000 shares Securities companies clashing with the most common dates for other companies’ By 3.72% Foreigners 48 persons, meetings. Moreover, we deliver the convocation notice and 13.88% Shareholder 7,817,000 shares related documents to shareholders three weeks in advance in 293 persons, type 29,211,000 shares Other corporations order to allow careful review of the agenda. We also send an 23.87% English-language convocation notice to overseas sharehold496 persons, ers. Additionally, we allow shareholders to vote online, and we 50,213,000 shares Less than 1,000 participate in a voting platform for institutional investors to 1.21％ 1,000,000 or more make it more convenient for shareholders to exercise their vot51.77％ 12,735 persons, 37 persons, ing rights. 2,555,000 shares 108,926,000 shares 1,000 to 9,999 15.14% 17,296 persons, 100,000 to 999,999 31,845,000 shares 23.94% By 150 persons, 10,000 to 99,999 number of 50,356,000 shares 7.94% shares held 738 persons, 16,697,000 shares Credit Ratings Financial results briefing Annual Report Credit ratings provided by rating agencies serve as a means of better understanding Kikkoman’s financial soundness. Kikkoman gives credit ratings an important role in financial strategy out of recognition that they reflect the manner in which capital markets evaluate the Company’s performance and creditworthiness. Kikkoman Corporation was given a rating of A (single A stable) by Rating and Investment Information, Inc., in Japan IR Report as of March 31, 2011. We are striving to maintain and further improve our ratings. 33 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Working with Suppliers We strive to observe fair business practices and develop good working partnerships with suppliers through a variety of means. Conducting Fair Business Transactions Ensuring Ingredient Quality As outlined in our Code of Conduct, Kikkoman’s selection of Kikkoman works closely with suppliers to ensure ingredient and transactions with suppliers are fair and based solely on quality. vendors’ ability to provide good quality, prices, and services, and For example, when procuring raw farm produce, we track not on the personal preferences or considerations of employees. its production history and conduct voluntary checks for residual Internal Procurement Guidelines provide a basis for the managricultural chemicals. When procuring organic crops or nonagement system that ensures that this policy is followed. GMO produce as raw materials, we strive to maintain and imWe have in place a system for reviewing proposed busiprove the quality of procured materials through such measures ness with new suppliers against evaluation criteria and for reas obtaining Certified Organically Grown Food Certificates, evaluating existing suppliers on a regular basis. Both of these investigating the country of origin, and conducting joint inspecmeasures ensure fair evaluation and provide opportunities for tions on IP handling. new suppliers. To help minimize potential risks, we procure ingredients and raw materials from multiple suppliers. Developing Good Working Partnerships with Suppliers At Kikkoman, the Kikkoman Business Service Company Purchasing Department plays a key role in maintaining close communication with suppliers in order to build and maintain fair and good relationships. Whenever we enter into basic contracts with suppliers for new transactions, we explain our compliance policies and share compliance concerns with them. Moreover, we brief subcontractors on Japan’s Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors each time an agreement is signed. Inspecting the corn harvest in Indiana, U.S. Centralized Group purchasing Environmental Considerations in Kikkoman Business Service Company’s Purchasing Department Procurement carries out centralized purchasing by combining the purchasing functions of domestic manufacturing companies such as Takara We also work closely with suppliers through the container and Shoyu, Higeta Shoyu, Nippon Del Monte, and Kikkoman Soypackaging procurement process to develop environmentally foods. The Department strives to carry out fair transactions with friendly containers. In FY2008, we formulated Guidelines suppliers while building mutually beneficial partnerships. for Containers and Packaging (see page 25) to illustrate the Group’s commitment to reducing the environmental impact of containers and packaging while improving customer satisfaction. We ensure that our suppliers understand the Guidelines, and we work with them to reduce the environmental impact of their products. In addition, we ask suppliers of ingredients and raw materials to deliver them in packages that generate less waste and require that their delivery truck drivers shut down engines while unloading at our facilities. In FY2011, we made these requests of some 183 suppliers. When ordering ingredients and raw materials, we work with suppliers and Sobu Logistics Corporation to streamline truck deliveries and reduce the environmental impact of our operations, for example by using trucks returning from product delivery runs to pick up shipments from suppliers. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 34 As a Member of the Local Community Kikkoman promotes a variety of social activities designed to support society at large, including community development programs and efforts to contribute to the promotion and development of food culture. Basic Approach Donations We make donations in fields related to our business activities, Under the management principle of “becoming a company for example by providing products to a Food Bank organizawhose existence is meaningful to global society,” the Kikkotion, offering educational support, and practicing environmenman Group promotes social activities designed to support tal preservation. We also contribute to a large-scale disaster society at large, primarily in the field of food and health, while relief fund. fostering appreciation and preservation of Japanese food culture and maintaining harmony with world food cultures and Examples of FY2011 Activities the environment. Specially designated social activity promoters in factories, Cooking Experience Programs for Parents and Children: headquarters and branch offices support employees’ volunteer Programs to Provide Hands-on Learning Experiences for activities companywide. We also implement community-based Consumers social activity programs. Since FY2004, the Kikkoman Group has held cooking experience programs for parents and children in communities where Kikkoman Group Social Activities factories are located. At the “Whole Tomato Experience in Gunma” program Supporting Employees’ Volunteer Activities held in August 2010, elementary school students and their To encourage our employees to engage in volunteer activities, parents who had already grown tomato seedlings from Del we have introduced programs to match employee contribuMonte at home harvested bright red, ripe sauce tomatoes tions to social causes, support their involvement in the comfrom a Nippon Del Monte contract farmer’s tomato fields and munity, and provide leaves of absence so that they can work tried their hand at making a dish with the freshly picked proas volunteers. duce. Employee volunteers helped administer the program. We also facilitate nationwide volunteer activities in which Kikkoman is committed to continuing to offer handsemployees can easily participate, including collecting ruined on cooking programs for parents and children in order to postcards and used books in support of NGOs and NPOs, stimulate interholding fund-raising drives for charity, assisting with sales of est in nature charity merchandise, and holding charity events to promote and society by interaction with NGOs. learning, cooking, and eating Programs to Provide Hands-on Experiences together. We provide hands-on programs designed to raise elementary school children’s and their parents’ interest in food and nature, as well as programs held in conjunction with NGOs and NPOs to encourage participants to think about international cooperation. Employee volunteers help administer these programs. Students experience what it’s like to harvest tomatoes Education and Fostering of Youth Sponsoring English Education in Noda: Education and We provide financial support to several international exchange Fostering of Youth programs for the education and fostering of young people in Kikkoman has supported English-language education in Noda cooperation with various public organizations and educational since FY2008 as part of an effort to increase children’s cominstitutes, both in Japan and abroad. munication skills and enable them to make a contribution on the global stage when they grow up. In FY2011, we sponContributing to Making Communities Safer sored a visit to the Canadian embassy as well as a joint workWe help make communities safer places to live by supporting shop by the Noda City Board of Education and the Englishfirefighting and disaster-prevention activities as well as traffic language Section and Elementary English Activities Section of safety campaigns. the Noda Association for Educational Study. At the visit to the Canadian embassy, middle school Community Outreach Programs students joined middle and elementary school teachers in a We implement community outreach programs, including by hands-on English lesson. At the joint workshop, elementary holding events that highlight local features, participating in and middle school teachers met together for lectures on the traditional community events, and opening our facilities to aims of foreign-language education, presentations of case the public. studies, and hands-on English activities. At the Elementary English Activities Section workshop, elementary school teachers experienced and learned about communication activities in 35 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 As a Member of the Local Community Social Report English as well as various teaching techniques. Kikkoman will Promoting and Developing Food Culture continue to offer training opportunities designed to promote partnerships in English instruction at Noda City’s elementary Kikkoman strives to promote and develop international food and middle schools in preparation for the full-fledged introculture through lectures, cooking seminars, and operation of duction of English-language activities in the fifth and sixth food-related facilities. grades in 2011. Cooking Seminars at Tokyo Head Office’s KCC Hall Kikkoman holds seminars in the form of lectures, demonstrations, and tastings featuring culinary experts, chefs, and other food professionals as instructors. Content spans multiple genres such as Japanese food culture and cuisine, world food culture and cuisine, and food and health. During FY2011, we offered the following seminars: Understanding Japanese food culture and cuisine A workshop during students’ visit to the Canadian embassy ・Japanese Cuisine Glossary ・Regional Cuisine seminar ・Seasons and Events seminar Supporting the YFU Exchange Student Program: Educa・Japanese Cuisine Basics seminar tion and Fostering of Youth Understanding world food culture and cuisine The Kikkoman Group has supported an exchange student ・National Food Culture and Cuisine seminar program offered by the international exchange organization ・Introduction to World Foods seminar Youth for Understanding (YFU) every year since 1979 through Learning about food and health its Kikkoman Scholarship program. ・Healthy Foods seminar In FY2011, the program brought 23 high-school students ・Ingredients from a from the United States to Japan on short-term home-stays and Professional’s Perspective sent 4 Japanese high-school students to the United States on ・Enriching Your Dining Room long-term home-stays. Participating students expanded their Table seminar potential as “citizens of the world” through various activities and study with their hosts, and we expect them to take A food culture and cuisine seminar advantage of their experience to contribute to international exchange in Visit to the Canadian embassy the future. Donating Products to a Food Bank Research on Food Culture with a Focus on Soy Sauce and The Kikkoman Group has been donating products to a Food Dissemination of Related Information Bank organization* since FY2010 to be distributed free of The Kikkoman Institute of International Food Culture, located charge to individuals needing food assistance in Japan and the at the Noda Head Office, conducts research on food culture U.S. with a focus on fermented seasonings and soy sauce, collects information related to food, and holds forums and seminars *Food Bank organizations receive food products from food-related compaon related subjects. nies that are free of quality problems and distribute them free of charge to The Center also contributes to international exchange social welfare facilities that need support. and amalgamation of food culture by making research findings and collected information and materials available to the general public at libraries and exhibitions and on its website. Donating products to a Food Bank organization The Kikkoman Institute of International Food Culture Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 36 The Kikkoman Group’s Shokuiku Activities The Kikkoman Group considers Shokuiku (food education) to be the special responsibility of companies involved with food and food products. Since announcing the Shokuiku Commitment in May 2005, we have developed a program rooted in our business and based on our Shokuiku Framework, which derives from a three-part philosophy. Key Shokuiku Activities Kikkoman’s Shokuiku Framework Generating interest in learning food and diet through employee visits to schools Kikkoman Soy Sauce Academy Kikkoman employees visit elementary schools to teach students The philosophy referred to as about food and diet as part of the Kikkoman Soy Sauce Kikkoman’s Shokuiku Commitment Expression of Corporate Attitude “Kikkoman’s Three Wishes” Academy. Schools use this program as part of their integrated • Eating well nourishes the mind. We wish to nourish the study time to provide an opportunity for students to think mind with good food. • Good food makes good health. We wish good health to all, about the importance of food and what it means to enjoy through good eating. eating while simultaneously learning about the ingredients and • A smile shared over a meal endures forever. We wish to techniques used to make soy sauce. During fiscal 2011, 8,971 share and exchange the joy of food worldwide. students participated in 280 sessions at 120 schools. Shokuiku Promotion Policies Shokuiku (Food Education) The Kikkoman Academy 1. For families and children it means: Kikkoman employee volunteers visit elementary and middle well-balanced, nutritious homemade food; healthy growth, based on regular family meals where food itself is part of the schools to talk about how soy sauce is made. During fiscal family conversation; sharing good dietary rules via product labels, 2011, 16 presentations were given to 808 students. advertising and other means; and encouraging Kikkoman Group employees and families to have food-centered lives making the best Factory Tours to Experience the Soy Sauce Brewing Process use of their family meals for better communication. Kikkoman offers tours of soy sauce factories in Japan and 2. In Japanese dietary culture it means: Manns Wine Co., Ltd.’s wineries. We offered hands-on studying and developing our traditional food culture based on our experience of international food culture exchange; reasserting the soy sauce-making programs for elementary schools and positive aspects of the rice-centered diet in preventing lifestyle-related other organizations a total of 209 times during fiscal 2011, diseases and adapting to lifestyle changes; and enriching people’s lives accommodating 282,444 students. through communal meals. Website Featuring Foodand Health-related Information Kikkoman’s website features an extensive range of foodand Shokuiku Activities health-related information, including the most recent news about our Shokuiku activities, seasonal recipes, and educational content for children. Shokuiku Festa in Noda (February 12 and 26) Kikkoman held the Shokuiku Festa in Noda in February 2011. Yukio Hattori speaks In a lecture on February 12, Hattori Gakuen director and at the Festa principal Yukio Hattori gave a talk on the topic “Creating Delightful Memories with Good Food” at the company’s head office. On February 26, the Kikkoman Soy Sauce Museum held a hands-on soy sauce-making program for families featuring events including participating in “Playing with Naani-chan,” a learning activity, and helping make rice crackers. Playing with Naani-chan 37 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 The Kikkoman Group’s Shokuiku Activities Hands-on Soy Sauce-making Program Hands-on Soy Sauce-making Program Overview As part of their Shokuiku activities, soy sauce factories operated Factories: Noda Factory (Kikkoman Soy Sauce Museum) and by Kikkoman Food Products offer tours for elementary school Takasago Factory, Kikkoman Food Products Company; Hokstudents to learn and experience how soy sauce is made. kaido Kikkoman Company Through these tours, the company strives to help students Date: Varies with factory deepen their interest in food and diet. After learning about Time: 120 min. soy sauce ingredients and how soy sauce is made, students Target group: Third through sixth graders participating in the program, which lasts about two hours, Eligible groups: Please apply as a group by class, grade, etc. experience what it’s actually like to place Koji culture on special trays prior to fermentation and press moromi mash. They also get to coat rice crackers they roasted themselves with soy sauce and sample the tasty result. The program ends with a tour of the state-of-the-art factory. Hands-on Soy Sauce-making Program Steps An instructor describes how soy sauce is made using slides. Once students have studied the process, the hands-on soy sauce-making program begins. 1 Students look at and 4 Students observe the touch the ingredients state of the moromi used to make soy mash. As it ferments sauce. and ages, the mixture takes on the distinctive color and aroma of soy sauce. 2 Koji mold is added to 5 The moromi mash is steamed soybeans and placed in bags and roasted wheat, and pressed. the resulting mixture is stirred well. 3 Students touch the 6 Roasted rice crackers Koji culture and smell are coated with soy its aroma. sauce, and the students sample the color, flavor, and aroma of the soy sauce. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 38 Compliance We’re striving to put in place a framework to ensure compliance with laws and social norms and to raise employee awareness of such compliance. The Kikkoman Group Code of Companies whose management is required to Conduct and Compliance System submit promissory letters of compliance with the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct The Kikkoman Group adopted the Kikkoman Group Code of Japan: Kikkoman Corporation; Kikkoman Food Products; Conduct in August 2002 to codify standards for the attitude Kikkoman Beverage Company; Kikkoman Business and conduct expected of Group employees. Since then, Group Service Company; Nippon Del Monte Corporation; companies have worked to ensure that the Code is well unManns Wine Co., Ltd.; Pacific Trading Co., Ltd.; derstood and thoroughly practiced by all personnel. Heisei Foods Company; Edogawa Foods Company; The Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct, which commits Hokkaido Kikkoman Company; Nagareyama Kikkoman employees to contribute to the development of Kikkoman Company; Terra Vert Corporation; Takara society by fulfilling their work responsibilities with a sense of Shoyu Co., Ltd.; FoodChemifa Co., Ltd.; Sobu Logistics Corporation; Sobu Service Center Inc.; KMC; ethics and mission, consists of six principles: Securing of safety Kikkoman Restaurant, Inc.; Nihon Shoyu Co., Ltd.; and symbiosis with global environment, Business activities with and Kikkoman Direct Co., Ltd. fair and free competition, Business information disclosure and Overseas: KFI, KSU, JFC, KMP, KFE, KTE, JFCEU, KAP, and promotion of communication, Respect for human rights and others establishment of happy working environment , Observation of laws and regulations in Japan and abroad and maintenance of social orders, an Positive social action program. In an effort to Corporate Ethics Committee ensure that the Code is well understood and thoroughly pracThe Kikkoman Group Corporate Ethics Committee was formed ticed throughout the Group, Kikkoman has created English to ensure that the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct is put and Chinese versions of the text, and German and French verinto practice. With a total of six members including two outside sions were added in FY2011. experts such as attorneys as well as directors and officers from In April 2011, an employee at Kikkoman Food Products Kikkoman Corporation, the Committee has overall responsibility Company’s Takasago Factory was arrested on suspicion of for studying and implementing policies related to compliance. gambling on baseball, and papers detailing illegal behavior by During FY2011, the Committee met a total of 10 times. Adother employees who had allegedly participated in the scheme ditionally, Committee members met with standing auditors to were forwarded to the Public Prosexchange information once in each half of the fiscal year. ecutor’s Office in June. Kikkoman Corporation takes these events and 2010 Kikkoman Group Corporate accusations very seriously, and offiEthics System Survey cials visited key facilities operated by Group companies in Japan to explain Since 2003, Kikkoman has conducted a biennial survey to verify the importance of compliance. Gothe effectiveness of its corporate ethics system. In FY2011, ing forward, we will strive to ensure the Group monitored this system by conducting the survey that a problem of this nature does simultaneously for 20 Group companies in Japan for the first not recur by pursuing a redoubled time. In addition to allowing officials to ascertain the extent of program of employee education. employee understanding of the Code of conduct and awarePocket reference card ness of hotlines, the summary of the results, which reached 1,631 pages, provided extensive detailed free-answer responses Submitting promissory letters of compliance with the submitted by participants. Going forward, Kikkoman will work Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct to further strengthen its corporate ethics system, including by In addition to handing out pocket reference cards outlining bringing this feedback to bear. the Code of Conduct to all Group employees in Japan and requiring the cards to be carried by employees at all times, Kikkoman is working to ensure that employee conduct throughCompanies participating in the corporate ethics survey Kikkoman Corporation; Kikkoman Food Products; Kikkoman out the Group accords with corporate ethics and a law-abiding Beverage Company; Kikkoman Business Service Company; spirit by requiring all managerial employees holding positions Nippon Del Monte Corporation; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Pacific of director, corporate officer, or manager/supervisor within Trading Co., Ltd.; Heisei Foods Company; Edogawa Foods Kikkoman as well as the presidents of Group companies to Company; Hokkaido Kikkoman Company; Nagareyama submit an annual promissory letters to the CEO pledging their Kikkoman Company; Terra Vert Corporation; Takara Shoyu compliance with the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct. DurCo., Ltd.; FoodChemifa Co., Ltd.; Sobu Logistics Corporation; ing FY2011, 308 individuals signed the letters. Sobu Service Center Inc.; KMC; Kikkoman Restaurant, Inc.; Nihon Shoyu Co., Ltd.; and Kikkoman Direct Co., Ltd. 39 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Compliance Management Report Compliance Education and Corporate Compliance Survey Awareness Programs Kikkoman Food Products; Kikkoman Beverage Company; Kikkoman Business Service Company; Nippon Del Monte To raise employee awareness of and enforce corporate ethics Corporation; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Pacific Trading Co., Ltd.; based on the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct, we provide Heisei Foods Company; Edogawa Foods Company; Hokkaido compliance education during training sessions for all managKikkoman Company; Nagareyama Kikkoman Company; ers/supervisors and newly appointed managers/supervisors. Terra Vert Corporation; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; FoodChemifa Compliance education is also incorporated into training proCo., Ltd.; Sobu Logistics Corporation; Sobu Service Center grams for all new recruits and new mid-career hires. Inc.; KMC; Kikkoman Restaurant, Inc.; Kikkoman Delica Co., In addition to holding visits and training for Group comLtd.; Nihon Shoyu Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Direct Co., Ltd.; and panies in Japan on the theme of compliance, the Kikkoman Higeta Shoyu Co., Ltd. Group is involved in a range of educational and awarenessraising activities, including conducting compliance audits in partnership with the Internal Auditing Department. Kikkoman Ethics Hotline Group legal affairs officers and other personnel also conduct compliance fact-finding missions to overseas Group compaThe Kikkoman Group has established a Group Corporate Ethnies. During FY2011, we visited five companies in Germany ics Hotline and made it available for use by all employees of and the Netherlands. During FY2012, we plan to continue to Group companies in Japan. Employees are made aware of strengthen compliance throughout the Group through local the hotline through repeated notices in individual companies’ awareness-raising activities such as inspections of domestic internal notices, Group newsletters, and training sessions. We and overseas Group companies. have worked to expand the system by opening the hotline up to use by part-time and temporary employees starting in Compliance survey FY2008 and by all domestic Group company employees following our transition to a holding company-based organizaKikkoman conducted a compliance survey with the goal tion in October 2009. of making a comprehensive assessment of, and improving, The Group Corporate Ethics Hotline consists of an external the state of domestic Group companies’ compliance. The hotline that is managed by an outside lawyer, a shared Group survey elicited responses from each company to a total of 97 hotline that is managed by Kikkoman Corporation’s Legal & questions addressing topics such as management, general Compliance Department, and hotlines at individual companies affairs and accounting, manufacturing and products, envithat are set up as needed. Reports are received via dedicated ronmental responsibility, and labor management. No serious phone line, fax, email, and dedicated post office box. compliance infractions were discovered at the target Group When the office receives a report, an internal investigacompanies as a result of the survey. Based on the results, tion is conducted, corrective measures taken, and feedback compliance-related training was held at some Group comprovided to the individual who initiated the report. The Corpanies in order to further strengthen their compliance proporate Ethics Committee Regulations stipulate protection for grams. Going forward, Kikkoman will work to enhance the whistleblowers against any backlash or disadvantage that Group compliance system, including by conducting surveys might result from submission of a report. linked to its compliance audit efforts. ● Group Corporate Ethics Hotline Kikkoman Corporation Board of Directors Reports Kikkoman Group Corporate Ethics Committee Reports Directs Reports Directs Corporate Ethics Committees at individual companies Reports Requests Hotlines Shared Group hotline External hotline Manager of General Affairs Department, etc. Legal & Compliance Department Lawyer Directs Responds Consults Responds Consults Responds Consults Responds Group employees contacting hotline Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 40 Corporate Governance We continue to improve and enhance our corporate governance system while upgrading our internal control system to ensure that operations are conducted in an appropriate manner. Basic Approach In October 2009, we shifted the Group’s management system to a holding company structure. Individual operational compaWe believe that responding effectively to the changing businies will enhance their ability to create value in line with their ness environment and maximizing corporate value through own areas of authority and responsibility based on a Group the enhancement of Kikkoman Group management form the management strategy determined by the holding company, true basis for running a company with the mandate given by thereby maximizing the Group’s overall corporate value. shareholders. We also consider one of our most important management priorities to be executing sound governance in Internal Control System order to fulfill our corporate responsibilities to all stakeholders. Establishing an internal control system that ensures proper exCorporate Governance Framework ecution of business practices is high on our corporate agenda. Accordingly, we have been making Group-wide efforts to develKikkoman Corporation employs a corporate auditor system. op an enhanced framework for ensuring effective and efficient We strive to improve and enhance our corporate governance operations as well as compliance with laws and regulations. framework with the aim of achieving greater management We p e r i o d i c a l l y re v i e w a n d u p d a t e a b a s i c p o l i c y transparency, clearly defined management responsibility, for“Establishing an Internal Control System” that the Board of speedy decision-making, and stronger management oversight. Directors adopted in May 2006. In addition to establishing an In March 2001, we introduced a corporate officer system and Internal Control Committee and Internal Control Department in transferred authority for business execution to corporate ofNovember 2008 in order to comply with a new internal controls ficers in an effort to streamline operational responsibilities and reporting system mandated by the Financial Instruments and speed decision-making and business execution. In June 2002, Exchange Act, which went into effect in April 2008, we have we established a Nominating Committee to nominate outside both adopted a basic policy concerning internal controls as directors and outside corporate auditors as well as a Remuthey relate to financial reporting and established a structure for neration Committee in order to improve management transstrengthening internal controls related to financial reporting. parency and strengthen management’s oversight function. ● Corporate Governance System (As of July, 2011) General Meeting of Shareholders Appoint/Dismiss Appoint/Dismiss Appoint/Dismiss Report Nominating Committee The Board of Directors The Board of Auditors Eleven directors (Three of whom are outside directors) Four auditors Remuneration Committee Report (Two of whom are outside auditors) Audit Audit Select/Appoint, Supervise Discussion of Important Issues and Report Holding Accounting Auditor Company Accounting Audit Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Group Management Committee CEO General Environment Preservation Committee Report Quality Assurance Committee Internal Auditing Department Audit Holding company departments Risk Management Committee Internal Control Department Evaluate Corporate Ethics Committee Accounting Audit Internal Control Committee Audit Evaluate Report Operational Kikkoman Group companies companies 41 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Framework to Promote Corporate Social Responsibility / Risk Management Kikkoman is working actively to promote activities related to corporate social responsibility based on our framework. The Group is also moving to strengthen its management systems for preventing the manifestation of various risks. Framework to Promote Corporate Risk Management System Social Responsibility At Kikkoman Corporation, corporate officers manage the The Kikkoman Group believes that the basis of corporate sodivisions and subsidiaries for which they are responsible so as cial responsibility (CSR) lies in practicing “what we can do for to prevent the emergence of perceived risks relating to the society” through our business operations and in fulfilling our Group’s activities. We also have a Risk Management Commitresponsibilities to stakeholders. tee in place to establish an effective risk management system In 2005, we launched a Corporate Social Responsibiland to respond promptly to crises that could negatively impact ity Committee with members from multiple departments to our business. promote associated initiatives. Following our transition to a When a worldwide pandemic of novel H1N1 influenza holding company-based organization in 2009, we added repstruck in 2009, the Kikkoman Group responded in accordance resentatives of domestic Group companies (Nippon Del Monte with a precompiled manual. At the same time, the Risk ManCorporation, Manns Wine Co., Ltd., FoodChemifa Co., Ltd., agement Committee proposed appropriate countermeasures and Sobu Logistics Corporation) to the committee. as events unfolded, and we worked to minimize the effect on The committee plays a central role in communicating and our business execution by assessing employee health and takpromoting CSR policies and initiatives internally, and in sysing steps to prevent infection. tematizing the diverse CSR activities that the Kikkoman Group In October 2010, we adopted the Kikkoman Group Risk has been carrying out with stakeholders. It also works as a Management Guideline. This is a series of provisions addressdriving force to continuously improve CSR-related activities ing appropriate management and implementations of various through the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) management cycle. risks affecting the Group’s operations. We also compiled a series of Crisis Management Manuals as part of a larger effort ● Framework to Promote to standardize crisis management throughout the Group. Corporate Social Responsibility ● Systematizing and sharing risk management CEO 1. Adopting guidelines addressing various policies and systems Directs Reports related to the Group’s overall crisis management 2. Compiling sample manuals addressing principal risks and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee sharing them among affiliates in Japan ● Supervise activities by Group companies and departments ● Assess activities by Group companies and departments Kikkoman Group Risk Management Guidelines (new) Directs Reports Group companies Manuals addressing principal risks ● Establish activity policies for respective departments •Product accidents Product Accident Response Manual ● Monitor and control each progress ● Execute activities •Earthquakes and other disasters Disaster Response Manual •Factory accidents As per the ISO 14001 Emergency Response Guidelines •Novel influenza Novel Influenza Response Manual Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 42 Management Report Impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Response of the Kikkoman Group In the immediate aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011, the Group worked to deal with the effects of the disaster by forming a task force headquarters in accordance with its Disaster Response Manual. The task force determined that our priorities were (1) ensuring the safety of employees, (2) shipping products to the extent possible, and (3) ensuring that Kikkoman could continue to function as a company. In addition to assessing the status of affiliates and related departments, the Group undertook a series of measures. 1. Principal Responses Employee Safety Although the disaster had only a minor impact on other Although phone and email communications to areas afGroup production facilities and normal operations had fected by the earthquake were difficult to establish, we resumed by the end of March, some inventory and equipwere able to verify the safety of almost all employees by ment at distribution facilities were damaged. We worked the end of the day thanks to a series of rules for confirmto minimize the effect on product supply by lengthening ing employee safety, including reliance on multiple means the period from order receipt to delivery by one day. of communication. Business Partners Facilities and production Despite initial difficulties making deliveries to areas affectSince Nippon Del Monte’s Fukushima Factory (located in ed by the disaster due to traffic problems and an inability the city of Minamisoma in Fukushima Prefecture) had been to procure sufficient supplies of bottle caps and other preparing to close in September 2011 due to the manupackaging materials, we were able to take appropriate facturing facilities reorganization plan, Kikkoman stopped measures thanks to the cooperation of our business partproduction at the factory due to the impact of the earthners. quake and now plans to move the closure date forward. 2. Future Issues Restrictions on Summertime Power Usage shima Prefecture due to an inability to make a judgFacilities located in Tokyo Electric Power’s service area ment concerning the extent of soil contamination have been called upon to restrict their use of power during and the possible effects of the accident on harvested the summer of 2011, and these worksites have adopted tomatoes at the seedling stage. In addition to offering voluntary action plans to do so. Thanks to steps including financial assistance to contract farmers during this fisshifting work times, working on holidays and at night, limcal year, we will work with all involved parties to verify iting use of equipment that consumes a large amount of the safety of the crop through trial cultivation and soil power, and generating their own electricity, these facilities analysis in preparation for a resumption of contract reduced peak power consumption during the summer (July cultivation in 2012. to September) by at least 15% from the previous year’s Overseas, there has been a trend toward increasingly levels. stringent inspections of products and ingredients produced in Japan. While our flagship product, soy sauce, is not afImpact of the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi fected by this trend since they are produced locally from Nuclear Power Plant locally procured ingredients, we are taking steps to assure Nippon Del Monte has decided to suspend contracts safety when exporting ingredients or products from Japan on tomatoes for processed products grown in Fukuby complying with regulations in each country of import. 3. Social Contributions Donations: Kikkoman donated ¥100 million to the Japanese Red Cross Society and ¥10 million to the city of Minamisoma in Fukushima Prefecture. Material aid: Working with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, we supplied aid in the form of about 350,000 products (worth ¥70 million), including canned foods, beverages, and soy milk. Fundraising: Funds contributed by officers and employees at Group companies in Japan and overseas were donated to the Japanese Red Cross Society. 43 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 List of Principal Initiatives and Data The Kikkoman Group is pursuing a variety of initiatives in order to put its management principles into practice and fulfill its social responsibility. This section lists principal FY2011 initiatives and data from the standpoint of the environment, society, Shokuiku, and management. Corresponding Activities Policies and initiatives FY2011 results and FY2010 results and FY2011 scope PDF page United achievements achievements Nations Global Compact item 11 domestic FY2011 total CO2 emissions 125,971 t-CO2 124,919 t-CO2 P11 7,8,9 Preventing Global companies Warming 14 domestic and FY2011 CO2 emissions per unit of production 0.171 t-CO2/ton 0.167 t-CO2/ton P11 7,8,9 overseas companies Recycling rate 95.6% 94.1% 13 domestic and P13 7,8,9 overseas companies Reducing and Recycling Wastes and Byproducts Kikkoman Food Using environmentally friendly containers and Reduced weight of product Reduced weight of product Products/Nippon Del P14 7,8,9 packaging materials containers. containers. Monte Performing internal environmental audits Conducted at six domestic Audited two overseas 6 domestic and P15 7,8 Promoting Environmental and overseas companies. companies. overseas companies Management Achieving ISO 14001 certification for all major Earned certification. Began preparing to earn 16 domestic areas P15 7,8 domestic facilities certification. Promoting Environmental Participating in environmental education Accepted intern from Chiba Accepted intern from Chiba Kikkoman Communication P16 7,8 programs for communities and schools University, etc. University, etc. Corporation Environmental communication activities Participated in the EcoParticipated in the EcoKikkoman P16 7,8 products International Fair, etc. products International Fair, etc. Corporation Environmental Risk Enhanced the Kikkoman Management Held emergency drills on Environment & Food Safety Kikkoman Food P17 7,8 preventing soy sauce spills. Analysis Center. Products Environmental risk reduction activities Environmental Report Adopted rules governing Held emergency drills. Nippon Del Monte P17 7,8 work on factory premises. Environmental Accounting Environmental preservation investments ¥645 million ¥357 million 13 domestic and P19,20 7,8 overseas companies 13 domestic and Environmental preservation expenses ¥2,159 million ¥2,356 million overseas companies P19,20 7,8 13 domestic and Environmental preservation benefits ¥137 million ¥144 million P19,20 7,8 overseas companies For Our Customers Number of Quality Assurance Committee meetings 12 (held monthly) 12 (held monthly) Group P24 — Total number of inquiries received at the Domestic Group Kikkoman Consumer Center 25,839 25,552 companies P27 — For Our Employees Number of employees (Group) 5,268 5,263 Group P3 — Average employee years of service 17.1 17.6 4 domestic companies P28 — New hires 66 68 4 domestic companies P28 — Kikkoman Food Disabled individual employment rate 1.76% 1.86% Products P28 6 Number of participants in major selfimprovement training programs 645 714 4 domestic companies P30 — Frequency rate: Number of casualties resulting from 0.238% 0.531% 4 domestic companies P31 — occupational accidents per 1 million work hours Severity rate: Number of work days lost due to occupational accidents requiring absence from 0.000% 0.004% 4 domestic companies P31 — work per 1,000 work hours For Our Shareholders and Meetings with management for analysts and Kikkoman Investors institutional investors 4 4 Corporation P33 — Kikkoman Seminars for individual investors, etc. 11 13 P33 — Corporation Working with Suppliers Domestic Briefing new suppliers on compliance 100% 100% manufacturing P34 1-10 companies Domestic Asking suppliers to strengthen their efforts to 183 181 manufacturing P34 7,8 reduce environmental impacts companies As a Member of the Local Held five hands-on Held five hands-on Hands-on programs for parents and their Community programs about food for programs about food for 6 domestic companies P35 — children parents and their children. parents and their children. Social Report Supporting exchange programs for high-school 23 in the U.S.; 4 in Japan 17 in the U.S.; 4 in Japan 3 domestic and P36 — students overseas companies Donated products to Food Donated products to food 3 domestic and Supporting Food Banks Bank organizations (Japan bank organizations (Japan overseas companies P36 1,2 and the U.S.). and the U.S.). The Kikkoman Group’s Number of participants in the Kikkoman Soy 8,971 8,560 4 domestic companies P37 — Shokuiku Activities Sauce Academy Number of participants in the Kikkoman Academy 808 3,259 5 domestic companies P37 — Shokuiku Number of participants in factory tours 282,444 268,229 3 domestic companies P37 — Number of participants in the hands-on soy sauce-making program 13,273 12,599 2 domestic companies P38 — Corporate Governance Kikkoman Number of Board of Directors meetings 11 11 P41 — Corporation Number of Board of Auditors meetings 8 8 Kikkoman P41 — Corporation Compliance Requiring Group management to submit promissory 308 298 Group P39 1-10 letters to comply with the Code of Conduct Conducted a survey and Group Compliance Survey directed companies to make Conducted since FY2010. 21 domestic P40 1-10 companies improvements. Management Report Compliance training held by the Legal & 33 21 Group P39 1-10 Compliance Department Conducting overseas compliance fact-finding missions 5 4 5 overseas companies P39 1-10 Risk Management / Framework to Promote Holding Corporate Social Responsibility 3 4 Group P42 1-10 Corporate Social Committee meetings Responsibility Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 44 Third-party Opinion Katsuhiro Harada Professor, Meiji Gakuin University Senior Staff Writer, Nikkei Newspapers Professor Harada has served primarily on international beats for Nikkei, working as a special correspondent in both São Paulo and New York, where he has covered the United Nations as well as such topics as non-profit organizations, corporate social responsibility, and business strategy at the so-called base of the pyramid. He has been a recipient of the NSK Award (presented by the Japan Newspaper Publishers & Editors Association), and he was appointed as a professor at Meiji Gakuin University in 2010. He also serves as the editor in chief of the Alterna Premium newsletter, and in the past he has served on a social business-related committee at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and on a BoP-related committee at the Japan International Cooperation Agency. He is the director of the Social Business Network. His numerous published works include Striving to Be a Good CSR Company (published by Nikkei Inc.) and Borderless CSR: Moving beyond the Boundaries of Companies and NPOs (published by Dobunkan Shuppan Co., Ltd.). Kikkoman is known for its efforts through various fine-grained report does not include enough information in some areas. support initiatives to create workplace environments where I would like to know more about the supply chain. Safety of women can work for the long term. The company was the ingredients lies at the heart of food safety, but I found that first in Japan to sign the United Nations Global Compact, and the report did not provide enough information about the issue it was the first manufacturer to pledge its support for the of soybean procurement—in short, about use of genetically Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in writing. I have a modified soybeans, a topic in which consumers have shown strong impression of Kikkoman as a star company in the arena great interest. The report makes no mention of the subject of corporate social responsibility. at all, and there is only a small amount of space dedicated to As I read the Corporate Citizenship Report 2011, it information about the company’s use of non-GMO soybeans became clear to me that this approach is rooted in the comon the company website. From an accountability standpoint, pany’s traditional corporate philosophy of fulfilling corporate I would like to see Kikkoman set aside more space for this responsibilities as a public entity and contribute to society A topic and disclose its policies. Additionally, since Kikkoman is number of companies with long histories have approached a signatory of the Global Compact, I would like to see more their management with an awareness of corporate social information about how human rights, for example of women responsibility that predates the introduction of the concept and children, are being protected in the supply chain. of Western-style CSR. I believe that Kikkoman is a prototypiFurthermore, I would love to see Kikkoman embrace cal example of this tradition. Such companies are often said global issues as areas in which it can take action in the future. to be prone to adopt an inward-looking focus. In that sense, The United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) the“ Kikkoman Group Social Responsibility Chart” (on pages consist of eight goals conceived to promote progress in de7 and 8), which was newly adopted this year, caught my eye. veloping nations. Behind the goal of a“ rich and varied foodThe chart makes clear that Kikkoman considers social responlifestyle” surely lies a sustainable world free of starvation and sibility to involve more than just ”responsible corporate activipoverty. Today, there are large numbers of children who do ties”; rather, it is an intrinsic part of realizing healthy, rich lifenot have enough to eat. I would like Kikkoman to become styles and coexisting with the global community. It is evident more actively involved with this issue. This is a great and abidthat Kikkoman’s approach to CSR is on par with that of other ing wish of mine. leading companies on the global stage. Unfortunately, there was an incident in which a number I have an image of soy sauce as being a Japanese seasonof employees at Kikkoman Food Product’s Takasago Factory ing, so when I saw the breakdown of Kikkoman’s profit I was were arrested or had papers detailing illegal behavior forsurprised. There are customers in more than 100 countries, warded to the Public Prosecutor’s Office for alleged gambling. and overseas sales account for 62% of profit. I recalled my I suspect that the problem involves only a small number of time as an overseas special correspondent, when it was easier employees at the facility, but I sense that there is a need to reto ask for“ Kikkoman” than“ soy sauce.” As I read the report, view the company’s internal compliance system to ensure that it became clear to me that Kikkoman globalized its operations the pursuit of an employee-friendly work environment does long ago, and that its management has evolved in a manner not lead to a loss of discipline. that befits those operations. The company’s global character is clear in its recycling-oriented approach to making soy sauce, its efforts to prevent global warming, and its human resources development initiatives. I do have a request, and it centers on the fact that the 45 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Contact: Kikkoman Corporation 2-1-1, Nishi-Shinbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8428, Japan TEL: +81-3-5521-5131 http://www.kikkoman.com Published December 2011
