2011 Korea Energy Management Corporation Sustainability Report Save Energy Save Earth Contents President & CEO’s Greeting 2010 Highlights Introduction of KEMCO Sustainability Management System Ethical Management Corporate Governance Participation of Stakeholder Materiality Test KEMCO’s Efforts for Sustainable Achievements Economic Achievements Achievements Made in Economic Value ISSUE 1 Energy Saving & Energy-Efficiency Improvements Strengthening of Transparency for Budget Execution & Industrial Sector Purchase of Social Responsibility Building & Transportation Sector Performance Management and Change Operation of Energy-Efficiency Management System Customer Satisfaction Establishment of Energy Efficient Basis special page Strengthening Energy Efficient Basis & GHG Mitigation Social Achievements special page Support on Energy Saving Efforts of Small and Social Contribution through Energy Medium Enterprises special page Expansion of Green Energy Experience Halls Personnel Management ISSUE 2 Expansion of New and Renewable Energy(NRE) Deployment special page Creation of Jobs through Quota Increase and Support on Deploying NRE Facilities Recruitment of New Employees Development of NRE Industry Labor-Management Relations Establishment of NRE Basis Environmental Achievements special page Renewable Portfolio Standard(RPS) Green Management Achievements of Green Management ISSUE 3 Establishment of Systems to Respond to Climate Change Verification services for GHG Mitigation Appendix (CDM Verification and Certification) Status of Awards and Members Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction(KVER) Registry Program Third Party Verification Opinion Establishment of Climate Change Response Basis GRI Index UN Global Compact special page Overseas Market Development ISO 26000 Glossary of terms ISSUE 4 Education and Promotion Representative National Brand for Early Education ‘SESE NARA’ Promotion Cover design Used graphics to express KEMCO’s current status of connecting the past and the future. 2011 Korea Energy Management Corporation Sustainability Report President & CEO’s Greeting Dear Stakeholders KEMCO is a public institution that implements the national task of reducing greenhouse gases(GHG), which is the major contributor to global warming, by expanding the distribution of new and renewable energy and the use of efficient energy. Energy has become a necessity in the civilized life and it has enriched our lives, but most of our energy supply is imported from abroad, which is a huge burden on our economy. Meanwhile, the coal or oil that we use is the cause of various environmental problems, such as air pollution and global warming. Now it has become very important how we use the energy and how we deal with problems caused by energy use. The recent green trends reflect the mission of this age where the emission of carbon dioxide is reduced to overcome global warming, while at the same time, sustainable economic growth is maintained. With the management principle to become a leading green growth leader and create a low-carbon society with the people of Korea, KEMCO has strived to achieve the vision of Creating a Smart & Green Lifestyle. Through such efforts, KEMCO has established the basis for low carbon green growth, including the introduction of greenhouse energy target management system, the distribution of one million green homes, and the overseas expansion of CDM(Clean Development Mechanism) projects. As the main institution for low carbon green growth in the Energy-Climate Era, including high oil prices and global warming, KEMCO has made two promises to meet the continuous interests and demands of the stakeholders. KEMCO will play a leading role in green growth together with the people of Korea. As the only energy demand management institution in Korea, KEMCO clearly recognizes its responsibilities and roles in climate change mitigation and low carbon green growth. Through the implementation of a national basic plan according to plan, including an improvement of 11.3% in national energy efficiency and an increase of 11% for new and renewable energy(NRE) deployment rate, KEMCO will play a leading role in reducing GHG emissions by 30% by 2020. 4 SUSTAINABILITY report 2011 Save Energy Save Earth KEMCO is creating a new culture. KEMCO will work towards faithfully understanding its social responsibility and be trusted by the people of Korea. In order to become a public institution that is trusted by the people, KEMCO will not just faithfully fulfill its role, because sustainable growth can only be truly achieved when it has carried out its corporate social responsibility, including the efforts to strengthen corporate ethics, win-win management for shared growth, and various corporate social responsibility activities. This report has been published to announce KEMCO’s commitment to sustainability management for the first time, and also shares its efforts made with all the stakeholders, including the government, local community, executives and employees, NGO, and the people of Korea. Hopefully, through the publication of this report on sustainability management, the stakeholders can strengthen their trust on KEMCO, while KEMCO will do its best to listen to the voices of the customers. Thank you. December 2011 President & CEO of Korea Energy Management Corporation Huh, Jeung Soo 5 2010 higHlights 1. 2. 3. 4. Realizing Sustainable Low Development of Various Creating Jobs to Resolve Providing an Energy Saving Carbon Green Growth Systems for Shared Growth Unemployment Problems Implementation Program KEMCO is realizing sustainable low between Large Companies Achieved the results of creating jobs for the People carbon green growth by achieving and Small and Medium-sized in the private sector (32 persons) by A variety of energy saving implemenenergy saving and GHG reduction Companies expanding the fixed number of people tation programs have been made, through the implementation of Through the development of “green recruited as the key institution for low including the representative energy policies for energy saving and energy credit” system, the establishment of carbon green growth (35 persons), saving program for early educaefficiency improvements and the SMEs’ energy saving support center, hiring new employees with the extion “SESE NARA” as well as “Green expansion of NRE deployment. and the implementation of technipenses remaining from employees on Campus”, “Green Sports”, and “Fuel cal guidance programs between parental leave (7 persons, including Efficiency Up & Car Accidents Down”, Business performances for 2010 large companies and SMEs, the permanent workers and part-time which greatly improved the general Amount of energy saving : 5,430 thousand toe SMEs’ difficulties resulting from the workers), and implementing the enpublic’s practice index for energy Follows amount consumed in Daejeon and Daegu annually implementation of GHG energy target ergy supporter system for supporting saving. management system have been reSME’s energy saving efforts. (69.1 points in 2009 > 80.0 points in Amount of energy deployment : 580 thousand toe Have the effect of replacing 3,219 won worth solved, which strengthened the basis 2010) of crude oils imported for shared growth. In recognition of Amount of GHG reduction : 18,582 thousand CO2 these achievements, KEMCO received Have the effect of planting 6.7 billion young a Minister of Knowledge Economy’s pine trees commendation for “Excellent Institution for Supporting SMEs”(December 6, 2010). 6 Sustainability report 2011 5. 6. 7. 8. Actively Implementing “Happy Energy Society” Implementing Business Establishing a Fair Overseas Business for through Social Innovation Activities for Labor-Management Culture Energy Saving and GHG Contribution Sustainable Growth It is fully understood by the labor and Reduction The “Energy Minus Love Plus” A new business innovation brand management that a fair labor and In order to search for CDM projects, campaign, which saves energy and called “Smart KEMCO” has been management relation is a prerequisite three MOUs have been signed, includincreases the warmth of love, was launched, which seeks new projects, essential for creating results. The ing the biomass development project implemented to save 70.206MWh of establishes result-oriented culture, labor and management is working tofor Indonesia’s Gorontalo (participated electricity. As a result, the neighand improves the corporate culture. gether to contribute to the generation by LIG Ensulting and LIG Engineering bors in need received one million It has been implemented throughout of diverse results by building a new & Construction), by establishing conbriquettes and local children’s centers KEMCO to have the effect of reducing framework for labor-management sultative bodies with major developing are sponsored regularly through the the lead time for work by 2,574 days. relations. Through a fair laborcountries and holding green business Boundary of Love Agreement. Also, management culture, KEMCO has forums. Also, in recognition of the the energy love volunteer group, successfully resolved pending issues, excellence of KEMCO’s voluntary GHG consisting of executives and including time-off system and annual reduction program, Thailand’s TGO employees, is implementing a variety salary system. (Thailand Green House Gas Manageof social contribution activities, ment Organization) signed MOE with including one company-one country KEMCO to receive support for estabpartnership and support for the night lishing the system and training. schools. 7 Introduction of KEMCO is an institution that implements the national task of mitigating GHG, which is the biggest cause of global warming, by expanding NRE deployment and energy efficiency improvements. KEMCO Since its foundation in 1980, as the only institution for energy demand management in Korea, KEMCO has worked towards energy efficiency improvements. It is playing a leading role in responding to climate change through endless innovations, including the establishment of NRE Centers and the designation of organizations for CDM projects. Overview organization President & CEO Huh, Jeung-Soo Standing Audit Audit & Inspection Department (appointed on Aug. 24, 2011) Date of July 4, 1980 establishment Corporate Strategy & Business Management Planning Department Management Headquarters Legal basis Article 45 of the Energy Use Rationalization Act Green Growth Policy Department Public Relations Department Quasi-governmental institution Characteristic Management Support Department (consignment basis) Analysis of energy management and provision of technical advice GHG Reduction Headquarters Demand Side Management Department Investigation, research, promotion and Industries and Power generation Target education of energy management Management Department IT & Statistics Department Efficiency improvement and safety GHG Reduction Technology Consultancy management of energy consuming equipment Department Major function Support for the funding of facilitating and role investments in energy saving facilities President & CEO Low Carbon & Energy Energy Efficiency Standard Department Infrastructure Headquarters Deployment of NRE and promotion ESCO & Financial Support Department of green industry Carbon Market & Registry Department Overseas Project Department Establishment of the basis to respond to UNFCCC Support for the GHG mitigation activities in the industry Energy Cooperation Green Energy Cooperation Department Headquarters Number of Energy Inspection Support Department 432 employee Regional Headquarters(12) Operating budget 68,371 million won 388, Poeundaero, Suji-gu, Head office GHG Certification Office Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do As of Oct. 2011 New & Renewable New & Renewable Energy Policy Department Energy Center New & Renewable Energy Industry Department New & Renewable Energy Dissemination Department Renewable Portfolio Standard Department history of kemco Dec. 1979 July. 1980 Dec. 1987 Enacted and promulgated Established Promulgated the Alternative the Energy Use KEMCO Energy Development Promotion Rationalization Act Act(Dec. 2004 Changed the name to the Act on the Promotion of the Development, Use, and Diffusion of New and Renewable Energy) 8 Sustainability report 2011 Major projects of KEMCO Establishing the climate Expanding the NRE deployment change response system • Expansion of one million green homes • Registration of GHG emission • Facilitation of industrializing and export of NRE reduction projects • Development and promotion of NRE policies • Establishment of GHG mitigation basis and • Facilitation of NRE deployment support for the industry • Promotion of a green lifestyle for the people Reducing energy consumption and strengthening the basis Creating green culture • Strengthening of demand management in • Early education program for energy saving industrial, building and transportation sectors ‘SESE NARA’ • Operation of greenhouse gas and energy target • General public participatory campaign for management system saving energy ‘Green Energy Family’ • Analysis of energy use and technical map • Green energy (NRE) exhibitions and energy • Efficiency improvements and safety saving experience halls (4 sites) management of energy consuming equipment • Promotion of energy saving and GHG • Financial support to facilitate facility investment emission reduction through mass media for energy saving feb. 2003 nov. 2005 july. 2009 march. 2010 Established NRE Center Designated CDM(Clean Designated Designated green (affiliate) Development Mechanism) COSD(Cooperating education institution DOE(Designated Operational Organization for Entity) Standards Development) 9 Sustainability In order to implement a systematic sustainability management, KEMCO has presented a strategic direction, and based on this, an implementation roadmap and a role system for each organization are Management provided. System Strategic direction In order to expand the existing ethical management into sustainability management that meet inter2012 national standards, KEMCO has established the 2011 Becoming a public implementation targets and the phased implemeninstitution trusted by the people of Korea tation strategies by reflecting domestic and foreign Target 2010 Introduction of sustainability environmental factors, self-assessment evaluation, Establishment of management system SWOT matrix analysis, etc. Through the sustainable ethical basis for sustainability development of ethical management achieved until management now, KEMCO has established an enterprise-wide ethical culture and pursued sustainable development and established medium and long-term tar• Implementation of gets and strategies for sustainability management •P  ublication of sustainability sustainability management management report •E stablishment of sustainability to develop into a public institution that is trusted by system management system •P  reparation for ISO 26000 the people of Korea by meeting international stan• Embedment of ethics •E stablishment of a corporate Major system dards and fulfilling social responsibility. • Establishment of a culture of CSR activity •M  aximization of economic, clean culture with zero •R ealization of clean management social, and environmental corruption through the highest level of •S  ystematic management corporate values integrity Implementation Road Map • Specialization of CSR activities of social contribution KEMCO has established an annual road map to achieve the goal of becoming a public institution Ethical management trusted by the people of Korea, which is the final Annual index 85.0 87.5 90.0 goal of medium and long-term basic plan for ethical goal Integrity management. 9.0 9.25 9.5 evaluation Ethics Global Standard KEMCO Creating a Smart & Green Lifestyle Vision To become a leading green growth leader and create a In order to realize the value of “evolving KEMCO into low-carbon society with the people of Korea the world’s top company”, KEMCO has been implementing strategic management under the slogan of Ethics-Global Standard KEMCO. Ethics-Global Standard KEMCO symbolically shows Enhance Support Sustainable the commitment that KEMCO will develop into an organizational vision development institution that fulfills ethical management and sovalues achievements cial responsibility management of global standards in response to the global trend of ethical manageImplementation clean management, bright corporation ment, including ISO 26000, transformation into susideology (core values : fairness, transparency, rationality) tainability management system, and strengthening Public institutions trusted by the people of Korea through clean of CSR. Medium and long-term goals and ethical management World-class ethical management KEMDEX 90 / Highest level of integrity 9.5 / Publication of Sustainability Systematization and specialization of social contribution activities Management Report World-class systems and achievements KEMCO has published Sustainability Management Report for the first time to inform about its transEstablishment of Establishment and Creation of systematic Strengthening of formation to sustainability management system top-class operating embedment of ethical achievements through strategic social and economic, social, and environmental achieveStrategy system management culture anti-corruption contribution activities ments of KEMCO to the stakeholders. integrity • Expanding into • Embedding ethics • Establishing •S  ystematizing sustainability and establishing anti-corruption management of management system corporate culture system social contribution Strategic • Establishing the • Monitoring of ethics • Establishing clean achievements tasks strategic ethical index and strengthcorporation with • Seeking and management system ening of improvement zero corruption strengthening of activities strategic social contribution programs Analysis and feedback by ethical management index(system aspect) and integrity index(performance aspect) 10 Sustainability report 2011 Ethical In order to make a transparent and clean corporation, KEMCO has taken lots of efforts to expand ethical management, such as operating an organizational structure and a monitoring system. Management Efforts made to spread an enterprise-wide ethical management Onions’ Promise All of the executives and employees at KEMCO consider corporate ethics as the top priority when operating KEMCO and performing its duties by considering transparency, fairness and rationality as the standards for their activities. Also, they are striving to realize a clean management and bright corporation. brand of ethical management In order to actively express KEMCO’s commitment to develop into a clean and sound corporation like onions, internally and externally, which completely remove the harmful substances inside the body and have nothing to throw away even if you keep peeling off the skin, Onions’ Promise is being implemented actively as a brand Manual on autonomous implementation for of ethical management. ethical management Operational structure and system for ethical management Operating structure : KEMCO has an ethical management committee, which decides the regulations related to ethical management with the President & CEO as the chairman. Also, it has a department in charge of establishing and implementing ethical management plans and the onions’ manager to support ethical management activities for departments. Monitoring system : “Clean reporting center” is established so that outsiders can report the improper conduct of executives and employees as well as “Sinmoongo” where work handled unfairly can be reported and “Horuragi” where the irrational conduct of internal employees can be reported. Clean Reporting Center Activities for spreading ethical management In order to establish a culture of ethical management, various efforts are being made, including the formulation and operation of code of ethics for executives and employees to implement ethical management, the signing of integrity pact, the disclosure of expenses used in performing its duties, the making of compulsory integrity training for executives, the operation of integrity ombudsman, and the provision of regular trainings for executives and employees through e-poster. Implementing Organization of Ethical Management President & CEO Present the direction for ethical Ethical management training, management and set an example implementation monitoring and reflux Implementation Present implementation HUB / Working-level direction for ethical Green Growth Policy department management Department Ethical Management Committee Designate and operate (Chairman: President & CEO) the onions’ manager Establish an enterpriseProvide consultation on wide ethical management ethical dilemma Implement risk manager Audit & Inspection Department activities, etc. (Anti-corruption / ex-post audit) Management Planning Department (Management information disclosure) CS Management Team (Customer satisfaction / social contribution) 11 Corporate From appointing a member of the board of directors to its role, composition, evaluation and compensation, KEMCO is creating a transparent corporate goverGovernance nance by disclosing all of its procedures. Role and composition of the board of directors Status of the board of directors KEMCO has shown its commitment to provide management that is trusted by various stakeholders, by makPosition Name Job title ing the corporate governance transparent. The board of directors(BOD), which is the highest decision-making Huh, Jeung-Soo President & CEO organization of KEMCO, consists of five permanent directors and six non-permanent directors(outside directors). The President & CEO represents KEMCO and oversees all duties and is responsible for the management Son, Hag-Sig Director of the GHG Reduction Headquarters results of KEMCO pursuant to the articles of association. (Article 17 Duties of Executives, etc.) Permanent Executives, such as the President & CEO, etc., are appointed according to a transparent and fair procedure in directors Kim, In-soo Director of GHG Reduction Headquarters accordance with the relevant laws and regulations, including the Act on the Management of Public Institutions, (5 inside directors) KEMCO’s articles of association, etc. The Executive Recommendation Committee, which is placed under the Director of the Low Carbon & Kang, Won-kyu Energy Infrastructure Headquarters BOD (consists of more than five and less than fifteen persons). It has been held a total of three times as of October 2011 and it has faithfully carried out its rights and roles on corporate governance, including recomDirector of the Energy Cooperation Shin, Dong-woong mending candidates for the President & CEO. Through this, a new President & CEO has been appointed in Headquarters August of this year. Director of the Energy Efficiency Song, Yoo-jong Bureau, Ministry of Knowledge Process of appointing a member of the BOD Economy Deliberating council member of Besides the President & CEO, which requires the Executive Recommendation Committee to be held in accorLee, Ik-soo Segye Ilbo dance with the relevant law, in the case of appointing permanent directors, an “Executive Recommendation NonAdvisory member of the National Group”, which plays the same role as the Executive Recommendation Committee, is formed to recommend permanent Kim, Young-ho Unification Advisory Council multiple candidates. Through this, a person who has the appointive power goes through the process of appointdirectors (6 outside ing, which guarantees the appointment of executives to be fair and transparent. directors) Kim, Ie-Jeung Vice President of SAMLIP GENERAL FOODS CO., LTD Executives, such as permanent directors, etc., may choose and appoint a qualified person who can contribute to the development of KEMCO’s organization from the outside as well as the inside, thereby contributing in Director of the Federation of Korea Cho, Young-kil strengthening and developing the organizational capacity. Trade Union After the BOD draws up a contract proposal, which includes details on the specific management target that Professor of the Trade Department, Shin, Youn-sik must be achieved during the term, etc., the person appointed as the President & CEO signs a management Hannam University contract with the Minister of Knowledge Economy to ensure responsible management and expertise from that Auditor Lee, Young-sup Auditor person. Also, the President & CEO will sign a performance contract with permanent directors and assess the performance results so that the BOD’s performance can be determined. * As of November 2011 Selection procedure for executives Executive Minister of President & Recommendation Knowledge CEO Committee Economy Recommend Appoint multiple candidates Appoint Permanent Appoint directors Non-permanent directors 12 Sustainability report 2011 Evaluation and compensation Permanent directors are paid according to the regulation on executives’ pay, which has been approved by the board of directors(BOD) according to the guideline of the Ministry of Strategy and Finance pursuant to the Act on the Management of Public Institutions. Depending on the results of the management evaluation on governmental public institutions, a maximum of up to 60% is given as bonuses. There are no pay given to non-permanent directors, but some allowances and activity expenses are given when they participate at the meeting. Decision-making process The President & CEO will be the chairman of the BOD, and in cases where he is absent, the next person in the order of line set beforehand, such as the Vice President, etc., will take on the role. The BOD will be convened when the chairman or more than one third of the members present make a request, and the meeting is decided by a majority of those present. The chairman has the voting right, and in cases where there is a tie, he will make the deciding vote. Also, in order to prevent conflicts of interest beforehand, the President & CEO or a director who has special interests with the agenda of the meeting cannot participate in the voting on the agenda. It is possible for a non-permanent director to delegate his/her voting right to another person who has the letter authorization, and the auditor and the head of an affiliate institution (the head of NRE Center) may state their opinions by attending the BOD. Communication management KEMCO puts importance on “communication” and “open management” for the stakeholders from the inside and outside. Therefore, the President & CEO or executives directly sends e-mails(Top-down), or there is the internal intranet system(“Neil Sarang”), which is established and utilized to allow employees to present their opinions to the President & CEO or executives. Also, the voices of internal executives and employees are heard through sponsor workshop, luncheon meeting and SESE tea time. In addition, in order to listen to the opinions of the stakeholders on the outside, KEMCO attends various governmental committees and operates customer advisory groups and a response team for various industries so that opinions are constantly reflected in the policy making and business implementation of KEMCO through consultative body, customer center, and customer satisfaction survey. Achievements of various stakeholders’ participation and communication efforts Major Issue Resolution efforts Achievements • Hired four contract employees Request to actively • Unemployment problem is a social issue Seek ways to create jobs and state the will to create • Hired three old aged people resolve unemployment Best Practices examples that set examples to public institutions • Hired all 24 young interns as problem Suggest hiring the old aged people with expertise by utilizing wages left from maternity leaves, etc. Ministry of full-time employees Strategy and Finance Efforts made for shared • Seek business areas that the corporation should promote actively to realize a fair society • Selected as an outstanding task at growth between large Pursue the business of “green credit system” in connection with GHG emission reduction for shared the enhancement workshop companies and SMEs growth between large companies and SMEs. Request to provide GHG Ministry of Land, • Designated as an institution in emission reduction plans • Respond actively to the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs’ request to learn about the Transport and charge of GHG reduction in the Maritime Affairs in the building sector know-how on GHG emission reduction as the institution in charge in the building sector. building sector Specialized company • Set up a direct dealing Specialized Request to provide infor• Accept the industry’s request to expand NRE deployment marketplace > Achieved the company mation on NRE facilities results of 385 contracts being Suggest innovative ideas that set up direct dealing marketplace between NRE facility manufacturers and consumers. consulted • Received recognition for the Request to distribute •Strengthen the efforts to deploy GHG reduction projects in developing countries Green Growth excellence of domestic domestic GHG emission Achieved the deployment of reduction projects in Thailand with several visits by the President & CEO Korea reduction projects reduction system abroad Especially, achieved the result of receiving the budget of USD$ 833,000 from international organization. 13 Participation KEMCO will reflect the opinions of stakeholders through a systematic participation from stakeholders and enhance sustainability through a strategic management of opinions. of Stakeholders Stakeholders and communication As an institution that implements various policies for low carbon green growth, KEMCO defines all members of the society who are interested in the operation of KEMCO or affected by it as stakeholders, including the general public who participates in energy saving efforts and the government which establishes policies for implementation. Through the communication with various stakeholders, a diversity of opinions and ideas are gathered, which are actively reflected in the management activities of KEMCO. In order to have an open communication with various stakeholders related to the corporation’s activities, the corporation has conducted surveys and held meetings. In addition, a labor-management meeting is held regularly to actively reflect the opinions of executives and employees in the management of executives and employees, and also an employee consultation center is being operated. There is an active communication with the government and governmental institutions by utilizing characteristics of KEMCO through the Green Growth Committee’s activities. In the future, KEMCO will work towards establishing sustainability management together with stakeholders through an active communication with stakeholders. Major issues Communication channels Fair performance manageSurvey on ethical Internal ment and compensation management index, member Reasonable welfare system A working-level labormanagement meeting, Meeting with employees Major issues Communication channels Local Major issues Communication channels Energy welfare Meetings for various regions Provide information on Survey on sensory level Social contribution Survey of ethical managesociety / Citizen green lifestyle, Online participation(Web) Ethical management ment index, Expansion of NGO Experience facility, Promotion through the Development of local social contribution activities Education and promotion media Operation of community experience halls KEMCO Partner Customer Government companies Major issues Communication channels Major issues Communication channels Major issues Communication channels Creation of low carbon Advice from outside Technical support customer satisfaction Implementation of governActivities of Green Growth basis, Certification/ experts Operation of a Loan/subsidy survey, ROL survey, mental policies, Creation Committee, Government’s standardization, Support response team for various Information sharing operation of customer of green culture, Enhance briefing report, Business overseas development, industries Explanatory advisory group, management efficiency disclosure Strengthening of shared meeting on policies Transparent management growth Meetings, workshops 14 Sustainability report 2011 Materiality In order to identify issues that are more important to stakeholders and KEMCO, it has conducted the materiality test in three stages with a total of ten processes. Test Procedures of materiality test In order to sort out the major issues, KEMCO goes through the process of evaluating the importance. Based on the activities related to economic, social and environmental issues selected from the process, the 2011 Sustainability Management Report has been drawn up. External issues are identified through the survey on external stakeholders and the media analysis, while internal issues are identified through the survey and interview on internal stakeholders, which produces various sustainability management issues. Based on the issues identified, the connectivity and frequency of internal and external issues and the connection with KEMCO’s activities are taken into consideration when selecting KEMCO’s major industrial core issues. In particular, the status of KEMCO’s sustainability management and the areas that require the most improvements in the future are identified through the research on stakeholders. Also, they are utilized to identify the future improvement tasks. Procedures for KEMCO’s materiality test are as shown below. Materiality Test Process Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Identify external issues Identify internal issues Select issues and identify core issues Benchmarking : Analysis of internal policies and Compose a pool of issues : management strategies : Domestic public institutions and Connectivity and frequency of internal and advanced companies Internal standards, analysis of policies and external issues management strategies , analysis of economic effect Media survey : Interview with executives Identify important issues : Various press reports (Jan. 2010~Dec. 2010.) and employees : Global standards, prioritize the internal and Department related to major issues external issues by considering the business effect Review of global standards : Internal stakeholders : GRI G3, DJSI, ISO 26000, etc. Meeting between executives and employees, workshop for executives and employees, survey of internal stakeholders, etc. External stakeholders : Customer satisfaction survey, survey of external stakeholders, etc. 15 Materiality Test STEP 1. Identify external issues Results of Media Survey In order to identify external issues related to KEMCO’s sustainability management activities, KEMCO has conEnvironmental 7.8% 4.7% Social contribution ducted the benchmarking of domestic public institutions and advanced companies, the media survey based on Economic various press reports, the review of global standards including GRI and ISO 26000, and the survey on external Sustainability stakeholders. Executives and employees Media survey From January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010, KEMCO has analyzed 542 articles related to KEMCO. Through this, it analyzed the corporation’s major activities from the outside standpoint. 10.9% 57.8% Survey of external stakeholders 18.8% In September 2011, KEMCO has conducted an evaluation on the level of sustainability management by KEMCO for external stakeholders, including partner companies, customers, etc., and through this, KEMCO identified areas that require improvements. Among the external stakeholders, one hundred one of them responded. External stakeholders’ level of sustainability management (five point scale) 4.41 4.40 4.35 4.32 4.26 4.15 Economic Environmental Social Product Human Issues of responsibility rights sustainability management * One hundred and one external stakeholders participated, including customers and partner companies STEP 2. Identify internal issues In order to identify internal issues of sustainability management, KEMCO has reviewed internal management strategies, including the internal policies, the analysis of management strategies, the analysis of economic effects, and the analysis of policies. Also, surveys were conducted and workshops were held for executives and employees. Surveys and workshops for internal stakeholders Surveys were conducted for internal stakeholders regarding the internal level of sustainability management. Through this, it was possible to identify KEMCO’s level of sustainability management. Among the executives and employees, 89 of them responded. Also, workshops were held to establish a consensus with executives and employees on sustainability management and exchange opinions about it. Results and opinions that came out were reflected in the materiality test and the report. Internal stakeholders’ level of sustainability management (five point scale) 4.08 4.49 3.88 4.02 3.82 3.82 2.99 Economic Environmental Social Product Human Labor Issues of sustainability Responsibility rights conditions management * * 89 internal stakeholders participated 16 Sustainability report 2011 STEP 3. Compose issues and identify core issues In order to select issues for the 2011 Sustainability Management Report, KEMCO has composed a pool of about thirty issues based on diverse categories that assess the level of sustainability management, including the evaluation of KEMCO’s internal management, the benchmarking of outstanding public institutions, the guideline of GRI G3.1, and the guidance of ISO 26000. Among the issues, core issues were selected and prioritized based on connectivity and frequency between the issues by taking a comprehensive consideration of the following: 1) the importance of external stakeholders, including the government and customers (STEP 1); 2) the importance of KEMCO’s strategies and businesses (STEP 2); and 3) the importance of internal stakeholders (STEP2). By utilizing the major issues identified, KEMCO has drawn up the 2011 Sustainability Management Report. KEMCO’s policies and activities related to the selected core issues are disclosed through this report and KEMCO’s home page. Matrix for the 2011 materiality test High Major issues in 2011 Social sector Economic sector Information disclosure Basis for energy consumption reduction Classification Major issue Page Implementation of social contribution activities Energy efficiency Basis for energy consumption Anti-corruption New & renewable energy reduction 20-21 Contribution of local community development GHG emission reduction system Compliance with laws and regulations related Impact on the energy market Energy efficiency 22-27 to economic activities Industrial development for climate change New & renewable energy 28-34 Fair selection of partner companies response Economic GHG emission reduction system 35-37 Impact on the energy market 20-21 Environmental sector Industrial development to respond Important external issues Energy consumption reduction to the climate change 30-31 Compliance with environmental laws and regulations Energy consumption reduction 63-64 Minimization of GHG and harmful substances 2 1 EnvironCompliance with environmental 71 mental laws and regulations Environmental sector Economic sector Minimization of GHG and harmful 71 substances Recycling and reuse of water Business and economic performances Minimization of wastes and noises Establishment of public infrastructure Social Ethical management 11 Efficient economic system Social sector Prohibition of forced labor and child labor Social sector Protection of customer information Labor-management communication Training of employees in charge of security Prohibition of discrimination against executives and employees Listening and resolving customer complaints Low 4 3 Low Important internal issues High 17 Energy Saving & Energy-Efficiency Improvements Expansion of NRE Deployment Establishment of the Systems to Respond to Climate Change Education and Promotion KEMCO’s Efforts for Sustainable Achievements KEMCO’s level of sustainability management issues (five point scale) 4.35 4.15 4.09 4.05 Business and Industrial Impact on Establishment economic development the energy of public performance for climate market infrastructure change response sustainablity report 2011 2009 2010 Classification Results Results Results Page Improvement of energy saving Amount of energy reduction 5,051 5,248 20-25 and energy efficiency (thousand toe) Amount of NRE deployment Expansion of NRE deployment 371 437 28-33 (thousand toe) Amount of GHG emission Establishment of the systems to reduction 9486.0 16,801 35-37 respond to climate change (thousand CO2) Establishment of SESE Education and promotion New 351 39-41 NARA(number of SESE NARA) Results in Management Implementation 2010 Principle Direction In order to create a high efficient, The national energy saving and GHG low carbon energy society with the emission reduction infrastructure were people of Korea, KEMCO is leading in strengthened by introducing the GHG the energy saving and energy efficiency energy target management program and improvements, the expansion of NRE expanding the standards and targets deployment, the establishment of of programs for fuel efficiency, while systems to respond to climate change, domestic NRE deployment accelerated and the education and promotion. through the One Million Green Homes Program and the RPS. Also, KEMCO will strive to realize sustainable low carbon green growth by providing early education programs on energy issues and carrying out various promotional activities. issue 1 Energy Saving & Energy-Efficiency Improvements The improvement of energy saving and energy efficiency is the key in reducing GHG emissions and responding to climate change. In this regard, KEMCO is striving for energy saving and energy efficiency improvements through providing target management system, financial support, and technical support, as well as information and program for implementing energy efficiency. Improvement of energy saving and energy efficiency in industrial and power generation sectors Target management system for industrial development The target management system for GHG and energy is a system that establishes targets for GHG emission and fossil energy use and efficiently achieves targets through implementation plans and management systems. As an institution in charge of target management system for the industrial and power generation sectors, KEMCO provides a comprehensive support for operating the system, including the selection and designation of companies subject to such management, receives statements of emissions from companies, and establishes and manages targets. In 2010, 375 companies (as of July 2011) in the industrial and power generation sectors were designated as companies subject to such management. This is 85% of the total GHG emission for industrial development, accounting for 58.2% of total national emission. KEMCO recognizes that GHG emission reduction projects, which were voluntarily implemented in the past by the companies subject to such management as an early part of the target management system, have resolved any disadvantage for companies that had actively participated in the existing GHG emission reduction projects. The reduction results of companies that participated in the voluntary GHG emission reduction projects and the pilot project for energy target management system are seen as the results of early actions after having gone through certain evaluations. Also, diverse business supports are provided mainly for small and medium enterprises, which lack in physical and human networks, including the MRV standardization program for various industries(calculation, reporting, verification), the building of GHG inventories, and the support for drawing up emission statements. They all help companies to implement GHG emission measures. Standards for the designation of companies subject to management Until Dec. 31, 2011 From Jan. 1, 2012 From Jan. 1, 2014 Classification Company standard Business site standard Company standard Business site standard Company standard Business site standard GHG(tCO2) 125,000 25,000 87,500 20,000 50,000 15,000 Energy(TJ) 500 100 350 90 200 80 Energy Management System (EnMS) Energy Management System(EnMS) refers to a standardized technique that regulates all members of an organization, including the CEO, to systematically plan and continuously implement a series of activities related to energy saving and efficiency improvements. KEMCO is taking the lead in distributing and expanding EnMS by developing and distributing tools and best practices to support companies and developing human resources. The basis for EnMS certification system is established through programs that include the design of a certification system with internal stability through a pilot certification program and the establishment of the basis for a certification system of global standards through international cooperation. The KS A ISO 50001(Oct. 2011), which was enacted based on the global standard of ISO 50001 that was proclaimed in June 2011, was distributed, and corporate support tools and best practices were developed and distributed through the development of EnMS package. Also, starting from 2008, development training programs were operated for companies’ working-level staff(8 times, 212 employees) and certification auditors. As of now(October 2011), there are thirteen auditors and sixty-three associate auditors registered for the audit process. EnMS Operations Process Energy policy Continuous improvement Energy plan Implementation and Management review operation Monitoring, measurement and analysis Inspection Non-conformance, correction, corrective measures and Internal evaluation preventive measures 20 Sustainability report 2011 _ KEMCO’s Efforts for Sustainable Achievements KEMCO is facilitating the transformation into a low energy consuming society through the rationalization of energy use. Energy Saving through Partnership(ESP) Energy Saving through Partnership(ESP) formed a joint consultative body for energy saving at business sites with similar processes. It is a voluntary program that provides a place of information exchanges to share the energy saving technology and information owned by each business site and improve the energy efficiency by applying them. KEMCO provides technical and administrative supports for the smooth management of ESP, including providing a meeting place for various business sites to exchange technology information, giving technology information on energy efficiency acquired until now, and holding seminars by inviting relevant experts(education). Also, in order to support energy saving activities of small and medium enterprises that are experiencing technical difficulties, programs on technology cooperation between large enterprises and SMEs were implemented. In 2010, 27 large enterprises provided technical advice and supprot to ten small and medium enterprises. Results of implementing technology support between large enterprises and SMEs in 2010 Classification Chemical fiber / chemical Food Paper Assembling Electric/electronic Steel Total SMEs (number of enterprises) 2 2 2 2 1 1 10 Large enterprises (number of enterprises) 8 6 5 3 2 3 27 Energy Audit Program An energy audit is a technical consulting that provides optimal solutions. An audit agency equipped with professional technical equipment and personnel related to energy identifies the overall trend of energy use at business sites, such as energy generating equipment and energy consuming facilities, to find out the loss factors and the measures and economic analyses on energy reduction. Starting from 2007, the energy audit is carried out regularly on energy-intensive companies. KEMCO provides energy analysis expenses of up to 90% for small and medium enterprises. In cases where the facility or process that had been evaluated as having the effect of more than a 5% reduction in energy by type of process or facility, companies that replaced or improved such facility and process within five years after the audit is completed receive financial support for energy audits. Implementation procedures Results of energy diagnosis Business subject Diagnosis institution KEMCO Classification 2008 2009 2010 to diagnosis Number of business sites 420 559 545 Select diagnosis ① Introduce diagnosis institution Potential amount of energy 549,333 710,412 479,840 reduction(toe/yr) ② Diagnosis contract Estimated amount of energy 302,934 390,420 266,730 reduction (one million won/yr) Finalize diagnosis ③ Consult on diagnosis ③ Finalize diagnosis schedule schedule schedule Potential amount of GHG reduction 1,463,397 1,754,496 1,184,438 ④ ④ (tCO2/yr) On-site diagnosis Conduct diagnosis On-site confirmation Make investments and ⑤ Submit diagnosis ⑤ Approve completion improvements report of diagnosis ⑥ Conduct customer Answer survey satisfaction survey Draw up actual conditions ⑦ Technical road map and of implementation management 21 issue 1 Energy Saving & Energy-Efficiency Improvements Energy Saving and Energy-Efficiency Improvements for Building and Transportation Sector Results of energy efficiency grade certifications Energy Efficiency Labeling Program for Buildings for buildings The purpose of Energy Efficiency Labeling Program for Buildings is to distribute and expand buildings of fuel efficiency by putting labels by grade for buildings that are designed and constructed as energy efficient buildSep. ings. The program is for newly built office buildings classified as business facilities and newly built apartment 2008 2009 2010 2011 houses that are for residential purposes. KEMCO increased the incentives for acquiring the label, such as exempting local taxes, including acquisition tax and registration tax, and easing the building standards for floor Grade 1 1 23 19 43 area ratio, landscape area and maximum building height. KEMCO plans to expand the program to other nonGrade 2 52 102 62 38 residential buildings, including medical facilities and sales facilities. Grade 3 10 2 2 14 ApartBuilding Sector GHG and Energy Target Management ment As part of the efforts to achieve a national mid-term GHG reduction target (30% compared to BAU by 2020) house Total (number of 63 127 83 95 , the GHG energy target management system for buildings efficiently achieves targets through implemenblocks) tation plans and management systems by consulting with companies subject to the management and the government to set targets for GHG emission, energy consumption and consumption efficiency. The corporation provides support for establishing the basis for implementing the target management system, such as Number of 42,977 98,702 72,852 72,339 administrative, financial and technical aspects needed to implement core procedures of the system, including households the establishment, reporting and verification of the inventory. Also, the basis for operating the system is estabGrade 1 69 88 lished to achieve GHG reduction targets of companies subject to the management, including the development of a standard model for the GHG energy target management system for buildings and the development of GHG Grade 2 1 basic unit and benchmark coefficient. Office building Grade 3 1 Total 69 90 Green Home Performance Evaluation When a house that received the approval for housing programs applies for program approval, KEMCO supports the construction activities of green homes through evaluating the performance where certificates and verification documents are submitted mandatorily to the person in charge of approval (head of local government) for the evaluation of green home performance. The corporation reviews the evaluation on green home performance at the request of the person in charge of approval to review the appropriateness of the program approval. Until September 2011, a total of 564 blocks with 280,712 households have been reviewed, including houses in Misa-jigu, Hanam. In the future, KEMCO will implement the green home performance evaluation and strengthen the performance standard in phases, including increasing the energy performance standard of newly built apartment houses to more than 70% compared to the legal standards by 2018. Also, it plans to strengthen the energy efficiency of existing houses by renovating rental houses and remodeling private houses. Major results of green home performance Procedures of performance evaluation for green homes evaluation(2009.10~2011.03) ClassiContractor KEMCO Authorizer fication Number of blocks 2009 Draw up green home Receive applications for 73 performance evaluation sheet Approval application for approval on housing program 2010 239 housing program plan 2011 252 Request for consultation Approval Supplement green home Review green home on housing performance evaluation sheet performance evaluation Number of households program and relevant documents sheet 2009 58,503 Approve housing 2010 Send results of consultation project plans 114,428 2011 107,781 22 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ KEMCO’s Efforts for Sustainable Achievements KEMCO is facilitating the transformation into a low energy consuming society through the rationalization of energy use. Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency Status of average Fuel Efficiency in 2010 In order to continuously improve the fuel efficiency of cars being produced and sold by automobile manufacturers and importers, the corporate average fuel efficiency is a system that ensures people to comply with the Less than More than Classification The whole 1,600cc 1,600cc standard average fuel efficiency of cars. Among the passenger cars, it applies to manufacturers that sold more than one thousand cars in the current fiscal year(in the case of importers, this system has been applied since Standard 12.4 km/ℓ 9.6 km/ℓ 2010). According to regulations on fuel efficiency and GHG, KEMCO strengthened the standard average fuel efficiency to be more than the U.S. standard(fuel efficiency of 17km/ℓ, CO2 emissions of 140g/km) starting from 2010 13.0 km/ℓ 15.5 km/ℓ 12.1 km/ℓ 2012. After the system has been implemented in 2006, the corporate average fuel efficiency of cars being sold in Korea has continuously risen through facilitating the technology development of manufacturers and import2009 12.4 km/ℓ 14.8 km/ℓ 11.5 km/ℓ ers and inducing consumers’ purchases. Growth rate compared to the 4.80% 4.70% 5.20% previous year Fuel Efficiency and Labeling Program Fuel efficiency and labeling program is a system that provides information on fuel efficiency and grade of cars so that consumers can purchase cars with high efficiency in accordance with the Act on Energy Use Rationalization. As an operating institution of the program, KEMCO establishes and operates the information management system together with the reporting of efficiency grade and post-management. Also, KEMCO expanded the energy efficiency grade label program to green cars, such as providing the standard for measuring the fuel efficiency of electric passenger cars. Also, systems are being developed by taking the technical development into consideration, such as developing efficient measurement methods for cars installed with idle stop & go(ISG). Tire Energy Efficiency and Labeling Program In order to improve the efficiency of tires and encourage the selection of high-efficient tires, which have a huge impact on the fuel efficiency of cars, the information on the rolling resistance(friction force) and the braking power on wet roads has been classified to be labeled on products. The test items, measurement methods, and labeling standards have been decided. Starting from December 2011, a voluntary certification program will be implemented, and it will be mandatory for passenger car tires in December 2012. Transport Energy and GHGs Reduction Partnership Fuel Efficiency and labeling program In order for consigners and transport companies to reduce energy and GHGs in the logistics and passenger traffics, the partnership provides support for the establishment of GHG inventories, the identification and application of reduction means, and the monitoring and verification of reduction amounts. Also, in order to acquire carbon credits through the GHG reduction projects, methodologies that include improvement of passenger cars and installation of idling restriction devices were developed and approved, while efforts are made to have the reduction technologies and facilities in transportation registered as the Rational Energy Utilization Fund. Currently, the transport partnership is participated by 24 companies, including Lotte Logistics, Samsung Electronics and KD Transport Group. 23 issue 1 Energy Saving & Energy-Efficiency Improvements Operation of Energy Efficiency Management System Status of high efficient energy equipment Energy Efficiency Labeling and Standard In order for consumers to easily recognize high energy efficient products before purchasing them, the Energy Classification 2008 2009 2010 Efficiency Labeling and Standard puts labels on products by law according to grades (grades 1~5 for CO2 emission amount during energy use) for energy efficiency (energy use). KEMCO is strengthening the standards Number of companies 552 671 863 for efficient management by raising the efficiency grade standards by 30~50% along with an increase of new product items and making efforts to ban incandescent lights, which are low efficient lighting devices, from the Number of models 3,610 5,116 5,231 market. Also, the energy cost will be added to the Energy Efficiency Labeling and Standard to encourage an environmentally-friendly consumption from consumers. Energy Efficiency Grade Label(Refrigerator) High-efficiency Equipment Certification Program The improvement of energy efficiency and the establishment of the basis for low carbon green growth will be achieved by increasing certifications for high efficient energy equipment and increasing the market for high efficient products to accelerate the distribution of such equipment. KEMCO has established BPM by reflecting the convenience of consumers, including improving submission method of test results to be on-line, enhancing accessibility of KEMCO’s homepage and distribution of Q&A books, and simplifying application procedures. Also, lots of efforts have been made to achieve customer satisfaction by maximizing customer convenience, including giving exemptions on plant inspection for same products if the company has already received certification through similar products(among those already being implemented). Through continuous expansion of certified products and introduction of standards for models with similar forms and functions, there will be Certified mark for high efficient more certified products in the future through partial exemptions for efficiency test. energy equipment E-standby program The E-standby program encourages to leave home appliances that are not being used on standby mode and minimize standby power*, puts energy saving labels on products that meet the standby power reduction standards, and puts warning signs on products that fail to meet the standards. KEMCO designates new products that are subject to the E-standby program among the IT and network equipment and also carries out various activities, such as introducing standby power and TEC (Total Energy Consumption). It plans to establish the Standby Korea 2015, which is the national roadmap for standby power reduction policy by 2015. Standby warning label * What is standby power? The power that is used in a standby mode when the electronic product isn’t actually being used, including computer, set-top box, etc. 24 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ KEMCO’s Efforts for Sustainable Achievements KEMCO is facilitating the transformation into a low energy consuming society through the rationalization of energy use. Establishment of Energy Efficient Basis Consultation on Energy Use Plan Before implementing land development and construction projects of more than certain size, consultation on Results of consultation by year energy use plan ensures energy saving development projects are implemented through prior consultations on energy supply and plans to improve energy efficiency. From urban development to development of tourYear 2008 2009 2010 ism complexes, it covers a comprehensive area. KEMCO provides consultations for predicting energy demand, Number of cases consulted 83 100 120 establishing energy supply plan, improving energy efficiency, providing CO2 emission reduction plan, analyzing energy use effect and impact on supply-demand system, and providing follow-up measures. Amount of energy use plan 8,583 11,495 19,326 (thousand toe/year) Building Energy Code In order to manage the energy from buildings efficiently, energy saving design standards that include mandaAmount of potential 1,172 1,900 3,411 tory obligations and recommendations on the prevention of heat loss and the use of energy saving facilities reduction(thousand toe/year) have been established and also there are regulations stipulating matters related to easing the building standards in accordance with energy saving performances (notified by the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Expected reduction rate(%) 13.7 16.5 15.8 Affairs). KEMCO provides support on reviewing the local authorities’ energy saving plans, and through this, CO2 reduction effect technical reviews are carried out to ensure energy saving buildings are built. Also, in order to improve the (thousand CO2/year) 3,076 1,900 8,948 energy saving effects of buildings, design standards, including stricter insulation standards and expanded supply of LED lightings and NRE facilities, have been strengthened, which is expected to increase the targets for building energy code. Procedures of energy saving design standards for buildings Results of energy saving plans reviewed for buildings ClassiContractor KEMCO Permitter fication Year 2008 2009 2010 Apply for construction permits Receive applications for conNumber of total cases reviewed 2,087 2,044 2,742 Write energy saving plan struction permits Construction permits Supplement energy saving plan Review energy saving plan Request for consultation Approve construction permits Major achievements of ESCO(unit: 100 million won) Send results of consultation year 2008 2009 2010 Collective energy 1,000 500 ESCO Program In order to facilitate ESCO programs, the expertise in ESCO has been strengthened through enhancing technolInstallation of energy saving facility 5,400 5,187 5,118 ogy together by creating ESCO demand and expanding investment. In addition, the withdrawal of full amount of the budget was achieved with active attraction of investments and thorough management of withdrawals. Basis of electric power industry 390 122 In order to achieve this, KEMCO has improved the conditions for the Act on Energy Use Rationalization Fund to facilitate investments on ESCO program, such as lowering loan interests and extending loan periods. The Total 6,790 5,809 5118 energy users, including public institutions and the industrial sector, are provided with the promotion of ESCO investment examples and relevant information by selecting outstanding ESCO that contributed to the facilitation of ESCO programs and holding presentations on best practices. ESCO industry activation plan(October 2010) Expanding investment/ Policy direction Facilitation of ESCO market Strengthening of industrial basis enhancing competitiveness 1. Development of high-class 1. Obligation for public institutions 1. Establishment of ESCO cooperative consultants 2. Facilitation of ESCO for apartments 2. Expansion of policy funds 2. Development of products and facilities Implementation 3. Connection between diagnosis results and ESCO 3. Creation of ESCO funds 3. Strengthening of association’s capacity tasks 4. Seeking new business models 4. Introduction of competitive systems 4. Attraction of investment from global companies 5. Supporting large programs 5. Spreading result certifications 5. Supporting overseas development 6. Improving technology 25 Special Page Strengthening the Basis for Energy Saving KEMCO is implementing various systems for energy saving support, & GHG Mitigation including development of green credits between large companies and SMEs. Development and application of MRV standard models by business types * MRV(Measurable, Reportable, Verifiable) KEMCO is providing support for companies subject to the management for implementing the reduction through An energy calculation and reporting(computer) system that MRV(Measurable, Reportable, Verifiable) standardization programs by business types. In order to establish the measures and monitors the energy use and GHG emissions and reports the results to the nation mandatorily so that the basis for such implementation and early adoption of GHG energy target management system, EnMS standard nation can verify this to be utilized. model for small and medium enterprises, which meets MRV by business type and global standard, has been ** EnMS(Energy Management System) developed to be applied at the business site. It is expanded to the whole industry through advancement efforts. As the energy management technique with international Especially, projects are implemented together with representative associations in various business types to certificate, the activities for improving energy efficiency can distribute standard manuals and computer programs by business type, which makes sure the establishment of be continuously implemented by the CEO so that the company can reduce costs. inventories, the writing of statements, the writing of implementation plans, and the writing of implementation result reports are done easily. In 2010, KEMCO developed fourteen models by classifying 47 pilot business sites into 14 business types. The developed models have been improved to suit the business type by applying them in one of the business sites of the applicable business type to supplement problems and insufficiencies found in the operating process. MRV standard models developed through the participation of stakeholders Participation of No. Business type Name of association Participating business site Total stakeholders Workshop Seminar Reporting 4 company members, 1 Oil refining Korea Petroleum Association 3 1 2 6 including SK Energy Korea Iron & 34 company members, 2 Steel 2 1 3 6 Steel Association including POSCO PetrochemKorea Petrochemical Industry 37 company members, including 3 16 0 2 18 istry Association Honam Petrochemical Group 8 company members, 4 Cement Korea Cement Association 5 0 3 8 including Ssangyong Cement Korea Paper Manufacturers’ 11 company members, 5 Paper 2 0 1 3 Association including Paper Korea Korea Automobile Hyundai Motors Ulsan 6 Automobile 3 1 4 8 Manufacturers Association business site Korea Chemical Fibers 7 Textile Hyosung Gumi business site 4 1 3 8 Association Samsung Electric Suwon 8 Electronic Korea Electronics Association 9 3 3 15 business site Korea Association of Doosan Heavy Industries 9 Machinery 2 4 3 9 Machinery Industry Changwon business site Power 2 company members, 10 Korea Electric Association 11 0 2 13 generation including Korea Western Power Korea Food Industry 11 Food CJ Cheiljedang 6 1 3 10 Association Nonferrous Korea Nonferrous Metal 12 Korea Zinc, LS-Nikko Copper 2 0 2 4 metal Association The Korea Shipbuilders’ Hyundai Heavy Industries, 13 Shipbuilding 3 4 3 10 Association Samsung Heavy Industries Korea District Heating 3 company members, 14 Cogeneration 2 1 3 6 Association including GS Power 26 Special Page Support on Energy Saving Efforts of Small and Medium Enterprises Development of green credit system between large companies and SMEs Implementation procedures of The green credit system is a system that encourages large companies, which are subject to the GHG energy green credit system target management system, to provide technical support and funding to SMEs, which are not subject to the system, to make the amount of GHG emission reduced from it into reduction results of large companies. Due to existing efforts of energy reduction, large companies increased the reduction marginal cost, which can partially Seek resolve the burden of high expenditure with additional reduction. On the other hand, SMEs can have the opporparticipating tunity to strengthen product competitiveness through efficiency improvements of production facilities through companies the support from large companies. Implementation of green credit system Support facility Companies subject investment Technology support Seek reduction to the management SMEs items Seek and support group (large companies) Credit transfer reduction technology Register business, Report results Support registration, (through a verification Issue credit Support operation institution) Sign KEMCO agreement between companies Support for SME’s energy diagnosis expenses KEMCO provides support of up to 90% of diagnosis expenses to encourage the improvement of competitiveness for products produced with the cost reduction through seeking and improving energy reduction factors Make business of SMEs. registration and implement reduction Results of providing support for SME’s energy diagnosis expenses Classification 2008 2009 2010 Number of companies 111 152 128 Verify Amount of support (one million won) 1,489 2,660 2,278 results and allocate credits Average amount of support(10,000 won) 1,341 1,750 1,779 Amount of energy reduction(toe/year) 30,953 39,256 33,504 Opening Ceremony of the Comprehensive Average amount of reduction per company(toe/year) 279 258 262 Support Center for GHG Reduction of SMEs Average amount of potential reduction(%) 9.2 7.9 6.7 Operation of comprehensive support center for SME’s GHG reduction (12 regions) In order to provide support for SMEs, which lack professionals for energy saving and GHG reduction, KEMCO has established and operated the “comprehensive support center for SME’s GHG reduction” in 12 regional headquarters. It provides various supports for SMEs concerning GHGs by assigning energy supporters who are exclusively in charge, including one on one customized consultation service and consulting support to implement the target management system. 27 issue 2 Expansion of NRE Deployment Along with less dependence on fossil fuel, the expansion of NRE deployment is a key project for low carbon green growth, which facilitates the industry to create jobs. Therefore, KEMCO has expanded NRE deployment through the deployment of one million green homes and the introduction of RPS. Support for the deployment of NRE facilities Number of total homes deployed(accumulated) One million green homes program With the goal of distributing “one million green homes” by 2020, the one million green homes program is a program where the government supports part of the installation costs if new and renewable resources, including PV, solar thermal and geothermal heat, are installed in the house(single and apartment house). KEMCO has been implementing the program actively through various activities, such as the establishment of massive deployment systems through green villages, the strategic promotion to enhance the awareness of NRE, and the seeking and deployment of diverse NRE. Also, the basis for the program was strengthened through the introduction of customer satisfaction evaluation system to improve high quality and localization, the estab43,862 2009 2010 73,721 lishment of the basis through improving BPM, and the continuous improvement of systems to shorten the program period. The project for distributing 30,000 homes of solar PV began in 2004, which increased annually to achieve 73,721 homes as of 2010. KEMCO will make efforts for the deployment of next-generation NRE, including fuel cell. Amount of accumulated reduction(toe) Conceptual diagram of green homes PV Electricity supplied by the light of the sun Roof insulation 20,831 2009 2010 31,978 Solar summer Fresh air sun thermal Wall insulation winter airtight sun windows fuel cell Utilize Shade system and doors PV wind power waste heat Natural Geotherlighting mal heat Floor heat 28 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ KEMCO’s Efforts for Sustainable Achievements KEMCO is expanding the use of sustainable energy resources through the expansion of NRE deployment General deployment subsidy program Results of deployment per year(unit: one million won) The general deployment subsidy program is a system supported by the government where part of installation costs are provided to facilitate the deployment of NRE. With the purpose of using them in general buildings 2008 2009 2010 and facilities, it is for institutions that install NRE facilities. In addition, in order to deploy a more effective NRE Number of site 1,045 274 167 facilities, ten green programs have been designated separately for support. Amount of support 38,269 13,930 13,992 Ten green program areas Green School, Green Logistics, Green Industrial Complex, Green Highway, Green Factory, Green Power, etc. Example of support on Gosung Rest Area Obligation of NRE facilities in the public institutions (solar thermal) General deployment aid project The obligation of NRE facilities in the public institutions is a system that makes it mandatory for newly built or reconstructed buildings with a gross area of more than 3,000m2 by public institutions belonging to the governmental institutions and local governments to supply more than 10% of the expected energy use with NRE. KEMCO has raised the mandatory ratio of supplying NRE by 2020 to 20%, which will increase the effectiveness of NRE deployment. Also, starting from January 2012, the mandatory installation standard for public buildings will be revised from more than 3,000m2 to more than 1,000m2, which will expand those subject to mandatory installation. Results of support per year(unit: cases, one million won, %) Investment spent on NRE Number of site Total InvestExamples of support on Gyeongnong (solar thermal) Classification planned to be construction ment installed cost(A) Solar PV GeotherOthers Total (B) ratio(B/A) General deployment aid project thermal mal heat 2008 146 1,159,205 1,777 39,135 22,658 1,024 64,594 5.57 2009 391 4,197,731 7,283 138,230 84,969 2,148 232,630 5.54 2010 351 3,819,734 6,589 134,156 89,471 1,251 231,467 6.06 Obligation of NRE facilities in the public institutions (BIPV) Incheon Tourism Corporation 29 issue 2 Expansion of NRE Deployment Development of NRE industries Feed-in Tariffs for NRE In order to acquire the economy fo electric companies’ investments using new and renewable energy, in cases where the System Marginal Price(SMP) for the electricity supplied by NRE power generation is lower than the standard price notified by the Minister of Strategy and Economy, the fee-in tariff system provides support for the difference between the standard price and the SMP to revitalize NRE power generation business and facilitate NRE deployment. KEMCO provides support for a certain period(15~20 years) on the difference between the standard price and the general SMP to encourage facility investment. KEMCO has been working on the internal stability of the system, such as strengthening on-site investigation on existing NRE power plants. Meanwhile, KEMCO will provide support to the entry of new supplies through the FIT fund until the end of 2011. * SMP(System Marginal Price) monthly average price of electricity in the electricity market(example, 2010: 117.77won/kWh) Major results of feed-in tariffs for NRE (as of the end of April 2011) Classification Water power Wind power PV Fuel cell LFG Biogas Biomass Waste total Capacity(MW) 85.4 320.3 498.2 36.5 84.7 2.7 5.5 2.2 1,035.60 Number of power plants 60 15 2,010 15 15 3 1 1 z2,120 Power generation(GWh) 1,752(21.2%) 2,606(31.6%) 1,402(17.0%) 333(4.0%) 2,1w5.6%) 23(0.3%) 19(0.2%) 7(0.1%) 8,254(100.0%) FIT fund(one million won) 23,250(2.7%) 26,152(3.0%) 750,931(86.5%) 53,421(6.2%) 14,089(1.6%) 235(0.0%) 92(0.0%) 37(0.0%) 868,207(100.0%) Financial assistance for NRE Through the financial assistance for NRE, businesses that want to install NRE production facilities, etc. can receive long-term and low-interest loans. This is to expand NRE deployment and provide the basis for developing relevant industries through easing the burden of initial investment money. In order to achieve this, KEMCO supports the facility fund for business owners who want to install facilities to use NRE, as well as the operating fund for SMEs that produce products related to NRE and are going through a temporary difficulty in cash flow, and production fund for facilities that produce basic materials or facilities related to NRE. KEMCO has provided a financial assistance of 1,142.7 billion won on 54,000 cases as of 2010. Results of NRE loan support Flow Chart of Loan Support (amount: one million won) year 2008 2009 2010 NRE Center Number Number Number Amount Amount Amount of cases of cases of cases n me Not da n y loa tif en loa nd ify Total 207 180,340 85 130,340 53 91,340 ati No mm or on ide co n tf qu re ov re re est es co n Pr co fo m tio qu mm r en Re da tio Re Request for loan Business Financial institution Provide loan 30 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ KEMCO’s Efforts for Sustainable Achievements KEMCO is expanding the use of sustainable energy resources through the expansion of the NRE deployment. NRE Facility Certification System Through NRE facility certification system, the deployment of NRE facilities with more than a certain level of function and quality are facilitated and the basis for NRE industry is established. There are a total of 25 items subject to NRE facility certification system, including 6 for solar thermal, 9 for PV, 3 for wind power, and 3 for geothermal heat. According to each area, a total of 812 models, which are distributed for commercialization are certified and managed. NRE Facility Certification System Performances and results Number of Classification Item certified products Flat-plate solar collectors 19 Evacuated Tube solar collectors 24 Solar thermal Natural circulating solar water heaters 3 Forced circulating solar water heaters 1 Grid-connected photovoltaic inverters (less than 10kW) 60 PV Crystalline photovoltaic modules 569 Thin film photovoltaic modules 24 Wind power Small wind-turbine generation systems (less than 30kW) 2 Water-water geothermal heat pump units (less than 280kW) 92 Geothermal heat Water-air geothermal heat pump units (less than 105kW) 11 Water-air geothermal heat multi heat pump units (less than 105kW) 1 Fuel cell Polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cell[PEMFC] systems (less than 5kW) 5 Others Storage batteries 1 Total 812 NRE standardization project As a certification institution for NRE facilities through the standardization project for NRE, the enactment and revision of technology standard to meet and certify international standards for domestic technology standards on NRE facilities is being implemented, and also KEMCO is leading in the introduction of standards. Based on the international standards of IEC/ISO, KEMCO has enacted and distributed the KS standard to meet international standards. Also, as a cooperation Organization for Standards Development(COSD), KEMCO performs the tasks of composing and operating the Technology Committee(TC) Working Group(WG) for developing national standards in the area of PV, solar thermal, wind power and fuel cell. * Cooperation Organization for Standards Development(COSD): As the international standards development duties, which had been implemented by the Korea Agency for Technology and Standards, have been handed over to the private sector, it is the institution that is recognized for the ability to develop the KS standard according to special areas. Status of the enactment and revision of standards Wind Hydrogen Solar GeotherClassification PV Total power fuel thermal mal heat Reflect IEC standard (proposal, adoption, etc.) 1 1 2 4 Reflect KS standard (proposal, adoption, etc.) 7 7 Reflect technology standard for NRE 3 2 1 1 3 10 Total 11 3 3 1 3 21 31 issue 2 Expansion of NRE Deployment Establishment of NRE Basis Analysis of NRE Statistics and Provision of Information In order to strengthen the basis for NRE deployment, KEMCO has investigated and analyzed the data on industrial and policy direction according to the major areas of NRE and promptly provided data to outside customers, including the person in charge of policy. KEMCO is systematically providing and encouraging the utilization of information on NRE by making and distributing the Comprehensive Information Booklet on Major Areas(PV, wind power), the Collection of Statistics on NRE Deployment, and the Guidebook for NRE. Also, it has published the 2010 NRE White Paper, which includes the status on NRE and detailed status on policies and various businesses, to allow parties interested in NRE to have an easy access to information. KEMCO has published the collection of policy data on various areas, including solar thermal, fuel cell, and biomass, and plans to continuously strengthen cooperation with investigative institutions and share information with relevant institutions to provide high-quality information. International Cooperation Based on the Act on the Promotion of the Development, Use and Diffusion of New and Renewable Energy (March 14, 2008), KEMCO has been implementing international cooperative programs including joint international researches. Also, it is carrying out multilateral cooperation with various international organizations and implementing bilateral cooperation, such as holding joint seminars with the Netherlands, Malaysia, etc. First, KEMCO is participating in multilateral programs through the hosting and participation of international organizations, including International Renewable Energy Agency(IRENA*), International Energy Agency(IEA), International Partnership for Hydrogen Economy(IPHE), and Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate(APP). Also it has implemented bilateral programs for policy exchanges and cooperation between countries, including the hosting of Korea-Netherlands NRE Cooperation Forum and Corporate Consultations(Nov. 2010, Amsterdam) and the cooperation on biotechnology construction with Malaysia. Major International Activities Activities • Participation in Implementing Agreement(IA) & Task 1,2 SolarPACES • Held 78th ExCo Meeting, Jeju, Korea (April. 2010) • Participation in Implementing Agreement(IA) & Task 1,8 PVPS • Held IEA PVPS Workshop at PVEC-19, Jeju, Korea (November. 2009) Bioenergy • Join in IEA/Bioenergy IA & Task 39 (May. 2010) • Participation in Implementing Agreement(IA) & Task 21, 22, 26 Hydrogen(HIA) • Presentation in IEA-HIA Congressional Briefing, Washington D.C, USA (June. 2010) • Participation in Implementing Agreement(IA) & Annex 11, 23 WIND • Held IEA Wind Task 11 TEM on “Wind Farms in Complex Terrain” seminar, Pohang, Korea (April. 2009) Collection of Status of NRE Statistics on NRE 2010 NRE White Industry (PV) Deployment Paper 32 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ KEMCO’s Efforts for Sustainable Achievements KEMCO is expanding the use of sustainable energy resources through the expansion of the NRE deployment. Promotion of NRE KEMCO is leading in the development of the industry by strengthening the exhibition on NRE and supporting 2010 Renewable Energy Korea export activities. As part of the development of NRE industry and the support for export-led industrialization, export consultation in connection with the international exhibition(Renewable Energy Korea) on NRE is being held, and the opportunities for green energy experience, such as NRE, is provided by operating the green growth mobility experience hall. Renewable Energy Korea Renewable Energy Korea is a comprehensive exhibition of international scale where domestic and foreign technology trends and new technologies related to NRE is showcased, including 11 new and renewable energy products, equipments, technology and governmental policies, and R&D results. NRE includes PV, wind power, geothermal heat, and fuel cell. Also, international conferences and forums for various areas are held to provide the opportunity for networking with experts from around the world. The 2010 Renewable Energy Korea was participated by 251 companies from fourteen countries. It was held for Hosting of International Conference a total of four days with 27,965 visitors attending the exhibition. Green Growth Mobility Experience Hall KEMCO is designated as an institution for supervising and operating the mobility experience hall for leading green growth, which produces and operates the mobility experience hall to promote green growth including NRE for non-metropolitan areas and excluded areas. The mobility experience hall has a total of three themes, including green time machine, green land, and green playground, which are composed to allow the general public and youngsters to learn and enjoy them more conveniently. In 2010, the exhibition mobility hall has been held a total of 35 times for schools and regional events in excluded regions with about 21,000 people attending it. Name of Green time machine Green land Green playground exhibition Characteristic Automobile museum Module exhibition hall Amusement hall Exhibition hall photos 33 Special Page Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) Introduction of RPS(Renewable Portfolio Standard) The Renewable Portfolio Standard(RPS) System is a system that makes it mandatory to supply more than certain amount of total power generation to certain scale of power generation businesses through NRE facilities. The system is being implemented in the U.S., Britain, Italy and Sweden, and it has been implemented in Korea since 2012. In order to introduce the RPS System into Korea, KEMCO has composed a task force with the government, the Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute, the Korea Power Electric Corporation, the Korea Power Exchange and twelve mandatory suppliers to hold a public hearing and a discussion meeting on the introduction of the system to collect opinions of stakeholders on major details of the system, including scope of mandatory suppliers, amount of mandatory supplies, NRE subject to mandatory supplies, and monthly weights. Through RPS pilot programs with six domestic power generation affiliates, improvement plans were operated for an efficient system. The RPS will be implemented starting from 2012, which means that power producers must supply a certain amount of the total power generation by new and renewable energy (NRE). The obligators include domestic electricity generators who supply more than 500MW annually, the Korea Water Resources Corporation and the Korea District Heating Corporation. It is expected to greatly contribute in increasing the dissemination of NRE facilities and its relevant industries. As the certified institution for operating RPS, KEMCO plans to focus its capacity to ensure the RPS runs smoothly and make continuous development, including the issuance and registration of certificates, the operation of certificate trading market, and the management of obligatory implementation. KEMCO is the supervising institution for operating the RPS System, including the issuance and registration of supply certificates, the operation of supply certificate trading market, and the management of mandatory implementation, which plans to concentrate all of its capacity in continuously developing and smoothly establishing the system. Scope of mandatory suppliers Power generating companies with facility size (excluding the NRE facilities) of more than 500MW. * Twelve power generation companies, including Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd, Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd, Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd, Korea Western Power Co., Ltd, Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd, Korea District Heating Corp., Korea Water Resources Corp., Posco Power, SK E&S, GS EPS, GS Power, MPC Yulchon Generation Co., Ltd. Total amount of mandatory supply by year Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Since 2022 Mandatory 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 ratio(%) Implementation Procedures Supply certificate institution 1. Calculate and (NRE Center) notify the mandatory supply amount 6. Calculate the 2. Request for facility 2. Request for facility 6. Calculate the amount of confirmation confirmation amount of purchasing purchasng certificate certificate 5. Request for issuance 5. Request for issuance of certificate of certificate 9. Confirm mandatory implementation <Market for Trading Certificates> Power generation 7. Sell the certificate Mandatory suppliers businesses (13 power generation (Produce new and 8. Calculate the amount of companies) renewable power) purchasing the certificate 4. Confirm the 4. Confirm the amount of 3. Sell electricity 3. Sell electricity amount of electricity electricity Electricity seller (KEPCO, Korea Power Exchange) * Mandatory suppliers can confirm the mandatory implementation by submitting supply certificates to NRE Center, which is a supply certificate institution. 34 issue 3 Establishment of Systems to Respond to Climate Change Together with the energy saving and energy efficiency improvements, climate change response has provided a new business area in the new and renewable sector. In order to respond to climate change, KEMCO has realized the carbon fund and carbon neutral together with the verification and certification services for GHG. Verification Services for GHG Mitigation (CDM Verification and Certification) * CDM(Clean Development Mechanism) • Implement In order to ease global warming, which has become a serious Projects for reduction • Expand the reduction market global issue, the CDM business is a project to mitigate GHG validations through the joint efforts of advanced countries and developing CDM(Clean Development Mechanism) (Beginning stage of through support on the GHG countries. Through the CDM project, advanced countries project project) emission reduction efforts can decrease the GHG of developing countries to minimize Korea’s GHG emission reduction project the reduction cost of their own country. On the other hand, Voluntary market participation program • Implement • Improve the corporation’s developing countries can receive foreign investments on verification and environmentally-friendly technologies to encourage their own status domestically and country to go in the direction of sustainable development. It certification brings a win-win situation for both sides. (Finishing stage of internationally through Enterprises’ mitigation efforts project) strengthening the verification Energy management system Energy target management system • Develop auditors and certification capacities. Implementation Results and Direction for CDM(Clean Development Mechanism) projects Registration ratio of CDM validation KEMCO has been accredited as a Designated Operating Entity(DOE) in 2005, which is the first country to be accredited from the developing countries. It has implemented a total of 45 cases (14 cases in 2010) of valida6% tions and verifications by July 2011, including hydropower generation project for Vietnam and Mongolia and C N2O project for China. Also, KEMCO has auditors for all areas of CDM audit templates, which is the verification institution to have audit codes for all areas. The number of registered cases of validations determine the level 4% of verification. KEMCO has the highest share out of the four domestic CDM operating institutions. B 47% However, according to the recent EU-ETS, after the post 2012, it has been decided not to purchase CER(Certified kemco Emission Reduction) from regions other than the least-developed countries. Therefore, in terms of expanding certifications, KEMCO has established an overseas network with technology and capital investment companies to seek ways to expand the verification and certification for least developed countries(LDC) and small islands. Also, as the demand for voluntary market is expected to increase in the future, together with the CDM projects, voluntary programs like VCS(Voluntary Carbon Standard) and GS(Gold Standard) are reviewed mainly to diversify the business areas and improve the status as the institution leading in GHG emission reduction. 43% A * VCS(Voluntary Carbon Standard) A project for acquiring VCU credits by seeking voluntary carbon reduction programs GS(Gold Standard) It is voluntary, and in cases where there is a cap on GHG emission, the amount of credits produced is offset from the cap CDM project cycle Results of UN registration for CDM projects (validation standard) Classification 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Planning a CDM project Making the PDD Validation Project Participant Project Participant CDM DOE(KEMCO) domestic 1 3 2 6 6 2 foreign 2 1 7 7 5 Total 1 5 3 13 13 7 Monitoring a CDM project Registration Getting Approvals Project Participant CDM Executive Board Designated National Authority * Source: UNFCCC Homepage(http://cdm.unfccc.int), Oct. 19, 2011 Verification Issuance of CERs Distribution of CERs CDM DOE (KEMCO) CDM Executive Board Project Participant 35 issue 3 Establishment of the System to Respond to Climate Change * KVER(Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction) KVER, Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction Registry project After evaluating KVER, which is being implemented in Korea, according to an objective evaluation procedure, this system After the Kyoto Protocol came into effect(Feb. 16, 2005), the industry is supporting the GHG emission reduction registers the amount of planned emission and certifies the competency and implementing a systematic quantification for reduction results due to the full-scale reduction emission reduction by going through verification and activities of advanced countries. Currently, Korea doesn’t have the voluntary emission reduction for GHG, but certification during the term of validity(5 years). after the post-Kyoto, it is expected that the issue of advanced developing countries’ participation will be raised • The standard for registration is the projects where the amount of GHG emission reduction is more than 100t. and begin in earnest. Based on this background, the Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction, which is implemented in Korea by KEMCO, › The projects where the starting point of emission reduction (the point where the actual amount of reduction occurs) is registers the amount of planned emission after evaluation according to an objective evaluation procedure, and within one year from the date of applying for registration it certifies the emission reduction by going through the verification and certification during the term of validity • The project areas of the major areas subject to registration for the program(5 years). Through this program, the framework for voluntary carbon market is established and include “the project through energy use rationalization”, it contributes to the revitalization of companies’ efforts for the reduction of GHG. “the project on NRE development”, and “other reduction projects recognized by the government”. › In cases where the increase and decrease of the production Implementation Procedures amount(changes in the load amount), simple renovation and It can be divided between the planning stage of project, which evaluates the feasibility of GHG reduction projcleaning, compliance with legal duties, and ownership rights ects for registration and management, and the implementation stage of project, which manages the results of are unclear, and in cases where the division of project boundaries is unclear, the registration is excluded. registry program through certification. Planning stage of project Implementation stage of project Implementation and Register project Manage registration Manage certification monitoring of project • Write project plan • Prior review • Implement reduction project • Evaluate certification Project operator Prior Review Committee and monitor reduction effect Certification Evaluation Committee • Write monitoring report Certification Evaluation Committee • Judge Certification Evaluation • Implement validation • Evaluate registration • Notify results Certification professional institution Registration Evaluation Committee • Judge Registration Evaluation • Notify results • Apply registration • Verify • Issue certification Project operator • Manage certification results Corporation • Give registration number • Verify monitoring report • Submit registration • Manage projects subject • Write verification report Corporation to registration • Apply for reduction result • Government purchase • Support registration cost certification • Manage the certification results Corporation Verification professional institution Project operator Status of Implementation Until 2010, KEMCO has registered 299 projects through the evaluation of the registered projects. A total of 491 projects have been certified and 381 projects are implementing the governmental purchase of 7 milliontCO2. In the future, there will be a provincial tour of briefing sessions and the training of persons in charge to activate the participation of the small and medium project site, while the reduction projects linked with the support for the establishment of SME’s inventories will be expanded. Classification 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total Registration 41 62 86 66 44 299 Amount of expected reduction per year 1,021,500 1,036,793 1,262,922 1,269,228 483,544 2,073,987 (thousand tCO2eq) Classification 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total Certification Number of certified cases 38 88 161 204 491 of emission reduction Amount of certification (tCO2) 941,307 1,926,752 2,720,353 3,199,545 8,787,957 Number of purchased cases 37 82 141 121 381 Amount of certification (tCO2) 940,602 1,576,968 2,229,080 2,224,277 6,970,927 Government purchase Purchase cost per unit (won/tCO2) 4,982 4,677 4,863 5,163 Total amount of purchase (one million won) 4,686 7,375 10,840 11,757 34,385 36 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ KEMCO’s Efforts for Sustainable Achievements KEMCO is Asia’s best CDM verification and certification institution Establishment of Climate Change Response Basis According to the UNFCCC(UN Framework Convention on Climate Change), KEMCO prepares the Quantified Results of carbon neutral participation Emission Limitation and Reduction Commitment(QERLC) for GHG after 2012. In order to effectively respond to Amount of Amount of the domestic burden, a statistical analysis system on the exact GHG emission and emission potential is being Number of Year participation certification participation established and a nation-wide green lifestyle is being introduced to establish the basis to continuously reduce (kgCO2) (kgCO2) GHG emission. 2008 33 10,480,448 3,962,755 Carbon Neutral 2009 66 5,765,477 3,119,527 In order to establish a nation-wide consensus on climate change, the carbon neutral program, which is an 2010 471 11,784,095 4,153,337 emission reduction program for national participation, is operated. The carbon neutral program calculates GHG that occurs in daily life and sets reduction goals and reduction plans to offset this so that it can be impleMay 2011 74 1,572,139 295,097 mented voluntarily. It is an implementation movement for national participation, which resolves through social Total 644 29,602,159 11,530,716 responsibility on GHG. Carbon offset is achieved through the implementation of voluntary reduction activities, and regarding the area that is not offset, it can be replaced through paying the offset, including support for tree * Execution results of amount of offset planting, and support for NRE facilities. 1. Establish and support NRE facilities : 9.7kW-class PV power generation facility in Carbon Cashbag Gapyeong’s flower village(May 2009) In order to change the consumption behavior, KEMCO provides points to consumers who purchase low-carbon 2. KCER purchase : Purchased 2,572 tons products and use low-carbon shops. In cases where consumers purchase energy-saving products (high ef3. Tree planting : Purchased 48 tons ficiency products, outstanding products for standby power reduction, etc.) or use low-carbon shops, a certain percentage of the product purchased will be accumulated as carbon cashbag points by carbon cashbag partner companies. Implementation Procedures of Carbon Cashbag Results of carbon cashbag (Unit:one million points) 1. Using carbon cashbag stores or purchasing products Total accumulated point of 217 million points 2009 28 2010 10% 156 April 2011 3. Provide points 2. Accumulate 61 excluding 10% certain part of to customers sales into carbon Companies Members of Establish green cashbag participating in carbon cashbag growth fund carbon cashbag 4. Using carbon cashbag points Establishment and Operation of GHG Emission Statistics Analysis System Through the investigation on the emission status of energy use and GHG for different project sites, KEMCO has established and operating a national statistics DB on GHG to identify the energy reduction factors and the reduction potential. KEMCO is providing analysis results through the NETIS(National GHG Emission Total Information System) by analyzing the energy consumption behaviors and GHG emission types. Implementation process of GHG emission statistics analysis system CO2 emission investigated during the recent three years by sectors First program Second program Third program (2005~2007) (2008~2010) (2011~2013) Number of Carbon Establishment of administrative Establishment of statistics DB Establishment of Statistical DB companies dioxide information DB (Initial stage) (Completion stage) Year Sector investigated emission (Unit: number of (Unit: thousand companies) tCO2) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Manufacturing 146,000 224,456 Large Large Large Large 2008 Industrial sector investiinvestiinvestiinvestiLarge investigaMining 1,000 767 (Mining & gations gations gations gations manufacturing) tions (110,000) (150,000) (150,000) (150,000) Households 65,000 55,190 2009 Large Large Commercial 50,000 61,747 Household & investiinvesticommercial gations gations (100,000) (120,000) Transportation (transportation 27,000 64,924 project) Large Large 2010 investiinvestiTransportation gations gations Transportation 40,000 77,472 (45,000) (70,000) (automobile) 37 Special Page Overseas Market Development Through the pivotal role of spreading outstanding energy saving and GHG reduction technologies to overseas, KEMCO has enhanced the status of the Republic of Korea, and also provided a bridgehead for the domestic companies’ entry into the global market Overseas Market Development Green Business Forum 2011 As a member of the international society, KEMCO is actively participating in the global GHG reduction activities according to the UNFCCC. It is supporting sustainable development by spreading technologies and systems related to energy saving and GHG reduction that have been accumulated until now. Also, it is providing a bridgehead for domestic companies’ entry into the global market. Overseas promotion of KVER and cooperative programs for developing countries Korea’s KVER (Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction Program) is a representative climate change response policy, which has been recognized as an exemplary reduction efforts by a Non-Annex I country. KEMCO has provided the internationalization of KVER and the establishment of the infrastructure for Asia’s carbon market by disseminating KVER to developing countries. Especially, in order to take the lead in creating a carbon market for Asia’s developing countries and make joint efforts on climate change response, KEMCO is disseminating the program with the budget support of GGGI (Global Green Growth Institute) and IAP (Inter Academy Panel). Also, Signing Ceremony of Thailand TGO 2nd Year Project KEMCO signed a MOU with Thailand’s TGO (Thailand Green House Gas Management Organization)to establish the basis to disseminate KVER to overseas, while energy assessments are carried out for four companies, including Thai Oil which is Thailand’s largest national petroleum company, to seek reduction programs. By successfully disseminating KVER to a developing country, KEMCO plans to work closely with other developing countries to increase the dissemination of the program. Cooperative project between Korea and developing countries Through the phased support that includes from the establishment of infrastructure for climate change response of developing countries to the establishment of commercialization, KEMCO has enhanced its competency for climate change response and pursued GHG reduction projects of developing countries. In order to promote overseas development of Korea’s green companies, there are cooperative programs being implemented between Korea and developing countries. In order to develop CDM and human resources with ASEAN, the corporation is implementing cooperative programs with major countries, including Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam and the Philippines, by forming a consultative body. In order to develop CDM projects that have been developed through this into actual investment businesses for domestic companies, the corporation is providing diverse support, such as providing information. Also, KEMCO has designated professional institutions for different regions to support the development and discovery of prospective GHG reduction projects through establishing continuous network. In the case where domestic green companies want to enter into GHG reduction projects abroad, the corporation supports the cost for validation and due diligence process. In order to strengthen the basis for climate change response between Korea and developing countries, KEMCO plans to expand the cooperative programs for other countries. It plans to improve the welfare of residents by supporting PV power generation facility in poor regions of Asian and Africa developing countries. Strengthening Overseas Cooperation KEMCO is strengthening its network with developing countries and international organizations by holding invitational trainings, including lectures on Korea’s major energy policies, on-site visits, and inspections, for the energy managers of developing countries concerning energy efficiency, new and renewable energy, and climate change response. Also, it established a permanent cooperation network with overseas institutions, including UNIDO, World Bank and GGGI to seek green growth for the participating countries by utilizing the established network to identify and implement green cooperation projects. Basic implementation direction · Establish a support system to response to climate change of Asian countries through the support for establishing voluntary GHG reduction between Korea and developing countries · Resolve the GHG QERLC cost effectively through the carbon market among the Asian countries with NAMA-Registry’s role as HUB. 38 issue 4 Education and Promotion KEMCO will make continuous efforts to actively participate in the creation of green lifestyle for the people of Korea through making brands of energy management. Representative National Brand for Early Education ‘SESE NARA’ (*’NARA’ means nation) Since April 2010, KEMCO has implemented ‘SESE(Save Energy Save Earth) NARA’, which is representative Mascot for SESE NARA educational brand to support the children and youngster’s voluntary execution of implementation and experience activities concerning energy, climate change, and the environment. Through implementing the energy saving and experience activities at schools and households, ‘SESE NARA’ is a new concept of energy saving educational program to seek ways to save the earth. After the opening ceremony in April 2010, 6,427 persons participated from 351 schools, and KEMCO had the honor of winning the outstanding program(the Minister of Gender Equality and Family Award) for training youngsters, which is selected by the Korea Youth Work Agency. Implementation Procedures of SESE NARA Results of the SESE NARA Recruitment in Nov. 2011 Classification Number of schools Compose Apply for the Approve the Elementary school 296 autonomous founding of founding of Start activity meetings SESE NARA SESE NARA Middle School 138 SESE NARA (more than (On-line (On-line activities High school 109 10 persons) application) confirmation) Others 510 Development of SESE NARA Program Opening Ceremony of SESE NARA SESE NARA was designed to strengthen the basic education for learning about climate change and energy saving at elementary schools. KEMCO is developing and operating a comprehensive educational program, including providing diverse energy saving experience programs, providing energy saving expert and information for voluntary activities of SESE NARA, and managing the details of personal activities through the certification information system for youngsters’ training activities. What is SESE NARA? The earth is a green star where there are living things! However, due to people’s thoughtless energy consumption, a massive amount of GHG has caused global warming problems, which is threatening us. Our children and youngsters who will play a leading role in the beautiful earth have the vital duty to save the earth. In order to preserve the earth environment to be worth living, it is necessary to be stricter in saving energy considering that 84% of GHG in Korea is caused by energy consumption. This starts with minor actions, including turning on the brightness of the monitor to be about 70%, or turning off lights that are not being used. SESE NARA is an autonomous activity meeting to carry out the role of saving the earth by making children and youngsters take the lead at home and school to act in implementation, experience and volunteer activities on conserving energy and using NRE and to find a better way to save the earth. 39 issue 4 Education and Promotion Events of Implementing SESE Energy Sarang Establishment of SESE NARA Support System KEMCO is organizing and operating a steering committee and a secretariat composed of ten experts in the relevant fields, including the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. Also, it has established a cooperative network by signing MOU with external institutions. The activities for participation in SESE NARA are certified by nationally certified training activities and volunteer activities for youngsters. Also, a comprehensive SESE NARA support system is established, such as providing professional leader training for energy saving against SESE NARA leaders for free. In the future, in order to develop into an early educational program of climate change for energy saving, KEMCO plans to make many youngsters actively participate through developing diverse action programs and expanding incentives. Major Results of SESE NARA Classification Implementation Results SESE NARA Summer Camp Participated by about 300 persons Opening ceremony of SESE NARA 1 time (April 23, Assembly hall of the corporation) Participated by about 1,000 persons Energy imagination drawing contest 1 time (June 12, Seoul Land) Participated by 155 persons SESE NARA summer camp 2 times · 1st: July 21~July 23(Gangwon), 2nd: July 28~July 30(Ulsan) Participated by about 500 persons (Nov. 10, Seoul Education & Culture Center) SESE Energy sarang action events 1 time · UCC, action examples, performance of composed songs, and awards Participated by about 500 persons Invitation of the 7th Energy Day 1 time Early Education Animation-Cocomong (Aug. 16, Seoul City Hall Plaza) Participated by about 150 persons Camp for making various kinds of memories (Busan YWCA Sancheongmaehwangsan Training Center) 2 times (Joint hosting with Busan YWCA) · 1st: Aug. 9~Aug. 10, 2nd: Aug. 16~Aug. 17 Participated by about 321 persons SESE NARA experience camp (Seoul Olympic Parktel) 2 times (Joint hosting of mother nature) · 1st: Aug. 12~Aug. 13, 2nd: Aug. 15~Aug. 1 Development and Distribution of Energy Saving Contents for the People of Korea Target Title Contents Preschoolers and Popular animation refrigerator Provide early education for energy saving through “Cocomong”, children nara – Cocomong which is an animation that is familiar to the children Elementary and Utilize the data for the elementary and middle school’s discretionmiddle school Approved book for energy saving ary activities as an approved book for the school’s curriculum students Develop and distribute educational contents in the form of on-line e-Energy classroom with the People of Korea e-learning without restrictions on time and space as part of the whole family lifelong education 40 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ KEMCO’s Efforts for Sustainable Achievements KEMCO will make continuous efforts to actively participate in the creation of green lifestyle for the people of Korea through making brands of energy management. Development of SESE Emblem (Representative energy saving brand) Results of Korea Green Energy Show KEMCO has made an emblem of “Save Energy, Save Earth” to spread energy saving actions to implement a nation-wide climate change response with the meaning of preventing global warming through energy saving. It Classification 2009 2010 made a friendly image by utilizing a penguin character, which symbolizes global warming. participating 88 companies 315 115 companies companies booths 506 booths Implementation of Campaign Together with the Nation Expansion and development into the Northeast KEMCO is implementing a green energy family campaign, which is a network of implementing energy saving hub of energy comprehensive exhibition with lifestyle. Green Energy Family is a network of implementing lifestyle to reduce overall GHGs in production, Korea’s largest number of 1,000 booths distribution and consumption lifestyle through energy saving and efficient energy use. KEMCO is implementing the green energy campaign through diverse programs, including Energy Minus, Love Plus, Green Sports, SESE • Attract participating companies : 251 companies (Achieved 114% compared to the goal) NARA, Tire Up Energy Down, and Green Market. • Attract overseas buyers : 220 persons (Achieved 220% compared to the goal) • Total number of visitor : 27,965 persons Expansion of Promotion by Utilizing the Mass Media and Differentiated Promotion (Daily average of 6,991 persons, by Utilizing Celebrities 2,277 persons increase compared to 2009) In order to effectively provide information on energy saving to the people, KEMCO is implementing promotion utilizing well-known regular television programs and special television programs. In 2010, KEMCO promoted ways to save energy through various programs, including SBS ‘Finding Green Gold’, KBS ‘Science Café’, ‘Green 2010 Korea Green Energy Show Korea 2030’ and ‘Your Saving Efforts are Beautiful’. Also, KEMCO enhanced people’s interests and awareness on energy saving through SESE songs, which were sung by famous singers(aired on the popular Korean music program where Girl’s Generation, Bigbang, Shinee, SS501, Super Junior, Son Dam-bi, 2pm, and SG Wannabe appears), and the promotion of green sports by utilizing the Cheonhamujeok baseball team. Hosting of Korea Green Energy Show KEMCO held the Korea Green Energy Show where you can meet all facilities and technologies for energy saving and GHG reduction, including high efficient energy appliances, equipment, etc., which provided an opportunity to expand the basis for developing the low carbon green energy industry. SESE Emblem Implementation Contents of Green Energy Family Campaign Energy Minus, Tire Up Green Sports SESE NARA Green Market Love Plus Energy Down Implementing the Encouraging the people’s Implementing an Providing the Utilizing large energy saving and social implementation of green early education program infrastructure for the distributors, which act contribution campaign of lifestyle naturally in their to support the voluntary general public to easily as a bridge between supporting the heating daily life by incorporating implementation of action check the appropriate air consumers and sellers, energy of the poor during Korea’s favorite sports, and experience activities pressure of tires and as the place to promote the wintertime through professional baseball, related to energy, climate expanding the culture of the implementation of saving electricity during with energy saving. change and the environeco-driving. green lifestyle to the summer time ment for the children and contribute to energy youngsters. saving and GHG reduction in daily life. 41 Achievements Made in Economic Value Strengthening of Transparency for Budget Execution and Purchase of Social Responsibility Performance Management and Change Customer Satisfaction Economic Achievements KEMCO’s level of economic responsibility (five point scale) 4.35 4.15 4.09 4.05 Business and Industrial Impact on Establisheconomic development the energy ment of performances to respond to market public infrathe climate structure change 42 sustainablity report 2011 2009 2010 Classification Results Results Results Page 1 trillion 1 trillion Results of creating Operating budget(won) 203.7 209.6 44 economic values billion billion Results of budget 188 419 Strengthening of the 45 reduction(won) million million transparency of budget execution and purchase of Results of priority purchase of 26.464 29.936 social responsibility 45 SME products(one million won) billion billion 24 tasks Performance Reduction Results of SMART KEMCO 46 management and change of 2,574 days Customer satisfaction management index Excellent Excellent Customer satisfaction (Results of government’s 47 grade grade evaluation on public institutions) Results in Management Implementation 2010 Principle Direction In the era of sustainable management, KEMCO is operating to create the best the expansion of organizational energy saving and GHG reduction results performance through the creation of through the efficient execution of the customer values is the direction that Energy Use Rationalization Fund. It is organization should pursue for its making all efforts to realize sustainable existence. KEMCO is seeking the low carbon green growth, such as achievement of transparent economic maximizing customer values through performance and the creation of creative innovation management and customer values through expanding implementing priority purchase of budget reduction and implementing SMEs products. management innovation. 43 Achievements Made in KEMCO has created a business profit of 576.7 billion won through the appropriate management of production factors caused by expanding Economic Value new businesses. 2010 Budget Formulation Portfolio KEMCO’s budget consists of the government’s budget for delegated programs, which improves energy efficiency, establishes climate change response systems, and distributes and develops NRE, and KEMCO’s budget for operating the institution. KEMCO’s budget for 2010 was a total of 1 trillion 209.6 billion won, and among 6% them, the government’s delegated budget is 1 trillion 141.2 billion won and the budget for operating the instituKEMCO’s operating tion is 68.4 billion won. Through strengthening the connection between the program and the budget and implementing the digital financial management system, KEMCO is promoting an efficient execution of the budget. Also, it is making 44% 49% efforts to increase the effect of revitalizing the economy. Deployment Improvement and Developof energy use ment of NRE efficiency Status of Budget Formulation for 2009 ~ 2011 * Unit: 100 million won Classification content 2009 2010 2011 1% • Loans for installing energy saving facilities Establishment of climate • Subsidies for SMEs energy analysis Improvement of change response system • Basis establishment for target management energy use 6.134 5,911 6,709 efficiency system of industrial sector • Support for high energy efficient products of 2010 Budget 1 trillion 209.6 billion won the working class, etc. Government’s delegated Establishment of • Support for KVER budget climate change • Cooperation between Korea and developing 90 130 84 response system countries on UNFCCC Deployment and • Support for NRE deployment Development of • Basis establishment for NRE 5,054 5,370 6,458 NRE • Support for system marginal price, etc • Working expenses Budget for • Personnel expenses KEMCO’s operating the 659 684 730 operating budget • Ordinary operating expenses institution • Others KEMCO’s total assets is worth 4 trillion 854.5 billion won, and the capital is 163 billion won. The liabilities have been appropriated highly in the process of receiving the government’s policy funds to support the loans for the Energy Use Rationalization Fund, but among the total liabilities of 4691.4 billion won, the liabilities for the government’s loan support is 4626.3 billion won, which accounts for 98.6% of the total budget. Therefore, KEMCO’s net debt at 1.4% with 65.1 billion won according to the 2010 settlement standard. Proportion of the net debt compared to total debts KEMCO’s Financial Status in 2010 * Unit: 100 million won Current assets 5.616 1.4% net debt Asset Non-current assets 42,929 Asset total 48,545 Current liabilities 5,247 Debt Non-current liabilities 41,667 Debt total 46,914 Capital 154 Capital Others 1,476 Capital subtotal 1,630 2010 Total Debts 4 trillion 691.4 billion won 44 Strengthening of KEMCO is faithfully implementing the role as a public institution through implementing challenging budget reduction and expanding Transparency for the purchase of social responsibility. Budget Execution and Purchase of Social Responsibility In order to strengthen its competitiveness, KEMCO has established implementation strategies for budget reTarget of KEMCO’s Budget Reduction for 2010~2011 duction. Based on the internal and external environmental analysis, it has focused on enhancing rationality and Results in Targets for Targets for transparency. Compared to the results in 2009, KEMCO has set the target for budget reduction of two years, Classification 2009 2010 2011 which increased by 30% each year. Amount of budget 188 million 244 million 318 million reduction won won won In 2010, KEMCO has successfully achieved the budget reduction that exceeded the target by 72%. KEMCO plans to efficiently manage the people’s taxes through continuously establishing the budget reduction system by Growth rate improving the process and reorganizing the system. (compared to 30% 30% previous year) Target and Results of Budget Reduction in 2010 Classification Target Results Difference Achievement rate Achievement Achievement 244 million won 419 million won 175 million won exceeding 72% Seek a corporationwide best examples Transparent purchase through NARA marketplace Implementation of business Utilization of outside resources Improvement of systems, etc. integration(116 million won) (244 million won) (59 million won) Provide post management for efficiency Introduce the participation of stakeholdmanagement system and implement Utilizing the portal site’s on-line cafe as ers, including consumer outsourcing of researches ‘SESE NARA’ community space, etc. organizations, in the post management of (Joint utilization of samples, etc). efficiency labeling program KEMCO is systematically managing the whole process of purchasing goods and signing outsourcing contracts by developing an electronic contract system in 2009. It has established a relationship based on trust with partner companies through a transparent and fair purchasing through the competitive bidding and integrity contract system of NARA marketplace. Also, by purchasing the products produced by social companies as a priority, including products of SMEs, female companies and severely disabled facilities, according to the government’s recommended policy, KEMCO has contributed in establishing a healthy market order by promoting mutual cooperation with socially vulnerable classes. Also, it is making efforts to fulfill its social responsibility as a public institution by purchasing eco-friendly products. In the future, KEMCO plans to strengthen sustainability management by improving the fairness and transparency of the procedures for signing outsourcing contracts and goods and expanding the purchase of SMEs products. Signing of the Integrity Pact Results of Purchasing SMEs Products Results of Eco-Friendly Purchase 2009 2010 2009 2010 26,464 million won 29,936 million won 299,754 million won 269,812million won Ratio of SME purchase in 2010 Ratio of eco-friendly purchase in 2010 73.9% 70.1% 45 KEMCO seeks a balanced growth through the advancement of Performance performance evaluation and the continuous implementation of Management and creative innovation. Change Moebius System Systematic performance management through the Moebius System In order to achieve performance management that meets the visions and missions, KEMCO is seeking key KEMCO’s performance management performance to programs through analyzing internal and external environments and assessing internal capabilities. Also, in create excellent performance management order to achieve the government’s medium and long-term goals, it has established challenging detailed goals → Circulating management strategy system. and implementing them. Borderless Communication. The corporation’s BSC system with real-time evaluation as the key factor. For a systematic and objective performance management, KEMCO has developed it’s own performance man→ Exclude the evaluation just for evaluation and the agement system, Moebius System, which is applied on all program units. Through this, it is comprehensively formal appraisal. An evaluation system operated with the emphasis on the feedback. managing everything, including seeking strategic direction and related performance index, monitoring the real-time performance and receiving feedback, evaluating the results, giving compensations according to the results, and adjusting the following year’s strategies. Key Business and performance index Moebius(Performance Management) System Improvement of Establishment of Expansion of Establish s Set strategic Set department’s energy saving and climate change Strategy Cascading NRE deploy trategy goal KPI use efficiency response system connection Strengthen strategic goals and connection systems of internal and external indexes Transform into a Respond Use sustainable low consuming effectively to energy resources energy society climate change Produce index Provide real-time Monitor throughout Give real-time Performance results monitor the year feedback Reduce energy Revitalize the Expand GHG management consumption NRE deployment reduction Systematize performance management, strengthen performance monitoring, activate problem-solving systems Amount of energy Amount of NRE Amount of GHG reduction deployment reduction Evaluate perforEvaluate Evaluate Evaluate Performance mances by index department’s BSC personal BSC capabilities evaluation Provide real-time evaluation and enhance evaluation system (strengthen professionalism, objectivity, and fairness) Compensate Roll out Reflect Feedback Reflux (promotion, etc.) strategies business plan Give feedback on evaluation results, provide compensation according to performance, and reflect the following year’s strategies SMART KEMCO “Smart KEMCO” that creates a fun innovative culture An advanced software-like brand developed by the corThe continuous high oil prices and the implementation of the government’ low carbon green growth policies poration, which acts as a buffer so that the hardware-like advancement(adjusting functions, reducing manpower, etc.) provided new opportunities to KEMCO, while also it acted as a huge responsibility to create lots of achievecan work properly to be embedded in the organization. ments in diverse areas at the same time. Due to the public institution’s management advancement and the • Major method : workout, KemSigma trends of efficiency, the employee’s fatigue caused by the increase of work loads also increased rapidly. • Major theme : Seek and abolish not essential and urgent programs In order to overcome the limitations of limited resources and meet the expectations of the government and Strengthen performance management Create a pleasant working atmosphere society, “Smart KEMCO”, which is a new creative innovation process, began across the corporation in 2010. The corporation will promote a balanced growth through the embedment of creative innovation, such as realizing an organization that gives fun and rewards by working smart and achieving a working method of world-class excellence. Major Achievements of SMART KEMCO in 2010 Basic Direction of SMART KEMCO & Key Areas of Improvement in 2010 Number of implemented tasks Basic Realize an organization that gives fun and rewards by working smart 24 tasks Direction Achieve a working method of world-class excellence Embedment of • Promote balanced growth through the creative innovation embedment of creative innovation Number of days on energy saving (system/culture) • Principles of creative innovation activities 2,574 days Strengthening of 1. All employees participate… TOGETHER organizational capacity 2. Results achieved are visible… VISIBLE (balanced growth) 3. Creative innovation methods are simple… SIMPLE 46 In order to achieve the CS vision of ‘becoming the best public service institution that is recognized by customers’, KEMCO has Customer made customer satisfaction as top priority in management Satisfaction activities and is working towards improving the service quality. In order to provide a high-quality service, KEMCO has established a medium and long-term plan and an annual CS Management Goals by Stage implementation plan for customer satisfaction management by reflecting the internal and external environments of customer satisfaction management and identifying the changing demand of customers. In the impleStage 3 mentation plan for customer satisfaction management in three stages for the three years between 2010 and Implementation 2012, the ‘creation of customer values through the advancement of customer value management system’ is Stage 2 of Customer Value set as the customer satisfaction management goal for implementing various customer satisfaction activities. Management Stage 1 Expansion of CS Culture By establishing the advancement of customer value management system, the enhancement of customer Introduction of CS Upgrading stage contact service, and the establishment of customer-oriented corporate culture as strategic directions, the Management (2010~2012) corporation is building a customer-oriented infrastructure, improving the work process, and enhancing the Settlement and CS capabilities of executives and employees as the key activities. Also, every year it seeks tasks for service expansion stage Introductory stage (2007~2009) improvement on key service areas and implement them(18 tasks in 2010, and 29 tasks in 2011). (2004~2006) As a result, the government’s customer satisfaction survey results rated KEMCO as the ‘excellent’ institution of the highest grade for the second consecutive year. KEMCO’s Customer Satisfaction Management System CS Management Goals for Stage 3 Corporation’s Creating a Smart & Lifestyle vision Advancing customer value management Enhancing CS customer value Becoming the best public service institution that is recognized by customers Leaping Vision forward in management customer value management 2012 Creating customer values through the advancement of customer value 2011 Third Stage management system CSM Goal 2010 -Become the best institution of customer satisfaction management Advancement of customer value Enhancement of customer Establishment of customerStrategic management system contact service oriented corporate culture Direction Create the Structure CHANGE the Service Communicate the Spirit · Advancement of CS · Innovation of contact service · Strengthening of CS implementation system competency improvement · Implementation of Detailed · Strengthening of activities customeroriented policy Implementation performance management management · Enhancement of internal Tasks and compensation system customer satisfaction · Reinforcement of VOC · Revitalization of CS response system · Expansion of CS culture communication Monitoring and Feedback KEMCO’s Customer Charter – Promise of 4 Pleasures KEMCO’s Customer Satisfaction Management Index Trends KEMCO Willingness Freshness Quasi-governmental institutions Small & medium institutions We will receive the customer’s We will handle all work so that requests willingly customers can feel freshness excellent Customer Charter excellent satisfactory Promise of 4 Pleasures Happiness Delightfulness 2008 2009 2010 We will make customers smile We will provide service to make * The government’s customer satisfaction survey divides the with a happy feeling satisfaction level into excellent(above 90 points), satisfactory the customer’s heart delightful (above 85 points), average(above 80 points), and insufficient (less than 80 points). 47 Social Contribution through Energy Personnel Management Labor-Management Relations Social Achievements KEMCO’s level of social responsibility (five point scale) 4.32 4.32 4.29 4.24 4.22 4.01 4.17 4.16 4.09 3.93 3.93 3.93 3.74 ImplementaAntiContribuEthical manLegal Collection and Information Protection Selection of Training of Prohibition of Prohibition of Labortion of social corruption tion in local agement compliance resolution disclosure of customer fair partner employees in forced labor employee dismanagement contribution community of business of customer information companies charge and child crimination communicaactivities development activities complaints labor tion 48 sustainabIlity report 2011 2009 2010 Classification Results Results Results Page 11.5 18.9 Social contribution activity expense (won) 50 billion billion Social contribution through energy Number of institutions benefited from 12,944 50 social contribution activities Number of new employees hired 26 31 57 Disabled (%) 2.4 2.6 53 Diversity of execuNational patriots 5.6 5.1 53 Create jobs tives and employees and veterans (%) Female (%) 15.5 17.6 53 Annual average of training one person 167 153 54 (hours) Labor-management Accident rate of executives and 0 0.24 56 relations employees (%) Management Implementation Results in 2010 Principle Direction By realizing a transparent and clean In order to implement social management, KEMCO will develop into a contribution activities that meet the public institution that is trusted by image as an energy-saving company, its executives and employees and the KEMCO is implementing diverse welfare local community. Also, it will create a activities through energy. It is operating business culture where mutual benefits a transparent recruitment system and with stakeholders can increase through talent development program to provide effective communication. a fair opportunity to everyone, and also Local community is the closest neighbor various systems are being operated to that will walk down the road of mutual create more jobs. KEMCO will make best cooperation. As a member of the local efforts to generate excellent results community, KEMCO will become a through a pleasant working partner that grows together with the environment and ensure the human local community through mutual rights of executives and employees cooperation and the management of through a reasonable participation and sharing. labor-management relations. 49 Social Contribution through Energy Social contribution activity system Social contribution activity expenses In order to spread the benefits of the valuable energy evenly to our society, KEMCO has continuously pursued (Unit: one million won) and implemented social contribution activities that met KEMCO’s characteristics. Classification 2008 2009 2010 The social contribution activities establish “making a happy energy society” as the goal of activities. Through the three strategic tasks, including Energy Love Sharing, Energy Safety, and Energy community Service, all of Results 11,632 11,484 18,949 the executives and employees share the meaning of social contribution and expand their participation to work towards making a warm society. Results of support by areas in 2010 GOAL Happy Energy Society Number of Support Classification benefited scale facilities •Strengthening the social responsibility and role of public institutions as a corporate citizen 29 Energy love volunteer 42 million won •Implementing social contribution activities appropriate for Target KEMCO’s business characteristics 14,820 Energy love sharing 12,436 •Achieving a happy energy society through the network with million won local community 4,100 Energy safety 466 million won Energy Love Sharing Energy Safety Energy Community Service Energy welfare support Replacing outdated lighting Energy volunteer group Strategy EnergyLove+ equipment Boundary of love Check the safety of electric facilities Implementation organization In the case of KEMCO, the President & CEO is the Chief Communications Officer(CCO) for social contribution with the Vice President implementing the overall contribution activities. The CS Management Team of the Management and Planning Department is in charge of setting the direction and monitoring social contribution activities. According to each of the implementing departments, a separate detailed plan is established and social contribution activities are implemented. CCO (President & CEO) Overall Supervisor Vice President Supervising Department CS Management Team of Management Planning Department Energy Love Sharing Energy Safety Energy Community Service CCO(Chief Corporate Social Responsibility Officer) | CEO of social contribution Overall Supervisor | Overall supervisor for implementing social contribution activities Supervising department | Supervising social contribution activities: Set direction and monitor Implementing department | Implementing social contribution: Establish detailed plan and implement As a public institution, KEMCO will establish a systematic activity plan and continuously implement contribution activities to bring hope in the hearts of the people of Korea by strengthening the social safety net and implementing diverse social contribution activities. The amount of execution for social contribution activities in 2010 was 18,949 million won. 50 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ Social Achievements KEMCO will faithfully carry out the social responsibility and the role as a public institution through KEMCO’s own social contribution activities that reflect its founding purpose and business characteristics, making it into an institution trusted by the people of Korea. Implementation Status of Social Contribution Results of energy safety implemented KEMCO is implementing support activities worth 18,949 million won for a total of 12,944 facilities and houseClassification 2008 2009 2010 holds in 2010 by focusing on three areas of activities, including Energy Love Sharing, Energy Safety, and Energy Supporting Community Service. Places 1,116 1,093 466 Budget 112 100 41 (100 million won) Energy Love Sharing Energy subtract, love plus As KEMCO’s representative energy-saving social contribution activities for the people, it is a program where the participants of the campaign implements electricity saving during the summer time(July~August) and the heating cost is provided to the poor classes of energy during the winter time according to how much energy has been saved. The participants can contribute in acquiring electric power reserve rate through saving electricity during the summer time, while at the same time, provide heating cost to the vulnerable classes during the winter time in their names. Due to the effect of high temperature and humidity compared to the previous year, the amount of reduction has decreased a little, but it still maintains a high level. Energy Minus(-) Love Plus(+) Implementation results Number of participating organizations Amount of reduction(MWh) 2008 2008 5,384 66,432 Supporting one million 2009 2009 8,713 91,389 pieces of coal briquettes 2010 2010 during the winter time 20,470 70,206 • Energy welfare support It is social contribution activity where outdated home appliances of social welfare facilities, such as nursing 1 Company and 1 Town Labor Helping homes, are replaced with high efficient and energy saving products to seek energy saving and welfare support for the working class. Energy Safety It is a social contribution program that supports energy welfare by linking with energy saving by replacing outdated lightings of social welfare facilities with poor energy use environment with high efficient lightings while implementing safety inspections on electric facilities. Energy Community Service Agreement Ceremony of Boundary of Love ➊ Energy volunteer group It is a volunteer organization that is voluntarily participated by KEMCO’s executives and employees to fulfill its social role and responsibility as a public institution. The energy love volunteer group is implementing regular CSR activities, including 1 company & 1 town labor helping, 1 company and 1 high school scholarship support, and night school volunteer, by forming a total of 33 teams. ➋ Boundary of love As a program that is implemented together with the Ministry of Knowledge Economy and the relevant public institutions, it provides the opportunity to learn at experience halls and support sports goods, books, learning equipment by setting up sisterhood relationship between KEMCO’s KEMCO's regional headquarters and the child centers of each region. 51 Special Page Expansion of Green Energy Experience Halls Green Energy Experience Halls are the place to experience energy saving for the students in kindergarten, elementary, middle and high schools, the people engaged in the energy sector, and the general public. Energy Saving Experience Halls Energy Saving Experience Halls KEMCO is operating the experience halls where children, students and adults can learn through direct experiences, including energy saving methods, efficient use of energy, green products, and future look of utilization. 2010 New Energy Saving Experience Hall ➊ Green Energy Experience Hall (Gwangju) It consists of four zones, including fossil energy and climate change, energy saving, energy arc of hope, and a Yongin pleasant green city. It provides information and a place to experience climate change issue caused by the use of fossil energy, energy saving methods in daily life, principle and utilization of NRE power generation, and eco-friendly city of the future. Daejeon Daegu Access to Energy Fossil Energy and Energy Saving Energy Arc of Hope Gwangju climate change ➋ Green Energy Experience Hall (Daegu) It showcase various themes, including energy dance, leaking energy, standby power, LED lighting, PV, wind power, eco-driving, and bicycle power generation. The exhibition halls consist of detailed experiences where visitors can learn as they play. 4D Simulation Center Stop the energies from PV energy experience Wine power energy experience Green Energy Experience Hall (Yongin) leaking out! 388 Poeundae-ro, Suji-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do Phone number: 031-260-4523~5 Energy Playground Green Energy Experience Hall (Gwangju) Green Energy Experience Hall, KEMCO’s Gwangju Jeonnam Regional Headquarters, 261, Cheomdangwagi-ro, Buk-gu, •Experience energy production Gwangju Metropolitan City Experience Phone number: 062-602-0001, •Experience low power of energy Fax number: 062-602-0005 Green Energy Experience Hall (Daegu ) Green Energy Experience Hall, KEMCO’s Daegu Gyeongbuk Regional Headquarters, 891-6, Daecheon-dong, Dalseo-gu, Daegu Metropolitan City Energy Phone number: 053-581-7900, Playground Fax number: 053-580-7979 education entertainment Daejeon Energy Pavilion • Seek general knowledge on • Enjoy experience Energy Hall within Expo Science Park, 3-1, energy in daily life story by theme Doryong-dong, Yuseong-gu, • Promote future energy city • Rediscovery of daily Daejeon Metropolitan City space Phone number: 042-862-6900, Fax number: 042-862-6905 • Compose items that can be experienced together 52 KEMCO is making efforts to make sure the high interest on green growth can lead to creating additional Personnel jobs along with strengthening national competitiveness, while also actively Management implementing the policy to share jobs. Executives and Employees’ Policy KEMCO is focusing on transparency and revitalization through a fair personnel management. The discrimination is resolved through the segregation of duty between non-permanent employees and permanent employees through the personnel management of non-permanent employees that meets the governmental policy, while there are improvements of reasonable labor conditions implemented for various professional fields of non-permanent employees. The discrimination on gender, age, religion, academic background, and physical disability is prohibited and the corporation complies with the Labor Standard Act and the International Labor Organization(ILO)’s provision that prohibits forced labor. Discriminatory treatment on all executives and employees during recruitment is prohibited due to reasons of gender, religion, race and age. Also, KEMCO prohibits child labor and forced labor at all business sites in accordance with the Korea Labor Standard Act, the ILO’s ‘International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labor’ and ‘Force Labor Convention’. So far, there has been no violations reported. Hiring of Socially Alienated Classes Status of Executives and Employees Classification 2008 2009 2010 Classification 2008 2009 2010 Number of disabled 7 10 11 Number of employees 428 414 427 Ratio(%) 1.6 2.4 2.6 Number of retired 26 43 25 Number of national patriots < Reference 1 > In 2009, the number of the persons who retired 24 23 22 and veterans increased because of the transfer of R&D staff and personnel(Korea Institute of Energy Technology Ratio(%) 5.6 5.6 5.1 Evaluation and Planning) caused by the advancement of public institutions. Number of females 62 64 75 < Reference 2 > The number of persons who retired includes both the number of persons who retired at their Ratio(%) 14.5 15.5 17.6 own request and because they reached the regular retirement age (completion of term). Status of Executives and Employees As a core institution of low carbon green growth, the total number of executives and employees working at Transformation of young interns into KEMCO has increased by 13 employees compared to the previous year of 427 persons. Among them, there permanent employees are 420 permanent employees and 7 contract based employees, and the ratio of female employees is showing a continuous increase with 17.6%(75 persons). In order to complete the reduction of manpower due to the advancement of the government as quickly as possible, KEMCO has strengthened efforts to continuously hire new employees. These efforts contributed in the creation of jobs for young people, which is the government’s important policy, and also it gave a vitality to the organization through circulating about 20% of the fixed number of employees during the recent three years. Also, there is no difference in the basic salary between newly hired male and female employees. Transformation of young interns into permanent Hiring of Socially Underprivileged People employees! Setting the standard for all public By operating diverse programs to hire the socially underprivileged people, KEMCO has achieved employment institutions. with respect for diversity and no discrimination. Regarding female employees, KEMCO is implementing an employment target of 30%, and also it is implementing an employment policy that is considerate of the socially KEMCO received the 2009 Presidential Medal for underprivileged people(give additional point of 10% for each stage of the screening, such as the disabled and transforming young interns into regular employees national patriots and veterans. Also, there are no boxes for filling out the name of the school and only grades for the first time. KEMCO’s employment example of are reflected during the document screening procedure, which is to ensure talented people are not discrimihiring young interns to become permanent employees nate because of where they graduated from. was reflected in the 2011 Government Guidelines and Agency Evaluation, which provided the opportunity to spread it to all public institutions. • Government guidelines: hire more than 20% of new permanent employees from interns • Agency evaluation: results of hiring young interns as permanent employees is reflected evaluation 53 Personnel Management Training hours per person Talent features Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 Establishing a bright and clean energy culture by creating energy values Annual average Hours 100 167 153 training hours Average Thousand training expenses 549 952 872 won per person A person A futurewith proper oriented values person Talent features A person A person with with creative global sense activities A person with proper values A person who can do better together with other people, and has a healthy thinking of contributing to the society even if one has to sacrifice one’s self, and can handle their work fairly at all times based on honesty with no comprise. A person with creative activities A person who can willingly shed existing culture based on orders, and can create values through new changes, and has an attitude of sharing values created with others A future-oriented person A person who thinks endlessly and put it into action to make a better future instead of being insensible to reality. A person with a global sense A person who actively accepts diverse cultures and languages of the world and use them as an opportunity to develop in the 21st century where the whole world is cooperating and competing. HRD Strategic Scheme Vision Creating A Smart & Green Lifestyle Talent development goal World-class KEMCO person Harmonious talent Creative talent that Professional talent Global talent that that establishes a Talent features achieves creativity and that leads future aims for world best corporate culture of innovation growth mutual cooperation Medium and CompetencyHRD Talent long-term Duties Career e-HRD based performance development talent and expert development system training analysis infrastructure development profile system system system model 54 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ Social Achievements Educational and Training System KEMCO has established an educational and training system based on competency through the competency modeling. Each year, employees can identify the capabilities they are lacking in through competency analysis. They can apply for training courses that can supplement their areas of weakness. Also, they can work towards acquiring the future growth engine through operating training programs with domestic and foreign degree courses. Strengthening Leadership competency Job competency Basic competency organizational capability Set and share goals Business mind Value creation leader Empowerment [Director] Strategic thinking Courses for business planning/management job categories Organizational management Courses for energy use rationalization job categories Domestic degree courses Professional leader courses Foreign degree courses Courses for climate change job categories Reasonable decision making Global competency Professionalism Compatibility Organizational management Courses for NRE job categories Creativity Goal-directed leader Drive [Team Manager] Coaching Set and share goals Lead changes Change Resolve problems creatively initiating leader Sense of responsibility [Manager, Assistant Manager] Communication Courses for those Team oriented subject to the promotion to Positive thinking 5th grade Self-development Team oriented leader Optional courses Self management [Staff] Introductory Compulsory courses courses for Sense of responsibility Selection process new employees Reasonable Compensation and Performance Management System Ratio of performance evaluation and career development evaluation Introduction of annual salary system Since 2011, in order to improve the business performance, KEMCO is implementing an annual salary system for Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 grade 1 and 2 who can be appointed to the position of Director to act as the force for creating new values. An objective evaluation system is provided through a connection type evaluation system that expands the achievements of an Number of organization into the achievements of an individual, and also fairness is acquired by composing a separate nonmetric Persons 421 407 420 total employees evaluation group during a nonmetric evaluation. Moreover, a permanent objection system is operated to reflect the effect caused by external environmental changes, and KEMCO is doing its best to ensure an annual salary system is Number of employees reasonable by establishing a procedure that requests for the review of annual salaries. that received official Persons 408 367 363 performance evaluation Individual Evaluation System The competency and work performance of individuals are evaluated fairly, and the results are reflected in the promotion, compensation, and education and training. The ratio of reflection out of a hundred is 70% for department BSC and individual BSC and 30% for competency(multi-dimensional) evaluation. Company-wide BSC KEMCO’s Business Strategy Achievement Evaluation System Company-wide BSC Monitoring and feedback of the level of progress made for visions and medium and long-term strategies Organizational Headquarter BSC Evaluation standard for Headquarter Heads(executives). Differential rate of performance pay evaluation Department BSC Utilized as the standard of judgment for promotion and transference(promotion by selection, etc.) Strengthening connection Individual achievement = [Department BSC+Individual BSC](Achievement) + Competency evaluation Individual BSC » (Director) Salary computation, standard for differential rate of performance pay, standard for promotion and transference Personnel » (Employee) Standard for promotion and transference, standard for differential rate of performance pay Competency evaluation evaluation * Operate a rehabilitation program for those with low achievements Add points and deduct points 55 Personnel Management Sharing jobs by linking parental leave Efforts Made for Employee Welfare According to the government’s policy to promote childIn order for executives and employees to gain pride and trust and realize a pleasant workplace, KEMCO is birth, personnel expenses left from those on parental operating diverse welfare systems. Especially, KEMCO has strengthened the maternity protection activities to leave are utilized in sharing jobs. Therefore, the elencourage childbirth and implementing them. derly with abundant experience is utilized as part-time workers and also climate change experts are hired as contract-based workers. Welfare Benefits Life converter Program The program provides educational support for the life and profession after the retirement for those planning to retire in preparation of retirement age. The participants participate in the retirement age program of professional educational institutions to either receive one on one consulting and relevant lectures, or select courses they prefer and receive the company’s support within a certain limit. Through programs like this, there have been examples of the participants being successful in re-employment. Accumulation-type Deduction Salary System KEMCO is implementing a pension installment savings system, which accumulates a high interest during one’s period of service in a position(joining) to be paid in pension or a single sum after retirement. Through this, KEMCO has improved the employee welfare with high interest rates and low tax benefits. Rate of returning to work after going on A System to Promote Childbirth and Protect Maternity leave for childbirth and childcare In order to improve the government’s policy on the social issue of low birth rate and the working conditions of female employees, the corporation is implementing maternity protection activities. It is making efforts to improve the working environment of female workers by implementing a flexible work program, leave after 100% childbirth(90 days), and parental leave(within three years). The childbirth leave and parental leave can be used by both female and male employees. After the parental and childbirth leave, the rate of returning to work for the recent three years has maintained 100%. There are no disadvantages on employment, salary and career path because of using the leave. Operation of Welfare Program to Promote a Balance in Work and Life KEMCO is operating diverse welfare programs, including the introduction of a selection of welfare programs(cards) for employees to voluntarily select the one that meets their preferences, the support of school expenses for employees with children in middle and high schools, the support of recreational facilities for summer vacations at corporate condominiums, and the support of mutual aid goods, such as dishes and cups, which are needed during funerals, which have enhanced the employee’s level of satisfaction with the company. Health Management of Executives and Employees In order to ensure the health of executives and employees and create a pleasant working environment, the workers’ medical examinations are held regularly according to the Labor Standard Act and the Industrial and Health Act. Also, appropriate measures are taken to improve the working environment. In order to achieve this, the Labor-Management Welfare Safety Committee, which is in charge of welfare and safety, has been installed Accident Rate of Executives and Employees for operation. KEMCO holds a stretching broadcast for all employees at four o’clock everyday to encourage the prevention of MSD(Musculoskeletal Disease) which has an increased rate of occurrence to office workers. Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 Through the thorough safety management and accident prevention efforts, KEMCO shows a very low industrial Accident rate % 0 0 0.24 accident rate. The number of industrial accidents during the recent three years is one, and this was the case where an employee who went on a business trip by car was slightly injured by a car accident. 56 Special Page Creation of Jobs through Quota Increase and Recruitment of New Employees Contributing to the creation of jobs for young people through hiring young interns KEMCO contributed to creating jobs by hiring 26 young interns, which is eight(44%) more than the recommendResults of Young Interns Recruited and Transfer to ed number by the government. Also, the President & CEO is aware of the seriousness of the young people’s Permanent Positions(Unit : person) unemployment crisis and ordered an increase of persons recruited by considering the natural decrease of workers from retirement in the future. As a result, twenty six persons have been hired to work as young inYear 2009 2010 terns, which is fourteen more than the number of persons that are currently allowed to be hired at twelve. In Hiring of young interns 38 26 2009, the corporation received the Presidential Medal for the transformation of young interns into permanent workers, and KEMCO did the same in 2010. In order to achieve this, KEMCO considers the transformation into Transfer to permanent positions 26 24 permanent workers when they recruit young interns so that excellent people are hired by going through the selection process that is in accordance with the position of permanent workers, which is different from other institutions. As a result, out of 38 persons in 2009, 26 of them were transformed into permanent workers, and in 2010, 24 out of 26 persons were transformed into permanent workers. Establishing the Basis for Sharing Jobs by Utilizing the Expenses Remaining from Employees on Leave According to the government’s policy to promote childbirth, employees on parental leave are increasing, but KEMCO’s work load has also increased because of the increased social interest on low carbon and green growth. Therefore, KEMCO investigated the trend of employees on parental leave and evaluated the possible head counts that can be hired within the expenses remaining. After receiving a separate approval from the government, KEMCO hired contract-based workers and the elderly as part-time workers. Through this, without needing additional personnel expenses, the remaining expenses from employees on parental leave were utilized to hire four contract workers with expertise and three aged part-time workers to manage heat using equipment in the regional headquarter. KEMCO will continue to actively participate in making the business run smoothly and sharing jobs through various activities. KEMCO Receives the Presidential Check in Group Section At the 2009 Award Ceremony for Contribution to Labor-Management Mutual Cooperation & Job Creation, KEMCO received the Presidential Medal in the group section as the excellent company that contributed in creating job creation. This event is organized by the Ministry of Labor to widely spread best practices by encouraging individuals, companies, and institutions that were in charge of playing leading roles in maintaining and creating jobs and implementing various measures for job creation to respond to the economic crisis. Through the forward-looking implementation of young intern program, KEMCO actively met the government’s job creation policy. Especially, through the operation of the intern program with internal stability by linking with the recruitment of permanent positions, KEMCO had the honor of receiving the Presidential Medal in group section in recognition of increasing the effectiveness of the program and contributing in creating positive media on the government’s policy. Until now, in order to make a young intern program provide actual opportunities for developing the career of young job seekers and creating jobs instead of acting as an ad hoc procedure, KEMCO hired 38 persons, which is twice the government’s recommended number, and part of the additional budget due to the increase in head counts was covered by the return of personnel expenses to take the lead in sharing the burden of economic crisis. After hiring, KEMCO encouraged actual career development at the working level by placing them in all business departments to respond to UNFCCC, improve energy efficiency and manage demands, and expand NRE deployment, excluding work involving long-term business trips. Also, KEMCO held training that was in accordance with the ones for permanent workers, such as OJT with all departments, training programs, training camps, and one on one mentoring programs. Meanwhile, diverse programs were implemented to actively support the intern employees’ adaptation to the workplace and their career development, including the mountain climbing mentoring event with Directors, and the time to talk with the President & CEO. Especially, after the end of the intern contract period, the positions left vacated or that naturally decreased were utilized to the maximum to employ the twenty six interns as permanent employees can be seen as a model case of operating young interns for public institutions. KEMCO will utilize being awarded with the Presidential Medal as an opportunity to work towards achieving its mission of becoming a leader in low carbon green growth as well as an institution that fulfills its social responsibility as a public institution. 57 Labor-Management Relations Status of the Union Status of labor union members (Unit: persons) The labor union of KEMCO was first founded in the Community Energy Service in 1987, which became the whole labor union that includes KEMCO’s head office and branches and each headquarters. The form of the labor Classification 2008 2009 2010 union is an open shop type where individuals can join and withdraw from the union freely according to one’s own decision. If there is a change in the operation, such as changes in the position of the union members, it should be notified to the executives and employees fifty days before such a change occurs. Also, the enactment, Number of employees who are 424 407 420 revision and abolishment of regulations and rules should be consulted beforehand. subject to join the union Number of employees who are union members 364 357 354 Establishment of reasonable and legal labor-management culture In 2010, KEMCO re-established the strategies for the advancement of labor-management relationship by the Ratio of employees in the 86 87 84 labor union and the management to strengthen the connectivity with upper strategies by realizing a new laborunion management culture for sustainable development, while also established strategies for labor-management relationship through a joint workshop for the union and the management. KEMCO has set the three strategic directions, including creating a culture of participation and cooperation, creating a culture of mutual trust, and embedding a learning culture, and based on these, it came up with 7 key implementation tasks. Development Strategy for Labor-Management Relationship creating a smart green lifestyle Realize a new labor-management culture for sustainable growth Labor-management development strategy Management 3 Strategies 5 Domains 2010 Key implementation tasks policy · Establishing labor-management relationship Creating a culture Advancement of that creates public values Team spirit of participation and labor-management cooperation relationship · Implementing the new labor act and strengthening the adaptation efforts · Improving and stabilizing the quality of Communication communication channel Creating a culture of channel Basic faithfulness · Diversifying and revitalizing unofficial channels mutual trust Operation of joint · Creating a family friendly corporate culture programs Improvement of · Operating a reasonable collective agreement negotiation culture signing process Performance Embedding of oriented learning culture Enhancement of busi· Establishing a creative working corporate ness performance culture Abolition of unreasonable labor practices Classification Major details of revision Abolishment of the provision Abolishment of unreasonable labor-management practices Establishment of specifying the agreement of the HR principles union when transferring union The effective period of the collective agreement drawn up in December 2009 has not expired yet, but KEMCO executives has abolished 17 unreasonable provisions that are obstacles to the advancement of the labor-management relationship. Excluding the employees in Reduction of the scope charge of the audit to join the for joining the union union KEMCO Development Consultative Meeting Minimization of Restricting the provision of car for In order to establish a labor-management relationship of mutual cooperation, KEMCO has formed and is operating the providing convenience the union to only when it is needed KEMCO Development Consultative Meeting, which consists of ten persons including the President & CEO, the Department Head, the Chairman, and the senior executives, to thoroughly comply with the five basic principles for the advanceSpecial treatment to Adjusting the personnel ment of labor-management relationship that has been agreed by the labor union and the management. Through the evaluation from the highest predecessors KEMCO Development Consultative Meeting, a transparent and reasonable labor negotiation process has been estabgrade to the same standard lished, and through this, a reasonable and legal labor negotiation is held, which minimizes any exhaustive disputes. 58 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ Social Achievements KEMCO is seeking a forward-looking implementation plan for the company’s development and the revitalization of corporate culture through harmonious labor-management relationship and making efforts to achieve this Efforts made to prevent and manage labor-management conflicts The President and CEO’s commitment Establish conflict prevention system · Recognizing that the key to the advancement of labor-management · Establish a pool of internal experts related to labor Establish a relationship is management based on laws and principles pool of staff including employees in charge of HR and labor and union executives → Utilize as consultants · Continuously expressed the commitment to respond clearly to ⇨ Acquire an upper hand in negotiation by continuously sharing unreasonable requests which might occur in operating the organization working experiences based on principles · Prevent conflicts beforehand by strengthening the communication channels mainly with the President & CEO(Diversify official and unofficial channels) Develop labor experts Utilize external infrastructure · Set and manage the career path of labor management expert according to · Identify the status of collective agreement and problems by utilizing the medium and long-term strategy to foster the corporation’s core talent external resources, including lawyers and certified labor attorney ⇨ Acquire the data for decision making to be utilized during negotiation · Strengthen the labor act for the qualification examination for promotion to grade 3 to develop the labor management mind of future · Acquire information through continuous monitoring of external situation managers and benchmarking relevant institutions Revitalization of communication between labor and management Held Hanmaum Mountain Climbing Mass Meeting In order to become a leading institution for low carbon green growth, KEMCO recognizes the need to create a Joint workshop for labor and management cooperative atmosphere for harmonious relationship between labor and management. In 2011, the Hanmaum to revitalize corporate culture Mountain Climbing Mass Meeting participated by labor and management was held at Mt. Cheonggy in Yongin, Gyeonggido to greet the new CEO's appointment. Communication KEMCO has minimized conflicts occurring by pursuing factors that cause conflicts beforehand and seeking ways to resolve them by having comfortable conversations and meeting one another easily with an open heart. There are unofficial channels with the President & CEO that expand communications(held 40 times). Through communication, sensitive issues like the introduction of salary system and the selection of employees with insufficient performances were achieved without any hug opposition from the labor union. Strengthening communication with employees by utilizing communication channels Status of channels Function and major results Immediate reporting system Direct suggestion and reflection between the President & CEO and the employees Meeting with employees The President & CEO personally hold meetings with relevant employees(4 times) Internal and external events Actively collect opinions through internal and external events Direct conversation Meeting with contact department Hold events according the different contact departments(held 28 times) Offline Luncheon meeting / Hof day Collect opinions by having lunch and hof day by the year of joining the company and by ranks(10 times) Unofficial channel SESE tea time The President & CEO exchanges opinions freely with employees at the company library “SESE Book Cafe” Consultation with labor department Consult problems and difficulties with the department in charge of labor Indirect conversation Consult and report the employees(union members)’ problems and difficulties through the Chairman, Consultation on member’s problems senior executives and representatives Room of harmony and Discuss and resolve complaints raised anonymously at the on-line employee discussion room Direct discussion Unofficial channel conversation On-line letter Send difficulties directly to the President & CEO by mail and email Self reporting Receive the difficulties and concerns and actively reflect them in transference Online On-line Ombudsman system Report and handle the employees’ problems and difficulties to the labor department through the company’s intranet Indirect conversation A center that opened on the corporation’s homepage to exclusively report the personal difficulties and unfair Clean reporting center practices of executives and employees Unofficial channel Labor department’s email Send opinions on personal difficulties by sending email directly 59 Green Management Achievements of Green Management Environmental Achievements KEMCO’s level of environmental responsibility (five point scale) 4.51 4.33 4.43 4.43 3.86 Reduction Recycling Compliance Minimization Minimization of energy and reuse of with environof GHG and of wastes and consumption water mental laws harmful noises substances 60 sustainabIlity report 2011 2009 2010 Classification Results Results Results Page Amount of GHG emissions(tCO2eq) 802.7 862.2 62 Environmental Electricity(MWh) 1,480.7 1,595.6 64 management Gas(m3) 9,486.0 5,060.6 64 Amount of recycled papers used(ton) 5.7 10.1 65 Results in Management Implementation 2010 Principle Direction KEMCO has the highest level of Green management is like a mission to standard for KEMCO’s energy manageKEMCO. It is implementing the highest ment, which suits its role as a profeslevel of energy saving and GHG sional institution for energy emission reduction as their priority saving. It is encouraging the participatasks, and have proved its results with tion of all people by spreading best the management of energy intensity to be examples to other institutions. at 50% compared to other institutions. By applying new energy saving technologies first, KEMCO has strengthened its status as the energy saving institution. Also, it pursues the highest level of green management through a systematic management of papers and water. 61 Green Management Energy Consumption Activities to respond to global warming through energy reduction Unit of energy sources (kgoe/㎡) KEMCO is working towards providing the highest level of energy management in order to fulfill its role as a professional institution for energy saving. It is also continuously spreading and encouraging advanced examples of Corporation 17 reduction to other institutions. In order to achieve this, KEMCO holds the Energy Saving Implementation ComAverage of 812 public institutions mittee twice a year. There are eight energy protectors designated for each quarter to participate in KEMCO’s 33.7 energy reduction activities. The energy intensity of KEMCO’s office building is at 17 kgoe/m2 showing a low energy use, which is about 50% Replaced with LED lighting lower than the average of other public institutions at 33.7kgoe/m2. Also, KEMCO’s eco-friendly management example has been benchmarked by other major public institutions, and until now, out of the fourteen major institutions, there has been a total of 19 visits to the corporation to benchmark the best practices. Along with this, KEMCO established the regional headquarters(Gwangju, Daegu), which applied the highest level of energy saving technologies and NRE facilities to propose energy saving and GHG reduction building models to the local community. In the future, in line with the public institutions’ move to the region, KEMCO will strengthen the design so that KEMCO’s new office building will be a representative landmark for energy saving in Korea. KEMCO’s Energy Saving Technique for the Office Building Classification Reference Vice President is appointed as the chairman 1. Operating the Energy Saving Implementation Committee of the committee 2. Complying with the appropriate temperature for Below 18℃ for heating and above 28℃ for air-conditioning and heating air-conditioning 3. Replacing lights with LED lighting 16.8% of total lighting Automatic lights-out, solartube day lighting, 4. Lighting control and sensor-type lighting Making a trial of using energy saving 5. Preventing standby power multi taps for employees 6. Elevator One of the three elevators is operated GHG Reduction Projects and Results Item Detailed Item Unit 2008 2009 2010 Amount of total emissions tCO2eq 633.4 802.7 862.2 Amount of GHG Emissions Scope1 tCO2eq 43.2 61.0 58.9 Scope2 tCO2eq 590.2 741.7 803.3 * The scope of reporting for the amount of GHG emissions in 2008 is the Head Office, while it is the Head Office and Gwangju Jeonnam Regional Headquarters in 2009 and the Head Office and two Regional Headquarters(Gwangju, Jeonnam, Daegu Gyeongbuk) in 2010. ** Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions from the use of fossil fuels, including oil for heating purpose Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from the use of electricity, etc. Scope 3: Other indirect GHG emissions 62 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ Environmental Achievements KEMCO is fulfilling green management through the reduction of energy consumption, and through this, it is responding to global warming. Establishment of high efficient buildings (Deagyeong Regional Energy & Climate Change Center) When building the Daegu Gyeongbuk Regional Headquarter, which has a total area of 2,988.64m2 with one floor underground and three floors above the ground, KEMCO applied the highest level of energy saving design to construct an energy saving building that shows the primary energy consumption of 122kWh/m2, which is 41% compared to the first grade high efficiency buildings. Also, compared to the annual level of the grade 1 building newly constructed for office purposes at 300 kWh/m2, it shows a high energy efficiency. KEMCO has applied various energy saving technologies, including double skin system, triple window, LED lighting, heat recovery ventilator, rainwater utilization system and various NRE facilities, to the regional headquarters in Daegu, Gyeongbuk Double Skin System Triple Window The air that gets hot between external Recharge the argon gas between the and internal skin at the intermediate low-E glass, which has stronger insuspace because of sunlight is emitted lation with the premier design of triple outside during the summer, while it glass and heat prevention, and the flows in during the winter to improve glass to reduce heat loss and prevent the energy efficiency and insulation by noise and condensation. reducing the building’s air-conditioning and heating loads. Heat Recovery Ventilator Rainwater Utilization In order to reduce the energy loss Reuse the rainwater with satisfactory wacaused by ventilation during air-conter quality that got rid of any initial polditioning and heating, the air flows in lutants for landscape and cleaning water. through the device at a temperature close to the indoor. Maximization of utilizing NRE facilities ClassificaPV BIPV Geothermal heat Solar thermal tion Volume 50kWp 10kWp 437.5kW 48m2 Facility Fixed type Building integrated type Vertical sealed type Flat plate type type Photo Using geothermal heat as Using solar thermal energy for Facility that converts Installing solar cell module as Explanation air-conditioning and heating energy hot water supply the solar energy into electric energy the building integrated type *150m, 50borehole * 2000ℓ/day 63 Achievements of Green Management Energy Saving for Office Spaces Motion sensor lightings KEMCO is leading in reducing the peak and energy by maintaining the appropriate air-conditioning and heating temperatures. The level for supplying air-conditioning during the summer time has been adjusted to be more than 29.5℃. One the other hand, the heating temperature has been adjusted to be less than 19℃ to actively implement energy saving. The unnecessary air-conditioning and heating is curbed to the maximum through wearing cool biz clothing during the summer time and wearing long underwears during the winter time. Also, there are light switches that detect motions installed in toilets and corridors, which turns on the lights when the switch detects motions, while LED lightings are installed in meeting rooms and elevators in the Head Office to effectively save power. 16,376kW of the total lighting electricity of 97,528kW has been replaced with LED lighting. By turning off all of the offices after working hours with automatic lighting control and complying with the average intensity of illumination for the office of 250~300[lx], KEMCO has been using the electricity energy more efficiently and it is further strengthening the basis for saving electricity power by installing senSolartube day lighting facility for sor switches in 81 toilets and 15 storages and 8 solartube day lighting facilities for the underground parking underground parking lot lot. Moreover, it is carrying out energy saving efforts in various areas, including operating only one of the three elevators in the building, and in the case of floors below fourth floor, people are recommended to take the stairs and personal power-saving multi taps are distributed to prevent standby power. Among the eight passenger cars for business purposes owned by the corporation, six of them are small cars and hybrid cars. Through preventing the use of cars for business purposes other than for official businesses, KEMCO is faithfully implementing its genuine role of saving energy in the transportation sector. Utilization of NRE The NRE facilities are utilized through the PV power generation facilities. There are two PV power generation facilities, 10kW(9,000kWh/year) and 5kW(4,000kWh/year), are operated to actively utilize the NRE facilities(connected with Korea Power Electric Corporation). PV power generation facility (10kWp class) Detailed Item Unit 2008 2009 2010 Electricity MWh 1,173.2 1,480.7 1,595.6 Gas m3 4,465.0 9,486.0 5,060.6 heat GJ 1,980.8 2,152.0 2,281.8 Gasoline ℓ 13,750.5 15,820.0 16,018.0 Diesel ℓ 890.0 833.0 1,955.0 LPG ℓ 1,168.0 3,765.0 * The scope of reporting for the amount of electricity and gas used in 2008 is the Head Office, while it is the Head Office and Gwangju Jeonnam Regional Headquarters in 2009 and the Head Office and two Regional Headquarters in 2010. ** The scope of reporting for the amount of gasoline and diesel used is restricted to the Head Office. 64 sustainabIlity report 2011 _ Environmental Achievements KEMCO is making a high-efficient low carbon energy society through the performance management of green management. Use of paper and water Together with the efforts to reduce the amount of papers used, including the establishment of electronic paper system, the use of scrap papers, and the mandatory use of mug cups for employees, KEMCO is actively utilizing environmentally-friendly recycled papers. The total amount of papers used by the corporation in 2010 had increased to 15.2 tons, which is seen to be because the use of papers greatly increased to establish and verify the inventories for the introduction of the GHG energy target management system. Also, in order to save valuable water resources, KEMCO is implementing various activities, including adjusting the middle valve of the sink to below 50% and utilizing the groundwater. As a result of these activities, the amount of water used in 2010 was a total of 7,828m3, which achieved the result of reducing 2,324m3 compared to the previous year. The water used by the corporation is all disposed of through the sewage to minimize water pollution. Amount of paper and recycled paper used (Unit: ton) Classification 2008 2009 2010 Amount of paper used 15 7 13 Amount of recycled paper 10.1 5.7 7.8 * The scope of the data collected for the amount of paper and recycled paper used applies to the Head Office. Amount of paper used (Unit: m3) Classification 2008 2009 2010 Amount of water used 7,828 10,152 6,161 * The amount of water used between 2008 and 2010 includes groundwater of 2,000m3, respectively. * * The scope of the amount of water reported is 2008 is the Head Office, while the scope of report in 2009 is the Head Office and the Gwangju Jeonnam Regional Headquarters and the scope of report in 2010 is the Head Office and two Regional Headquarters. Recycling and Waste KEMCO is gradually decreasing the emissions of wastes through the separate collection of recycled goods. KEMCO doesn’t produce industrial wastes that have a serious risk to the local community according to its service characteristics. In 2010, the corporation generated a total waste of 13.45 tons, and the annual waste generated is decreasing. KEMCO’s wastes are all treated through contracting out the service, and the total cost spent in waste treatment in 2010 was a total of 3,080 thousand won. Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 General waste(Outsourcing) ton 25 20 13.45 Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 1,000 Total amount of waste disposal 4,033 4,180 3,080 won 65 Appendix Status of Awards and Members The Third Party Verification Opinion GRI Index UN Global Compact ISO 26000 Glossary of terms 66 SustainabilIity report 2011 Status of Awards _ Appendix and Membership Status of Status of Awards Membership • Presidential Group Commendation Dec. 2009 • UN Global Compact Contribution in creating jobs • The Federation of Korean Industries Contributed in creating jobs in energy saving and new and • The Institute of Internal Auditors renewable industries through early budget execution and • Korean Association of Professional Safety Engineers investment expansion despite the economic crisis • Korea New & Renewable Energy • The Korean Society for New and Renewable Energy • Minister of Knowledge Economy • Korea Society of Energy & Climate Change Group Commendation Dec. 2009 • Korea District Heating Corporation Contribution in expanding recruitment of young interns • Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development Contributed in resolving young people’s unemployment through expanding the hiring of young interns • Minister of Knowledge Economy Group Commendation Dec. 2010 Contribution in supporting SME’s shared growth Selected as the excellent public institution for supporting SMEs by KEMCO in the evaluation of SMEs support results for public institutions • Green Growth Committee Group Commendation Dec. 2010 Contribution in low carbon green growth Contributed in low carbon green growth by fostering NRE industry and expanding deployment • Minister of Gender, Equality and Family Group Commendation Dec. 2010 Grand Prize for Excellent Program on Training Activities for Young people Recognized for the early educational program “SESE NARA” as the excellent program on training activities for young people 67 The Third Party Verification Opinion To the Stakeholders of KEMCO Korea Productivity Center(“KPC”) received a request for the third-party assurance of the 2011 Sustainability Management Report(“the report”) from the Korea Energy Management Corporation(KEMCO). Therefore, KPC submits its assurance opinion as follows. Responsibility and Independence The responsibility for the information and opinion described in the report lies completely on KEMCO. KPC is only responsible for the assurance opinion of the report. As an independent assurance institution, KPC had nothing to do with writing the report, and it does not have any stake that hinders the independence. Assurance Standard KPC conducted the assurance by applying the AA1000AS 2008 assurance standard to suit the Type 1 assurance type and moderate assurance standard. It evaluated the appropriateness of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness according to the AA1000APS(2008) assurance principles. Also, it evaluated to see if the contents of the report complied with the GRI G3.1 Guideline. Limitations The verification of the credibility of the data provided in the report according to the above assurance method is not included in this assurance. KPC reviewed the reporting scope and calculation methodology for the environmental data, such as greenhouse gas emissions, etc. It did not check any errors in the methods for collecting data. Also, KPC had on-site assurance limited to KEMCO’s head office (the office), and other KEMCO's regional headquarters were not included. Therefore, it should be noted that the results may be different if additional assurance procedures were implemented. Assurance Method KPC used the following methods to conduct assurance. Review the selection of major issues and the appropriateness of technology information mentioned in the report through media research and benchmarking analysis. Confirm whether or not the requests of the GRI Application level B has been met by reviewing the reporting rate and technology method for each indicator of the GRI G3.1 Guideline. Confirm whether or not the content and quality of the report complies with the principles according to the GRI G3.1 Guideline. Review the appropriateness of the contents and the errors found in expressions described in the report through comparison analysis with other sources. Confirm the grounds for major data and information and inspect the internal process and system through on-site assurance of the building. Assurance Results KPC has verified that the report reflects KEMCO’s sustainability management activities and performances faithfully and fairly. Also, it confirmed that KEMCO meets the requirements for the GRI Application level B standard, which was declared autonomously by KEMCO. Inclusivity : Participation of Stakeholders As a professional institution for energy demand management in Korea, KEMCO is a public institution that implements governmental policies. In this regard, KEMCO has appropriately classified and defined the stakeholders into the people, local community(NGO), government, executives and employees, customers, and partners. KEMCO shares major issues with its external stakeholders regularly through diverse communication channels, including meeting, presentation, and survey. Also, it is actively collecting opinions on internal ombudsman and management from internal executives and employees through the labor-management consultative meeting and the employee consultation center. Considering the public institution’s characteristics, it has been verified that KEMCO collects opinions of external stakeholders by installing a department in charge by industry and region. In the future, it is recommended that an integrated management system is established to manage the opinions of internal and external stakeholders collected in a more systematic and integrated manner. Materiality : Selection and Reporting of Major Issues It has been verified that KEMCO identifies various issues in the fields of economy, environment, and society by utilizing diverse communication channels and methods. External issues were identified through the benchmarking of domestic public institutions and advanced companies, the media survey and the review of global standards, while the issues of internal stakeholders were confirmed through the analysis of internal policies and business strategies, the interview of executives and employees, and the surveys. The issues identified were selected as core issues that will be reflected in the report through the materiality test, which reflects the level of importance for internal and external businesses. According to KEMCO’s characteristics, issues came up in the economic sector, including “basis for energy consumption reduction”, “energy use efficiency”, “new and renewable energy”, and “greenhouse gas reduction system”, and in the environmental sector, including “energy consumption reduction” and “compliance with environmental laws”. It has been verified that these issues were intensively reflected in the report. In the future, it is recommended that the communication channels for stakeholders are set up systematically and consistently managed so that a more segmented and diverse issues can come up and sufficiently reflected in the report. 68 Sustainability report 2011 _ Appendix Responsiveness : Organization’s Response to Issues As a national institution that implements the duties of ‘efficient use of national energy’ and ‘expansion of the new and renewable energy deployment’, KEMCO is an institution that performs the duties of managing the country’s energies and resources by origin. Being the only professional institution for energy demand management in Korea, KEMCO implements sustainable management through diverse responses to climate change and energy reduction policies by providing support on new and renewable energy projects and operating CDM. Moreover, in order to expand sustainable management that was limited to ethical management into global standards, it has been confirmed that KEMCO has set a medium and long-term goal for sustainable management under the vision of ‘Creating a Smart & Green Lifestyle’, and it is making actual responses by establishing various implementation tasks and targets. In the future, it is necessary to have a response system that provides integrated management for economic, environmental, and social performances. Therefore, it is recommended to disclose medium and long-term response strategies, plans and procedures in the report too. Recommendation KPC rates highly of KEMCO’s diverse efforts to enhance sustainability and its performances. The following contents are proposed to improve the publication of future reports and the level of sustainability management. 1. Establish a company-wide sustainability management system that can integrate and manage economic, environmental, and social issues and consistently make development of it. Describe such activity and performance in the report. 2. Improve the level of sustainability management by managing in line with the financial performances based on diverse indicators for measuring the results of sustainability management. 3. Establish an enterprise-wide data management system for the environmental data, including carbon emissions, to minimize the possibility of errors on the data. 4. Manage the performance indicators related to diverse sustainability management through a company-wide integrated system and utilize them when drawing up the report. November 2011 President of Korea Productivity Center Dong-Kyu Choi Dong-Su Kim Ju-Mi Park ￼ Gwang-Woong Choi Center Head Research Fellow Research Fellow The Sustainability Management Center of KPC is an assurance institution that received an official certification from Accountability, which is the institution that established the global standard AA1000 for the stakeholders’ participation and assurance. It has the qualification to perform independent assurances. Also, in the case of the members of assurance, it consists of experts who accumulated experiences in consultation and assurance for sustainability management and completed professional training. 69 GRI G3.1 Guideline Index Disclosure _Full disclosure _Partial disclosure _No disclosure Reporting Performance Indicator GRI Disclosure Item Page Standard Profile disclosure 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization  4~5 Strategy and analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities  4~5 2.1 Name of the organization  6 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services  6 2.3 Major business departments, etc.  6 2.4 Location of head office/regional headquarters  6 Organization 2.5 Location of overseas business sites, major business sites, etc.  6 profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form  6 2.7 Markets served  43 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization  6 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership  2 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period  67 3.1 Reporting period  2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report  2 3.3 Reporting cycle  2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents  2 3.5 Process for defining report content  2 3.6 Boundary of the report  2 Report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report  2 parameters Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to 3.8 period and/or between organizations  2 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations  2 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports and the reasons for such re-statement  2 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report  2 3.12 GRI statement  70 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report  68~69 4.1 Governance structure of the organization  10~11 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer  10~11 In the case of having a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are 4.3 independent and/or non-executive members  10~11 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body  10~11 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior mangers and the organization’s performance  10~11 4.6 Process in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided  10~11 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees.  10~11 Internally developed statements or mission or values, code of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental and 4.8 social performance and the status of their implementation  8 Governance, Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, 4.9 and social performances  10~11 commitments and engagement Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social 4.10 performances  10~11 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 8 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 4.12 subscribes or endorses  72~73 4.13 Membership in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations  67 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization  12 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage  12 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group  12 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to 4.17 those key topics and concerns  12 70 Sustainability report 2011 _ Appendix Reporting Performance Indicator GRI Disclosure Item Page Standard Economic Disclosure on Management Approach EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed  43~44 Economic EC2 Financial implications due to climate change  33~35 performance EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations  56 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government  36~37 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 53 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation  25 Market position EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 53 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit  49~50 Indirect EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts  36~37 economic effect Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach EN1 Materials used by weight or volume  65 Raw material EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials  65 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source  61, 63 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source  61, 63 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements  65 Energy Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements EN6 as a result of these initiatives  65 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved  65 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source  65 Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water  65 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 64 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside EN11 protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value EN12 outside protected area Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight  62 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight  62 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved  62 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight N/A EN20 NOx, Sox and other significant air emissions by type and weight N/A Air emissions, waste EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination water, and wastes EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method  65 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 0 case Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annexes EN24 and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally N/A Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting EN25 organization’s discharges of water and runoff N/A EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation  65 Products and services EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category  65 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 0 case Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, transportation EN29 and transporting members of the workforce  65 Total EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type  65 71 Reporting Performance Indicator GRI Disclosure Item Page Standard Labor Disclosure on Management Approach LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region  53 Employment LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region  53 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations  56 Labor-management LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements  58~59 relationship LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements  58~59 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees  58~59 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender  48, 56 Employment Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community welfare and safety LA8  56 members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions  56 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category  54 Education and LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings  56 training LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development review, by gender  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Diversity and equal LA13 membership, and other indicators of diversity  53 opportunities LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation  53 Employment LA 15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender  56 Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include provisions on human rights protection or that have HR1 undergone human rights screening Investment and HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone human rights screening procurement Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the HR3 percentage of employees trained Prohibition of HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  53 discrimination Freedom of Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated association and HR5 or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights  58~59 collective bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the Child labor HR6 effective abolition of child labor  53 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of force labor and measures to contribute to the elimination Forced labor HR7 of all forms of forced labor  53 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Security practices HR8 operations Right of indigenous HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving indigenous people and actions taken 0 case people Evaluation HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Correction HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Society Disclosure on Management Approach Characteristics, scope and effectiveness of the program that evaluates and manages the impact of local community from the beginning, operating, and final Local community SO1 stages of operations  38~39 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption  9 Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures  9 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption  9 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying  9 Public policy SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country N/A Actions hindering SO7 Total number of legal actions for unfair practices and anti-trust practices N/A competition Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations N/A SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities N/A Local community SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities N/A 72 Sustainability report 2011 _ Appendix Reporting Performance Indicator GRI Disclosure Item Page Standard Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Customer health and PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed safety PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations 0 case PR3 Percentage of subject to product and service labeling N/A Product and service PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and service labeling 0 case labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction  38~39 Marketing PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communication 0 case communication PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communication 0 case Protection of personal customer PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 0 case information Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 0 case GRI G3.1 The 2011 KEMCO Sustainability Management Report meets all requirement of ‘B+’ standards from the GRI G3.1 Guideline indicator reporting standard. Also, through the GRI’s Application Guideline Level Check and the third party assurance institution, the report verified that it met ‘B+’ among the G3.1 Guideline’s application standards. Application Standard C C+ B B+ A A+ Disclosure item G3.1 All items of C level 1.1, 2.1-2.10, 3.1-3.8, Same requirements Profile Outcome 3.10-3.12, 4.1-4.4, 1.2, 3.9, 3.13, 4.5-4.13, of B level Disclosure 4.16-4.17 4.14-4.15 G3. 1 External Business External Business External Standard Business assurmanagement(DMA) assurmanagement(DMA) assurDisclosure Management Outcome Not needed ance on disclosure on each ance on ance on disclosure on each Disclosure report indicator scope report indicator scope report At least more than a According to the At least more than a minimum of twenty principle of materiality, G3. 1 minimum of ten performance indicators all G3.1 core performance Performance performance indicators should be reported indicator and should be reported industrial guide Indicator and Outcome (more than one of each Value Indicator by (more than one of each indicator is economic, environmental, Industry economic, environmental, labor, human rights, social, a) reported or social indicators) and product responsibility b) if not reported, indicators) explain the reasons 73 UN Global Compact Principles In 2011, in order to become a corporation that fulfills its social responsibility for the people, KEMCO joined the UN Global Compact Principles to officially declare its commitment to comply with the four categories of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and the ten principles. To achieve this, KEMCO will disclose whether it has complied with the Global Compact Principles through the Sustainability Management Report every year. Classification Principles GRI G3.1 Guideline Page Economic EC5 Labor LA4, LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9, LA13, LA14 1. We support and respect the globally declared 9, 48, Human rights HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR9 53, 56, human rights protection 58~59 Human rights Society SO5 Product responsibility PR2, PR8 Human rights HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR9 2. We confirm that we have not infringed human rights 9, 53 Society SO5 Labor LA4, LA5 3. We guarantee the freedom of association and collective bargaining Human rights HR5 9, 58~59 Society SO5 Human rights HR7 4. We exclude all forms of forced labor 9, 53 Society SO5 Labor Human rights HR6 5. We abolish child labor effectively 9, 53 Society SO5 Economic EC7 Labor LA2, LA13, LA14 6. We eradicate discrimination in employment and at the workplace 9, 53 Human rights HR4 Society SO5 Economic EC2 Society SO5 9, 33~35, 7. We support the preventive approach to environmental issue 62, 65 Environmental EN18, EN26, EN30 Society SO5 Environment Product responsibility PR4 9, 61, 62, 8. We lead in taking more environmental responsibility 63, 64, 65 Environmental EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN8, EN9, EN10, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN22, EN23, EN26, EN27, EN28, EN29, EN30 9. We support the development and spread of environmentally-friendly Society SO5 62, 64, 65 technologies Environmental EN2, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN10, EN18, EN26, EN27, EN30 10. We make efforts to eradicate all forms of corruption, such as Anti-corruption Society SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5 9 illegal acquisition and bribery In October 2011, in order to become a corporation that fulfills its social responsibility for the people of Korea, KEMCO joined the UN Global Compact. The UN Global Compact is a voluntary agreement that was proposed and enacted by the UN Secretary General Kofi Annan to revitalize the implementation of corporate social responsibility. Based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Right at Work, the Rio Declaration, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption, it recommends the enterprises and institutions to comply with the ten principles, including environmental protection, human right protection, compliance with labor standards, and implementation of anti-corruption. In order to comply with the ten principles of UN Global Compact, KEMCO established the implementation standards for the ten principles so that all executives and employees can implement them. 74 Sustainability report 2011 ISO 26000 _ Appendix Implementation ISO 26000 is a guideline for the social responsibility enacted by ISO(International Organization Standardization). The purpose is to contribute in sustainable development by emphasizing the social responsibility in all organizations. It consists of seven core themes, including organizational governance, human right, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issue, and community involvement and development. KEMCO will further strengthen the corporation’s sustainability management based on these standards. Key theme Major issue Page 6.2 Organizational 6.2.3 Decision making process and structure 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 67, 72, 73 Governance 6.3.3 Due diligence 53 6.3.4 Human rights crisis 53 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity 53 6.3 6.3.6 Resolving grievances 53 Human right 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 53 6.3.8 Civil and political rights 58, 59 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights 36, 37, 38, 39, 49, 50 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 53, 58, 59 6.4.3 Employment and employment relations 53, 56, 58, 59 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection 53, 56, 58, 59 6.4 6.4.5 Social dialogue 58, 59 Labor practices 6.4.6 Health and safety at work 48, 56, 58, 59 6.4.7 Human development and training in workplace 54, 56 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution 65 6.5 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use 61, 63, 64, 65 The environment 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 33, 34, 35, 62 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats 6.6.3 Anti-corruption 9 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement 9 6.6 6.6.5 Fair competition Fair operating practices 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 25, 36, 37, 65 6.6.7 Respect for property rights 36, 37, 38, 39 6.7.3 Fair marketing, contract with non-biased information 73 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety 38, 39 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption 38, 39 6.7 6.7.6 Consumer service, and complaint and dispute resolution 38, 39, 73 Consumer issue 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy 73 6.7.8 Access to essential services 36, 37, 38, 39 6.7.9 Education and awareness 38, 39, 73 6.8.3 Community involvement 9, 43, 44, 49, 50, 56 6.8.4 Education and culture 49, 50, 56 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 36, 37, 38, 39, 49, 50, 53, 56 6.8 Community involvement 6.8.6 Technology development and access 36, 37, 49, 50 and development 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation 36, 37, 38, 39, 49, 50 6.8.8 Health 56 6.8.9 Social investment 36, 37, 43, 44, 49, 50 75 Glossary of terms Terms Glossary Global project that implements research analysis based on the business strategies of companies collected from the long CDP(Carbon Disclosure Project) and short term perspectives regarding issues related to exact information on carbon emission, which is the main cause of climate change by global listed companies. As an independent non-profit organization that provides guideline related to sustainability management report, there are GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) economy, environment, and society as the three areas in the guideline provided by GRI. International agreement for voluntary social responsibility that supports the ten principles, including human rights, labor, UNGC(UN Global Compact) environment, and anti-corruption, and encourage participation in them through partnership between UN organizations and companies. Guideline for corporate social responsibility in seven areas, including corporate governance, human rights, labor, ISO26000 environment, fair practices, consumer issue and local community service. Commitment of the corporation to develop the corporation cleanly and soundly like an onion, which has nothing to throw Onions’ promise away even if you keep peeling it. Also, it gets rid of harmful substances in the body. Internal customer satisfaction system only at the corporation that reflects fresh ideas of employees with the President & luncheon meeting CEO having lunch with the employees to listen to their difficulties and problems. TOE(ton of oil equivalent) The unit for the amount of energy. It is the energy that occurs when one ton of oil is used. System that efficiently achieves the target by setting the target for using fossil energy and the GHG emission through GHG and Energy Target Management implementation plan and management plan. Standardized technique of energy management that regulates the continuous implementation of systematically planning a EnMS, Energy Management System series of activities related to energy saving and efficiency improvements for the whole organization including the CEO. The power used during standby mode when the electronic products are not actually being used, such as computer and set Standby power top box. Companies that are registered with KEMCO as having the equipment, asset and manpower according to Article 25 of the ESCO(Energy Service Company) Energy Use Rationalization Act. Energy calculation and reporting system that makes the calculation and monitoring of energy use and GHG emissions and MRV(Measurable, Reportable, Verifiable) the national reporting of the results mandatory so that they can be used in verification. System that makes it mandatory to supply NRE for more than certain ratio out of the total power generation for RPS(Renewable Portfolio Standard) power generation companies of more than certain size. SMP(System Marginal Price) Monthly average price of electricity in the electricity market Cooperative Organization for Standard and Institution recognized for developing KS standard for different fields according to the hand over of the national standard Development(COSD) development duties, which had been implemented by the Agency for Technology and Standards. IRENA was established with the advanced countries, including Germany, Spain, Denmark, with the international clean IRENA(International Renewable Energy Agency) energy as the main focus to provide advices on technologies, finances and policies related to HRE against the governments from around the world. 76 Sustainability report 2011 _ Appendix Terms Glossary IEA was established right after the 1st Oil Shock to jointly respond to the oil supply crisis with mainly the OECD member IEA(International Energy Agency) countries in accordance to the IEP Agreement. An organization for international cooperation with the U.S. playing a central role, including the technology development, IPHE(International Partnership for Hydrogen Economy) substantiation/deployment, standardization, safety, training/promotion to realize hydrogen economy. Formed in 2005 with the goal to reduce greenhouse gases through the technology development and transfer of APP(Asia-Pacific Partnership on Climate Change) six Asia-Pacific countries, which account for more than 50% of the global GDP and GHG emissions. GHG reduction project implemented jointly by the advanced countries and the developing countries to ease the global CDM(Clean Development Mechanism) warming phenomenon which is getting worse around the world. As a personalized circular business performance management system for KEMCO, it provides integrated management, including seeking performance indicators linked with strategic directions, monitoring and feed back on real time Moebius System performances, evaluating performances, compensating according to performances, and adjusting the following year's strategies. NAMA Registry(Nationally Appropriate Mitigation A mechanism that provides technologies and resources is needed and internationally recognized for voluntary GHG Action Registry) reduction actions. A system that makes the amount of GHG reduction from supporting and financing SMEs, which are not subject to the GHG Green credit system energy target management system unlike the large companies, into the reduction results of large companies. An organization that enacts the agreements and recommendations for international labor standards to set the minimum ILO standard for basic labor right(freedom of association, the right to organize, the right to bargain, abolishment of forced labor, equal employment, others) and supervises the compliance of them. A protocol adopted in Kyoto, which is an international agreement with legal binding, that consists of a total of 27 articles and Kyoto protocol annexes. The concept of climate change according to UNFCCC refers to the climate changes occurring because the composition of Climate change the earth's air changes due to direct or indirect human activities in addition to the natural climate variability observed during the comparable period. Refers to the combined gases of methane and CO2 which are produced from bio mass due to anaerobic digestive process. Bio gas The methane that is separated from this combined gas is bio methane gas. Other forms of bio gases include those that are naturally made from dung gas, wetland gas, and wastes and there are also gases that are manufactured. The original meaning of bio mass is biomass or the standing stock of organism. However, it can mean the whole of the organic matter made from the organism and its activities. Recently, it refers to resources of animals and plants that can be Bio mass used in energy and chemical industries. Also, the wastes that are produced from it is included. Bio energy can gain massive energy if fuel purpose plants are cultivated for fuel. The wastes of agricultural goods include sugar plants and other animal wastes. Regulated in Article 17 of the Kyoto Protocol to allow the trading of emission quotas between countries after giving the Credit exchange emission quotas between advanced countries, which have the obligation to reduce GHG. Generation device that directly gains electricity by chemically reflecting the fuel(mainly the hydrogen of fossil fuel) and the Fuel cell oxidizing agent(mainly the oxygen from the air). The energy of the fuel is used as electric energy instead of heat. Energy intensity Internationally used as an indicator for evaluating the efficiency of energy consumption inputted to economic activities. System where the electricity generation selling companies purchase the NRE electricity with the standard prices set by the RPS government and it is absorbed into the electricity fare. 77 About This Report Overview This report is the Korea Energy Management Corporation’s first report. KEMCO is publishing the Sustainability Report to share KEMCO’s visions and achievements on sustainability management with the stakeholders. It reflects and discloses the areas of interest and the demands of those who are interested in the economy, society and environment. Report period This report period is the same as the fiscal year from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010. In order to identify trends, the data for the recent three years have been used. Also, when it is necessary, the 2011 activities were included, which were indicated separately. Scope of this report The scope of this report is the whole business areas of KEMCO, including its head office and KEMCO's regional headquarters. Writing principles of this report This report utilized the GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guideline and the UN Global Compact. The status of the standards for these two reports can be identified in pages 70-74. Assurance This report has received the third-party assurance process, and the Korea Productivity Center’s third party assurance opinion statement is included on page 68-69. Inquiries Korea Energy Management Corporation Green Growth Policy Department(Future Strategy Team) Address: 388, Poeundae-ro, Suji-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do Homepage: http://www.kemco.or.kr | E-mail: inelec94@kemco.or.kr | Phone number: 031-260-4453 * Korea Energy Management Corporation is written in the text as KEMCO, which is the English abbreviation. 2011 Korea Energy Management Corporation Sustainability Report This report uses an eco-friendly paper, which is printed on soybean oil paper. The cover and the insides of the report is made of eco-friendly paper, which received the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) mark. The FSC Mark is only put on products that use trees grown in a forest developed and managed in an environmentally-friendly manner. Also, since the soybean oil is more friendly for the environment than the petroleum-based ink and less volatile, it can reduce air pollution.
