Communications on Progress Shop Direct Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report ir HOME m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 1 24/10/2011 11:45 1 HUMAN RIGHTS the united principle 1 businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights; and nations principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. labour global principle 3 businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; principle 4 compact ten the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; principles principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) environment principle 7 businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. The UNGC issues Ten Principles on Human Rights, principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Labour Standards, the Environment and Corruption. Membership of the UNGC requires companies to issue a principle 9 ‘Communication on Progress’ report annually. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. This report is our FIFTH COP and it outlines Shop Direct Group’s activities in support of these Ten Principles ANTI-corruption principle 10 businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 2 24/10/2011 11:45 2CONTENTS 4 CEO Forward and support for the Global Compact Principle 1, Future Focus 10 List & report highlights 10 Our Community • Employee Fundraising • Community Investment at Shop Direct 3 INDICATORS • Forging Links with our Community • Touraid Case Study AND GRADING • Spreading Christmas Cheer 5 The CR BOARD • Fundraising Events • Our Commitment for 2011 6 11 LABOUR PRINCIPALS Presenting positive body SYSTEM Principle 2, 4 , 5 • Human Rights • Compliance Direct HK Ltd • Animal Welfare image and design ethics • Forced Labour • A short film of our photographic shoots • Child Labour • Ethical Product Policies • Monitoring • Partnerships • Conclusion 12 Responsible Lending 7 • Fair and Transparent Financial Services At the end of this report you will find a marking scheme. The purpose of this scheme is for us to rate how well we believe we are performing in each Human Resources • Combating Fraud and Identity Theft reporting area, ranging from legal compliance to best practice. Principle 3, 6, Where we have not marked ourselves as best practice or good, we intend to raise standards accordingly. In deciding on indicators for this COP once • Shop Direct Population Segments • Leadership Development at Shop Direct 13 again we have chosen our own system. Nevertheless, this was done after using as reference the Ethos Indicators and GRI methodology. HOW DID WE DO? Moreover, we will continue to monitor best practice in the CR and sustainability reporting industry and adapt our own indicators and reporting 8 See how we scored in each of our principals accordingly. ENVIRONMENT/Energy Consumption/Recycling/ Transport/Health and Safety Stakeholder Engagement 14 Assurance Principle 7, 8, 9, • Travel to Work Activities After this report is published it will be volunteered for • Electricty Usage • Gas Usage • Wellness peer-review by a randomly-selected group of corporate • Case Study • Recycling • Health and Safety • The Focus for Next Year members and observers of the UK Network of the UN Global • Business Travel • Environmental Paper Purchasing Compact. Any suggested changes will be made and the report will be re-submitted (if needed) to the UNGC following the Peer-Review Process. 9 Prior to publishing, there was also assessment by a wide variety of stakeholders including Shop Direct Group colleagues, customers, suppliers and NGOs Corruption, Governance and in this regard, a variety of stakeholder comments appear at the end of the report. & Transparency * This Communication on Progress predominantly refers to activities and progress during 2010. However, some individual commentaries include activity Principle 10,Working against corruption in all it’s forms begun during 2011 HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 3 24/10/2011 11:46 4 FOREWORD We support the United Nations Global Compact and are committed to ongoing engagement with the largest and fastest growing CR initiative in the world. We strive to abide by the Ten Principles in all our business operations. The tough economic environment and the squeeze on consumer We continue to invest in developing our CSR programme across the spending through rising fuel, energy and food prices, continues to impact Group and I am pleased to see strong progress in a number of key areas all businesses that serve the consumer. The retail industry, more than any in 2010. In particular we continue to make strong progress in driving better other, has felt the full force of the economic downturn and at Shop Direct colleague engagement and strategic community investment. Group we have not been impervious to this. New for 2011 will be the launch of a charitable foundation and a pilot colleague volunteering programme – linking the skills of our leaders to However, it is important that whatever the economic climate, businesses local charities who can benefit from their business expertise to help them should commit to always operating responsibly with strong ethical prosper. standards and be good citizens in the communities in which they operate. I would like to thank colleagues across the Group for their continued At Shop Direct, through our support of the UN Global Compact and The commitment to ensuring that our corporate responsibility programme Future 10 Focus, we clearly set out our commitment to being a good remains at the core of the Group and its operations. corporate citizen and putting corporate social responsibility at the heart of our business. Mark Newton-Jones Group Chief Executive FUTURE FOCUS 10 Energy consumption Recycling Publication paper & direct mail Transport Ethical sourcing, labour, human rights & animal welfare Community Responsible lending Corruption, governance & transparency Health & safety HR, diversity & equal opportunities MARK NEWTON-JONES DISCUSSING CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY at shop direct gROUP CLICK HERE HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 4 24/10/2011 11:46 The Influence of the Global Compact on our business Respect for the Global Compact principles binds together our activities in CR and sustainability and gives us a simple to use and simple to understand framework for action and measurement. Reporting on the Ten Principles ensures we report comprehensively across all our business impacts. The writing of a COP increases our competitiveness as it serves as a public and very visible record of progress and therefore focuses our actions and planning in multiple business critical areas. The production of a COP has also aided employee understanding of our business and by mapping our impacts has helped identify cost savings and opportunities to increase efficiencies. We also believe that the adoption and respect of the Ten Principles gives us a renewed licence to operate among the communities within which we work, as well as with our customers, colleagues, suppliers and wider stakeholders. HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 5 24/10/2011 11:46 Our Customers: • All own brand goods ethically and environmentally manufactured. • Over 500 audits and revisits carried out at factories. • No goods sourced from countries where there are UN trade sanctions or embargoes. • Standard European Consumer Credit Information disclosure implemented. • Healthy body image portrayed across all of our brands. Our COLLEAGUES: Highlights • Implementation of a Leadership Development Programme – over 550 managers already taken part. • Employee engagement increased by 23% in our employee opinion survey. • Launch of ‘Helping Hand’ matched giving programme -£260,000 raised for charities. • Maintained BSI OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety accreditation. Our Community: • Partnership developed with Parklands High School. • Inaugural Shop Direct Charity Ball held. • Successful participation by Mahamek Boys’ Home in the Caldy Touraid Festival. • Continuation of Christmas toy donation initiative. Our Planet: • Reduction in electricity consumption by 19.6% • Gas usage reduced by 5.1% • 100% of Shop Direct Group catalogues printed on Promoting Sustainable Forest Management (PEFC) certified paper. • 96.8% of all materials recycled. HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 6 24/10/2011 11:46 5 the cr board Created in 2008 and chaired by Mark Newton-Jones, Group CEO, the CR Board sets and oversees the arena of corporate responsibility and sustainability. The CR Board is made up of NINE executive members and meets quarterly. Half of the timber harvested In August 2010 a new SDG Shop Direct Group plays a positive The retail industry is fast moving Shop Direct Group’s commitment We have continued to focus Sourcing in a socially and The drive to reduce our impact world-wide is used to make paper. company ‘Compliance Direct HK role in the communities in which we and making sure each of our to prevent bribery & corruption on serving our customers both environmentally responsible way is on the environment continues Therefore, it is vital that everyone Ltd’ was launched. Compliance operate and in the ones that our colleagues has a flexible and continues to be a key focus. new and existing in a fair and a top priority for SDG and in 2010 to be a strong area of focus involved in publishing makes a Direct is a separate and colleagues and their families live. diverse range of skills is as important We have a zero tolerance responsible way. We aim to provide we have worked hard to increase for our business. During 2010, commitment for the responsible independent division of SDIL set up James Evans to the future of our business as it is approach which is clearly customers with all the information our actions in support of Principles we successfully achieved a use of the world’s natural resources. to audit factories from an ethical Group Communications Director to the people who work for us. communicated by the Executive they need to make informed and 2, 4 & 5. 19.6% reduction in our electricity Rob Hardman and environmental perspective. Jacqui Humphries Board and through the Group’s responsible decisions. Lars Thorsen Global Sourcing consumption by introducing new Head of Print & Paper Michael Spenley Group People Director Corporate Responsibility David Poole Director & Managing Director SDIL system controls and tightening Procurement0 Head of Corporate Responsibility Committee. Chief Operating Officer existing settings. David Mortlock of Financial Services Daniel Rogers Director of Internal Audit Head of Group Property & Facilities HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 7 24/10/2011 11:47 Michael Spenley Monitoring: In 2010 the Group CR Board and Governance Forum ratified the following KPI: 6 “All suppliers factories responsible for the production of Shop Direct Group own brand direct products will be ethically and environmentally audited according to a process of risk assessment every two years”. In 2010 this included factories in Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Romania, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine and Vietnam. We maintained our compliance score for own-brand product sourced through our own offshore offices of 96%. If you would like more information about our audit programme, please click here The SDG monitoring to see a video of a visit to a factory in the Ukraine programme found no cases Labour of forced labour in 2010. Number of SDG Ethical & Environmental audits conducted principles Audits and Revisits (Projected) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Sourcing in a socially and environmentally responsible way 100 300 400 500 500 is a top priority for SDG and in 2010 we have worked hard to increase our actions in support of Principles 2, 4 & 5. Human rights We have responsibility for ensuring that, when sourcing products, we are not complicit in human rights abuses. We do this by careful risk management of our supply chain and by a process of factory monitoring. During 2010 we maintained our policy of not sourcing in Burma due to widespread human rights abuses we are listed on the UK Burma Campaign’s Clean List. Additionally, we do not source from any country where there are UN trade sanctions or embargoes. Forced labour We support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our Code of Conduct, which is signed by all of our suppliers, states the following: “We will not tolerate forced labour, bonded labour or labour which involves physical or mental abuse. This means that suppliers must not use or threaten workers with any physical punishment, verbal or sexual harassment or dominate or restrain workers by force, authority or threats. Workers must not be required to lodge “deposits” or their identity papers with their employer and they must be free to leave their employer after reasonable notice.” The SDG monitoring programme found no cases of forced labour in 2010. Child labour Michael SPENLEY The effective abolition of child labour is taken very seriously by SDG. Our Code of Conduct which, again, is signed by all of our suppliers, clearly explains our position on child labour: BLOG VIDEO If you would like more information about our audit “Exploitation of child labour is totally unacceptable under any circumstances. Suppliers must not employ any person under the minimum legal working programme, please click here to see a video of a visit to age applicable to their country and under no circumstances must they employ anybody under the age of 14 years.” a factory in the Ukraine In 2010 no cases of child labour were found by the SDG monitoring program. CLICK HERE HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 8 24/10/2011 11:47 In 2010 the Compliance Direct team worked hard to ensure close to 100% compliance and continuous improvement for all suppliers of SDG own-brand product sourced via our offices in the UK, India, China, Bangladesh and Thailand. Compliance Direct HK Ltd In August 2010 a new SDG company ‘Compliance Direct HK Ltd’ was launched under the leadership of Michael Spenley. Compliance Direct is a separate and independent division of SDIL set up to audit factories from an ethical and environmental perspective. All future audits will be conducted independently by the Compliance Direct team: Mr. Ratan Jana, CR Manager India and SE Asia, Mrs. Macy Liao, CR Manager China and Mr. Mike Ratcliffe CR Manager EMEA (Non-SDIL). Animal welfare We have a strict ‘no fur policy’ and implement strict guidelines on the use of skins based on industry best practice. If you would like to learn more about how we safeguard the welfare of animals, a policy guide is available here (PDF). Ethical product policies We also have policies for own-brand timber sourcing, diamond sourcing and design ethics. We do not use designs or text on our products which could be interpreted as offensive to our customers or unsuitable for children and we do not sell product that could be seen as sexualising children under the age of 16. Partnerships The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) We are enthusiastic members of the Global Compact and Chaired the UK Network through to March 2010. We commit around 15 working days per year to UNCG activities in order to share experiences with other companies in relation to corporate responsibility. Conclusion In 2010 the Compliance Direct team worked hard to ensure close to 100% compliance and continuous improvement for all suppliers of SDG own-brand product sourced via our offices in the UK, India, China, Bangladesh and Thailand. In 2011 we have begun a program that extends our current remit to cover every supplier that we deal with including agents. Standards will be closely monitored and assessed to ensure genuine like-for-like treatment of all suppliers and accordingly for all factory workers that make SDG own-brand product. COMPLIANCE DIRECT TEAM BLOG VIDEO To learn more about the work of Compliance Direct, please click here to watch a short video of the team. CLICK HERE HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 9 24/10/2011 11:47 workforce per BUSINESS AREA Data as at 01 Jan 2011 SDG Colleagues only WAREHOUSE & RETURNS CONTACT CENTRES 22.8% Jacqui 33.6% Humphries LITTLEWOODS 5.9% CLEARANCE 21.6% 16.2% 7 HQ & GROUP FINANCIAL FUNCTIONS SERVICES Since 2007 the overall engagement score has increased from 51% to 74% UNDER 21 an improvement of 23%. This increase in employee workforce by age engagement is across all OVER 50 4.8% Data as at 01 Jan 2011 SDG Colleagues only areas of the business HUMAN 21.4% 21 30 RESOURCES 30.5% 21.6% principle 3 upholding the freedom of association and the effective 40 50 recognition of the right to collective bargaining 21.7% principle 6 supporting the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 30 40 The retail industry is fast moving and making Next year we will create a succession plan that and non-vocational, including European score has increased from 51% to 74% sure each of our colleagues has a flexible and will identify and develop our colleagues with Computer Driving Licence (ECDL) courses. SDG an improvement of 23%. This increase in diverse range of skills is as important to the potential to take on bigger jobs. This will help has continued to invest in on-going colleague employee engagement is across all areas of future of our business as it is to the people who retain key people and enable the business to health and well-being programmes aimed the business: Contact Centres +30%, Financial work for us. prepare for future success and growth. at promoting healthy eating and exercise. Services + 24%, Head Office + 18% and Activities have included supporting charity Warehousing & Returns + 12% with the overall We have successfully implemented a We have also increased our commitment to sporting events such as the Race For Life, improvement for SDG of +23%. Leadership Development programme this year the Modern Apprenticeships scheme and are weight management programmes, walking that has established the style of leadership we engaged with a number of learning providers groups, discount gym memberships and stress The headcount (SDG colleagues only) across expect and has developed the skills of all those for our advisors in Contact Centres, Warehousing awareness sessions. our Warehouses, Contact Centres, Clearance who hold a senior management role in SDG. & Returns and Financial Services; we have Stores, Financial Services and Head Office is To date around 550 managers have over 1100 colleagues currently studying for a The results of the colleague engagement 7000 people. participated in the programme with an vocational qualification in these parts of our survey continue to improve. We have been additional 300 due to attend. We will also business. We have also worked closely with completing the annual ‘Your Shout’ survey since be introducing the programme to our first line the Trade Unions to provide lifelong learning 2007 with the latest survey undertaken in June managers over the next 12 months. opportunities in a variety of skills, both vocational 2011. Since 2007 the overall engagement HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 10 24/10/2011 11:47 t Leadership Developmen shop direct at Shop Direct population SEGMENTS “As our business transformation continues and we adapt to the shift in how our customers wish to shop with us, we have put in place a number of changes, some of which have had an impact on our employee headcount. We continue to work with our people and our trade union partners to manage these changes.” GENDER POPULATION SPLIT Data as at 01 Jan 2011 SDG Colleagues only MALE FEMALE 39.5% 60.5% ETHNIC GROUPS WITHIN SHOP DIRECT GROUP Data as at 01 Jan 2011 SDG Colleagues only We continue to be focused on improving the experience at WHite 75.8% work for all our colleagues Asian or asian british 10.3% and are encouraged by the BLACK or Black british 1.4% feedback our efforts are Chinese or Other 0.5% making across all parts of British 0.8% our business. MIXED 0.6% NOT declared 10.6% HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 11 24/10/2011 11:48 Electricity Usage During 2010, we successfully achieved a 19.6% reduction in our electricity consumption by introducing new system controls and tightening existing settings, without impacting the operations of our business or the safety and comfort of our colleagues. Our electricity consumption has now fallen by an impressive 43.7% from 2006 to 2010. Our electric consumption has Annual Group M now fallen by an impressive 60 Electricity 43.7% M Consumption kWh 50 Dan M Rogers 40 from 2006 to 2010. M 30 M 20 Our gas consumption has 8 now fallen by an impressive 10 M 41.3% from 2006 to 2010. kWh 0 20 06 20 07 20 08 20 09 20 10 ELECTRICITY vs PREVIOUS YEAR YEAR 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 REDUCTION VS 9.8% 11.7% 12.1% 19.6% PREVIOUS YEAR kWh 59,186,728 53,402,459 47,147,394 41,457389 33,337,916 ENVIRONMENT The drive to reduce our impact on the environment Gas Usage In 2010 we were equally pleased to see a reduction of 5.1% in our gas consumption, despite the coldest winter in Britain for 31 years. Our gas consumption has now fallen by an impressive 41.3% from 2006 to 2010. continues to be a strong area of focus for our 40 M ANNUAL Group business M GAS Consumption kWh 35 M 30 principle 7 supporting a precautionary approach to 25 M environmental challenges M 20 principle 8 M 15 undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 10 M principle 9 5M encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 0 06 07 08 09 10 kWh 20 20 20 20 20 GAS vs PREVIOUS YEAR YEAR 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 REDUCTION VS _ 26% 4.7% 12.3% 5.1% PREVIOUS YEAR kWh 36,062,285 26,691,205 25,428,741 22,307,600 21,167,912 HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 12 24/10/2011 11:48 Case Study: Building Controls, Common Sense & Technology In 2010 we sent 155 tons of waste to landfill and we aim to reduce this further year on year. Recycling Recycling LEVELS at Shop Direct Group have increased each year BUT there is still MORE THAT WE CAN DO: Total Recycled (SDG sites Recycled at points Year + external recycling SDG sites difference facility) 2007 53.7% 2008 59.6% +5.9% 2009 78.2% +18.6% 2010 80% +1.8% 96.8% At our head office and warehousing sites we have also introduced wax-based printing which reduces packaging and Skyways House waste significantly when compared with traditional toner based printing. By tight control of our various building management systems, we make the most efficient use of our energy. Common sense measures are now regular day-to-day practice at sites such as keeping exterior doors and window blinds closed to retain heat in the winter and thereby reducing the energy required to continually re-heat the buildings. We use specially designed control systems to open and close our blinds. In the summer this is to reflect solar glare in daylight hours whilst ensuring blinds are open overnight to encourage heat loss to ensure the office is at a lower, more comfortable temperature first thing in the morning. Our main blinds at our Skyways House building are now automated. The system tracks the position of the sun and allows us to set parameters ensuring glare from the sun on PC and Laptop screens is minimised whilst ensuring we benefit from as much natural light as possible, in addition to heat retention/heat loss maximisation feature. Our lighting is linked into this system of blind controls. Sensors inside the building monitor the light level and will automatically switch off lighting if natural light is available and sufficient. So for large periods of the day we save further amounts of energy. Skyways 2 HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 13 24/10/2011 11:48 Business Some facts and figures Travel We encourage colleagues based close to our sites to cycle to work supporting a healthy lifestyle and saving YEAR 2008 2009 CO2/kg 53,326 76,636 RAIL Mileage 620,542 837,321 money on their commutes. 2010 128,816 1,070,259 We also continue to Changes to SDG’s sourcing strategy in line with planned Brand expansions promote public transport resulted in an increase year-on-year of 35%, however less car mileage as a way to get to work. occured. SDG Air Travel C02 emissions Year Co2/kg 2008 1,701,202 2009 952,400 2010 1,290,072 Based on DEFRA calculations. Source: Capita Business Travel SDG Business Mileage Tons of C02 Year Total emitted 2007 2,189,000 907 2008 2,081,000 862 2009 2,068,000 857 2010 1,473,000 610 Assuming large car at 414.2 kg of C02 per 1000 miles Source www.Transportdirect.info Travel to Work Activities We encourage colleagues based close to our sites to cycle to work supporting a healthy lifestyle and saving money on their commutes. We also continue to promote public transport as a way to get to work. At our Head office site our free-to-hire poolbicycles usage remains strong, with staff regularly cycling during lunchtimes as well as using bikes for weekend pursuits and charity rides. Car-sharing has also proved popular and was boosted by promotional materials pointing out the rising costs of fuel. HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 14 24/10/2011 11:48 Health and Safety In 2010 we successfully maintained the BSI OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management accreditation in all our Contact Centres, Financial Services and Head Office sites. The bedding-in of our online accident/ incident reporting system has continued to improve the reporting and collation of information of accidents/incidents throughout the group. Reportable-type accidents are flat year-on-year. REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS Wellness 0 12 0 In 2010 company events were held promoting exercise, 10 healthy-eating, weight reduction, stress management and homeopathic remedies. We also launched a 80 give-up-smoking campaign. All SDG staff restaurants are now Marine Stewardship Council certified indicating that we use only certified sustainable fish. We use only Fair-trade or Rainforest 60 Alliance tea and coffee alongside a range of other fair-trade products. We have begun to extend the range of healthy options on offer and have a commitment to ensuring that all of our sandwich and salad packaging is biodegradable. 40 20 0 07 08 09 10 20 20 20 20 HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 15 24/10/2011 11:48 71% of the white-goods sold by SDG in 2010 were A or A+ Rob Hardman rated and we have a target of improving that to 85% over the next two years. Environmental Paper Purchasing Half of the timber harvested world-wide is used to make paper. Therefore, Current forecasts for 2011 show that the number of catalogues sent to it is vital that everyone involved in publishing makes a commitment for the customers will decrease by 2% on 2010. However, the number of pages responsible use of the world’s natural resources. in 2011 will increase by 11% from the 2010 to provide a wider range of products for our customers. As part of our commitment to sustainable forest management, we set ourselves a target for 100% of Shop Direct Group catalogues to be We will continue to identify those customers, both prospective and printed on Promoting Sustainable Forest Management (PEFC) certified current, who continue to trade through the catalogue as opposed to paper. We achieved this challenging target and now proudly display the only the website channel. We will then reduce the amount of paper PEFC logo within the catalogues to illustrate our sustainable credentials. communications we send them. This will result in a positive environmental Our catalogues account for 90% of paper consumed by the Shop impact and cost benefit to Shop Direct Group. The Focus Some planned highlights: • Further work on incoming voltage reductions and optimisation measures at our sites. Direct Group and as our customers increasingly demand products that are sourced from environmentally-friendly origins, it is imperative that we continue to illustrate our PEFC certified status to our customers. Volume of Catalogues for Next Year • Working towards our stated goal of changing 100% of light fittings to the most energy and cost efficient type. PEFC is the world’s largest international forest certification scheme, endorsing national forest certification schemes in 25 countries within 4 continents. With 230 million hectares under certification, the PEFC 2009 2010 2011 14,246,000 copies 12,246,000 copies 11,960,000 copies Our main focus areas for 2011 • Engaging our customers to reduce ‘their’ impact on the environment endorsement scheme has greatly increased availability of such certified and to ‘trade-up’ to the most energy efficient products. paper. include further decreases in In 2011 we will also ensure that the paper used for transactional documents is sourced from certified sources. The majority of this type energy usage and reductions • Reporting on the energy efficiency of the white-goods we sell and the C02 emissions they produce. Figures showed that 71% of the white In 2010 all Shop Direct Group paper and print suppliers were ISO14001 accredited, an assurance that the production sites are committed to of communication is used for customer statements and regulatory in water consumption as well goods sold by SDG in 2010 were A or A+ rated and we have a target achieving continuous improvement through environmental management communications. We will achieve this by working closely with our Strategic Partner R+R Donnelly who plans for all UK Transactional sites to become of improving that to 85% over the next two years. as an improved colleague systems. Print suppliers have continued to reduce their toluene solvent emission generated from catalogue printing by investing in closed loop air Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) accreditation starting in October 2011. This will ensure Shop Direct Group transfers all transactional documents to wellness campaign. • Reducing water consumption (currently 75,232 m3) by 5% by the end of 2011. recycling systems. FSC certified paper. • Increasing recycling at our sites by a further 3%. Look ahead FSC is an international, non-governmental organisation dedicated to the responsible promotion and management of the world’s forests. The FSC In 2011 our focus will turn to annual audits and if compliance issues are • Introducing a half-price bicycle promotional discount scheme for system includes a certified chain of custody that tracks the timber through identified or if suppliers retract from previously achieved environmental all colleagues to promote cycling to work and encouraging them to every stage in the supply chain from the forest to the final user. One of the standards, they will be recommended for further compliance by our be more active as part of our wellness programme. key principals of the system is the guarantee that trees that are harvested Strategic Partner RR Donnelly and our commercial teams jointly. are continuously replaced. • Introducing a new healthy eating campaign, more regular give-upsmoking sessions and a free eye-test road show around our sites. HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 16 24/10/2011 11:49 David Mortlock Key areas of focus are: 9 • Further embedding the understanding of the Group’s anti-bribery policies and procedures with colleagues across the Group. • Enhancing our Corporate Governance procedures to provide improved transparency over corruption, bribery and associated risks. CORRUPTION GOVERNANCE and transparency PRINCIPAL10 working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Shop Direct Group’s commitment to prevent bribery & corruption continues to be a key focus. We have a zero These include: The developments during the year have led to a much stronger awareness across the Group of the risks associated with bribery • More frequent risk and performance assessment including tolerance approach which is clearly communicated by and corruption as well as more robust operating practices and an enhanced focus on external factors including country of the Executive Board and through the Group’s Corporate oversight. operation. Responsibility Board. The cornerstones of our approach remain our consistent Group wide policies, risk assessment, colleague Looking ahead into next year, the Group’s focus is on further • The development of clearer policies on charitable giving training and awareness, transparent supplier engagement, enhancing our capability and developing more effective and corporate sponsorship and entertainment. industry networking and robust whistleblowing and investigation business processes. procedures. • Refresher training to provide practical guidance on how to deal with the different forms of bribery and corruption. The implementation of the UK Bribery Act 2011 provides a good This training is in the process of being delivered to opportunity for the Group to review and benchmark these colleagues across the Group. existing policies and processes and to consider where they can be improved. They have all been rigorously reviewed during • An increased focus on counterparties and their the year and a number of changes made to further enhance backgrounds as part of our supplier due diligence activities. effectiveness. • An increase in the level of audit and review of anti-bribery and corruption activity. HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 17 24/10/2011 11:49 10 James Evans t Community Investmen at Shop Direct COMMUNITY Shop Direct Group plays a positive role in the communities in which we operate and in the ones that our colleagues and their families live. Last year, we completed a comprehensive review to ensure that our community and charitable activities were having the maximum sustainable impact possible. Employee working grades of nine of the level three students by at least one level. Of the group of Convention Centre in Liverpool and featured a spectacular evening of entertainment. Fundraising girls who were designated as ‘underachieving’, The money raised on the evening was The review has resulted in a number of positive five have now enrolled in the sixth form and one further enhanced by sponsorship raised by changes making it easier for our colleagues to achieved the highest grade possible in a recent Mark Newton-Jones for completing the NYC donate to the charities they wish to support. assessment centre for customer service. Marathon. A total of £200,000 was divided between three charities: the Retail Trust, Last year, we launch ed Helping Hand, a We are active members of a number of Community Foundation for Merseyside, which matched funding programme that gives a community, retail and regional business groups works with community groups for the benefit ‘helping hand’ to colleagues who have chosen including the North West Business Leadership and regeneration of local neighborhoods and to raise money for their favourite charities and Team, Mersey Partnership, British Retail Charities Trust which provides grants to national community organisations. Our partner for this is Consortium, Personal Finance Education Group charities including NSPCC and Barnardos. We the Charities Trust, a national Payroll Giving and and the Liverpool Chamber of Commerce. have committed to holding a second ball in corporate donation management agency. 2012. Since launch, with our matching, colleagues We have continued to support the wider retail raised over £260,000 for the good causes that community through our work with the Retail Trust, matter to them. the only charity offering a range of services to Our Commitment all people working in and retired from retail. In addition, our colleagues also have the Our support for the Northern Events committee for 2011 opportunity to contribute to their community helped to raise £40,000 at the annual Great Our focus for the year ahead will be the via payroll giving. Currently, over ten per cent Northern Ball. creation and launch of a charitable foundation of our colleagues choose to donate to their that will support children and families in the favourite charities through payroll giving. areas in which we operate. We want to Spreading Christmas encourage colleagues to get more involved in order to help strengthen the communities we Forging links with Cheer operate in and so we will be piloting a volunteer As a retailer, Christmas is an important time to programme in 2011. our Community us and for the last x years we have donated a The in-depth review also highlighted the large number of toys to help bring some holiday need for us to create closer links within, the spirit to children who, for a variety of reasons, neighbouring community of our Head Office are facing challenging circumstances. Last in Speke, Merseyside. To help achieve this, Christmas, over £8,000 of toys were donated we have become a trust partner at the local to Alder Hey Children’s Hospital, Great Ormond school, Parklands High. Street Hospital, Kids Co (an organisation working with disadvantaged youngsters) and local Our CEO has developed a close working refuge Centre 56. Throughout the year, we also relationship with the Head Teacher and we make regular clothing donations to both Centre are members of the Board of Governors. In 56 and Alder Hey Imagine Appeal from our addition, we have undertaken a series of sample stock. To see a film about North City workshops aimed at introducing the world of business, nurturing softer skills such Play, An Organisation funded by as customer service and raising career Fundraising Events money FROM the Shop Direct ball aspirations, especially in female pupils. October saw the inaugural Shop Direct Charity Ball take place with over 1000 These initiatives are making a genuine people attending the 80s themed evening. please click here difference and we have seen a rise of current The event was held at the prestigious BT HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 18 24/10/2011 11:49 Touraid Case Study As recognition of our international operations, we have developed a partnership with the Mahamek Boys’ Home in Bangkok and Touraid. Touraid was set up five years ago to bring social and economic benefits The boys entered the tournament as the Mahamek Tigers. While they to children from seriously deprived areas of the world by creating had been playing rugby for just four months, their opposition had been sustainable links between those communities and schools and clubs playing for more than four years. The boys won two of their matches but in the UK. Sport, in this case rugby, is used to build skills in areas like sadly their strong performance didn’t qualify them a place in final and teamwork and languages. the title of cup winner’s went to a team from Sierra Leone. Our colleagues in SDIL devised a rugby training programme that helped While in the UK, the group of ten boys had a packed programme of build a real team spirit not only amongst the team but in the Home as activities with their host school, Birkenhead High but we were lucky to a whole and led to increased camaraderie and purpose. As part of our be able to spend a great day with the group. The boys took part in a determination to leave a lasting legacy at Mahamek, English lessons workshop, where they worked with our design team to create t-shirts were held to give the boys not only valuable language skills but the based on an animal theme. Each boy was presented with a certificate confidence to face the world outside Bangkok. of achievement from Mark Newton-Jones and the team were given a cup as a symbol of our pride in their achievements. In September, we were delighted to welcome some of the boys to the UK to take part in the Caldy Touraid International Festival. We supplied We are now working with the Mahamek Home to discuss ways that we each boy with a travel bag, training outfits and clothes, rugby boots can leave a permanent legacy of our partnership. and toiletries. HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 19 24/10/2011 11:50 1PRESENTING 1 POSITIVE BODY IMAGE Shop Direct has a portfolio of brands that appeal to the mass market of the UK population. The way that we represent our brands and products is critical and is driven not only from what the market wants but most importantly, what our customers tell us that they want. Our role is to represent products accurately but at the same time create The physical well-being of the models that we use and their professional a desire and aspiration that resonates with our customers. behaviour is critical and therefore we have created guidelines for acceptable social behaviour – guidelines which have been This year has seen us build new brands which target very different incorporated into our supplier contractual agreements. aspects of the market – each with very different challenges, but what we do know is that customers are responding well. These principles also apply when we develop and select our ranges. We always endeavour to represent key messages in an appropriate way for When we develop and select our ranges we always endeavour to our different brands. translate the key seasonal trends in shape, colour and fabric in an appropriate way for each target customer and through customer By working with clear, quality standards and robust processes, we’ve focus groups, we’ve also listened and acted to ensure that the models made good progress in 2010/2011 and have, more consistently, that we use and the way we represent them reflects our customers’ embedded the principles of appropriate product development and aspirations. achieved the standards of presentation that we have set ourselves. Setting clear standards on both body image and ethnic diversity has Through consistency of delivery across all of our customer touch points enabled us to collaborate with our strategic suppliers to ensure that the we will deliver brands and product which resonate with consumers and models we use portray a healthy body image and represent the wide demonstrate that we take the presentation of a positive body image age ranges, sizes, and ethnic diversity of society today. seriously. From children’s wear, to menswear and women’s wear we’ve sourced the best available talent and review this each time we refresh our offer. To See a short film of our video and photographic shoots click here HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 20 24/10/2011 11:50 12 David Poole Responsible lending We only accept around 50% and Credit of credit applications. We decline approximately 12% of all transactions Services Shop Direct Group Financial Services provides a range of simple and affordable credit and insurance products that enable our customers to manage their finances and protect their possessions. Fair and transparent put increasing pressure on household budgets. Our robust approach to responsible lending has patterns. In 2011 we were awarded the prestigious “Fraud Prevention Team of the Year” award by financial services remained consistent throughout this turbulent Credit Today. This award reflects our commitment We have continued to focus on serving our period. As a result we have been able to report to protecting our customers and our business from customers both new and existing in a fair and reducing levels of bad debt at a time when some fraud and organised crime. responsible way. We aim to provide customers other lenders have been experiencing substantial with all the information they need to make increases in bad debts. Our legal and compliance teams work together informed and responsible decisions when using to ensure compliance with Financial Services credit to purchase products and services. During Underlining our commitment to responsible Authority, Consumer Credit Act and Data 2010/2011 we implemented the new Standard lending we have established a specialist team to Protection Regulations. Clear policies and European Consumer Credit Information disclosure deal with customers we perceive to be particularly procedures exist to ensure compliance with both for customers applying for credit facilities through vulnerable, to ensure that any issues they have the principles and detailed rules. our websites and contact centres. We consider all are dealt with quickly and sympathetically. As the available information when making lending part of this commitment we are developing Key areas of focus for 2011 are to further decisions to ensure that it is in the best interests of relationships with NHS trusts, debt advice and improve our approach to greater customer the customer as to whether we extend credit or other charities to ensure that we take adequate transparency and to continue to develop our not. account of the needs of potentially vulnerable debt management and fraud prevention systems. customers. We aim to provide customers with • We only accept around 50% of credit applications. all the information they need to Combating fraud and make informed and responsible • We decline approximately 12% of requests for extending credit. identity theft decisions when using credit to We use a state of the art fraud prevention system to protect customers and ourselves against purchase products and services. The economic environment continues to be account takeover and identity theft. challenging for lending businesses and their customers. High levels of inflation in areas such as Our system analyses every credit application and Enabling families to purchase the food and energy bills and rocketing petrol prices, sales transaction and immediately identifies any essentials in life. combined with higher unemployment have activity that does not conform to normal spending HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 21 24/10/2011 11:50 HOW DID WE DO? how did we do? 6 BEST PRACTICE Ethical Sourcing, Labour, Human Rights & Animal Welfare ACHIEVING RESULTS how did we do? 10 LEGAL COMPLIANCE BEST PRACTICE Our Community ACHIEVING RESULTS how did we do? 7 LEGAL COMPLIANCE BEST PRACTICE Human Resources ACHIEVING RESULTS how did we do? 11 LEGAL COMPLIANCE Presenting positive body BEST PRACTICE image and design ethics ACHIEVING RESULTS how did we do? 8 LEGAL COMPLIANCE BEST PRACTICE Energy Consumption/ Recycling/Transport/Health and Safety ACHIEVING RESULTS how did we do? 12 LEGAL COMPLIANCE Responsible Lending BEST PRACTICE ACHIEVING RESULTS how did we do? 9 LEGAL COMPLIANCE BEST PRACTICE Corruption, Governance & Transparency ACHIEVING RESULTS LEGAL COMPLIANCE HOME ir ir m~k m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 22 24/10/2011 11:50 1STAKEHOLDER 4 FEEDBACK This year’s report has been read by a variety of our stakeholders including customers, colleagues and community organisations. The following are selected comments received: “I believe all organisations have a The report gives a really “The work the company do responsibility to society and Shop Direct clear overview on the for the Community is really is an example of a business that takes this different activities that great and makes me feel happy the Shop Direct Group is seriously. Whether it’s ensuring our products undertaking to ensure it is knowing we give something are ethically sourced or providing support a responsible organisation. back. I love the way the to local schools through business education It is also useful to see company is environmentally partnerships, Shop Direct carefully manages an overview of previous friendly and does their bit to the impact it has on the environments within achievements as well as a which it operates. As an employee, I am focus on future activities help the world become better, proud to work for a company that places CSR and CSR objectives. which will in turn have a real so high on its agenda.” positive effect on the lives of others.” “The Shop Direct Foundation will ensure strategic and focused support for the communities in “I was encouraged and proud to read which Shop Direct Group is based SDG commitment to supporting and will focus on supporting “As a customer, I like to know national/local charities alongside their children, young people and where the clothes I’m buying involvement with community projects. families. I hope that all Shop Direct are made. It’s nice to know The impact SDG make to supporting Group employees and stakeholders these worthy causes are invaluable”. that the factories do not use will get involved with the Shop Direct Foundation and see the child labour and are inspected positive social impact that the regularly to make sure that Foundation will have on local they are suitable” communities.” HOME ir m~k COP 2011 A3 NEW .indd 23 24/10/2011 11:51
