EVENT MANAGEMENT & FAIR / EXHIBITION SERVICES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2010 PERIOD CONTENTS  General Information  Company Profile  ZED Activities (2008 …)  General Director’s Message  ZED Corporate Social Responsibility  ZED CSR Activities  Global Compact National Network – Turkey • Human Rights • Partnership with NGO’s • Support to Students • Lectures • Awards & Certificates • Environment Sensitive Organizations  UN Global Compact Principles II General Information Type of Professional Congress Company Name ZED Event Management & Consultancy Activity Organizer Mustafa Kemal Mah. 2132. Sk. No:2 Address Website www.zed.com.tr 06520 Çankaya/Ankara/TURKEY Number of Telephone +90 312 2195700 55 Employees Fax +90 312 2195701 Name of the Mr. Cengiz YAZANEL Name of the Mr. Barış KAHRIMAN Highest Executive General Director / Managing Partner Contact Person baris@zed.com.tr III Company Profile Since 1992, ZED (www.zed.com.tr) has been operating in the congress tourism sector in the fields of conference, congress, seminar, symposium, special events, launching, awareness campaign, workshop, exhibition, fair and study tour organizations. ZED is the member of leading international institutions of the travel agencies, professional congress organizations, meetings sector, associations including TÜRSAB (Association of Turkish Travel Agencies), UFTAA (Universal Federation of Travel Agents Association), ICCA (International Congress & Convention Association), IAPCO (International Association of Professional Organizers), EFAPCO (European Federation Of Associations Of Professional Congress Organizers), HCEA (The Healthcare and Medical Convention & Exhibitors Association), CSR Turkey (Corporate Social Responsibility Association Turkey) and ICVB (Istanbul Convention & Visitors Bureau), MPI (Meeting Professional International). ZED has signed UN Global Compact and considers Global Compact principles in its all operations. ZED also has successfully achieved ISO 9001 Quality Management System Certificate. ZED fulfils its operations through Istanbul and Ankara Offices which spreads out on totally 4033 square meters. All of the offices are fully furnished and equipped with the latest technology. ZED employs 55 permanent staff and employs 50 to 200 short term support staff depending on the scale of the organization. IV Our Services • Organization and consultancy services of the meetings such as congress, conference, fair, exhibition, seminar, symposium, workshop, etc. for the state institutions, private organizations and occupational associations, • Organization and consultancy services of trainings, incentives, excursions, meetings for the presentation and launch of private sector companies, • Organization and consultancy services of the inauguration and groundbreaking ceremonies and grand sports activities. Our services that are provided during the above mentioned activities are: • Projection, programming and coordination of the activities services, • Budgeting and financing services, • Selection of destination and location services, • Transportation services, (sea and land transport, provision of domestic and foreign flight tickets and transfers) • Renting of private cars services, (boat, helicopter, airplane, bus, minibus, etc.) • Welcoming, accommodation and registration, provision of information, departure arrangement services for the guests, • Provision and operation of the technical equipment to be used (audio/lighting systems, computer, network systems, photocopy and fax machinery, imaging and recording systems, simultaneous interpretation systems, etc.) • Organization of the social activities before, after and during the meetings and events • Organization of special parties and performances, • Decoration of the venues, performance halls, exhibition halls, • Organization of the activities of public relations and press-media services, • Provision and decoration of exhibition and fair stands services, • Translation services, (consecutive, simultaneous interpretation and translation) • Design and manufacturing of printed and stamped materials services, (announcement and invitation cards, programme booklets, bags, identification badges, memo pads, pens, flag and pennants, clipboards, display posters, directional signs, name plates for doors and tables, etc.) • VIP meeting services, provision of accommodation and arrangement of arrivals and departures, • Provision of personnel for the organizations services (host / hostess, security, cleaning, etc.) • All kinds of insurance services within the scope of the organization V ZED Activities Lists 2015  World Veterinary Congress – İstanbul  20th Soroptimist International Convention, İstanbul 2014  Second European Conference on Earthquake Engineering and Seismology İstanbul 2013  Congress of the International Union of Leather Technologists and Chemists Societies –IULTCS – İstanbul  European Social Workers Conference – ENSACT, İstanbul  Symposium of the International Federation of Adapted Physical Activity – ISAPA, İstanbul 2012  23rd International ICFMH Symposium FOOD MICRO 2012, İstanbul  24th European Corrosion Meeting EUROCORR '12, İstanbul  European Congress on Biotechnology – ECB 15, İstanbul  8th European Clay Congress and Exhibition, Antalya  International Interdisciplinary Social Inquiry Conference – IISC, Bursa 2011  The Fourth United Nations Conference On The Least Developed Countries, İstanbul  22nd World Mining Congress and Fair, İstanbul  8th European Clay Congress and Exhibition, Antalya  World Federation Direct Selling Association Regional Meeting, İstanbul 2010  25th World Congress on Project Management, İstanbul  Fifth Trilateral Summit of Afghanistan-PakistanTurkey, İstanbul  11th Summit Meeting of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO), İstanbul  OANA General Assembly, News Agencies Meeting in İstanbul: The European Capital of Culture 2010, İstanbul  The Fourth Regional Economic Cooperation Conference on Afghanistan (RECCA IV), İstanbul  10th Turkic Speaking States Summit of Heads of State and Government, İstanbul  Turkey-Eu Mınısterıal Polıtıcal Dıalogue Meetıng, İstanbul  The South East European Cooperatıon Process (Seecp) Summıt Meetıng Of Heads Of State/Government And Eıghth Meetıng Of The Summıt Forum Of The Heads Of State Of Southeast European Countrıes On Cultural Corrıdors, İstanbul  Turkısh-Arab Cooperatıon Forum (Tacf) The Thırd Meetıng Of Mınısters Of Foreıgn Affaırs, İstanbul  Third Summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, İstanbul  The Historical Seas Tall Ships Regatta, İstanbul VI 2009  12th World Congress on Public Health, İstanbul  5th World Congress Water Forum, Heads of States Summit, İstanbul  5th Congress of the European State Lotteries and Toto Association, İstanbul  Meeting of the Board of Directors of the World Bank and International Monetary Foundation WB & IMF, İstanbul 2008  29th Session of the World Association of Sugar Beet and Sugar Cane Growers (WABCG), İstanbul & Konya  Expo 2008 Zaragoza, Consultancy Services for Planning, Management and Public Relations of Pavilion of Turkish Republic, Zaragoza  Expo 2010 Shangai, Consultancy Services for Planning, Management and Public Relations of Pavilion of Turkish Republic, Shangai  Turkey Africa Cooperation Summit, İstanbul  Turkey Pacific Island States Ministerial Conference, İstanbul  High-Level Workshop in Preparation for UNCTAD XII, İzmir  Expo 2015 İzmir, 2nd International Symposium, İzmir VII General Director’s Message Since 1992, ZED has been operating in the congress tourism sector in the fields of conference, congress, seminar, symposium, event management and consultancy, exhibition and fairs, promotion and public relations. ZED, as a Professional Congress Organizer , creates interaction platforms that enable knowledge and experience sharing in different areas during each successfully organized national or international conferences and summits and in this way it contributes to global dynamics. ZED, who works in national and international arena with success in view of consciousness of the source of the ongoing success, is the all inclusive and sustainable world economic growth, signed in Global Compact Agreement in 31 May 2006 to give support and promote “ten universally accepted principles” for a better world for all. As acting through the requirements of Global Compact Principles, we reflect our corporate responsibilities in our business strategies and operations and we see the corporate social responsibility as a part of our corporate culture. We are committed and act appropriate to the ten principles of Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption and we continuously inform, educate and encourage all our stakeholders in the implementation of principles. ZED proved its commitment to the Global Compact as being one of the 7 representatives company of the Global Compact Turkey Local Network Steering Committee, which is formed by the representatives of the institutions (Aksa Acrylic, ARGE Consulting, Koç Holding, Sabancı Holding, TİSK, TÜSİAD, ZED Tanıtım) that have carried out effective work and paid close attention to Global Compact since 2005, The Steering Committee h e l d first meeting on March 4, 2009. The Steering Committee aims to represent the network internationally and to strengthen the Local Network across Turkey, with improved effectiveness of its signatories. Besides strictly following the Global Compact 10 principles, we are happy to declare our commitment to advance the implementation of Global Compact Principles as taking active role in the Steering Committee of Global Compact National Network in Turkey. We express our continuous support to promote and improve the implementation of Global Compact 10 principles and share our knowledge and experiences with our stakeholders. We are glad to be sharing our Communication Progress Report regarding our corporate social responsibility activities for the year of 2010. Cengiz YAZANEL General Director /Managing Partner ZED Event Management & Consultancy VIII ZED Corporate Social Responsibility ZED has been operating for 19 years in the field of Congress Tourism and has found a place as the leader in the sector with its professional services, values, ethics principles and socially responsible activities. As being titled “Professional Congress Organizer”, ZED has the honor of reaching a high point in the sector by bearing in mind the responsibilities t hat this title brings along. ZED accepts corporate social responsibility as a part of its corporate culture since its inception and it reflects its corporate responsibilities in all business strategies and operations.  ZED signed in Global Compact Agreement in 31 May 2006 to give support and promote “ten universally accepted principles” and is committed to the ten principles of Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment a n d anti-corruption. UN Global Compact Principles are accepted as a minimum standard in all operations at ZED and it acts in accordance with these principles while trying to improve the implementation of them day by day. ZED is also committed to disseminate information and create awareness about the corporate social responsibility within its stakeholders specially and in the Turkish society in general.  Since ZED believes that corporate social responsibility i m p l e m e n t a t i o n s c o u l d be improved through the solidarity and cooperation with civil society organizations, it supports many NGOs’ in their activities. In this regard, ZED is the main supporter of “Corporate Social Responsibility Association of Turkey”. Besides, ZED continues to give support and to 15 different NGOs who represent different sectors in Turkey. Therefore, ZED priorities relating to socially responsible business practices are: • Organizing learning and experience sharing events • Mobilizing collective action with NGOs on different priority issues • Motivating participating companies and NGOs to develop partnership projects to contribute to the UN and Millennium Development Goals • Contributing to the sustainable development • Improving the “Green Meetings” conditions for all organizations  ZED expressed its gravity and commitment to corporate social responsibility and Global Compact Principles as taking active role in the Steering Committee of Global Compact National Network in Turkey. ZED continues to support to promote and improve the implementation of “ten principles of Global Compact” and share its knowledge and experiences with its stakeholders and the Turkish society. IX ZED CSR Activities  Global Compact National Network Turkey (2010 …) Global Compact Local Network Steering Committee in Turkey is formed by the representatives of the institutions that have carried out effective work and paid close attention to Global Compact since 2005 and ZED Event Management & Consultancy has taken active role in the Steering Committee since 2006. As a part of the Steering Committee ZED, aims to support to representation of the network internationally and to strengthen the Local Network across Turkey, with improved effectiveness of its signatories. The Steering Committee comes together few times a year and work on the planning future activities for the establishment of facilities and mechanisms to support the implementation of the Global Compact principles. As a member of Steering Committee in Turkey, ZED trying to reach more sector and companies in the UN Global Compact Networking system in Turkey after the Steering Committee Meeting that held on 21st March 2011 .  Human Rights Since ZED General Director, Mr. Cengiz YAZANEL added his name to the CEO Statement declared on the occasion of the 60th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of the Human Rights at November 2008. ZED expressed its commitment and respect and support Human Rights. ZED was gave special importance to Human Rights and all the events that was done after 2008 were directly gave support for this purpose. All new events will be done under the respect of this issue.  Partnership with NGO’s • ZED gave financial support to organization of “The World Federation of The Deaf” Annual Board Meeting held on March 2010 in İstanbul. • ZED gave financial support to organization of “IFOAM Governing Tax Force” meeting held on September2010 in İstanbul. • ZED gave financial support to Critical Care Nursing Association of Turkey for taking “Critical Care Nursing Congress 2014” to İstanbul. • ZED gave financial support to Earthquake Foundation in Turkey for taking European Conference on Earthquake Engeering and Sismology meeting to İstanbul. • ZED Support Turkish Radiographers and Radiological Technologists for taking “International Radiographers and Radiological Technologists Congress” to İstanbul. • ZED gave Professional support to Turkish Biophysics Association for the development of the association. And taking “International Congress and General Assembly on Biophysics” to İstanbul. X • ZED support Turkish Soil Association for taking “EUROSOIL” meeting to İstanbul. • ZED General Director, Mr. Cengiz Yazanel is a member of Board of Trustees of Türkata Strategic Research, Education and Culture Foundation who have started to work on establishing a Research Institute in Bilecik. ZED gives support to the Turkata which will lay the foundation of University of Türkata in Ankara. The University will open its doors in 2010 and start to accept its first students. • ZED has partnership agreements with nearly ten associations and foundations to bring international and/or European Congresses to Turkey. The few examples of the successful results of the ZED and civil society organizations cooperation are as follows: Cooperation with Turkish Veterinary Association brought the “World Veterinary Congress 2015” to İstanbul. Cooperation with Sorotimists Turkey Association brought the “Soroptimist International Convention 2015” to İstanbul. Cooperation with Eartquake Foundatiın in Turkey brought the “2th European Conference on Earthquake Engineering and Seismology” to İstanbul. Cooperation with Social Workers Assocaiton brought the “3rd European Conference on Social Workers” to İstanbul. XI  Supports to Students • ZED regularly accepts students from TOBB University to complete their internships. The 6 students worked in ZED and completed their internship period successfully. • ZED gives scholarships to the students registered to the “Rain-drop Solidarity Association”. The 10 students were supported financially and completed their education in the year 2010. • ZED as a company tradition founds scholarships to 20 secondary school and university students each year.  Lectures • Mr. Cengiz Yazanel, April 2010, “The Practices on Entrepreneurship & Leadership”, TOBB University • Mr. Cengiz Yazanel, July 2010, “Making Business in Congress Tourism”, Baskent University • Mr. Safa UNAL, May 2010, “Making Business in Congress Tourism”, in TOBB University  Awards & Certificates ZED has gained appreciation placket from the Manager and Businessmen’s Association of Galatasaray for his voluntary supports on “The renovation of Ankara Metin Oktay primary school” subject XII ZED has gained appreciation letters from the TOBB University for his voluntary speaker on “The Practices on Entrepreneurship & Leadership” subject. Turkish Veterinary Medical Association appreciated the contributions and support of ZED for the “III. National Assembly of Turkish Veterinary Surgeons” regarding its corporate social responsibility. XIII ZED has gained appreciation letters from the National Football Team Galatasaray for his voluntary supports Galatasaray Football Club. ZED has gained appreciation letters from the Darüşşafaka Society for his voluntary supports to children. XIV XV  Environment Sensitive Organizations ZED concerns its environment and follows recent developments especially in the sector in which it operates. ZED has accelerated its research and development studies to conduct “Green Meetings” concept in the forthcoming organizations. The goal of organizing “green meetings” is to develop and implement green standards that will improve the environmental performance of meetings on a global basis and events and to create a better more sustainable world. ZED will encourage sub contractors using green tools in their works. Recycled equipments become very important in ZED events. XVI ZED Event Management and Consultancy COP 2010 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ZED Policy ZED Event Management and Consultancy endorses the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights and regards the declaration as one of the core values and as an essential part of the ethical foundation of the company. ZED accepts and ensures that every individual has the right to work, right to choose his/ her job, right to work on equal conditions, right to freedom of expression, right to liberty and security, right to health care and right to equality. ZED maintains that all stakeholders also support the human rights principles. 1) Corporate Commitments, policies and procedures to deal with all aspects of human rights relevant to operations, including monitoring mechanism and results Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2011 targets Indicator 1: • ZED has a human rights policy to endorse the UN Universal • Fulfillment of Human Rights Policies Declaration of Human Rights and ZED ensures that every individual has the right to work, right to choose his/her job, right • Organizational structure where the human right policy is implemented to work on equal conditions, right to freedom of expression, and risk management map to evaluate the company human rights impacts right to liberty and security, right to health care and right to equality. ZED maintains that all its stakeholders also support the human rights principles. • Human Resources Department developed a risk management map and auditing standards to evaluate the company human rights impacts for the year 2011. • ZED maintains a policy of strong c o m m i t m e n t o n health and safety issues and provides healthy working conditions and health insurance policy for all employees. • ZED ensures non-discrimination in its business practices. • ZED provides highest standards in physical working environment conditions such as lighting, heating, ventilation and air-conditioning and in safest work practices. • ZED ensures that every individual has the right of education. The employees are encouraged to develop themselves and the way of business through various trainings. The 6 employee acquired the International Project Management Certificate after a long training period given by IPMA Türkiye. Indicator 2: • ZED as a growing company makes investments in its sector and Company takes into consideration the human rights impacts as part of different fields. ZED always takes into consideration t he human investment procedures. rights while realizing new investments. • ZED doesn’t prefer t o e s t a b l i s h p a r t n e r s h i p s and work with the companies or institutions which are complicit in human rights abuses. ZED especially takes into consideration the supporters of Global Compact. 2) Company communication to the employees its ethical values and principles • ZED has a standard orientation program implemented to all new recruited personnel. It consists of general company information, corporate culture, ethical values, organizational structure, employee rights, working environment a n d opportunities provided equally to all employees. II Indicator 1: • First information about ethical values of the company is provided The number of communications sent by company to the employees on corporate during orientation process. Besides, all employees are reminded of ethical values and principles the basic ethical principles and informed about new accepted developments at regular meeting held in once a year. Indicator 2: • ZED conducts annual questioner to hear, evaluate and to take Company’s formal mechanisms to hear, evaluate, and follow up positions, suggestions and criticisms of employees. There is an open-door policy concerns, suggestions and criticisms of employees on human rights to improve the in ZED and managing partners encourage employees to express their internal process views on human rights directly to themselves. 3) Company policy to evaluate and address human rights performance within the supply chain and contractors Indicator 1: • ZED concerns the standards and international certificates of its The number of suppliers that are in accordance with international standards of total subcontractors. 10 of the total suppliers have international suppliers standards and certificates. ZED aims to increase this number as 14 in the year 2011. 4) Company involvement in promoting human rights in the local community Indicator 1: • The philanthropy is one of the core values of the ZED corporate The monetary value of the company’s philanthropic contributions / voluntary social culture from inception. ZED’s total philanthropy b u d g e t devoted investments (cash contributions and/or in-kind giving) and realized for the year 2010 was 32.000 Euro. ZED plans to increase this contribution as 10 % in the year 2011. • ZED gives support and provides scholarships to 20 students (secondary schools and universities) each year. Indicator 2: • ZED as a sensitive company which observes and knows very well the The company analysis the local needs before designing its projects for the needs of the community in which it operates and it regularly (twice a community and it carries out educational and/or other campaigns of public interest year) comes together with the opinion leaders (school directors, in the community together with local organizations. mukhtar, religious man, representative of associations etc.) In the region to analyze the real needs of the community. III ZED Event Management and Consultancy COP 2010 LABOUR Principle 3 – Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining; Principle 4 – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 – the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ZED Policy ZED ensures and acts according to the article numbered 23. of Universal Declaration of Human Rights expresses that every individual has the rights to establish trade union to protect his/her interests and the right to participate to the unions. Every employee has the right to make collective bargaining. ZED supports and ensures the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. ZED acts in accordance with ILO articles and Turkish law, which states the legal age of employment is 15. ZED is against forced labour and child labour and never works or makes partnership agreements with the companies or institutions which do not obey these rules. ZED labour policy guarantees that all employees are able to enjoy a work environment free from harassment and free from discrimination including that of race, colour, national origin, ancestry, religion, marital status, age or gender. Any harassment o r discrimination of employees is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. ZED expects its stakeholders and clients to support these guidelines. 5) Company has a freedom of association policy and the effective recognition of collective bargaining. Indicator: 1 • ZED supports and ensures the freedom of association and the Company has policy and procedures involving information, consultation and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. negotiation with employees over changes in the reporting organization’s operations The Human Resources department has procedures to follow up the new information and deals with the negotiation process. 6) Company’s specific policy against forced labour IV Indicator 1: • ZED is strictly against forced labour considered as a potential Forced labour is considered as a potential risk in the sector. risk also in service sector including the event management and organization. ZED also informs its stakeholders and will continue to create awareness for being against forced labour during 2011. Indicator 2: • ZED has a net and standard guidelines followed and audited by Company has clear guidelines regarding the forced labour. Human Resources’ Department. Indicator 3: • ZED has a standard guideline regarding the working hours, health Company has clear guidelines on working hours, health and safety at work and wages. and safety issues at work and at wages. • During the orientation process conducted prior to recruitment, ZED clearly identifies its policy and informs the employee about the working terms and conditions. ZED’s employee policies are specified within employment contracts. These contracts clearly state the actual working conditions, health and safety issues and their rights. So, all employees are aware of them and agree upon it before signing. 7) Company has specific policies against forced labour within its supply chain. Indicator 1: • ZED concerns and checks the acts of the companies within its Company verifies that its supplier’s workforce fulfill with a reasonable amount of supply chain to understand its policies regarding the labour. working hours. Almost all of the companies in supply chain of ZED have reasonable working conditions, such as working hours. Indicator 2: • ZED has not yet a formal mechanism to transfer its values and Company has formal mechanisms to enable transfer its values and principles to principles to the supply chain. However, ZED transfers its values the supply chain such as good working conditions, lack of child and slave labour, and principles to the companies in supply chain informally etc. through the meetings, company newsletter and web site stressing that it acts strictly in compliance with the Global Compacts Principles. ZED will continue to work on setting a formal mechanism during 2010. 8) Company has a policy prohibiting child labour is defined by the ILO Convention 138. V Indicator 1: Company has clear guidelines as to child labour prohibition. • ZED has a clear guidelines and acts in accordance with ILO Convention 138 and Turkish law, which states the legal age of employment, is 15. ZED is against juvenile employment and never works or makes partnership agreements with the companies or institutions which do not obey these rules. 9) Company states its equal opportunity policies or programmes as well as monitoring systems to ensure compliance and results of monitoring during its recruiting, promotion, training and dismissal procedures. All ZED employees are accorded equal opportunities during the recruiting, promotion, training and dismissal procedures. Each employee has equal opportunities to develop the knowledge, skills and competence that are relevant to their job. ZED conducts training needs analysis each year regularly to analyze the needs for specific roles within the organization. For instance; • Human resources department conducts an orientation programme for each new recruited employee in their first day in the company and they are informed about the rules, organizational structure, promotion and career system and procedures that provide equal opportunities for each employee. • The standard dismissal procedure is also implemented to each employee during the dismissal process. • In 2010, total 6 employees acquired the International Project Management Certificate after a long training p eriod given by IPMA Türkiye. • The employees who would get the training program were decided according to their needs and job specification requirements. 10) Company has procedures in place to respond accusations of workplace harassment or bullying. ZED seeks to eliminate workplace violence and harassment. ZED ensures that all employees are able to enjoy a work environment t h a t is free from harassment and free from discrimination including that of race, colour, national origin, ancestry, religion, marital status, age or gender. Any harassment or discrimination of employees or others at ZED is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. ZED expects also from its stakeholders and clients to support these guidelines. ZED will continue to disseminate information to its stakeholders on workplace violence and harassment during 2011. VI ZED Event Management and Consultancy COP 2010 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 – Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 – undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 – encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ZED Policy ZED is an environmentally-conscious c o m p a n y and has a strong sense of responsibility for the environment. ZED is committed to the environment principles declared in the Global Compact Principles and it supports The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and Agenda 21. ZED continues its efforts to handle the key environmental challenges; in particular, tries to develop its activities in the areas such as research, co-operation, training, and self-regulation that can positively affect the significant environmental degradation and damage to the planet’s life support systems, brought by human activity. ZED applies the precautionary princ iples and seeks to minimize the environmental impact of its activities. Social and environmental impact assessments and reviews are performed regularly throughout the project cycles in accordance with the international standards and requirements. ZED will promote environmental responsibility continuously in every platform in which they operate. 11) Company has a corporate environmental policy & has a precautionary environmental approach or principle. Indicator 1: • ZED has two staff responsible for corporate social responsibility Company has a department/person responsible for environmental issues issues auditing the implementation of environmental principles and defining new strategies to minimize the environmental impact of ZED. Indicator 2: • ZED’s responsible staff defines andsets the environmental targets in January of each new year. Company has quantified environmental targets that have been defined for the VII Indicator 3: • ZED organizes training and awareness programmes (once a year) for its Company conducts training programmes to increase awareness and staff in order to achieve continual progress in environmental protection responsibility level and to give information on environmental threats to its performance. employees. • ZED regularly gives update information and reminds the responsibilities to reduce impact on environment through the memos and newsletters distributed in house. Indicator 4: • ZED takes precautionary measures to minimize the environmental Company has policies and initiatives aimed to reduce greenhouse gas impact of its activities. Social and environmental impact assessments emissions, solid wastes, emissions and discharges, energy consume, water or and reviews are performed regularly throughout project cycles in increase water reuse or aimed to improve biodiversity. accordance with international standards and requirements. • ZED uses environmental friendly clean technologies, and tries to develop voluntary environmental management systems and environmental standards and to collaborate and exchange information with local, national and international organizations to that end. • ZED started to implement “Green Meetings” approach in the organizations. The aim of greener meetings is to reduce the paper, electricity consumption etc. and to hold meetings that don't cost the earth. • ZED collects the used paper in special containers owned by the Municipality. ZED collected and sent 1500 kg used paper for recycling in 2010. • ZED also encourages employees to reduce paper consumption and to correspond and communicate through the electronic system. • ZED continuously reminds its staff to reduce water consumption through in house memos. • The oil consumption of the company vehicles are regularly checked by the internal audit system. ZED has a standard system which sets all necessary precautions to reduce the petrol consumption of the vehicles. ZED used more economic in fuel and carbon less cars in 2010. VIII Indicator 5: • ZED has never received any penalty associated with environmental Incidents of and fines for non-compliance with all applicable international issues. declarations/conventions/treaties and national, sub-national, regional and local regulations associated with environmental issues. 12) Company has initiatives to use renewable energy sources and to increase energy efficiency. ZED has an electricity compensation system which collects and turns the waste energy into the reusable energy. The 20% of total electricity consumption of ZED is the recycled electricity provided by the electric compensation system. ZED also has a latest technology, smart air conditioning system which regulates the energy consumption according to the air temperature outside. 13) Company has criteria for the selection of suppliers that includes environmental policies or management systems. Indicator 1: • 7 of ZED suppliers have environmental policies and they use Number of suppliers with environmental policies or management systems. environment friendly technologies. ZED always tries to create awareness on environmental issues and implementation of environment friendly principles between its suppliers. Indicator 2: • The goods and the services of the suppliers who concerns The effect of the environment policies of suppliers on the cost of the goods environment and act through, are always costs more. For and services instance; the cost of a brochure which is printed on a recycled paper with biological ink is two-three times expensive than a brochure printed on normal paper with chemical ink. IX Performance Indicator Analysis 2010 2011(targets) – decrease % Direct Energy Use Total electricity KWh 72.908 5% 1458 (per person) diesel oil(L) 16.625 5% 332.5 (per person) gas (m³) 16.858 5% 337.25 (per person) water use (m³) 498.75 5% 10.5 (per person) other material use (paper-pack / kg) 1 pack= 4~ kg paper 285 pack/ 1 ~ ton 5% Indirect Energy Use indirect energy use (such as organizational travel) number of flights of 908 flights the ZED staff 791 domestic flights 30% 117 international flights Recycling recycling and reuse of energy -KWh 17.498 2% increase (24% of total consumption) recycling and reuse of paper kg 1500 2% increase X ZED Event Management and Consultancy COP 2010 ANTICORRUPTION Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ZED Policy ZED Event Management and Consultancy is against any kind of corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ZED has its own informally declared code of conduct as a core value of its corporate culture. ZED works on developing a formal mechanism for increased transparency in its operations. ZED takes consider into its suppliers and all stakeholders approach in anti-corruption. 14) Company has a policy, procedures/management systems, and compliance mechanisms f o r organizations a n d employees addressing bribery and corruption. Indicator 1: • ZED is against any kind of corruption in all its forms, including Company has a policy, procuders /management systems controls bribery and extortion and bribery. ZED has its own informally declared code of corruption acts and disseminate information on anti-corruption. conduct as a core value of its corporate culture. ZED regularly disseminates information and promotes employee awareness of and compliance with company policy against bribery and corruption. Indicator 2: • ZED’s Financial and Administrative Affairs Department has an auditing Company has a department / staff responsible for controlling bribery and system which controls the bribery and corruption related acts. The corruption actions. department implements disciplinary procedures defined by informal code of conduct. ZED has prepared a draft formal code of conduct and will continue to work on it in the year 2011. 15) Are all political contributions transparent and made in accordance with applicable laws? Yes, ZED ensures that the all political contributions provided are transparent and they are always in accordance with applicable Turkish laws. 16) Are all charitable contributions and sponsorships transparent and made in accordance with applicable laws? Yes, ZED is a social responsible company and provides charitable contributions and scholarships each year. All of them are registered and in accordance with applicable Turkish laws. XI
