Global Citizenship Report 2010 Shared Commitment Welcome Welcome to Alexander Mann Solutions’s (AMS) third Global Citizenship report. Within the following pages, we describe our approach to Global Citizenship, including our performance in 2010 and our future commitments. Through this report, we aim to: • Increase awareness of our Global Citizenship approach and how we’re implementing our strategy • M easure our progress to date, committing to priorities for 2011 and highlighting our aspirations • P rovide transparency and accountability, and support continuous improvement within the programme • D emonstrate our participation in the UN Global Compact and provide our Communication on Progress (COP) This report covers our global business (unless otherwise stated). Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) We’ve taken into account the GRI sustainability reporting guidelines when putting together this report. Find out more at www.globalreporting.org Information Online More information on our Global Citizenship programme can be found on our website www.alexandermannsolutions.com 1 Global Citizenship Report In This Report 1 Welcome 3 A Few Words From Our CEO 4 About AMS 7 Global Citizenship 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Culture & Practices Social & Economic Accountability Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability 33 Employee Wellbeing 41 Inclusion & Diversity 46 Priority Summary 50 Future Aspirations 2 Global Citizenship Report A Few Words From Our CEO Playing a positive role in our communities is not a job of a select few at AMS. In one sense, 2010 can be characterised globally as a year of strengthening economic conditions and confidence. Alongside this restoring stability though, we at AMS took a forward-looking approach to improving the society in which we all live and work. Individually and collectively, I’m proud to see our people year-on-year taking the chance to champion causes that are important to them. And in keeping with our vision of making people the foundation for success, our areas of opportunity for Global Citizenship continue to reside in our personal day-to-day work and decision making – myself included. There can be no better recognition of our devolved-yet-shared responsibility than our being awarded Tomorrow’s People, our UK Charity of Choice, corporate partner of the year. Together, the individual hours and substantial efforts that our employees are committing are making a real difference to the world we live in. Our 2010 report shows that we have made some excellent progress across Corporate Social Responsibility, Employee Wellbeing and Inclusion & Diversity. But of course we will not stop there and in 2011, we reaffirm our commitment to the ten tenets of the UN Global Compact. My vision continues to be for AMS to lead and drive change in the recruitment and resourcing industry as a whole. We’ll do this by developing standards, charters and codes of conduct that will support all our clients in delivering against their (and our) Global Citizenship priorities. Building upon the success of our employee-led approach, I’m looking forward to sharing in 2011 what improvements our Global Citizenship Project Team achieves throughout the coming year. Until then, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our people for their unwavering passion and dedication to a more sustainable future. In the same way that each of you contributes to our economic success at AMS, you play a critical role in our Global Citizenship achievements. Rosaleen Blair Founder and CEO Alexander Mann Solutions 3 Global Citizenship Report About AMS About AMS What we do AMS builds world-class talent and resourcing capability for some of the world’s leading companies, acting as a trusted advisor to deliver a range of measurable solutions through outsourcing and consultancy services. When we brought Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO) to the European market in 1996, the concept of outsourced recruitment didn’t exist. Today, it’s a multi-billion dollar global industry with AMS leading at the innovation forefront. Organisations of every shape and size are turning to AMS and outsourcing to give them a competitive edge. While RPO remains a key part of what we do, we deliver far more than only outsourcing solutions. Our consulting experts work with clients across the world to optimise and enhance their talent and resourcing programmes. And our capability is far broader than the traditional recruitment remit. We help at every stage of the talent lifecycle, from sourcing and attracting candidates to onboarding new employees to supporting outplacement or redeployment programmes. Who We Work With We partner with a broad range of high profile businesses across many different industry sectors to deliver end-to-end outsourcing and resourcing services. Our clients include: • BAE Systems • Microsoft • Citi • Molson Coors • Covidien • Novartis • Credit Suisse • Rolls-Royce • CSC • Royal Mail • Deloitte • Santander • Freshfields • Vodafone • GE Capital • Zurich 5 Global Citizenship Report About AMS Where we are Delivering talent and resourcing services to over 45 clients throughout the globe is no mean feat, and requires an infrastructure like no other. Our outsourcing solutions involve onsite, embedded teams who are fully integrated into our clients’ organisations in over 60 countries from Argentina and Japan to the Netherlands and Russia. Our clients also benefit from the fact that we’re a true outsourcing organisation. Most of our solutions involve offsite or offshore support from AMS’s network of client service centres. Besides our head office in London, United Kingdom, we have a number of smaller regional centres such as in Melbourne, Australia and Hong Kong, China providing localised, in-country support. And we have three large centres that provide multi-language, multi-time zone remote support to our clients regardless of where they are in the world. These Global Client Service Centres are located in Bracknell, United Kingdom; Krakow, Poland; and Manila, Philippines. Through this unique infrastructure, we’re able to provide unprecedented flexibility and scalability, and leverage low cost centres to provide real competitive and reduced environmental impact. Who we are Mission: We build world-class talent and resourcing capability for organisations, based on the shared belief that people are the foundation for success. As a trusted advisor, we deliver this through innovative and measurable outsourcing and consulting services. Vision: Our business is about people. Our clients, candidates, partners and the communities in which we work. And of course our people, who make it all happen. As such, the vision we have for our organisation is “making people the foundation for success”. Employee Value Proposition (EVP): We offer an inspiring environment where our people can use their energy, enthusiasm and expertise to realise their aspirations and really make a difference. It’s our promise to our employees. Values: Three values encompass our approach to our business, our people and our clients: we are passionate, distinctive and authentic. Strategic Pillars: Core pillars underpin all AMS’s strategic initiatives – in other words, we want to be known in the market for three key elements: global service, operational excellence and strategic insight. 6 Global Citizenship Report About AMS Global Citizenship Global Citizenship At AMS, Global Citizenship is how we give something back. For us, it’s more than donating money to charity. It’s about being accountable for how we manage our impact on the environment and our communities. It’s about the integrity with which we govern our business, Guiding Principles the values we have and what we stand for as a company. When we developed our Global Citizenship Our Global Citizenship programme has a broad remit, grouped into three streams: programme, we had a number of key • Corporate Social Responsibility principles in mind: Corporate Culture & Practices • T o build a picture of best practice in the industry: what industry standards Social & Economic Accountability exist and what blue-chip client Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability organisations are doing • Employee Wellbeing • T o determine our stakeholder needs: what our people want, what our clients • Inclusion & Diversity require and how our communities could or should benefit from our involvement • T o understand what we should achieve from the programme as a business: how it will support our business strategy and goals, how it can help us deliver our EVP and how it will bring our people policies to life • T o identify the strengths and skills in our organisation: how these add value to our communities and stakeholders 8 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Our strategy At AMS, Global Citizenship is an important part of our culture and it is embedded into the way we do business ethically. It’s about us being accountable for our impact on our environment and our communities and it is integral to all our relationships – with clients, employees, suppliers and communities worldwide. We take our corporate social responsibilities seriously, and we don’t believe it’s something that companies should stand still on; we know that we can always do more. We’re constantly looking at new and different ways to make sure that our people are proactive global citizens who have a positive impact on the world around them. In 2007, we signed up as a participant to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, formalising our long-term commitment to being a globally responsible organisation. Participating in the UN Global Compact ensures we remain focussed – on structure, discipline, timescales and deliverables, today and in the future – in our day-to-day activities with regards to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Stakeholder engagement We understand the importance of identifying and engaging our key stakeholders; they provide us with a diverse range of perspectives and experience. This gives us a greater understanding of their expectations and how we can meet them, plus how they can help us achieve our business and Global Citizenship goals. These groups include: Employees • T hrough surveys and roundtable discussions, we can have open dialogue to find out what matters to our people and how they want us to make a difference Clients • B y listening and learning from the world-class organisations that we work with, we can develop our Global Citizenship strategy further Opinion leaders and industry thinkers • B y developing relationships with leading bodies, such as the UN Global Compact, we can draw upon their extensive knowledge and experience Global citizenship stakeholder panel • B y formalising our relationships with a Global Citizenship Stakeholder Panel, we can expand the types of stakeholders we engage, outline our stakeholder engagement standards and regularly capture different perspectives 9 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Accountability Global Citizenship is really important to us and to reflect The Point our commitment to the programme, ultimate responsibility The Point is our internal AMS magazine, produced lies with AMS’s Leadership Team. Our Global Citizenship twice-yearly since 2008 and distributed to every AMS sponsor is David Heath, Global Director of People Capital employee at their home address, no matter where they and Head of IT & Telco and Healthcare & Pharma business are in the world. Its articles – covering everything from units. As a member of our Leadership Team, David reports our achievements with clients to developments from our on our Global Citizenship progress to the group. Central Services teams to industry viewpoints – enables We also have a network of global citizens across our us to share knowledge around the business, and promote business who help us achieve our programme goals via news stories and successes from our teams. The magazine our Global Citizenship Project Team, led by a stakeholder is a great place to showcase successes and initiatives in panel. Membership to the 55-strong Project Team is open Global Citizenship and it features in every issue. to all employees globally but we do look for a cross-section of AMS people who are passionate about managing our impact on our communities, driving change in our business and setting best practice for our industry. Ultimately, we’re a firm believer that being a global The Point Making Connec tions citizen is something that every individual has a chance to champion and so at AMS, everyone’s involvement in Global Citizenship is supported. AMS’s Magazi ne for Our People Edition 06 | October 2010 Internal Communications A Fingerlisten on the Pulviews se ing to your How we’re on them – and acting We use a wide range of offline and online channels to keep Overcoming Preconception Down Undences er s The Point our people up-to-date, using as many of these channels as al differ Making tackles cultur Connec AMS Australia urcing and offsho ring tions towards outso on the World possible and appropriate to engage people. As part of the Window Three different views on intern AMS job transfers within ational UN Global Compact, Global Citizenship forms an important part of our internal communications and it has a dedicated The AMS magazi ne Edition 05 | May 2010 2 stream within our Marketing plan. Some highlights on how 8/10/10 09:19:37 we raise awareness and gain interest include: The Point_6_1 to18.indd 2 The Innovation The iLab mem bers have their Lab tested and their creative agility first meeting at Google Knowledge Exchange Achieving susta ATOMic Pow er inable succe a scalable, world ss through -class delive ry model As an international organisation, our primary business How our team in the Philippines After the Rain affected by the assisted comm communications and knowledge-sharing tool at AMS is recent devas unities tating floods the Knowledge Exchange, a SharePoint-based Intranet. Its online platform allows our people – whether working from The Point_5_1 to16.indd 2 2 home, at a client site or from one of our offices – to work 14/4/10 11:43:43 collaboratively on an international basis. It also provides a mechanism for corporate content distribution, including company news and information about our business areas. We have a dedicated Global Citizenship portal where people can read and download information about the programme, and a site where people can openly collaborate on initiatives and ideas. 10 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Corporate Induction Measurement It’s no surprise that the strongest companies are those We set priorities at the beginning of each year and that are built on solid foundations. The same came report on these Global Citizenship targets on a quarterly be said about providing AMS new joiners with a solid basis to our Leadership Team. We publish the overall ‘launchpad’ when they join our team. Done right, an results, our progress and our future priorities ever year in induction programme creates a good first impression, this Global Citizenship report. aligns employee expectations with our company’s Beyond this, during 2009 and 2010, we made the decision goals, enables immediate productivity and encourages to actively increase our reporting and accreditations – integration into the wider AMS community. especially those requiring external validation. This ensures One of the ways that we achieve this is monthly we not only self-assess but are reviewed by external corporate inductions in our regional offices. Hosted by auditors and bodies with specialist knowledge. guest speakers from across all levels and teams, a range For instance, the Carbon Disclosure Project (see page 31) of topics including our Global Citizenship programme and the International Organisation for Standardisation and how anyone can get involved is covered at a (page 29) play an enormous part in ensuring we are leisurely and social pace. consistently reviewing our targets and measuring our performance against our long-term plans. CheckPoint Towards the end of 2010, we also made the decision AMS has a real focus on sharing information about to incorporate Global Citizenship within our Balanced the business with the people who drive the business Business Scorecard by including a measure of our – our employees. Since 2008, we produce frequent demographic profile within management positions. videocasts – Checkpoint – where our Leadership Team The objective is to increase the profile of women in delivers key business updates on performance, pipeline management positions and the profile is measured on and strategic programmes. We chose this method of a quarterly basis. interaction to ensure consistent communications across all geographies and client-site locations. Accessible from any internet point anywhere in the world at a time best convenient to our employees, CheckPoint allows people to hear our Leadership Team directly presenting key messages on a regular basis. This supports our environmental aspirations (using technology to reduce our carbon footprint) and Employee Wellbeing initiatives (work-life balance). David Heath, our Leadership Team sponsor, takes the opportunity each CheckPoint to report back to the business on our Global Citizenship progress, featuring a different global activity each time. Corporate induction 11 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship 2010 Commitment Progress 2010 Commitments Status To realise our deferred 2009 commitment to develop our criteria for Global Citizenship measurement Complete beyond hard targets, self-assessment and commentary of impacts. We will do this by reviewing additional factors such as performance indicators and internal or external assessment tools. 2011 Commitment Summary 2011 Commitments Increase our stakeholder engagement by formalising a group of employee representatives from across our business to become our Global Citizenship Project Team. These volunteers will commit to allocating a percentage of their time and overall objectives to Global Citizenship at AMS. 12 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is made up of three distinct areas – Corporate Culture & Practices, Social & Economic Accountability, and Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability. Key Achievements Corporate Culture & Practices • Producing and globally distributing communication mediums, The Point and CheckPoint • Hosting senior management cascades and events • Introducing Launchpad, our new onboarding initiative • Producing our second annual Global Citizenship report • Reviewing processes, policies and practices Social & Economic Accountability • Remaining a strong partner of our Polish Charity of Choice, Leonardo • W  orking with our Australian employee population to expand our vision for Charity of Choice within Australia • Remaining a strong partner of our UK Charity of Choice, Tomorrow’s People • Gaining external recognition for our work on Global Citizenship • C reating a self-managed volunteering initiative where employees generate and implement their ideas • Identifying annual fundraising events within our regions to raise £20,000 globally Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability • C ontinuing using our Environmental Management System (EMS) and remaining accredited (OHSAS 18001; ISO 14001) • Widening the scope of the supplier risk framework and continuing to monitor supplier compliance • Continuing e-cards throughout all regions • Continuing using environmentally-friendly paper and printing materials for marketing collateral • Continuing to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) • C ontinuing improving and protecting our environment through committee or employeeled initiatives 14 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Culture & Practices To really make a difference in our organisation, CSR must be embedded into our culture, in our processes, policies and practices. It must be aligned to our strategy and we must take a long-term view. To act in a globally responsible way, we must review The October edition covered further issues, such as: the initiatives, codes and schemes that we can learn • “ A Finger on the Pulse” – how we’re listening to our from, and pride ourselves on a fair, ethical and inclusive employees’ views – and acting on them approach to our business, our people and our clients. • “ Overcoming Preconceptions Down Under” – tackling cultural differences towards outsourcing and Achievements made offshoring in Australia • “ AMS Fundraises Across the Globe” – an update on the Producing and globally distributing fantastic efforts of our global teams to hit our 2010 communication mediums, The Point and Global Citizenship £20,000 fundraising commitment CheckPoint (page 26) Publishing The Point • “ Window on the World” – three different views on As mentioned on page 10, The Point is our semi-annual international job transfers within AMS employee magazine. During 2010, we continued using The Point’s continued success has ensured this communication channel to ensure our people are commitment to the semi-annual production and informed and engaged on a range of subjects across the distribution of the magazine for 2011 as one of our key business. We met our commitment of producing and communication channels. globally distributing two editions of The Point – Edition Five and Six were distributed in May and October respectively. The Innovation Lab Seth Armstrong, Elin Eklöf, Jamie Payne) The May edition covered a number of diverse topics, from Stephanie Robinson, Aleksandra Dura (with contributions The First Meeting The Team have shown, innovators s. In at Google successful inside a busines The inaugural iLab meeting was held in the hallowed halls of Google and At the beginning of our session one thing originate and what If there’s Martin was a real eye opener to how innovation can be embedded and promoted we learned a bit about ourselves including: ideas often n Blair and it’s that great of The Point, Rosalee ion at AMS, in an organisation. Google lives and breathes their ethos, “You don’t have innovation means to us. of innovat the last edition ed the importance within the to wear a suit to be serious”. This makes for a relaxed atmosphere designed innovation Cerullo discuss a plan to embed ion team. Since to get the best from employees and give them the most stimulating “Innovation is the ability to tap into the ted ed Innovat and highligh now known company’s employees, with a dedicat – and it’s environment possible in return. value-creating ideas of a organisation has been created parties – and that team of this exciting partners, clients and other then, this In honour in ion Lab (iLab). edition of the In fact, Google has embraced innovation to the extent that it’s mandated will drive growth and performance.” as the Innovat we’ve themed this Rosaleen Blair their job descriptions. Every Google employee is required to spend 20% of development, Innovation Issue’. their time on projects outside of their core job description – and the success ‘The magazine to involve of these initiatives influences their overall performance rating. “Never accepting ‘this can’t be done’. It’s we needed That we and tested, and was clear in the iLab. about challenging the tried outset, it business • “ The Innovation Lab” – highlighting our plan to From the rm and draw deliver value for all over the , brainsto At the meeting we spoke to an innovation consultant, Bettina Von Stamm. championing new ideas to people from to discuss The iLab our people, our clients and our shareholders.” frequently into action. Bettina has worked with many large organisations, helping to drive, inspire should meet put them of Innovation, AMS) ideas and source, and develop innovation, and she gave us a new perspective on the Martin Cerullo (Director out the best from every from innovation new ideas innovation challenges we face. aims to harness and creating changes. discovering, developing channels. in 140 characters... “Not being afraid of disturbances, learn how take the previously unconnected “Why are you an innovator?” To progress, you need to most out of every experience.” embed innovation within AMS with a dedicated Consulting) Aleksandra Dura (Operations create or even just “What new ideas can we The Selection Process evolve to make people’s lives easier, better and We wanted to give everyone a chance to discover Cultural Change relatively easy. However, for more exciting?” Jamie Payne (BAE Systems) their creative side. We asked the ‘applicants’ to way, innovation is to the wider AMS in a fully connected For those working sites with limited access respond to the statement: “Why are you an those based on client innovation can be idea, it’s an idea innovation team, involving people from all over the many at AMS (especially and discuss our thoughts), “Innovation is not only an innovator” in only 140 characters (the length of a can be difficult to meet sharing ideas and learning that’s put into practice and demonstrates Twitter feed!). We had 55 people send us their team and where it is ultimately about is because innovation solutions in isolation. answers and 30 finalists were put through to the more challenging. This trying to create new added value.” from one another, rather than continually Elin Eklöf (Scottish & Newcastle) second stage – an innovative assessment! as much as we should, about what we’re doing together, in a don’t stop to think from day-to-day “Innovation is about working As a company, we it. Good ideas are generated This phase proved to be a little more gruelling. we’re too busy doing as these ideas are supportive and constructive way, respecting generally because to connect and collaborate look at Candidates went through a psychometric for people – just of others and business who meet frequently to discuss, brainstorm important and ideas the thoughts and experiences experiences, and it’s able to share thoughts assessment in the form of a brainstorming exercise well-equipped to be with colleagues, AMS listening to their achievements.” created. We’re already approach to collaborating – eight questions designed to test originality, If we can take the same for the future. Stephanie Robinson (Operations Consulting) social networking. and be better prepared innovative speed and creative agility. The top eight faster than our competitors demonstrated exceptionally high scores and they will grow and adapt AMS new initiatives to drive should be encouraged begin to see some “Everyone in our company became our iLab. and months you’ll vision. Change is not new ideas to make Over the coming weeks innovation and pioneering to present and implement foster a culture of the right tools to our colleagues more involved.” to a new level and the space to develop it’s about giving people Katarzyna Rafalska (Heineken) and put into action our best ideas about being dictatorial, from top to bottom. of all it’s about mind-set, change, and most be put whether they could work, but someone in, looks at how and “Ideas don’t always have to that takes your ideas to us, visit our site else’s conundrum could be our next big success.” The iLab is a channel Come up and talk ensures they’re implemented. – we want to hear from everyone! Laura Goodrum (AMEX) into action and then brainstorm and suggest and comment, communicate, 16 /innovationlab/ https://www.th eknowledgeexchange.info/sites • “ Project ATOM” – achieving sustainable success 15 through a scalable, world-class outsourcing delivery model aptly named ‘AMS Target Operating Model’ “The Point is a massively • “ After the Rain” – how our team in the Philippines assisted communities affected by Typhoon Ketsana, impactful communication and both financially and physically I think its key to enhancing • “ Employee Assistance Programme” – promoting our impartial, 24-hour, 365day helpline and face-toAMS brand awareness and face counselling service (page 35) thought leadership” 15 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Broadcasting CheckPoint Communications initiatives such as these have helped increase CheckPoint, as earlier introduced on page 11, provides a employee access to information about AMS’s business, global update from our Leadership Team on key business strategy, performance and successes. They provide a structure projects and priorities. Since its inception, CheckPoint has for employee consultation and feedback on initiatives that are evolved to meet the needs of our people. For instance, important to our people. in 2010, we aired our first live version to allow our employees to interact with our speakers in a moderated question and answer session. Hosting senior management cascades and events During 2010, three CheckPoint videocasts were made available to our employees in April, July and October. In 2009, we deferred our commitment of hosting two Each edition included a spotlight on Global Citizenship global senior manager events due to cost considerations initiatives such as: in the prevailing economic climate. In place of this, we strengthened our management cascade with more • Announcing our quarterly Inspiring Award winners structured communications, timelines and produced a • P romoting and recognising our Polish and UK set of guidelines for cascading information. For instance, respective fundraising events information sessions open to all senior management are led by members of our Leadership Team prior to • A ddressing the results and subsequent action plan cascading messages to teams, to ensure consistency from our employee survey and understanding in the dissemination of information throughout our organisation. “The aspirational In 2010, we continued our focus on management cascades, incorporating the following initiatives into our components and financial commitment to ensuring our managers are consulted on strategy and kept informed of our business priorities: drivers behind company • S enior management business updates – AMS’s decision-making are apparent Chief Financial Officer, Gordon Stuart, hosts on a through CheckPoint and quarterly basis interactive phone conferences with senior managers. Two sessions are booked for the managerial cascades” same day – one in the morning, one in the afternoon – to ensure attendees globally can dial in at a time suitable for their time zone. Within these calls, Gordon provides information on AMS’s financial performance and business objectives as well as global market outlooks, and provides the opportunity for senior managers to ask frank questions. These calls are followed-up with supporting documents to allow our senior managers to comfortably, swiftly and accurately cascade the same information to their respective teams. July 2010 16 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Team building exercises at the AMS People Managers’ Summit 2010 “I have attended several leadership courses with previous employers, but the AMS Leadership Academy is the most inspiring • A  MS People Managers’ Summit 2010 – In January, a two-day event was arranged to allow our Leadership Team to share their vision for our company and our role in development an ever-changing market. We brought in external experts from the HR outsourcing market and our client base to shed light on where the industry is heading and our programme I position within it. We shared success stories and highlighted how these can be have attended. capitalised on. We focused clearly on people management as the most valuable skill within our organisation, and helped our managers build a clear picture The programme of their own strengths and to learn how to apply these effectively. clearly lays out the • L eadership Academy – AMS’s Leadership Academy is a three-day leadership development programme for all leaders within our business. Through experiential business expectations learning, structured assessment and feedback, the Academy is the first event in a series of structured subsequent learning interventions with the objective of of us as leaders and developing inspiring leaders. Subsequent to the Academy and at approximately six gives us tools to help to nine month intervals, participants attend further deep dives on specific modules relevant to developing leadership capability. us lead and develop our teams as well as build effective working relationships with our clients” Mark Smith, Client Relationship Director, AMS 17 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility “AMS’s Corporate Induction constituted a very nice introduction to the company, its environment, Introducing Launchpad, our new onboarding initiative rules and procedures to Here at AMS, we understand how important it is to be followed. Additionally, capitalise on a new joiner’s early enthusiasm and quickly envelop them into our culture. In 2010, we worked hard it explained very clearly to create a ‘launchpad’ for new employees; tools and resources that we implemented to help onboard the potential next career joiners include: development steps” • C orporate induction: as introduced on page 11, our corporate induction format was altered so its main purpose is now networking and getting to know our Talking Point global business offering. It is tailored logistically in each AMS hub – as an example, in the UK it is hosted g Our Launchin rters monthly by guest speakers from across all levels and teams, covering a range of topics from our history to a New St ose ies are th compan ongest me came our values, at a leisurely and social pace It’s no su rprise th lid foundations ners with a solid built on at the str so S new joi . The sa right, an that are out providing AM r team. Done pression, ab n ou im be said they joi es a good first any’s ad when at mp launchp programme cre ns with our co • N ew joiner welcome packs: an AMS LaunchPad pack – induc tio em n plo cta tio yee expe te productivity ity. an d encour ages aligns media mmun ables im r AMS co containing a welcome letter from our CEO, marketing goals, en into the wide integrat ion ramme inclu des the use of a effectiv bud dy, someon of advice e source starter a e and – our prog can be an In short: helping to the floor collateral and an induction checklist of pre-arrival, 3. Buddy the ropes and loyees. cture round of who kno ws new emp tional stru Ruth Smy th t recent ement for from our organisa the mos people intodon encourag ng es from everythi e. ned key them we onboard (par navigate wledge Exchang it’s plan rs whether atic O ne of the d’ visits was how rd your feedback is to the to Kno occu on boa ion plan rience dram first day, first week and first three-month activities – Roa ing expe ion has ‘On the . Taking nt orientat e changes onboard orientat feel isolated, lost , orga nisation how importa e som kly, an lann ed’ our ion of put in plac ing’ experience Quite fran And yet, an ’unp loyee can cases, recognit we have new emp in extreme a single ) and in com for or not. s – a confused their role and, the pun ess of our people, seamless ‘wel sion in and not future succ le a smooth and de: repercus impact process takes enab e high lights inclu red its ble to have an be an ongoing stment AMS ly cited that will ion may an inve is posted to each new AMS employee globally Thre alte una t common to work?” joiners. atically w Orientat y, but it’s for our new – we have dram gett ing to kno resigns. s resp onsibilit probably the mos t place is a grea ction Eve nt orking and st speakers departm ent’ ‘People’ at makes AMS te Indu ose is netw by gue ory . After all, 1. Corporathat its main purp Hosted monthly cs from our hist seriously the question “Wh so . topi to format offering range of . response al business ls and teams, a social pace our glob rely and ss all leve at a leisu from acro es are covered sistent and te a con a to our valu help crea have created • P ortal on Knowledge Exchange: within our Intranet, r’s Too lkit – to ally, we ctin ga Manage ing process glob r to when indu points 2. People oard to refe s, ised onb for managers o checklist three standard des to-d step tool kit kit inclu loyee’s first step-bymember. The tool estions for an emp the “My Induction” section provides our new joiners new team and activity sugg of contact employment. of months e Answers b: All th up-to-date resources to familiarise themselves with The Hu ce in One Pla Exchange, the Hubtion Knowled ge ce, informa AMS. ction of is a colle ance on and guid sites On the urces, advi with AMS including a welcome video from our CEO ing reso loyment contain ct of your emp every aspe 34 tion s My Induc e of tool ss to a rang and buddy ides acce n ction prov including inductio l induction 10:11:25 , My Indu ters, loca 8/10/10 In the Hub s for new star videos, urce ry training, information. and reso links to mandato • P ost-induction survey: on their three-month mark, of klist s, ful sources chec r help s and othe material new starters are automatically sent a survey to The Point _6_17to34 .indd 34 determine what their LaunchPad experience has been like. The results help us focus improvements on the areas of most need “I attended my Corporate Induction and I loved it. I loved meeting AMS team members and the day was very enjoyable. Made me feel like a closer member of the family” Corporate induction 18 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Producing our second annual Global Reviewing processes, policies and practices Citizenship report During 2010, we reviewed our processes, policies and We formally joined the UN Global Compact as a practices for each country we operate in to ensure we participant at the end of 2007. One of the clear were in line with our UN Global Compact aspirations, commitments that a company makes when it joins best practice and local legislation. the UN Global Compact is to produce an annual COP. This type of review now forms part of our People This requirement ensures accountability, transparency Capital ‘best practice’ annual continuous improvement and drives continuous improvement. approach to any policy and process review conducted In 2010, we produced our second annual report, “Global within any of our regions. All regional HR managers at Citizenship Report 2009: Sustainable Growth”, meeting AMS are aware of our continued commitment to the our UN Global Compact COP requirements including the UN Global Compact and how our processes, policies CEO statement, a description of practical actions and and practices form a foundation to this. Our reviews are measurement of expected outcomes. Through our annual conducted in full understanding of our people strategy Global Citizenship Report we aim to: and EVP to ensure that any recommendations for change are in alignment with these. • Increase awareness of our Global Citizenship approach and how we’re implementing our strategy It is also extremely important when we are establishing ourselves in a country for the first time, • Measure our progress to date, committing to priorities as we need to understand and comply with local laws, for the next year and highlighting our aspirations human rights, labour standards and anti-corruption. • Provide transparency and accountability, and support We use external legal and other advisory experts in continuous improvement within the programme each region to ensure compliance. • Demonstrate our participation in the UN Global Compact and provide our COP The October edition covered further topics, including: Posting “CheckPoint”, a • “Mapping the Market” Leadership Team Global CitizenshipFuture A – helping organisations understan Communication Tool the talent landscape and d how to source the best CheckPoint was released • “A Finger on the Pulse” in September 2008 as a – an update on the Leadership published on the Knowledg videocast spirations roundtables and the future Team e Exchange, and provides of engagement at AMS update from the Leadership an Report 2009 Team on key business projects • “A Culture of Opportun and priorities. ity” – using internal mobility resource management to and broaden career developm We chose this method of ent interaction to ensure consistent communications across all geographies or client locations. Accessible from site any internet point anywhere Sustainable Growth the world, CheckPoint allows in people to see the Leadership Team presenting key messages The Point having to travel or stay away on a regular basis without from home. This supports our Making Connections environmental aspiration s (using technology to reduce our carbon footprint) and employee wellbeing initiatives (life balance). Since its inception, CheckPoin t has been enhanced significantly. It now focuses on priorities, performance, pipeline, people and strategic programmes. As Ale threexan der Mann Somade available to2009, CheckPoint videocasts were During Citize employees via the Knowledg lutinion our s’Julyleadership and nsh e Exchange October.ip,EachI’ve bee March, sponsor for Glo topics included Globaln actively involv edition includes a ‘spotlight’ 2009 since I join spotlight ed Awards, ed in the bal Mapping the Market Helping organisations understand the talent landscape and how to source the best PulsePoint and thenalbuStrategy. Internatio Citizenship, Inspiring siness. programme 2009 was a year of turbu A Finger on the Pulse seen forward lence, uncer An update on the Leadership Team movement in tainty and econ roundtables and the future of goals from 2009 our Global Citize omic hardship. engagement at AMS nship efforts, Yet despite the , and a comm and enter 2010 prevailing cond A Culture of Opportunity itment to achie with notable itions, we have Using internal mobility and resource management We’re working ving more. achievements to broaden career development hard Citizenship progr to embed the Comm values itment against our 2 amme, and it for al2010 of the UN Glob Compact throu in the harde has been heart ghout our busin st times. Follo ening to see the number wing the To produce devastating AMS peop ess as part of of AMS and globally distribute twoleeditions storms and embracing the our Global but to help them people throu ofghou The tPoint to ensure the world flood s in the Philip spirit of globa l citizenship to help their whoour employees reach ed out – are pines in late 2009, I was even the world dona comm informed “I loved the article on mark ted over £6,00 unity and engaged in a time of on a range of subjects great need. In not only to help their teammate humb led at et goods to the Red Cross to 0 to across the recov help the recov the business. ery efforts; and the first week alone, AMS s in Manila, mapping. I’ve passed this hand is an indica tion of the type ery effort. I firmly at offices throu ghout the UK staff throughou t onto aspirations. of people at AMS, of their believe this willingness to and Europe, they donated a colleague whose client Commitment for 2010d values and it share reach out and lend a helpi may My long-term vision for Glob is reflective of our organ ng isation’s benefit from this.” both within all the relevant our business al Citizenship To produceatthree and the wider AlexaCheckPoin nder Mann t videocasts Solutions rema accreditations featuring mark et. AMSfrom messages ins the same to our stake from globally needthe s toLeadership be in a posit Team. : it is a vehic holders that recognised sourc ion where we le for change, standard. Howe we take our es. These accre have comfortab The Point’s success has ensured ver, it’s also comm itments serio ditations are ly secured commitment to the need to. I want important that usly, and that important to production and distributio us to be recog we constantly we’re operating demonstrate n of the magazine for 2010 nised as best strive for bette to a consistent as one of our key communic If you’d like in class acros r and that we’re , recognised ation channels. to discuss Alexa s all our Glob not just doing contact me nder Mann Solut al Citizenship what we on david.heat ions’ Global programmes. suzanne.mannix h@alexma Citizenship progr @alexmann.com nn.com, or our Global Citize amme, pleas e do get in touch nship Project . You can Consultant Suzan ne Mannix on 15 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsi David Heath Globalbility Director of People Capi tal & Internat ional Business 51 Global Citiz ensh ip Report Futu re Aspiratio ns 19 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Commitment Progress 2010 Commitments Status To produce and globally distribute two editions of our employee magazine, The Point, to ensure our Complete employees are informed and engaged on a range of subjects across the business. To produce three CheckPoint videocasts featuring messages from the Leadership Team. Complete To host two global senior manager events to cascade messages, consult on strategy and keep them Complete informed about our business priorities. To produce our second annual Global Citizenship Report, meeting our UN Global Compact Complete COP requirements. To conduct a formal review of all processes, policies and practices for each country to ensure we Complete were in line with our UN Global Compact aspirations, best practice and local legislation. 2010 Additional Progress 2010 Further Progress Introducing Launchpad, our new onboarding initiative. 2011 Commitment Summary 2011 Commitments To produce and globally distribute two editions of The Point to ensure our employees are informed and engaged on a range of subjects across the business. To produce three CheckPoint videocasts featuring messages from the Leadership Team. To conduct quarterly Senior Management Business Updates, led by a member of the Leadership Team. To host one People Managers Summit. To maintain our focus on the delivery of AMS’s Leadership Academy to all senior managers across the business, extending the Academy to aspiring leaders within our management community as well as delivering structured follow up modules to the 2010 Academy participants. To produce our third annual Global Citizenship Report, meeting AMS’s UN Global Compact COP requirements. 20 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Social & Economic Accountability As a global organisation, we must ensure that we are protecting and improving the local communities in which we operate. We should invest in projects that have positive, long-term effects on our communities. Achievements made Remaining a strong partner of our Polish Charity of Choice, Leonardo The Foundation for Social Development Support “Leonardo” was established in October 2002 in Krakow, Poland, and works with individuals and families from difficult social backgrounds, or those disconnected from the community and job market. The charity supports these individuals with the aim of increasing their chances of gaining employment. We at AMS have been working with them since February 2008. During 2010, we continued to support Leonardo through a number of initiatives. Education In 2010, Leonardo had an independent volunteer working with them permanently to deliver educational classes. Due to this, we scaled back our 2010 education delivery commitment from 30 hours to 20 hours with the view to increasing this support again in 2011 when their volunteer will no longer be in place. English knowledge is considered a must in a number of working environments in Poland. As such, during 2010, we delivered 10 hours of English courses. AMS has ready to use materials that are available to our employees to deliver to clients of Leonardo at request. During 2010, we also delivered 10 hours of job interview workshops, which are critical as gaining employment for their clients is a key goal of Leonardo’s. This is an area, in light of our recruitment industry expertise, that our employees have particularly strong skills and knowledge that they can share to support our Charity of Choice and their clients. Sessions are customised to meet the needs of the attendees and include tips on self-presentation, CVs and competency based interviews. Ad-hoc support In our Global Client Service Centre Further support for Leonardo was delivered through ad-hoc events such as the sale in Poland, we have a team of 12 of Leonardo’s Valentine, birthday and Christmas cards at AMS Krakow reception and people who are committed to Global lottery fundraisers. Citizenship activities and meet on a The annual fundraising event for Poland, as discussed on page 26, also supported monthly basis as a committee to discuss Leonardo as the only recipient of all fundraising and donations achieved. our goals and activities. 21 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Working with our Australian employee population to expand our vision for Charity of Choice within Australia In August 2010, our Global Citizenship team asked our Australian employees to suggest and vote on an updated Charity of Choice and a potential fundraising initiative to help our local communities. Due to the geographical spread of employees across the sizeable country, it was difficult for one particular charity or event to suit our purposes. This being the case, it was decided that for 2010 we would focus on individual efforts and employees were able to support a cause that was particularly significant to them. As part of our volunteer day programme, all employees worldwide are offered the opportunity to take a paid day off to participate in a local or global community initiative. An example is Edward Atkinson, an AMS employee from Sydney, who volunteered with a local charity that mentors vulnerable, financially disadvantaged 15 to 16 year old students. Whilst Australia is a developed country, it has 712,000 school aged children “I was surprised just in families where neither parent works therefore provide no working role model. how quickly Andy and Edward was matched with a 16 year old school boy called Andy and they had a fixed time each week where they communicated for one hour for 20 weeks. Edward’s I were able to build up role was to explore and expand Andy’s limited career aspirations while providing a stable working role model. Andy said that he enjoyed the communication and that a relationship in a chat he really got a lot out of the programme. Edward has signed onto the scheme again room. What shocked for 2011 and will be matched with a new student in May. Edward has also referred 12 people – candidates, colleagues and clients – who all want to be part of this me was that he had mentoring programme. very limited career aspirations… This was his final school year and he didn’t have access to many working role models or much stability in his home-life” Edward Atkinson 22 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Remaining a strong partner of our UK Charity of Choice, Tomorrow’s People Since 2005, our UK Charity of Choice has been Tomorrow’s People. We started with a focus on fundraising, but over the last six years the relationship has developed significantly. We now have a strategic partnership with shared objectives, and we work closely together with Tomorrow’s People to achieve these. Getting People Back to Work Since the charity was founded During 2010, we continued to support Tomorrow’s People through our skills in 1984, Tomorrow’s People has development and work experience programme, “Getting People Back to Work”. helped 440,000 unemployed Created in partnership with the charity, it focuses on supporting their clients into people into work. Their mission full-time paid employment. is to empower individuals to Skills workshops move forward with their lives, often overcoming difficult or In 2010, volunteers from around our business hosted 17 workshops (70% over demoralising circumstances to target) covering 138 participants which focused on ‘work ready’ skills such as move into sustainable jobs. building a good CV and interview techniques. Workshop locations across the UK included London, Bristol, Plymouth, Glasgow, Merseyside, Brighton and Newcastle. All AMS volunteers are accredited to deliver these skills workshops after successfully completing a one-day “Trainer Engagement Training”’ course provided by our Career Development Centre. Work experience After attending our skills workshops, clients of Tomorrow’s People are qualified to participate in an unpaid work experience placement at AMS or at one of our clients. Work experience placements provide people the opportunity to develop and practice key skills, gain a valuable addition to their CV and build confidence. We benefit by having access to enthusiastic and job-ready individuals for up to 16 hours per week, for anything from two weeks to three months. The placements are at no cost to AMS and can help with specific projects, tasks or peaks in activity. No expectations are set of permanent roles as a result of the placement but work experience often leads to people being able to apply for, and being offered paid employment, within the same organisation or within other organisations. rkshop trainer During 2010, we had six work experience placements within AMS (falling slightly S vo lunteer skills wo Ruth Perry, an AM short of target), including with our Facilities, Sales and Bid teams, and as assistants to our Leadership Team and one placement was on client site at a law firm. Taslima, a Tomorrow’s People client, said “My work experience with AMS has been very valuable and worthwhile, and I am very grateful to have been chosen for the “I thought it was placement. Prior to the placement I was lacking in confidence and was disheartened great. The speakers by my employment prospects because I was having no luck in getting back into employment. What working with AMS has done is that it has helped boost my were amazing and employment prospects as well as broadening them. It has helped in filling a gap in my CV, has given me corporate level admin experience and more importantly thorough and covered it has shown me what I am capable of doing and has given me the confidence and all the areas I wanted motivation get back into employment. I can now demonstrate to employers a wide range of duties I have carried out and the skills, initiative, and maturity that comes to know about” with having experience”. Diana, Tomorrow’s People client 23 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility London Marathon Since its inception, the London Marathon has become one of the world’s biggest and most prestigious marathons. Every year tens of thousands of people fulfil their dreams and ambitions by managing to successfully complete the arduous 26.9 mile course around London. It also provides a unique way to raise many thousands of pounds for charities and their beneficiaries. In fact, in 2009, it set a Guinness World Record by raising a highly commendable £47.2m, the largest annual fundraising event. In 2010, AMS employee Madeleine Blackburn took on this challenge to fundraise Madeleine Blackburn for Tomorrow’s People. As part of her winning this spot, she: fundraising provides m cheque to To arathon morrow’s P • Tackled the 26.9 mile course around London on 25th April 2010 eople • Followed a 16-week training plan to prepare for the marathon • W rote a runner’s profile and weekly blogs for our Knowledge Exchange to keep everyone at AMS updated on her training and fundraising • S ocialised with other Tomorrow’s People runners to swap fundraising and training tips and act as a support network • S mashed her target by raising an amazing £2,370.50 of unrestricted funds for our Charity of Choice. AMS matched all donations raised by Madeleine up to the first £1,000 to provide added incentive to all donators Ad-hoc support Further support for Tomorrow’s People was delivered through: • A d-hoc sponsorship and events: AMS sponsored Tomorrow’s People Annual Awards for Achievement to the tune of £2,500 (£1,500 for the event and 08:25 Page 1 24/10/10 ro-23-10-10 2010-AwardsB £1,000 dedicated to their client-focused discretionary fund, which helps jobready clients with additional work-related costs). We also hosted the Tomorrow’s People Social Enterprise Flower Stall in our London headquarters on Valentine’s 2010 Awar ds Day and Christmas, offering a selection flowers, plants and gifts for sale to our nt employees for Achieveme • J udging panel: Ruth Smyth, AMS’s Head of HR, represented AMS on the Tomorrow’s People Awards for Achievement Judging Panel in 2010, helping to decide the winners and runners-up across a range of categories Award for Person al Achievement ement Award for Achiev Roger Sterba ity Against Advers • A MS training: Another way in which we support Tomorrow’s People is make Challenge, Working It Out Year Team of the Partne r of the Year Corporate the Year Employer of our Career Development Centre training available to Tomorrow’s People staff Year Partner of the Tomorrow’s People Community 1st Floor of the Year Minster House Ambassador York Road Eastbourne BN21 4ST members. During 2010, seven staff participated in AMS training courses varying 418143 Telephone: 01323 orrowspeople.co.uk Website: www.tomCharity No. 1102759 Registered SC040784 Scotland No. Registered in from Time Management to Influencing & Persuasion. These courses represent a £2,100 cost saving to Tomorrow’s People • F ree office space: Tomorrow’s People continue to be located in our head office in central London, with full access to all support facilities including meeting rooms, kitchens and shower rooms. This represents a cost saving to Tomorrow’s People of £31,000 • A nnual fundraising event: AMS’s fundraising event for the UK, as detailed on page 26, supported Tomorrow’s People as the only recipient of all fundraising and donations achieved 24 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Gaining external recognition for our work on Global Citizenship Ruth Smyt h accepts To morrow’s P eople awar Tomorrow’s People Corporate Partner of the Year d In November 2010, AMS was named 2010 Corporate Partner of the Year for our innovative support and ongoing commitment to our Charity of Choice, Tomorrow’s People. To be acknowledged by Tomorrow’s People as their trusted partner showed that we share their vision of what the world of work can offer to the long-term unemployed. Ruth Smyth, Global Head of HR, was delighted to collect the award on behalf of everyone at AMS at a ceremony in London, attended by the charity’s Royal Patron, HRH The Countess of Wessex. Ruth says, “Winning this award is a huge achievement and could not have been won without the commitment both AMS and Tomorrow’s People have shown in the past year in extending our working relationship. Our people have been especially proactive in volunteering, owning and developing the local expertise they provide Tomorrow’s People – their passion in engaging the charity’s clients with their own innovative ways of support is truly inspiring.” Creating a self-managed volunteering initiative where employees generate and implement their ideas Through the course of 2010, we developed on our Knowledge Exchange an employee portal called “The Hub” – essentially a collection of sites containing resources, advice, information and guidance on every aspect of employment with AMS. A key section is “My Involvement”, bringing together in one place all our Global Citizenship information, enabling employees to view the full range of activities we have across the globe. A key aim of “My Involvement” was to devolve responsibility to self-managed employee groups to take ownership of volunteering and fundraising activities. Success was seen by a wide range of employees identifying potential fundraising activities, voting and then running them with minimal central input. 30/9/10 1 For instance, as discussed on the following page, our UK fundraising event 6postcard.in dd 1 w_joiners_A was successfully managed in this manner. 2011 sees the continuation of more 1-0000216 0_AMS_ne fundraising and volunteering activities been identified and self-organised, enabled of course by “My Involvement” resources. “All of our successes are achieved with the support of others. Working with organisations like AMS who share our mission, we create greater impact with individuals and help more people to move forward positively in their lives. This award recognises the extraordinary efforts of AMS, who has gone the extra mile with us” Baroness Stedman-Scott, Tomorrow’s People CEO 25 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Identifying annual fundraising events within our regions to raise £20,000 globally Annual fundraising event: Poland The Three Peaks Challenge was first conducted in Poland in July 2008. After a successful inaugural event, it was decided that the Three Peaks Challenge should be the regular annual fundraising event in Poland with funds raised going to our Charity of Choice, Leonardo. On 9th July 2010, our 18 brave walkers climbed the Beskid Zywiecki Mountains, a total of 4,019 meters, in an impressive 29 hours. Participation levels were extremely high with nearly everyone in Krakow’s Global Client Service Centre involved in some way. The team raised in excess of PLN 8,500 through many activities – including a dedicated “Raise And Give” month throughout June, which saw activities such as: • Charity auctions • Football and paintball games • Smoothies and cake sales • Karaoke contest • Poker tournament Annual fundraising event: UK In 2010, the UK’s fundraising event was thrown open to our employees to decide by vote. Many great initiatives were suggested, with the final event being chosen as a Cycle Challenge, in support of Tomorrow’s People. The event took place on 24th September, with our riders cycling from Bracknell to London and back again – that’s over 70 miles! We had 17 enthusiastic participants who took part in this event with cyclists and their dedicated supporters raising £5,000. Annual fundraising events: worldwide Volunteering and fundraising is another way in which we contribute to our local communities. General fundraising initiatives and events this year have included: • In lieu of traditional holiday cards to our clients, candidates and suppliers, a £500 donation was made to our Charities of Choice in the UK, Continental Europe and Asia Pacific in December • P yjama Friday in our UK Global Client Service Centre in November raised funds for Children in Need • A nimal shelter fundraising in November where our Poland Global Client Service Centre managed to gather 107 kilograms of animal food, blankets and toys • In December, our Manila colleagues participated in “My Dream in a Shoebox” to provide gifts to public school children. There were 200 children involved in the event and the AMS team bought basic school supplies such as notebooks, pencils and crayons which were placed in shoeboxes and wrapped. • S zlachetna Paczka (“The Noble Gift”) in December which gathered specific gifts for families in need in Krakow, Poland. This support contributed over PLN 5000 worth of goods such as new beds, winter clothing and school materials • T eam charity activity onsite at our clients, like Deloitte and Barclays, raising over £8,000 “Three Peaks was a great and challenging experience for us all” Zbigniew Motak 26 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Developing a shared goals proposal with our Charities of Choice in Asia and the US Charity of Choice Criteria Expanding our network and formalising our Charity of Choice activities in more global locations is key to determining our priorities. And employee consultation Charities of Choice are nominated and ownership on what those causes and events are key to success. For instance, by our employees and voted on by across Asia Pacific and US, we asked our teams to give us their Charity of Choice and all employees within the designated fundraising event suggestions. We collated some great ideas and our employees will country. To qualify as a Charity of be voting and acting on the shortlisted options in 2011. Choice of AMS’s, the charity should: • Be registered • Operate nationwide • B e aligned with our business and have a common interest • H ave no strong political bias or affiliation • B e willing to work with us on a long-term basis, for at least three years 27 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Commitment Progress 2010 Commitments Status To remain a strong partner of Leonardo and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them via Complete fundraising, educational support (30 hours of courses during 2010) and knowledge share. To work with the Australian employee population to consider expanding our vision for Charities of Complete Choice within Australia. To remain a strong partner of Tomorrow’s People and contribute to their overall goals by supporting Partially Complete them through various fundraising and knowledge share initiatives, specifically our “Getting People Back to Work” initiative which we commit to completing at least 10 skills workshops and 10 work experience placements during 2010. To further widen the scope of giving back to the community by creating a self-managed volunteering Complete initiative that provides a place where employees can generate their own ideas and implement them with the support of their colleagues and AMS. To identify at least one annual fundraising event in each region during 2010 with a fundraising goal of £20,000. Complete To create a focused and achievable Shared Goals Proposal regarding one or more charities in Asia, Partially Complete determining our key priorities for the next 12 months. To realise our deferred 2009 commitment to confirm a formal partnership with our US Charity of Partially Complete Choice and develop a Shared Goals proposal. 2010 Additional Progress 2010 Further Progress Status Gaining external recognition for our work on Global Citizenship. 2011 Commitment Summary 2011 Commitments To remain a strong partner of Leonardo and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them via fundraising, educational support (a minimum of 30 hours of courses during 2011) and knowledge share. To promote more individual volunteering and fundraising and work towards a shared goal for the Australian population in regards to helping our local communities. To remain a strong partner of Tomorrow’s People and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them through various fundraising and knowledge share initiatives, specifically our “Getting People Back to Work” initiative which we commit to completing at least 20 skills workshops and 10 work experience placements during 2011. To identify at least one annual fundraising event in each key region during 2010 with a fundraising goal of £20,000 in total. To select and work with appropriate Charities of Choice in both Asia and the US. 28 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Our focus here is to mitigate the potentially OHSAS 18001 damaging effects of our company activities and OHSAS 18001 is an Occupational help protect the environment. Health & Safety Assessment Series for health and safety management As a services provider, our main impacts relate to the use of energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) systems. It promotes a safe and emissions, as well as the natural resources we use and the waste we produce. We seek positive healthy working environment by environmental impacts through relationships with responsible suppliers and clients that share our providing a framework that allows views and aspirations. our organisation to consistently identify and control our health and Achievements made safety risks, reduce the potential for accidents, aid legislative compliance Continuing using our Environmental Management System (EMS) and and improve overall performance. remaining accredited (OHSAS 18001; ISO 14001) This international standard requires us to hold an internal audit yearly Maintaining a high level of compliance in regards to our EMS is important for AMS to ensure and an annual external audit to we are complying with our legal obligations, measuring our performance against our plans and retain the award. reviewing our targets. At a basic level, our EMS requires us to: • Identify our biggest environmental impacts • Set targets to reduce those impacts • Put in place initiatives, projects and awareness campaigns to help us meet the targets International • Check to see if the above projects have been met Organisation for To ensure our EMS is robust, we pursue external audits from globally recognised and reputable Standardisation (ISO) accreditations. In December 2010, we participated in our annual OHSAS 18001 audit and passed with flying colours for all three UK sites. There were no non-conformities, with our focus ISO is the world’s largest developer being on continuous improvement or ongoing management of our processes. and publisher of International Standards. It’s a network of the ISO14001 is an internationally accepted standard that recognises organisations like AMS that national standards institutes of 160 have an effective EMS in place, and is designed to help organisations address the balance countries, one member per country, between maintaining profitability and reducing environmental impact. As an example of ISO with a Central Secretariat in Geneva, 14001 in practice, in 2010, we moved to a managed print service at our head office in London Switzerland, that coordinates the which involves using more environmentally-friendly machines with less energy output and system. Between 1947 and the built-in sleep timers. These multifunction machines meet requirements for the Blue Angel present day, ISO has published environmental award, produce fewer CO² emissions and use environmentally-friendly toner more than 18,500 International which emits 65% less carbon during manufacture. This has reduced our number of printers from Standards, ranging from standards 17 to nine and also removed two fax machines. Toner and paper usage also has reduced as all for activities such as agriculture and machines have been set by default to print in black & white and in duplex mode. construction, through mechanical Also in 2010, our head office in London replaced all our drinking water stations to plumbed engineering, to medical devices, to water stations. The benefits of the new machines include removing the need for plastic bottles, the newest information technology less leakage and no manual handling or H&S risks. developments. 29 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility T OCUREMEN NSIBLE PR FOR RESPO AMS CODE seen as an rcing. We are all stages Introduction: process outsou class processes across recruitment vers world global international sourcing and we rec ogn ised leader in sitio ns, tran sforms and deli recruitment process out erstand that is the ed AMS trus ted par tner who tran ycle. AMS has deliver nts sinc e 1996. We und why we have innovative, lifec clie is cing and recruitment inte rna tion al blue-chip and res pon sibly, which s acr oss the of the resour recruitment services to ss carefully stakeholder of ing our busine s with all our lity not only procurement nt role to play in manag and interaction ing corporate responsibi our activities ws its own Cod e for have a significa core values to govern a stat ed aim in driv , AM S follo of AMS has ble this adopted a set our suppliers. As such, inform and ena g ply chain. To world, includin also within its global sup but within AMS, (“CRP”). Procurement nts, and the Responsible for those clie ple we place e for our k with, the peo vision we hav clients we wor own people. As such, the Vision: s is all abo ut people: the ces ses : our AMS’ busines k hard to deliver those suc tion for success'. people who wor ple the founda is 'Making peo dealings. We work in a organisation s ughout all our and ensure the succes force these thro aviour Values: sha red values and rein values to guide our beh Widening the scope of the supplier risk framework and eve in stro ng, and use our At AM S we beli our clie nts, with ted manner highly integra ships. of our relation Pas sio nat e, Distinctive and Authen tic. organisation, continuing to monitor supplier compliance Our values are sonality as an e a strong per racts with AMS feels this tion s. We also hav inte Personality: vidual interac er as one. Everyone who At AMS, our values guid we deliver whe e our indi n we work togeth hentic, inspiri ng and caring . n, To manage our business carefully and responsibly, we have adopted a an experience are brave, strong, aut of £200Millio ble nd in excess personality. We pro ces s out sourcing with a global spe re of its res ponsibility to inform and ena damental app roach is set of core values to govern our activities and interactions with all our ld lead er in recruitment spa ce, AM S is very awa pro cur em ent. Our fun sible procurement As a wor ur supply principled g that respon predominan tly in the labo iness processes through pon sibl e bus dar d pro curement pro cess, meanin ject . stakeholders across the world, including our suppliers. To inform and enable ethical and res es into our stan er than a stand alone pro sible practic rs to to build respon 'how we do business' is simply see n as rath P, AMS require the AMS CR and to confirm that they all its Supplie use all will this, we follow our own Code for Responsible Procurement (CRP). provisions of P, lementation the AMS CR In accordanc e with the imp ding and acceptance of e their unders tan ply with the CRP. to implement The CRP clearly states guidelines against child and forced labour, providing acknowledg eavours to com all Suppliers reasonable end will encourage ly rep ort on complia nce with the with in AMS CRP and chains. the ir own supply healthy and safe working environments, and anti-bribery practices. tine AMS will rou ir business and P across the the AMS CR ement: The AMS Cod e for Respon sible Procur During 2010, we completed our annual CSR survey to AMS core 1 1. Child Labour the minimum employment. legal age for or work that is inconsisten k t with that preferred suppliers. Each of our suppliers were asked to complete an who is below ed for any hazardous wor is employed • No person • No person s und er 18 years are2 em ment. ploy online questionnaire plus sign our CRP. We had 29 respondents in 2010 sonal develop person’s per developing-co untry for countries operating unde r the ILO Con vention 138 which represents 100% of our suppliers from our core Preferred Supplier lowered to 14 lopment. of 15; minimum be working. al or social deve 1 No workers unde r the age ediation of any exception; rem lopment includes a child child found to ’s health or phys ical, mental, spiri tual, mor List (PSL). 2 Personal deve © Alexander Mann Solutions Limited 2008 An example of supplier compliance is our AMS’s infrastructure provider, Endava. They joined the UN Global Compact in September 2007, assuming our same obligation to respect and sustain Global Compact’s principles in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Endava’s successes are particularly strong in using their industry expertise for promoting the use of environmentally-friendly IT and communications technology across all of its offices. Continuing e-cards throughout all regions Over the last four years, we have promoted the use of electronic greeting cards for the festive season instead of printed cards. During 2010, we continued this initiative from an environmental perspective, saving paper and post impact; as discussed on page 26, we also use the opportunity to donate money from the reduction in print costs to our Charities of Choice in the UK, Continental Europe and Asia. Continuing using environmentally-friendly paper and printing materials for marketing collateral In 2008, the preferred printer for our corporate collateral achieved their Forest Stewardship Council and Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification accreditations. For our printed materials, we use paper that’s at least 55% recycled and that comes from well managed forests. It’s always chlorine free and we use vegetable-based inks for printing. We committed to a minimum of these standards for 2009 and 2010 which we were able to maintain and will continue to maintain in the future. 30 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Continuing to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Our overall target is to reduce our The CDP is an independent not-for-profit organisation holding the largest database GHG emissions by 20% by 2012 of primary corporate climate change information in the world. In 2009, AMS joined and 40% by 2020. over 3,000 organisations in some 60 countries that measure and disclose their GHG emissions and climate change strategies through the CDP. By participating in the CDP, we commit to measuring our progress on the targets set every year. In 2010, we submitted our annual report in July. Measurement is based upon a recognised methodology that calculates our GHG emissions. We make this information available to our clients when requested via the CDP website. Continuing improving and protecting our environment through committee or employee-led initiatives Committees and employees across various AMS sites continue to ensure that improving and protecting our environment remains an important part of every day activities. One of the initiatives during 2010 was the Polish Environmental Partnership Foundation granting a certification affirming our AMS office in Krakow is environmentally friendly. This was awarded following a detailed audit of our electricity, water and resource spend procedures as well as monitoring the amount of carbon and waste produced in our Global Client Service Centre. 31 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 Commitment Progress 2010 Commitments Status To continue utilising our EMS and remain ISO 14001 accredited throughout 2010. Complete To widen the scope of the supplier risk framework where appropriate as well as continuing Complete to monitor supplier compliance. To continue improving and protecting our environment through committee or Complete employee-led initiatives. 2010 Additional Progress 2010 Further Progress Continuing e-cards throughout all regions. Continuing using environmentally-friendly paper and printing materials for marketing collateral. Continuing to participate in the CDP. 2011 Commitment Summary 2011 Commitments To continue using our EMS and remain ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 accredited throughout 2011. This includes implementing a managed print service in our UK Global Client Service Centre and to engage an energy advisor to review our energy expenditure and highlight areas where energy can be reduced. To continue to monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance and maintain our 100% response rate to the CSR survey from our AMS core PSL suppliers. To develop and communicate the AMS Recruitment Agency Engagement Charter, a two-way document outlining the approach to working in partnership, which will include commitments from suppliers to source from the broadest reach of applicants. 32 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Employee Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing focuses on providing all our people with the opportunity to develop healthy lifestyles and to build a balance in their lives. Health (mental, physical and financial), nutrition and diet, fitness and life balance all play a valuable part in an individual’s wellbeing. Key Achievements • C ontinuing to provide the Global Employee Assistance Programme (EAP), analysing results and implementing initiatives as required • Distributing, analysing and actioning PulsePoint, our employee survey • H olding regional annual employee events, encouraging networking and knowledge sharing and celebrating success • Implementing Passport, our flexible benefits programme, where appropriate • Continuing social committee focus and development • Investor in People (IiP) Bronze accredited • Investors in Human Capital accredited in Poland 34 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Achievements made EAP Service Areas Continuing to provide the Global Employee Assistance Programme Our EAP is a confidential and (EAP), analysing results and implementing initiatives as required independent counselling and information service available to all our In June 2008, we launched a global EAP to support our employees in their overall employees. It’s available 24 hours per wellbeing. We decided to provide this service to be proactive in this area and day, 7 days per week, all year round. demonstrate our commitment to caring for the health, safety and welfare of our employees. The EAP is provided as an additional resource should our employees Personal or Family Issues wish to discuss anything confidentially and outside of the workplace. • Work-life balance During 2010, we continued to review on a quarterly basis the EAP with our third• Financial or legal referrals party provider, Validium, focussing on key analysis and trends regarding global • Concerns about children usage. With our usage rates slightly below the EAP industry average, we decided to increase our level of promotion to ensure our people are aware of this service and • Stress management have the confidence to access it – if and when required. Promotions included: • Relationship issues • Employee information sessions conducted in the UK, EMEA and Asia Pacific • Substance abuse (including tobacco) • Grief and loss • Regular emails promoting the service to each of our geographies • Emotional or physical abuse • An information pamphlet in our new joiner welcome packs • Low self-esteem • “ Managing Pressure” sessions conducted across the UK and EMEA for our people managers. These sessions were produced and conducted by Validium and hosted Clinical Issues by wellbeing experts • Anxiety • Depression • Alcohol, drug or other dependencies Work Issues • Managing conflict • Handling work stress • Adjusting to change • Relationships between co-workers • Making career choices • Dealing with traumatic events • Problems with performance 35 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Distributing, analysing and actioning PulsePoint, our employee survey PulsePoint Four Action Areas Launched for the first time in May 2009, PulsePoint is Communication and Involvement AMS’s employee engagement survey and aims to capture how engaged people feel working globally at AMS. Our target is to create a positive, inclusive and fun environment where employee views are heard and Since its launch, the survey frequency has reduced from where opinions matter. To ensure all communication three times per year to two times to avoid participation is honest, transparent, consistent and delivered in a fatigue and to enable our business to hear directly from timely manner. employees at defined periods in the year that are aligned to key people events, e.g. annual performance reviews. Reward and Recognition The questions remain the same over time so that we can Our target is to create an environment where success track our progress over the life of PulsePoint. is recognised and celebrated. To ensure transparency Based on the results of each survey, with the support of on the link between performance and reward, our Leadership Team, we put together an engagement and that our reward philosophy is communicated action plan that covers short and long-term plans and understood. To ensure people understand our against four priority areas (Communication and organisational goals and their role in our success. Involvement; Reward and Recognition; Flexibility; and Flexibility Development and Progression), either to do more of what we’re doing right or to do something different. Our target is to create an environment where flexibility is encouraged and available to all. To prioritise During 2010, our PulsePoint results improved from the health of our employees and strive to give our the preceding survey in the areas of leadership, employees more balance in their lives, and help people management, involvement and organisation goals & be productive and energised by their work. values. These scores show that AMS continues to take the right actions in response to employee surveys. Development and Progression Despite the positive showing, and the fact that no Our target is to create an environment where negative results were statistically significant, there’s employees feel excited about their career at AMS and always room for improvement. empowered to drive it themselves. To provide the tools and structures that enable people to progress, are easy to understand and recognise good performance. 36 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Some of the initiatives put in place during 2010 under Flexibility our four key PulsePoint action areas were: • A  greed a long-term action plan to formally develop Communication and Involvement greater levels of flexibility across the business, including communicating in 2011 a series of phased and connected • Increased our ‘On the Road’ schedule (in which activities with the objective of enabling people to be members of our Leadership Team visit or call different more productive and energised by their work locations to talk directly with teams and gather views and insights on the AMS work environment) by 33% Development and Progression to four times a year to coincide with regular quarterly • Initiated a systematic review of talent at Leadership communication cascades, as discussed on page 16 and senior management level to understand skill, • R  efined the content of financial updates to reflect tenure and future potential of key role holders employee requests for greater simplicity • Increased the number of promotions from 10% to Reward and Recognition 15% showing our increased focus on internal mobility, progression and development • C  onducted a detailed review of AMS’s reward structure against the external market, and adjusted salary and incentive structures in response to the review and employee feedback PulsePoint is Voluntary, • E nabled business units to have greater autonomy / Autonomous and Confidential ownership over promotion and performance ratings It’s really important that our employees feel they can • Incorporated recognition into our core management be open and honest in their feedback, so we make training programmes the survey completely confidential. We can’t find out who says what, and we’ve set some rules about how we analyse the results. We don’t reveal feedback that could identify people in small demographic groups or Talkin teams, and we need at least 25% of people across the Point g company globally to complete the survey before we analyse the results. A Fin ger o n the Puls T hank enga I want the third you to gemen everyone t su tim rvey – who com e Flexib stren ed to take e it has PulsePoint pleted ou gt from hs, areas this oppo n since ru – ea r em ility th of rtunit its int rlier this ployee I have Lead e analysis improv y to rodu ye with emphasise In ‘O ership em sh ction ar. This n Team of the da ent and are with in May was in more our busin d on a nu with the Road discu ta co yo 20 emplo ’ sessi The lat ssion , ‘On the mmitted u some of 09. Enab than es m emplo s at all lev ber of oc in dif fe yees fro ons, AM the ar est Pulse s. Road spen rent team m acro Point ’ sess actions th the lin and to g flexibilit yment pa els is a ke sions ho ca d ss S’s Le ader eas of goals re ion s and at came man bring th y is a tworns, it’s y priority tte w en envir time with s and loca the busin ship Team & va leadersh sults im subs agem is to ablin g onm manag tio ess m to ta ke th lues. I ip, m an proved eque nt disap ent tra wa life, las y arra th e wa fo r y ea us. Flexib xibility fle as pect ent. It’s emen ns the op to give pe eets e right believe th agemen from th po ng optio inted to ining sess t year we ement be ch of us wo ility is sugg of AMS an your chan t in a sa portunit ople t, e es fe an Desp actio at ns in these sc involvem eceding pr n supp available ad that re ions on Fle rolled ou tween AM rks. Road tions arou d to discu ce to as d co y to ite th respon ores en ’ sess ss are k questio nstructi were e show t and or survey in orts to m any xib le t a rang S and yo in AP ion nd . Ou as yo ns ab ve statis positive se to emplo that AM ganisat does a th n’t fe flexible cu em. Let m people fe Working. e of AC s inc rm u ticall sh u, includ and vis luded co ost recent have conc out any y sig owing, an yee su S co ion cont el lik ltu e put it el th An d its nf nifica rveys. ntinues ac ea with t with m reality to ross all re ac simply at flexibilit so I was prov ing Glasgo to emplo erence ca set of ‘O erns or Rewa nt, th d the fact ere’s you to yself you, pa , th e Lead y is ision al w an ye es lls wi n the rd alway that no ne s room gativ unde or I rts of rstan any mem encourag the busin ership Te not an date d s for Barrow. all over th th our team the ne W e 2009 for im e results Much to un of the pres d and be e yo remed r of the HR u to m s. If this es am ‘On th xt se e now ha UK, ries of s one whwas undo provem pred y po te ake dir e Roa se ve th ssion e ubte ent. ictab sure on ou tential am wh ect along ere affo dly a unre co ilit betw gnised th y in clien r resource barri o ers. can work 2 Nov d’ Sc s: rd – we with man ability wa ficult ye dif Voda ember | hedu re y of th unable to other bu s the key is, sin de ar in the glo een Pu at lsePo work-life lumes. int 2 t vo ba s at th Co e sta rt fone N UK an ewbury d Euro le dissa just over run a form esses, co termini bal marke Many and Pu lance sa nsequent of 2010 3 Nov pe tisfact 50% ng tp of th lsePo tis ly, wa ion wi of al salar m petit factor lace; cultu e wo int 3 faction sc it has no s due BAE ember | In 20 th re PulsePo y review ors and cli in why we ra cont l and man life balan rksurvey ores t gone Syste m Swin do wa int respon or pay ents s. ha ve lo s, Delo n 10 to re , the ec rd. alike – ract ag ce were itte, lea on dent bo s com nuses. In techno ual com erial attit issues yo d 4 Nov Zuric In ad se fund omic pic men lig Team logy. We mitm ents udina u raise Profes ember | h dit ing tu ted on ht l to cli changes d require siona WHS rewa ion, this for incen re has im Whil , we m all ha ve en as long-te l Serv Q rd su recom structure mmer we tive paym proved an e it’s et in Sept a part to ts, our pr well as lo rm 9 Nov ices no ea embe oces abou mendatio s against conc ents d throug we were sy ta play in th ses an oking at Austr ember | t as we ns ha the ex luded a sk, we r to discu is an d ou our alia Conf ente ve r 2011 been mad rnal mar te de taile ho ut the ye able Deve will do ss ou d as all we r role in ta Leadersh a r er ence Com . e, wh d ket. A review of ar. lopm can to cklin ip 9 Nov call m ich yo nu u will mber of AMS’s Emplo ent a addr g this Clien ember | unica hear approa yee feedb nd Pro ess it. issue . t Serv W ices an HSQ A recu felt se rring obse tion more reflec ch and to k sugges ac gress 11 N d loca over nior man rvation ted in ols our Pe for prog we can im ts ion ov CSC, ember | Cisco, l clien t sites mad rform res pr Co th ag botto e previou ement ha e at ‘On Wha t’s ance sion and ove the ag Siem nference of ou more, th Manag deve ens (E leade m-line s 12 mon d be come the Ro r is emen lop m ility of ou 11 N ov urop call rs , KPIs th ad’ se this to talent wi year we t prog ent; you’l r current Micros ember | e) We ha were dis and targ s, that we disconnec ssions wa dr th in sta rte ra m me th l se e th of Re ad ap proacti ive deplo the bu d the BAE t, et focusinve comm pointed s. Each were ‘ov d from th s that yo te sin proces is year. is Syste Cisco, Co ing itt to he and ev erly fo e busin u perso vely ident yment de ess and s m s bh am To he g on the ed to sp ar cu nal de ify th cision are cu of a sy (Farn (Mar ar m pe endin this and ery one of sed’ on ess prog ressiv velopmen ose of yo s. As we rrently us matic rev ste 16 N boro ugh) low) incre ore fre ople th g mor eage our se the ov , as at r e mov t and u wh move ing th e res iew Coor ember coinc ed the ‘O quently an make th e time ou to turn th nior e. for th o– int s, Ro | lls Ro Derby ide wi n the d mor is orga t in th is arou It is cru e bene for the be o 2011, we ults of yce, 5 th re gular Road’ sche e directly nisat e ion a busines nd. or im cial to th fit of ne our bu fit of your will 23 N Citi quar su s, pr e ov terly dule by 33 from our cces our pe oving Pe Leadersh sines s–m own Amex ember comm peop s… you. op ip Te , Cobh | Brigh The Point_ unica % to four le, we ha ‘On th ople. That le Capit am th erit a am (W ton ’s al at wh 6_1to1 tion tim cascad es a ye ve being e Road’ dis why yo tactics, en 24 N imbo cussion ur opini we have ever we urne 8.indd es. ar to heard. ov 5 s are ons co are Barcl ember ) so im and feed nsidered changing ays (C oven | Cove ntry porta ba th try), nt to ck in Pu e views 25 N Atos us. Yo lse of ov Origi ur vo Point an North ember n (Birm ice re d As | Conf ingha ally is ia (Hon er m) g Kong ence ca Direct , Singa ll or of pore Peop , Japan le Ca & Man pital and Int ila) ernatio nal Bu sines s 8/10/1 0 09: 20:16 The Point_ For m or 6_1to1 8.indd the Hu e inform 6 b>M ation y Inv ab olvem out Pulse ent Point , ple ase vis it 6 8/10/1 0 09: 20: 17 37 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Dates for t 10th 31st Dece “For me, our BAE UK benefits selec 13th December 2 14th January 20 Systems team has and Singapore b selection window really epitomised our Expo Visit AMS China – 9th June 2010 KTV Night AMS Philippines – 27th July 2010 AMS Australia ember, AMS values, topped 24th Novth Dece Winter at the Warming Up 23rd July 2010 Docklands – 1st & 15row’s Peo Tomor op, Lo off with a good dose ear Events Worksh A M S M id y : Tra Q4 2010ar av calend dge of ‘can do’ attitude. with old and get together like AMS to Year Events took provides the perfect chan ce for a socia ble company achieved as a team so far. esses we have flying in, sport and mus Various Midic both play ing a large part lly fantastica and Knowle De the mid-year Career T he mark of to celeb rate the succ loye es that mak e these events s alike with emp the faces new colleague different global locations, these snapshots, and Summer Party This is a fantastic place across our looks of AMS Poland and ming ling! From the with out all of your – 15th July 2010 ting ible tons of mee by all! ld not be poss fun was had Events wou memorable, s. Mid-Year organising crew gh to all the We can’t say thank you enou the next social! time. See you at Q4 2010 support and Australi achievement and well fundrais 23rd No deserved recognition AMS UK and Continental Europe Summ er Event – 9th July 2010 AMS US Summ – 17th Augu er Bowling Party st 2010 10th Dec performa January for them” Objective Steve Leach, member of the AMS North (Japan, Hong East Asia Kong and China ) – 29th July 2010 Leadership Team Mid-Year Event dd 26 6_17to34.in :22 The Point_ 8/10/10 10:09 25 dd 25 6_17to34.in The Point_ Holding regional annual employee events, encouraging networking “It was an incredibly and knowledge sharing and celebrating success Celebrating success is an important part of the AMS culture. Whether it be through proud moment our Inspiring Awards or our reward and recognition scheme, we are always looking for me when the for ways to ensure we thank our employees. The mark of the mid-year provides the perfect chance to get together with old and announcement new colleagues alike to celebrate the successes we have achieved as a team. During was made that BAE 2010, various mid-year and end of year events took place across our different global locations, with employees flying in to meet new faces, reconnect with colleagues, Systems had won the network and have some fun. 2010 Global Inspiring At the UK mid-year event, we announced the inaugural winners of our 2010 Global Inspiring Teamwork Award, in recognition of outstanding contribution of a team Teamwork award. during the past year. The winner was our BAE Systems team, 70+ employees who had incredible achievements following a challenging implementation period taking over To see all the hard the service from the previous provider. The prize was selected by the team, who chose work and dedication an overnight stay with a variety of team-based activities. recognised and Implementing in each key region one major Employee Wellbeing rewarded like this initiative (such as massage, workshops and meditation) really makes it all As part our commitment to Employee Wellbeing and listening to feedback from our people, within our UK Global Client Service Centre we offer employees the worthwhile” opportunity to take advantage of subsidised massage onsite. We also provide our employees in our London head office and other regional offices free fruit on a daily Iain Simmons, basis as part of our effort to promote healthy eating. Head of Client Services, In 2011, we will ensure that similar commitments are realised in all major regions BAE Systems where there are AMS premises. 38 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Implementing Passport, our flexible benefits To attain the Bronze award, AMS had to fulfil 35 extra programme, where appropriate evidence requirements, in addition to the 37 core indicators required to achieve the IiP Standard – for which AMS first Passport, our flexible benefits scheme, has been received accreditation in April 2004. The Bronze award designed to give our employees flexibility to select places AMS within the top three percent of organisations to a package of benefits that suits their personal achieve this sought-after recognition. circumstances, as well as take advantage of tax savings. It includes benefits which are core and voluntary. Core AMS was awarded the accreditation following a benefits are funded by the company and all employees rigorous, independent assessment. This involved are eligible. Voluntary benefits are additional benefits meetings with a cross-section of 70 employees globally employees can choose from while making their yearly to review AMS’s people management practices. benefits selections. In 2010 we continued to launch Investors in Human Capital accredited additional benefits where appropriate. Passport in Poland For example, the introduction of the In November 2010, AMS was delighted pension scheme for our employees in to set ourselves apart in the Polish Denmark. We will continue to review marketplace by achieving the Investors and implement flexible benefits as in Human Capital (“Inwestor w Kapitał required throughout AMS globally in 2011. Ludzki”) accreditation. The one-year accreditation is recognised locally as Continuing social committee focus establishing companies as ‘employers of choice’, and development particularly as the management and investment in people can be a crucial factor in the success of Poland’s During 2009, both formal and informal social knowledge-based economy. committees were set up in regions across the globe. We continued this focus in 2010 to ensure that Investor in Human Capital was awarded to AMS employees felt that they could own and take following a robust, independent assessment including responsibility for social events within their region. an expert audit, onsite visits and an employee opinion survey of AMS’s HR and management procedures and For instance, our Global Client Service Centre in Poland tools. Employee responses were unfailingly positive, set up a wellbeing committee to work on overall including unprompted statements such as “AMS is Employee Wellbeing and healthy lifestyle initiatives a place where great people meet and they create an for our people within Krakow. And a sport and social environment for talent to grow and personalities to committee in our Global Client Service Centre in the UK collaborate on innovative solutions and inspiring ideas arranges people to get together across the site for such for the business.” activities as a Rounders day and evening quizzes. Investor in People (IiP) Bronze accredited In July 2010, AMS secured the prestigious IiP Bronze “From an outsider’s award, reflecting our continued commitment to making people the foundation of our success. IiP is a globally perspective, AMS is a recognised framework which sets out how good people management practices can help achieve business goals. company where people are very engaged with the business and passionate about what they do” Bill Crabtree, Assessor at IiP 39 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing 2010 Commitment Progress 2010 Commitments Status To continue providing the global EAP service, analysing results and creating a minimum of one Complete initiative to combat any concerning trends. To distribute three PulsePoint surveys, analyse the results and put in place a targeted action plan Partially Complete based on the employee feedback. To hold a regional annual employee event encouraging networking, knowledge share and fun! Complete To realise our deferred 2009 commitment to ensure each key region has one major Employee Partially Complete Wellbeing initiative implemented in 2009 (such as massage, workshops and meditation). To realise our deferred 2009 commitment to implement the Passport flexible benefits Complete programme where appropriate in all other countries with more than 10 employees. 2010 Additional Progress 2010 Further Progress Continuing social committee focus and development. Investor in People (IiP) Bronze accredited. Investors in Human Capital accredited in Poland. 2011 Commitment Summary 2011 Commitments To continue providing the global EAP service, analysing results and creating a minimum of one initiative to combat any concerning trends. To distribute two PulsePoint surveys, analyse the results and continue our targeted action plans based on employee feedback. To extend the survey questions to analyse sub-teams and develop localas well as company-level action plans. To host at least one event per region to celebrate success and bring our employees together. To implement in key regions Employee Wellbeing initiatives (for example, fruit bowls and massage). To deliver against some of the recommendations made by the IiP Bronze assessment in the areas of measurement of training and development in preparation for reassessment in three years’ time. To retain our Investors in Human Capital accreditation in Poland for another year. 40 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Inclusion & Diversity Inclusion & Diversity Our Inclusion & Diversity programme focuses on creating an inclusive, diverse and flexible environment within which our employees can contribute to their full potential. In any company, teams that reflect the widest possible variety of ideas, backgrounds and experiences will Key Achievements deliver the most innovative solutions to clients worldwide. Our initiatives focus on our role as a • C reating a long-term action plan for our company that employs diverse talent to ensure our Inclusion & Diversity programme resourcing solutions and operations are aligned with the global markets in which we operate. • D eveloping appropriate Inclusion & Diversity policies Achievements made • J oining the Employers Forum on Disability (EFD) as a Gold Member Creating a long-term action plan for our • Including Inclusion & Diversity employee Inclusion & Diversity programme management measures on our Balanced During 2010, we undertook a number of activities in Business Scorecard support of our Inclusion & Diversity programme, including • E ducating our employees on Inclusion items described in the following pages. The activities & Diversity focused on shortand medium-term changes – as part of our overall people strategy – rather than a separate • Educating clients on best practice technology use documented Inclusion & Diversity strategy and plan. • Encouraging geographic diversity This was a deliberate action to ensure that all our people priorities encompassed aspects of Inclusion & Diversity, • S upporting Inclusion & Diversity rather than a discrete action plan in itself. For example, client programmes promoting flexibility as an employer to our people, in accordance with our EVP, is in support of both our Employee Wellbeing and Inclusion & Diversity agenda. Developing appropriate Inclusion & Diversity policies Following on, through the support of external advisors, we reviewed many of our key policies in 2010, making adjustments in line with Inclusion & Diversity principles. For example, many of our People Capital policies were reviewed and amended; “Performance Management” and “Sickness Absence” to name but two. Policy adjustments were also extended to our management education programme, ensuring that our people managers are aware of the Inclusion & Diversity aspects of such policies, as part of their general management education both through classroom training and online toolkits. 42 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity Joining the Employers Forum on Disability (EFD) as a Gold Member We joined the EFD in November 2010 as a Gold Member, providing us access to tailored and specific advice on how to improve the effectiveness of our diversity actions (not just with regards to disability, but the broad spectrum of underrepresentation). Our membership is mutually-beneficial: it enables us to share best practice with other renowned organisations facing similar challenges, while we assist the EFD on developing disability standards for the recruitment and resourcing industry as a whole. Within the EFD, AMS is an active member of the Recruiters’ Golden Circle – an informal, voluntary association of in-house recruiters founded to promote the sharing of information, knowledge, experience and ideas. During 2010, the concept of the EFD Recruitment Charter was considered and AMS has pledged to commit to help launch it during 2011. Two-way checklists will help organisations to select recruitment agencies that are committed to providing an accessible recruitment service to all and also advise the agencies on key issues around accessibility and making reasonable adjustments. As Gold Members of EFD, we are also working with the world’s only Business Taskforce on Accessible Technology (BTAT). The organisation aims to make accessibility and usability as fundamental to technology as security is now. Including Inclusion & Diversity employee management measures on our Balanced Business Scorecard Our Leadership Team developed a Balanced Business Scorecard of metrics as a key management tool. On the scorecard, various metrics relating to our people priorities are included to ensure we develop an inclusive and diverse working environment. Two key measures are targets relating to the number of internal promotions and the number of women in senior management roles, plus a measure from PulsePoint, on the number of positive responses to the question “I am proud to work for AMS”. 43 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity Educating our employees on Inclusion & Diversity When scoping engagements with clients, candidates and colleagues in new and emerging markets, our people are briefed on expectations, cultural norms and, where appropriate, etiquette. This information is freely shared amongst all parties of our organisation. Furthermore, through our established Management Development Programme and Leadership Academy (page 17), we educate our managers on the importance of cultivating and engaging diverse and inclusive teams. Our mandatory training course, “Getting the best out of your team”, provides practical advice on how to effectively manage teams to maximise the potential benefits for all involved. Educating clients on best practice technology use We always encourage our clients to maximise the reach of their attraction strategy to ensure the widest possible response from all possible sources. In many of our client engagements, we take responsibility for administration of the recruitment technology used to attract applications and track potential candidates. Manager workflow and time constraints (potential barriers to diverse hiring) are counterbalanced by automated screening rules that are robust and auditable to ensure merit-based shortlisting and the elimination of unconscious bias. As part of our EFD membership, in 2011, to ensure we follow the same advice that we provide our clients, AMS representatives are part of a working team looking at how and what we can do to improve our provision of services and manage diversity and disability on our external website, www.alexandermannsolutions.com. Encouraging geographic diversity In offering outsourced services, we engage employees in a wide range of countries and cultures through our Global Client Service Centre network. The diversity in our teams affords a similarly diverse perspective and approach to delivering client services. All employees from all countries are given equal voice in decision-making feedback mechanisms like PulsePoint and ‘On the Road’. Supporting Inclusion & Diversity client programmes Many of our clients operate Inclusion & Diversity programmes. We’ve delivered bespoke projects, including one designed to target senior-level females in a specific industry in Asia Pacific, as well as similar projects in the UK. Our people from Global Client Service Centres at social events 44 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity 2010 Commitment Progress 2010 Commitments Status To realise our deferred 2009 commitment to create a long-term action plan for our Inclusion & Partially Complete Diversity programme. To realise our deferred 2009 commitment to implement each of the 2010 priorities included in the Partially Complete Inclusion & Diversity action plan, including development of appropriate diversity and inclusion policies. 2010 Additional Progress 2010 Further Progress Joining the Employers Forum on Disability (EFD) as a Gold Member. Including Inclusion & Diversity employee management measures on our Balanced Business Scorecard. Educating our employees on Inclusion & Diversity. Educating clients on best practice technology use. Encouraging geographic diversity. Supporting Inclusion & Diversity client programmes. 2011 Commitment Summary 2011 Commitments To continue to lead Inclusion & Diversity assignments, bringing expert resourcing knowledge to our clients in the delivery of their Inclusion & Diversity priorities. To extend our level and coverage of manager and employee Inclusion & Diversity awareness training. To use the EFD and other partner organisations to actively review and make recommendations about how we can improve the inclusivity of our policies, communications, operations and systems. To implement an employee representative group from the Global Citizenship Project Team to advise on cultural suitability of communications. 45 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity Priority Summary Priority Summary Overall Global Citizenship Commitment 2011 Commitment Summary Increase our stakeholder engagement by formalising a group of employee representatives from across our business to become our Global Citizenship Project Team. These volunteers will commit to allocating a percentage of their time and overall objectives to Global Citizenship at AMS. 47 Global Citizenship Report Priority Summary Corporate Social Responsibility Commitments 2011 Commitment Summary To produce and globally distribute two editions of The Point to ensure our employees are informed and engaged on a range of subjects across the business. To produce three CheckPoint videocasts featuring messages from the Leadership Team. To conduct quarterly Senior Management Business Updates, led by a member of the Leadership Team. To host one People Managers Summit. To maintain our focus on the delivery of AMS’s Leadership Academy to all senior managers across the business, extending the Academy to aspiring leaders within our management community as well as delivering structured follow up modules to the 2010 Academy participants. To produce our third annual Global Citizenship Report, meeting our UN Global Compact COP requirements. To remain a strong partner of Leonardo and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them via fundraising, educational support (a minimum of 30 hours of courses during 2011) and knowledge share. To promote more individual volunteering and fundraising and work towards a shared goal for the Australian population in regards to helping our local communities. To remain a strong partner of Tomorrow’s People and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them through various fundraising and knowledge share initiatives, specifically our “Getting People Back to Work” initiative which we commit to completing at least 20 skills workshops and 10 work experience placements during 2011. To identify at least one annual fundraising event in each key region during 2010 with a fundraising goal of £20,000 in total. To select and work with appropriate Charities of Choice in both Asia and the US. To continue using our EMS and remain ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 accredited throughout 2011. This includes implementing a managed print service in our UK Global Client Service Centre and to engage an energy advisor to review our energy expenditure and highlight areas where energy can be reduced. To continue to monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance and maintain our 100% response rate to the CSR survey from our AMS core PSL suppliers. To develop and communicate the AMS Recruitment Agency Engagement Charter, a two-way document outlining the approach to working in partnership, which will include commitments from suppliers to source from the broadest reach of applicants. 48 Global Citizenship Report Priority Summary Employee Wellbeing Commitments 2011 Commitment Summary To continue providing the global EAP service, analysing results and creating a minimum of one initiative to combat any concerning trends. To distribute two PulsePoint surveys, analyse the results and continue our targeted action plans based on employee feedback. To extend the survey questions to analyse sub-teams and develop localas well as company-level action plans. To host at least one event per region to celebrate success and bring our employees together. To implement in key regions Employee Wellbeing initiatives (for example, fruit bowls and massage). To deliver against some of the recommendations made by the IiP Bronze assessment in the areas of measurement of training and development in preparation for reassessment in three years’ time. To retain our Investors in Human Capital accreditation in Poland for another year. Inclusion & Diversity Commitments 2011 Commitment Summary To continue to lead Inclusion & Diversity assignments, bringing expert resourcing knowledge to our clients in the delivery of their Inclusion & Diversity priorities. To extend our level and coverage of manager and employee Inclusion & Diversity awareness training. To use the EFD and other partner organisations to actively review and make recommendations about how we can improve the inclusivity of our policies, communications, operations and systems. To implement an employee representative group from the Global Citizenship Project Team to advise on cultural suitability of communications. 49 Global Citizenship Report Priority Summary Future Aspirations Shared Commitment Future Aspirations Making Global Citizenship happen internally and externally: the contribution of our people. 2010 reflected many of the challenges of 2009, with our clients and stakeholders cautious and uncertain of future economic development. Against this backdrop, we were able to progress our strategic agenda with a particular focus on equipping our leaders and managers to motivate and lead our people, driving engagement and enabling employees to work in an inspiring environment – the core of our EVP. In 2011, our Global Citizenship programme will be evolving even further, through empowering our people to drive and lead change. We will see wider involvement and ownership from a 50-strong employee base who volunteered themselves and an hour a week of their time to actively contribute and drive our sustainability activities. This method of involvement proved very successful in our Charities of Choice programme in the UK in 2010 and will certainly see us achieve even greater things throughout the coming year globally. My long-term vision for Global Citizenship at AMS remains the same: it is a vehicle for change, both within our business and the wider market. I want us to be recognised as best in class across all our Global Citizenship programmes internally and to be a key force in driving recruitment and resourcing industry changes externally. 2011 will see us make some step changes forward in this area through our work with external partners and suppliers. If you’d like to discuss AMS’s Global Citizenship programme, please do get in touch. You can contact me on david.heath@alexmann.com or our Global Citizenship Project Team at global.citizenship@alexmann.com David Heath Global Director of People Capital and Head of IT & Telco and Healthcare & Pharma business units Alexander Mann Solutions 51 Global Citizenship Report Future Aspirations www.alexandermannsolutions.com
