Communication on Progress Employees Association of Petrobras Edition | Digital Brazil, December 10, 2011 NÓS APOIAMOS Human Rights and Labor Petrobras' legal liability does survey work due to RMNR colleagues are getting back in the 2nd of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, instance the incidence of the risk partnering with major law firms in premium over the sum of base salary with these states, the volume of these additional Time in Service (ATS). These actions must first triple, which actions represent the greatest reinforced the concern of the achievement of economic colleagues of legal Petrobras, as the collective Petrobras in its history. actions had only claimed a political and not financial gain. His reflexes have repercussions even in In many cases, were suffering retirement calculations, which concerns defeats in the judiciary, which With our advice, the State of Bahia is not only the law but also the entire could adversely affect all the biggest concern was the legal administration of Petrobras, considering it employees of Petrobras in Brazil, Petrobras. Even employees of the was a bad management of the creating a law unfavorable to management of Human Resources company and the allocation of workers. Landulpho Alves filed suit claiming resources to ensure the payment of those the implementation of RMNR as basic shares already reflected in the financial Meet some of the sentences that salary and the return of VP-DL, which results of Petrobras , negatively were victorious directed and did change the local HR influencing their shares traded in Brazil monitored by the Association of and abroad. Employees of Petrobras representatives who had been http://www.aepetro.org.br/trt.html representing shares in Petrobras. The point is that by broadening the In addition to these two actions, scope of action of AEPETRO to the states Environment Ildo Sauer talks about the risks of oil exploration in Brazil Former Director of Petrobras (2003occurred even after the pre-salt remove the Directorate of 2007), Ildo Sauer, talks about the risks discovery the filet mignon Brazil's Exploration & Production. of pre-salt exploration by companies reserves and famously covered blocks Currently administered by the not competent for this purpose, as promising, as the arch of Cabo Frio. Director Guilherme Estrela. See the full interview about the was the case of Chevron. Among the companies privileged OGX spill from Chevron and the Ildo also draws attention to the lack is owned by businessman Eike Batista, of a more rigid environmental who has recruited executives from legislation for environmental crimes, Petrobras Strategic months before the which sets the maximum fine of only $ auction, 2007 (9th round). Along with the 27 million. National Petroleum Agency (ANP) auctioned off the best part of the preAccording to Ildo Sauer, the salt blocks in 10 concessions model created during www.aepetro.org.br comments of the expert Ildo the Cardoso administration was Ildo Sauer's statements in defense of Sauer on the website of expanded in the next administration. Brazil and Petrobras made the AlJazeera. And worse: the auction administration of the Petrobras www.aepetro.org.br Employees Association of Petrobras Anti-Corruption CONGRESSO EM FOCO PATICIPE! Or stop the robbery or to Brazil! despite many corruption scandals accounts. that are happening in Brazil, recalls the case: I did not see and I do not The main attention in instruments of know! social control is the result of discussions at the 14th IACC, held in The time is now focused on November 2010 in Bangkok, Thailand preparations for the 15th International in the international anti-corruption Anticorruption Conference, known by movement has decided to focus on its English acronym IACC will be held the mobilization of civil society, the in Brasilia from 7 to 10 November private and public sectors. 2012. The IACC is considered the largest global independent anti-corruption, bringing together the principal leaders of the global struggle to eliminate its impact on governance, the economy, the environment and especially on the daily life of the population. The first edition was held in 1983. They are expected to more than 1500 participants from over 135 countries for the Brazilian edition. The event is an initiative of the NGO Transparency International (TI) and in The Association of Petrobras Brazil will be organized jointly by the employees participate in the event Friends Ethos Institute, the Comptroller the information provided by General of the Union and Members of multiplying the International AntiOr stop the robbery or to Brazil! This Ribeirão Bonito (AMARRIBO Brazil). Corruption Debate with the British was the main message of the protest journalist and historian Misha Glenny that took place in 21 different places The three entities are part of the and the National Association of Chief in Brazil. National Mobilization Project Games Police Federal, represented by the Clean inside and outside stadiums. Chief Federal Grimaldo Marques. The movement claimed that Transparency International made corruption was regarded as a heinous ​ ​ the announcement of the city and See an exclusive interview to the crime, the open vote in Congress, date of the next conference on newspaper Atarde the speaker at the End of the privileged position, Wednesday (28 / 9) in Berlin. following address: Constitutionality of Clean Record, https://skydrive.live.com/redir.aspx?ci allocation of 10% of GDP to The theme of this edition was also d=d424668a594e2e9a&resid=D424668 Education, Repeal of Abusive Salary revealed this week, Mobilizing People: A594E2E9A!114&parid=root Increase of 61.7% of Parliamentarians. Connecting Agents of Change. Two points should stand out on the theme https://skydrive.live.com/redir.aspx?ci Tracks explicit Sarney OUT, ​ ​ OUT OF of the 15th IACC, such as expanding d=d424668a594e2e9a&resid=D424668 BRAZIL MALUF and Veto by President social participation in controlling A594E2E9A!113&parid=root Dilma code of the chain saw were public expenditure and how to posted during the act. ensure transparency of government Paulo Maluf is still one of the most wanted by INTERPOL. The Association of Employees of Petrobras has announced the location of the sought Interpol, however, so far not received any information from Interpol, which indicates a lack of transparency by the INTERPOL. The AEPETRO was unable to participate in this act because of lack of support from the Brazilian Network of the Global Compact, which, CNPJ: 08.426.852/0001-57 Employees Association of Petrobras Avenida Antonio Carlos Magalhães, nº 846, Edf. Maxcenter, sala 443 02 Tel. 55 71 3491 9182. Itaigara, Salvador Bahia, Brasil.. CEP: 41.850-000 www.aepetro.org.br
