Sustainability Report 10 CONTENT INTRODUCTION COmmUNITIES IKEA AT A glANCE 3 THE IKEA FOUNDATION 53 HIgHlIgHTS FY10 4 OTHER COmmUNITY pROjECTS 56 lETTER FROm THE CEO 5 lETTER FROm THE CHIEF SUSTAINAbIlITY OFFICER 6 ENvIRONmENT mIlESTONES 7 FORESTRY 59 SUSTAINAbIlITY DIRECTION 8 COTTON 64 gOvERNANCE 14 WATER 67 STAKEHOlDERS 16 WASTE 70 ClImATE 72 CUSTOmERS ENERgY USE IN IKEA bUIlDINgS 75 mORE SUSTAINAblE pRODUCTS 19 ENERgY USE AT SUpplIERS 78 SAFE & HEAlTHY pRODUCTS 24 TRANSpORT OF pRODUCTS 79 CUSTOmER ENgAgEmENT 27 TRANSpORT OF pEOplE 81 SUSTAINAblE lIFE AT HOmE 83 CO-WORKERS ClImATE pERSpECTIvE ON FOOD pRODUCTS 84 WHEN WE gROW, IKEA gROWS 31 ClOSINg THE lOOpS 85 SUpplIERS mETRICS & REFERENCES CODE OF CONDUCT 36 KpIS 87 IWAY 38 CROSS-REFERENCE TAblE 89 CHIlD lAbOUR 38 lIST OF KEY ORgANISATIONS 90 HOmE FURNISHINg SUpplIERS 39 TRANSpORT SERvICE pROvIDERS 46 FOOD SUpplIERS 48 CATAlOgUE SUpplIERS 50 About this report This report describes the sustainability work carried In the final chapter, we have gathered the metrics out on a global level by the IKEA Group during financial presented throughout this report. This report is our year 2010, from 01 September 2009 to 31 August communication on progress (CoP) as a signatory to the TELL US 2010 (FY10). UN Global Compact, and a cross reference list shows WHAT YOU how we implement the ten principles of the UN Global THINK How to read this report Compact in our operations. The structure of this report reflects the environmental and social responsibility approach to our stakeholders, Would you like to know more? and how we work to address the environmental You can find more information and download impacts of our operations. documents on our website. Please visit “About IKEA/ Each chapter provides a description of developments People and the Environment” at www.IKEA.com during FY10 and our systematic work in many areas. We encourage you to send your feedback We use key performance indicators (KPIs) to show and/or questions about this report to us results against our targets. at sustainability.report.se@IKEA.com IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 2 IKEA at a glance FY10 IKEA GROUP STORES WORLDWIDE In 2010, the IKEA Group opened 12 new stores, in 7 countries. On 31st August 2010, the IKEA Group had a total of 280 stores in 26 countries. CO-wORKERS IN 2010 127,000 CO-WORKERS CO-WORKERS PER FUNCTION PER REGION 12 Purchasing, distribution, Asia & Australia: 8,000 192 wholesale, range & other: 14,500 North America: 15,500 48 Retail: 96,500 Europe: 103,500 12 Swedwood: 15,500 Swedspan: 500 3 THE IKEA GROUP ANNUAL SALES FIGURES, BILLION EURO The IKEA Group had operations in 41 Sales of goods, excl. rental income countries –29 Trading Service Offices 23.1 in 25 countries and 27 Distribution Centres 21.2 21.4 and 11 Customer Distribution 19.8 Centres in 16 countries. 17.3 14.8 INDUSTRIAL GROUPS Swedwood, an industrial supplier within the IKEA Group, had 15,500 co-workers and 41 7.6 production units in 9 countries. Swedspan, an industrial supplier within the IKEA Group, had 500 co-workers and 5 production units in 5 countries. SUPPLIERS IN 2010 9 20 6 20 8 9 20 19 9 05 20 0 07 20 0 20 0 10 IKEA had 1,074 suppliers in 55 countries. PRODUCTS IN THE RANGE TOTAL SALES FY10: The IKEA range consisted of 23.1 BILLON EURO approximately 9,500 products. PURCHASING Sales increased 7.7% FY10 PER REGION, % compared to FY09. IKEA GROUP STORE VISITORS IN FY10 The IKEA Group stores had North America: 4% IKEA FOOD SERVICES 626 million visitors. Asia: 34% TURNOVER FY10 Europe: 62% Turnover for IKEA Food was ESTIMATED VISITS TO IKEA WEBSITES 1.1 billion EURO. DURING 2010 IKEA websites had 712 million visits. SALES PER REGION, % PRINTED CATALOGUES, LANGUAGES & EDITIONS Asia & Australia: 6% The IKEA catalogue was printed in more North America: 15% than 197 million copies in 29 languages Europe: 79% and 61 editions. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 3 Highlights FY10 IKEA SUSTAINAbIlITY DIRECTION lEADS ThE WAY FORWARD Our new direction outlines our priorities for 2015. These CONTINUED IKEA INvESTMENTS IN priorities shall influence our entire value chain, from product design and development to the very end of a product’s life. RENEWAblE Read more under Sustainability Direction ENERgY The implementation of the FY09 decision to install solar panels on roughly 150 stores and distribution centres is progressing well. In FY10 the number of buildings with solar panel systems nearly doubled, from nine to 17, and we expect the number to increase to around 40 buildings by the end of FY11. Read more under Climate INTRODUCING ThE IKEA SUSTAINAbIlITY pRODUCT SCORE CARD This new internal tool for more sustainable product development and purchasing will help classify the IKEA home furnishing range. It will steer us to select the best possible alternatives within 11 criteria that have an impact on the product’s sustainability profile. Read more under More sustainable products IKEA FOUNDATION INCREASES FUNDING TO hEAlTh PROGRAMME The IKEA Foundation has decided to invest an additional 7.5 million euro in UNICEF’s water and sanitation programme in India. This support will help expand the scope of this programme in 15 states. SUbSTANTIAl INCREASE OF Read more under Communities CERTIFIED WOOD IN IKEA PRODUCTS In addition to IWAY forestry requirements, the share of certified solid wood increased substantially in FY10, to 23.6 percent from 16.2 percent the year before. IKEA has actively supported certification efforts in some of our DOUblED ShARE OF key wood sourcing areas, notably Russia. Read more under Forestry mORE SUSTAINAblE COTTON IN IKEA TExTIlES More than 80,000 farmers in India and Pakistan are now using more sustainable farming practices, and the share of more sustainable cotton in the IKEA range more than doubled compared to last year to 13.4 percent of our total cotton use. Read more under Cotton IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 4 lETTER FROm THE CEO “We have unique opportunities” Welcome to the IKEA Sustainability Report 2010! I’m delighted to welcome our new Chief Sustainability Officer I’m proud to share with you some of the things that IKEA has Steve howard on-board. his competence and passion, not accomplished so far together with our customers, co-workers, least when it comes to climate-related issues, will help supsuppliers and partners such as WWF, UNICEF and Save the port the innovation and drive we need to make IKEA a truly Children. Working together, taking many small steps in the sustainable company and help our customers to live a more same direction, means that we can make huge contributions sustainable life at home. towards a more sustainable future. On behalf of all of IKEA, I thank you for taking the time The IKEA vision is to create a better everyday life for the to read this report and share our progress. many people, and we believe that home is the most important place in the world. We offer affordable home furnishing products and solutions, while also taking responsibility for people and the environment. We want our customers to be able to freely choose from our range, knowing that they do not have to choose between sustainability, style, function or price. IKEA has begun a long journey with sustainability as one of four cornerstones in our overall direction “Growing IKEA – together”. This, combined with a long history and culture built on enthusiasm and a constant strive for renewal, makes us well equipped to tackle some of the global challenges we are mikael Ohlsson all facing. I‘m convinced that we will find new, unique opportupresident and CEO, IKEA group nities to build a better tomorrow. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 5 lETTER FROm THE CHIEF SUSTAINAbIlITY OFFICER “IKEA can play a vital role” The release of this report also marks the start of my journey at have no negative impact on the planet, but preferably have IKEA. I’m excited to join many dedicated colleagues in a compositive impact and generate zero waste and zero carbon. pany that puts its social and environmental values at the heart This doesn’t mean that the world can’t still be exciting. of its business. Future generations must be allowed to enjoy the same or betMy aim is to incorporate sustainability into every part of the ter quality of life as we have today, but in a way that takes IKEA experience – from raw materials and how products are care of both people and our planet. IKEA plays an important made to inspiring us to live a more sustainable life at home. role in meeting the many people’s aspirations through innovaIKEA has laid a great foundation over the last decade or so, tive, exciting products that will increasingly offer a more susand that shows in this report. Persistent, hard work within fortainable way of life, giving people better choices without comestry and cotton cultivation is paying off; the IKEA Foundation promises to the way they want to live, work and play. helps us improve the lives of many millions of children in need; This is the challenge we must embrace if we are to provide and the goal to use 100 percent renewable energy in all IKEA a great quality of life for present and future generations. I units is an industry-leading commitment. believe IKEA can do this. We can and will play a vital role in I know that IKEA possesses both the desire and the ability a more sustainable future. to take on the challenge of transformational change. Much of the world is in an era of unprecedented growth with populations in the world’s cities swelling by more than one million people every week. Quite simply, sustainability can no longer be an optional, luxury item in a society heading towards nine billion people. living a more sustainable life must be affordable and Steve Howard accessible for everyone. Our products and services should Chief Sustainability Officer, IKEA Group IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 6 INTRODUCTION: MIlESTONES Steps towards a more sustainable IKEA ® 1956 1989 1990 Flatpacks and self-assembly become IKEA appoints its first The first IKEA environmental part of the IKEA concept. environmental manager. policy is developed. 1991 1992 1993 IKEA bans the use of The IKEA Catalogue becomes IKEA becomes a founding member tropical wood not the first major colour print of the global forest certification coming from sustainable publication in the world to use organisation Forest Stewardship forestry or plantations. TCF (Totally Chlorine Free) paper. Council (FSC). 1994 1998 1999 The IlO helps formulate a clause on child labour to IKEA employs its first forestry A Waste Management be inserted into purchasing contracts with suppliers. manager to secure sustainable use Manual is established. IKEA begins cooperating with Save the Children to of forestry resources. promote and protect children’s rights. 2000 2002 2003 IKEA launches the code of Together with WWF, IKEA starts the annual Soft conduct IWAY for suppliers, IKEA starts a number Toys Campaign with IKEA PS and a special code of conof projects to support bRUM teddy bears. In 2005, duct on child labour. A child the development the campaign is expanded rights project with UNICEF of responsible forestry. to all IKEA soft toys. is started in India. 2004 2005 2006 The first IKEA Social IKEA Social Initiative, today incorporated in the Our energy and Environmental IKEA Foundation, is founded. IKEA and WWF start project “IKEA Responsibility Report Farmer Field Schools in India and Pakistan to train Goes Renewable” is published. cotton farmers in more sustainable cultivation is started. practices, and become founding members of the better Cotton Initiative. 2007 2008 2009 2010 IKEA and WWF A Future Search workStart of the IKEA Foundation’s support IKEA develops a Sustainbegin cooperation shop with external of UNICEF and Save the Children child ability Direction for 2015, on projects aimed parties and NGOs is held right programmes in India and Pakistan’s with key priorities and at reducing emison the topic “how could cotton areas. The Never Ending list is overall goals. sions of greenhouse IKEA take a leading posiintroduced to share our progress within gases. tion in creating a more sustainability with IKEA customers. sustainable world?”. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 7 INTRODUCTION: IKEA SUSTAINAbIlITY DIRECTION / PRIORITIES The IKEA Sustainability Direction 2015 The IKEA Sustainability Direction outlines 1. Offering a range of products 2. Taking a leading role towards our priorities for 2015. These priorities that are more sustainable a low carbon society shall influence our entire value chain, from product design and development to the very end of a product’s life. For some priorities, we have already set specific, overall goals. During FY11, more targets at all levels of the organisation will be developed to help us measure our progress. 3. Turning waste into resources 4. Reducing our water footprint 5. Taking social responsibility IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 8 INTRODUCTION: IKEA SUSTAINAbIlITY DIRECTION / PRIORITIES 1. Offering a range of products that are more sustainable gOAlS FY15 90 percent of our sales value shall come from home furnishing products classified as “more sustainable” in the IKEA Sustainability product Score Card. All materials for home furnishing products shall be renewable, recyclable or recycled. Our energy-consuming products shall on average be 50 percent more efficient than what was installed on the market in 2008. Read more under more sustainable products IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 9 INTRODUCTION: IKEA SUSTAINAbIlITY DIRECTION / PRIORITIES 2. Taking a leading role towards a low carbon society gOAlS FY15 By being innovative, energy efficient and using more renewable energy, we shall significantly reduce CO2 emissions from our own operations, the supply chain and customers travelling to IKEA stores. We shall help reduce CO2 emissions in society by offering products, solutions and know-how that enable our customers to reduce their carbon footprint and live a more sustainable life at home. We shall actively participate in developing tools to measure a company’s positive impact on the climate. Read more under Climate IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 10 INTRODUCTION: IKEA SUSTAINAbIlITY DIRECTION / PRIORITIES 3. Turning waste into resources gOAl FY15 We shall have zero waste to landfill from our own operations. We shall enable and encourage customers in all markets to reuse or recycle all IKEA products at end-of-life. Read more under Waste IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 11 INTRODUCTION: IKEA SUSTAINAbIlITY DIRECTION / PRIORITIES 4. Reducing our water footprint gOAl FY15 We shall significantly reduce our water footprint in our own operations as well as throughout our supply chain. Read more under Water IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 12 INTRODUCTION: IKEA SUSTAINAbIlITY DIRECTION / PRIORITIES 5. Taking social responsibility gOAl FY12 All our home furnishing suppliers and transport service providers shall comply with all requirements in our code of conduct, IWAY. gOAlS FY15 The global index average in the annual co-worker survey vOICE shall reach 700 or above out of a maximum of 1,000. The IKEA Foundation funded projects shall reach more than 100 million children. All IKEA units shall have a clearly defined plan for community involvement based on our Charity policy. Read more under Co-workers, Suppliers, Communities IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 13 INTRODUCTION: GOvERNANCE Integrating the IKEA Sustainability ® Direction into everything we do When creating a better everyday life for the many people, it is a prerequisite to care about people and the environment. IKEA sees sustainability as a business opportunity as well as a condition for being a good company. IKEA Sustainability Direction for FY15 will help us consistently move all aspects of our operations in the right direction towards our goals. SUSTAINAbIlITY IS A CORNERSTONE OF OUR OvERAll DIRECTION Sustainability is one of the four cornerstones of the overall direction for the IKEA Group, “Growing IKEA – Together”. Sustainability shall be an integrated part of our business, which means that all IKEA strategies and business plans must clearly and systematically integrate sustainability improvements and investments as part of everyday operations. To assist this process, we have developed the “IKEA Sustainability Direction” with key priorities and overall goals for FY15. To integrate sustainability into our business, we need to take social and environmental responsibility in every step of the value chain. We will therefore create and secure sustainable set-ups for: • product development and sourcing of raw materials of home furnishing and food products • production and distribution • marketing • stores and shopping centres • the product’s end-of-life SpECIFIC gOAlS TO bE SET IN All pARTS OF IKEA For some priorities, we have already set specific, overall goals complemented by a number of areaspecific targets. During FY11, more targets at all levels of the organisation will be developed to help us measure our progress. IKEA vISION, bUSINESS IDEA & SUSTAINAbIlITY The IKEA vision is to create a better everyday life for the many people. Wherever we are, we shall act with respect to have a positive impact on people Our business idea is to offer a wide range of and the limited resources well-designed, functional home furnishing products of our planet to ensure longat prices so low that as many people as possible term profitability. will be able to afford them. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 14 INTRODUCTION: GOvERNANCE lOCAl, NATIONAl AND glObAl RESpONSIbIlITY The IKEA culture is key in defining how we integrate sustainable behaviour throughout our organisation. Among our values are togetherness, humbleness, simplicity and cost-consciousness. We believe in doing more with less, listening to and learning from others, and being fair and honest. Every IKEA manager is responsible for including sustainability in his or her area of responsibility and to set goals. To support them, there are sustainability managers and many social and environmental specialists covering a wide range of areas, such as chemical experts, forestry specialists, energy experts, code of conduct specialists and auditors. In addition, all IKEA stores and distribution centres have social and environmental co-ordinators who work with sustainability related training, working conditions, safety, waste management, and water and energy conservation. IKEA DOES NOT ACCEpT CORRUpTION IN ANY FORm IKEA does not accept corruption in any form, whether direct or indirect, and works proactively to prevent it. All suppliers must sign an acceptance of this policy. Our corruption policy, Rules of Prevention of Corruption, and an investigation policy describe how we will act when we suspect fraud, corruption, theft and other illegal behaviour. Firm policies and an internal ethics programme with training and workshops help to minimise the risk of illegal behaviour in the IKEA organisation. We make regular risk assessments on different markets and handle any deviations to policy and guidelines with systematic urgency. glObAl COmpACT’S gUIDINg pRINCIplES IKEA is a signatory to the United Nation’s Global Compact. We are committed to aligning our operaRead more on page 89 tions and strategies to the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, Communication environment and anti-corruption. on progress WORKINg TOgETHER WITH OTHERS IKEA cooperates with companies, trade unions, NGOs and organisations to develop and strengthen the impact of our work within the social and environmental field. By sharing experiences and learning from others, we can accomplish more than we could have done by working on our own. IKEA works in partnership with UNICEF and Save the Children to strengthen children’s rights, and with the global conservation organisation WWF on projects within forestry, cotton and climate change. Read more on page 90 List of key organisations IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 15 INTRODUCTION: STAKEhOlDERS We want a better everyday life for the many people IKEA is on a never ending journey, striving towards a more sustainable future for all our stakeholders. The vision to create a better everyday life for the many people is not just about offering great home furnishing products – it is also about contributing to a better future by taking social and environmental responsibility towards our customers, our coworkers, our suppliers and the people who work for them, as well as towards the entire community. IKEA CUSTOmERS We want our customers to always feel confident that the products they purchase from IKEA are of Read more on page 19 good quality and safe to use. They should be able to freely choose among all our products, knowing Customers that IKEA is committed to sustainable practices and that they do not have to choose between sustainability, style, function or price. More than 38 million customers in 23 countries are members of IKEA FAMIlY, the customer club that helps us care for and reward our most active customers. Several stores run IKEA FAMIlY activities aimed at engaging customers to participate in our sustainability work and support a variety of projects in the local community. The IKEA FAMIlY lIvE Magazine helps us reach six million households around the world with tips and ideas for a more sustainable life at home, as well as in-depth features on what we do to take responsibility for people and the environment. Customer feedback on individual products are systematically documented in case of returns and/ or complaints so that IKEA can take action when needed. Any indication of safety problems will immediately be followed by global measures to prevent injury and/or health hazards. To collect structured feedback from customers, IKEA conducts market research through the “brand Capital” survey – a tool to monitor and improve the implementation of the IKEA concept and to measure customer satisfaction in each market. The survey is conducted once a year. In addition, we monitor how satisfied customers are with their local IKEA store through the annual “Customer Satisfaction Index” (CSI) survey. The survey provides an international benchmark for our stores, and ensures that customer satisfaction issues are regularly addressed. IKEA CO-WORKERS Our co-workers are our most valuable resource – when they grow, IKEA grows. IKEA is committed to Read more on page 31 being a good employer that offers a safe and healthy work environment together with development Co-workers opportunities for each individual. IKEA conducts an annual company-wide survey to collect feedback from co-workers. We want to learn what motivates them and what they are dissatisfied with, so that IKEA can keep improving as an employer. The survey is completed anonymously to encourage honest feedback. COmmUNICATINg SUSTAINAbIlITY TO All CO-WORKERS IKEA communicates its work with sustainability to co-workers in different ways to raise awareness of what we do and how coworkers can contribute. In FY10, we created “Our Never Ending Job”, an inspiring reference book covering many small and large actions that IKEA has taken in the field of sustainability. Printed on recycled paper in 18 languages, it is distributed to all current co-workers in 41 countries, as well as to those that will join us over the next two years. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 16 INTRODUCTION: STAKEhOlDERS IKEA SUpplIERS AND THEIR EmplOYEES IKEA is a production-oriented company, and we strive to build long-term relationships with suppliers Read more on page 36 that share our values and who want to grow and develop together with IKEA. Suppliers Many ideas for design and product development are born on the factory floor when IKEA co-workers are on-site, and this close relationship also opens up possibilities for frank and honest dialogue about topics related to environmental and social issues. We cooperate with suppliers to spread best practices in various areas to increase their ability to take on more social and environmental responsibility. For a supplier, investments in working conditions and the environment often lead to more orders, better productivity and improved profitability, thereby improving competitiveness. Every three years, IKEA conducts a supplier survey to collect feedback from our suppliers on our relationship. The feedback is given anonymously to protect suppliers and encourage frank and open input. We ask questions about, for instance, if IKEA is sensitive to suppliers’ opinions, if discussions are respectful, and if IKEA handles complaints in a satisfactory manner. If the feedback indicates a need for improvement, an action plan is developed for the area concerned. COmmUNITIES IKEA is active in the communities where we do business. We participate in a wide range of activities Read more on page 53 globally, nationally and locally. Through partnerships with carefully selected organisations, we supCommunities port projects that are designed to match the needs of the communities in which they take place. NgOS AND OTHER STAKEHOlDERS Regular dialogue with some of our stakeholders and partners is an important way for us to gain Read more on page 90 and share knowledge that helps us move forward. by cooperating with companies, trade unions and List of key organisations organisations, we accomplish more than we could have done by working on our own. THE ENvIRONmENT IKEA strives to minimise the negative impact on the environment by applying innovative thinking in Read more on page 59 every step of the long chain, from the very first idea for a product to when the customer no longer Environment wants it. Cost-consciousness is part of our culture, and it inspires us to try to make more from less resources and minimise waste in every form. We believe that IKEA has the possibility to even contribute to a better environment. For example, we can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and minimise waste and water consumption in society by offering products that help our customers live a more sustainable life at home. OUR FIRST YEARlY SUmmARY © The IKEA Group of Companies 2010, unless otherwise stated. © Inter IKEA Systems B.V. 2010 “WElCOmE INSIDE” The IKEA Group has started to release a Yearly Summary with the purpose to Welcome inside communicate how our income is used, in a format that talks to the many people. Yearly Summary FY09 Comments FY09 &FY10 The first summaries cover FY09 and FY10, IKEA® Group and are available on www.IKEA.com. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 17 CUSTOMERS IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 18 CUSTOmERS: MORE SUSTAINAblE PRODUCTS Introducing a new tool to develop more sustainable products We want customers to confidently and freely choose among all our products, knowing that IKEA is committed to sustainable practices and that they do not have to choose between sustainability, style, function or price. The IKEA Sustainability product Score Card will help us offer a more sustainable range of products. INTRODUCINg THE IKEA SUSTAINAbIlITY pRODUCT SCORE CARD A new tool for more sustainable product development and purchasing has been developed for introduction during FY11. The IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card will help classify the IKEA home furnishing range. It will steer us towards selecting the best possible alternatives within 11 criteria that have an impact on a product’s sustainability profile throughout its life-cycle. IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card criteria, in brief: • More from less (using less material in the product) • Renewable material • Recycled material • Environmentally better material • Separable & recyclable material • Product quality • Transport efficiency (number of products per container) • Energy efficient production • Renewable energy in production • Raw material utilization at suppliers • Product use (less use of energy and water, and less waste in customers’ homes) For a product and its packaging to be classified as more sustainable compared to its predecessor or to comparable products on the market, it must score a certain number of points in the IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card. It is a prerequisite that the product is produced by suppliers that live up to the social and environmental requirements in the IKEA code of conduct IWAY. The IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card is an internal tool that will help us measure our progress and improve the sustainability in our entire range of products. Therefore, scores will not be communicated to customers in the form of individual product labels. mAKINg mORE FROm lESS If STUvA had been in the range a few years ago, we would only have been able to make 13 STUvA storage boxes from the wood of one tree. Today, one tree is enough for 23 of them! how did we do it? We replaced some wood with air, using a technique called board on Stiles instead of the traditional 18 mm chipboard. board on Stiles 1. Stiles are combined with honeycomb paper in 723+') +21(<&20%3$3(5 an automatic process. Heated, thin fibreboard is placed on each side and everything %27720+') goes into a rolling press. 67,/( 2. After pressing, the board is split into a number of different widths depending on the product line. ('*(%$1' 5$,/ 3. The boards are drilled and varnished or painted – ready for packaging. 4. Strong and lightweight, the final product allows for better filling rates in containers and trucks, and is easy for customers to handle. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 19 CUSTOmERS: MORE SUSTAINAblE PRODUCTS gOAlS TO DEvElOp mORE SUSTAINAblE pRODUCTS IKEA has set new product development targets for the end of FY15 based on our Sustainability Direction. • 90 percent of the IKEA sales value shall come from home furnishing products classified as “more sustainable” according to criteria in the new IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card. • All product materials shall be renewable, recyclable or recycled. • Our energy-consuming products, such as lights and white goods, will be at least 50 percent more efficient than average installed products on the market in 2008 (based on estimated averages for the European markets). • Our water-consuming products (such as taps, dishwashers and washing machines) will be at least 50 percent more efficient than average installed products on the market in 2008 (based on estimated averages for the European markets). SOlUTIONS FOR A mORE SUSTAINAblE lIFE AT HOmE IKEA wants to help customers take simple measures at home that contribute to a better environRead more on page 83 ment and save on household expenses. IKEA products can help customers adopt a more sustainable Sustainable life at home behaviour at home, and – as a group of several hundred million people – reduce their overall climate impact. All IKEA kitchen taps are now fitted with a Pressure Compensating Aerator (PCA) that can reduce water use by 30 percent on average. The same technology will be introduced for all bathroom taps in FY11. IKEA has also extended the range of products to help with waste-sorting, moving from mainly kitchen-based products to also include solutions suitable for secondary storage areas. For example, RETUR is a series of wall-hanging storage products to be used for paper, cardboard, batteries, glass and plastic, etc., and DIMPA provides a low-price portable alternative. All incandescent light bulbs have been phased out and replaced with low-energy alternatives named SPARSAM, and the range of lED-based light products is being expanded. mORE RESOURCES TO SUSTAINAblE pRODUCT DEvElOpmENT IKEA of Sweden is responsible for developing the range of home furnishing products. Now all of its eight business areas have a dedicated sustainability leader, supported by a central group of seven people, responsible for leading and supporting the sustainability work within product development and supply chain. In addition, product developers, technicians and others are invited to take part in three different training modules on waste, energy and water issues. A separate training programme is available on how to use the IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card. DECISION TO bUY RSpO CERTIFICATES IKEA has decided to purchase Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Certificates to help stimuRead more about late more sustainable palm oil production. Roundtable on In early 2011, we will buy certificates equivalent to the volume of palm oil used for IKEA products. Sustainable palm Oil at IKEA has also decided to take on a more active role in the RSPO. www.rspo.org IKEA suppliers purchase palm oil mainly from Malaysia and Indonesia. This raw material is associated with environmental issues such as deforestation and peat land destruction, as well as social issues relating to indigenous populations and working conditions. While palm oil used in IKEA products represents only around 0.1 percent of the global market, IKEA is relatively large in the candle segment. Today, IKEA uses approximately 60,000 tonnes of palm oil in total, of which around 59,000 tonnes are used for candle production. The rest is used for frying oil and food production, hygiene products and to prepare rattan for home furnishing products. IKEA candles contain around 30 percent palm oil. We replaced paraffin in candles with palm stearin a few years ago in an effort to achieve a smaller carbon dioxide footprint. based on what we know today, we believe that actively contributing to more sustainable palm oil production is the most effective way forward towards more sustainable products. however, the quest for more sustainable raw materials is constant, and IKEA continues to investigate alternatives to palm oil. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 20 CUSTOmERS: MORE SUSTAINAblE PRODUCTS DEvElOpINg gUIDElINES FOR FOOD OpERATIONS IKEA has decided to assess the environmental impact of food operations in the stores. With the help of external expertise, we hope to get a better understanding of how to reduce energy and water consumption as well as minimise food waste and food packaging. The purpose is to create guidelines, to be rolled out in FY11, on how to minimise our environmental impact. DECISION TO INTRODUCE UTZ CERTIFIED COCOA IKEA has decided to introduce one UTZ Certified cocoa product in the IKEA food range in FY11, a dark For more information chocolate bar. IKEA is expected to be the first retailer to offer a product with 100 percent, fully traceon UTZ Certified, able UTZ Certified cocoa. As with UTZ Certified coffee purchased at IKEA, customers will be able to please visit trace the beans used in the dark chocolate bar all the way back to the plantations through a code on www.utzcertified.org the packaging. NEW ANImAl WElFARE STANDARD FOR CHICKEN IKEA has introduced its first animal welfare standard for food sourcing. The standard on broiler Read more about chicken has been developed together with Compassion in World Farming (CIWF), and the goal is that Compassion In World all chicken suppliers will comply as of January 2011. Farming at The standard specifies the maximum stock density of 30 kg birds per square meter (m2) comwww.ciwf.org.uk pared to the current EU requirement of a maximum of 36-42 kg birds/m2. Other requirements include that the chickens must have natural light through windows, perching and pecking objects, and access to straw bales to encourage foraging. The work to develop more animal welfare standards continues in cooperation with CIWF. IKEA expects standards for egg laying hens, pig, beef cattle and dairy cattle to be the next to be developed in FY11 and FY12. STANDARD FROm THE SAlmON DIAlOgUE ClOSE TO COmplETION IKEA and all its suppliers of salmon products participate in the Salmon Dialogue, a multi-stakeholder Read more about the initiative managed by WWF. The Salmon Dialogue has developed principles and criteria for environAquaculture Stewardmentally, socially and economically responsible salmon farming, which are to be finalised during ship Council at 2011. The ambition is that all IKEA salmon products shall be sourced according to the Aquaculture www.ascworldwide.org Stewardship Council (ASC) standard by 2015. gOOD Egg AWARD IKEA Italy and IKEA belgium received the ”Good Egg Award” from Compassion in World Farming (CIWF) in 2010 following the decision to source eggs exclusively from hens that are not confined to cages. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 21 CUSTOmERS: MORE SUSTAINAblE PRODUCTS The way we work ECONOmISINg ON RESOURCES the amount of raw materials required for All COFFEE AT IKEA IS UTZ We want as many people as possible to be IKEA products, but also to find alternative CERTIFIED able to afford IKEA products as part of our materials to avoid the depletion of precious All coffee sold and served at IKEA is UTZ vision to create a better everyday life. This resources. Certified. That means it has been produced applies to the home furnishing range as with care for people and the environment, well as to the meals served in IKEA restauRead more on page 59 and that you can trace the beans all the rants and the food sold in the Swedish Forestry way back to the plantations through a code Food Market. on the packaging. UTZ Certified is an indeCost-consciousness is essential to this pendent non-profit organisation that sets Read more on page 64 idea. This inspires us to make economical social and environmental standards for Cotton use of all resources and to seek innovative sustainable coffee growing and distribusolutions. This in turn helps us to reduce tion, and now also cocoa and tea. our overall environmental impact. NO ECO-lAbEllINg OF IKEA HOmE FURNISHINg pRODUCTS For more information on HOmE FURNISHINg pRODUCTS We label our home furnishing products UTZ Certified, please visit exclusively with the IKEA logo, as we want www.utzcertified.org mAKINg mORE FROm lESS our customers to know that this stands for IKEA strives to use the least possible products that are safe and produced with ORgANIC FOOD AvAIlAblE IN resources to make the best possible prodrespect for people and the environment. All STORES ucts, and we work systematically to inteAs this applies to the entire IKEA range, All stores must offer at least one food dish grate sustainability into our product soluwe have chosen not to use any certification based on exclusively organic ingredients, tions. Using hollow legs on furniture and labels for home furnishing products. and a minimum of 10 percent of the range chipboard as filling are classic IKEA ways of We want customers to confidently and in the Swedish Food Market must be saving on wood resources. freely choose among all our products, organic. We are also introducing new quality knowing that IKEA is committed to sustainCurrently, 14 percent of the global standards in cotton production to minimise able practices and that they do not have to articles found in the Swedish Food Market the use of raw material while enhancing choose between sustainability, style, funcare produced from organic ingredients. quality, and blending cotton with other tion or price. In addition, many markets source organic materials to reduce cotton use. food for their national menu in the restauFOOD pRODUCTS rants; for example IKEA Italy has around RENEWAblE, RECYClAblE AND 70 organic ingredients used for restaurant RECYClED mATERIAlS TACKlINg CONCERNS OvER FISHINg food preparation. by the end of FY15, all product materials AND ANImAl WElFARE shall be renewable, recyclable or recycled. IKEA wants to offer quality food products COOpERATINg WITH OTHERS The main raw materials used in IKEA prodat low prices, while also giving our customIKEA engages in dialogue with several ucts are wood, cotton and glass. The latter ers peace of mind knowing that we source stakeholders on animal welfare, such as is recyclable, while wood and cotton are food products in a responsible manner. the Compassion in World Farming (CIWF) renewable materials. IKEA has restrictive requirements on and the Salmon Dialogue. food products to prevent overfishing, and SUSTAINAblE SOURCINg OF RAW we cooperate with Compassion in World mATERIAlS Farming (CIWF) to develop animal welfare Raw material extraction is often associated standards. with environmental and social concerns. The herring sold by IKEA comes from IKEA wants to support the development sustainable fisheries outside the coasts of of sustainable practices for what are often Norway, and all of our salmon suppliers long and complex supply chains. take part in WWF’s Salmon Dialogue. When We work actively with our partners local restaurant dishes include fish caught to spread better management practices in the wild, it must not come from endanin cotton-growing areas in India and gered stocks. Pakistan, and to increase the availability of certified wood. Read more on page 49 In the future, we want to focus even Industry-specific requirements for more on finding ways to not only decrease IKEA Food suppliers IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 22 CUSTOmERS: MORE SUSTAINAblE PRODUCTS COmmENTS ON KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 KpI – CUSTOmERS: mORE SUSTAINAblE pRODUCTS IKEA has set new targets for the end of FY15 and will start FY10 goal FY15 reporting on progress in FY11. The IKEA Sustainability Product IKEA home furnishing products classified as Score Card, which will be rolled out in FY11, will play a major more sustainabile, % – 90 role for more sustainable product development and purchasing Renewable, recyclable, recycled materials % – 100 in coming years. Improved efficiency, % The efficiency of energy and water consuming products will be Improved efficiency of energy consuming products compared with the estimated average installed products on Euro(compared to the average installed on the market 2008) – 50 pean markets, using 2008 as a base year. Improved efficiency water consuming products Today, we have little reliable data on the share of recycled (compared to the average installed on the and recyclable materials used for IKEA home furnishing products, market 2008) – 50 but we know that the share of renewable materials remains fairly constant at around 70 percent as cotton and wood are our two most important raw materials. All incandescent light bulbs were phased out during FY10, and OTHER FIgURES sales of energy saving alternatives have increased. FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Compact Fluorescent light (CFl) bulbs sold % Compared to total light source range 51 55 57 55 Halogen light bulbs sold % Compared to total light source range – – – 30 Appliances with energy rating A+ or A in the range, % Ovens – – 91 99 Freezer/fridges – – 100 100 Dishwashers – – 100 100 Organic products, % Organic products in the Swedish Food Market range, % 6 8 11 14 IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 23 CUSTOmERS: SAFE & hEAlThY PRODUCTS We work proactively to ensure safe and healthy products We want our customers to feel confident that the products they purchase from IKEA are safe and of good quality. This is why our products are subject to extensive testing, and why IKEA works proactively to stay ahead of standards and regulations. pREpARED FOR INCREASED REgUlATION ON pRODUCT SAFETY IKEA works proactively to meet and comply with legislation and standards on product safety. The number of international and national standards and requirements for consumer products are increasing, and the trend of shorter lead times for implementation continues. More than 60 new or updated legislations and standards that affect IKEA home furnishing products are expected to come into force during the coming three years. These requirements concern various areas, such as forest traceability, environmental requirements and reporting obligations, health, children’s products and stability requirements. Chemicals are a necessary part of most home furnishing products and manufacturing processes, but IKEA works actively to eliminate, replace and reduce harmful substances in products and production wherever feasible. IKEA has decided that, by end of FY13, substances that are due to be prohibited by law shall have been phased out from IKEA products before the legislation is in place. ACTIvE pARTICIpATION IN STANDARDISATION EFFORTS IKEA is often invited to participate in both national and international standardisation work in order to contribute knowledge and experience that helps secure high-quality standards and testing methods. In FY10, IKEA made an agreement with the Swedish Standard Institute to develop official translations of Chinese standards relating to home furnishing products. This will simplify the interpretation of Chinese requirements and help IKEA and other companies avoid non-compliance issues. QUAlITY TESTINg SINCE THE 1960s IKEA started to test product quality at the IKEA Test laboratory in Älmhult, Sweden, in the 1960s. Today, this laboratory alone conducts 6,000-7,000 tests annually on fire resistance, durability, emissions and much more. Tests are based on various European and international safety and quality standards as well as IKEA-unique criteria that look at how customers might use the products. The laboratory is also a competence centre working closely with IKEA designers, product developers and technicians during product development. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 24 CUSTOmERS: SAFE & hEAlThY PRODUCTS REmOvINg lEAD FROm HOmE FURNISHINg pRODUCTS Whenever possible, IKEA strives to remove harmful substances from our products above and beyond legal requirements. lead and cadmium are two such examples, and IKEA drinking glasses have been free of these substances since the early ‘90s. In FY10, IKEA introduced new costand energy-efficient leadand cadmium-free screen printing paint systems for glass, one using Uv technology and one using thermal plastic inks. These printing techniques will be used for both drinking glasses and decorative glass products. In FY10, IKEA also introduced an alternative production method for mirrors, resulting in a lead-free mirror range. When U.S. regulatory authorities decided on tougher limits for lead levels in children’s products as of February 2010, IKEA decided to remove all lead from the entire range of IKEA fixtures and fittings by the end of FY11, and implementation at IKEA suppliers is under way. WIDER SCOpE FOR THE IKEA CHIlDREN’S SCHOOl Co-workers across IKEA who work with the Children’s IKEA range go through regular training in the IKEA Children’s School. Our teachers are experts in their field and teach us about children’s development and needs with focus on quality, safety and health. In FY10, invitations to the training sessions were extended to also include retail managers and suppliers of children’s products. The introductory e-learning has been updated and now includes a film “IKEA Children’s School – The Movie” that gives an overview of children’s needs and the implications on the IKEA range. The e-learning module is followed by classroom activities during one to three days, depending on the work role, before a participant is licenced to work with the IKEA Children’s range. ENAblINg bETTER INFORmED FOOD CHOICES We plan to provide full nutritional information to customers for the food served and sold in IKEA stores during FY11. This is already available on products in the Swedish Food Market range and on restaurant food served in some U.S. states. Transparent information on all food products and dishes will make it easier for customers to make informed choices. The way we work A gENEROUS RETURN pOlICY AND The Safety Alarm process helps us to secure Every IKEA store and national Service STRICT FOllOW-Up ROUTINES and monitor product safety and safety Office has dedicated resources working IKEA has a generous return policy, and standard compliance on all IKEA markets with safety alarm procedures, and they customers have at least 30 days to bring and to initiate corrective and preventive receive regular training. back purchased products for a full refund action if needed. All IKEA co-workers have regardless of the reason for the return. a duty to report safety-related incidents or HOmE FURNISHINg pRODUCTS Every return is systematically documented risks involving IKEA products. Our guideso that IKEA can analyse reasons for returns lines state that the threshold should be pROACTIvE RISK ASSESSmENT AND and take action when needed. There are deliberately low for reporting, and that ExTENSIvE TESTINg routines in place for returns related to over-reporting is encouraged. IKEA uses proactive risk assessments to quality problems, so that measures can be Alarms are directed to a central internal ensure product safety by evaluating, detectinvestigated by IKEA and the supplier in watchdog team, which is on stand-by ing and eliminating potential hazards. Each question. In addition, return reasons that around the clock, for initial classification. year, thousands of tests are carried out on can be an indication of safety problems In case of severe risk, an immediate sales home furnishing products during IKEA prodimmediately prompt measures to prevent stop or recall can be set in motion almost uct development, and various tests are coninjury and/or health hazards. instantly. All alarms trigger an investigaducted continuously during production. tion into the problem, involving all necesSuppliers are required to have product RIgOROUS SAFETY AlARm sary parts of the IKEA organisation as well tests conducted at IKEA-approved thirdpROCEDURES as suppliers and authorities when needed. party laboratories. IKEA has its own thirdAny indication of safety problems with Safety Alarms also provide important inforparty accredited test laboratories in Sweden IKEA home furnishing and food products mation for product developers and designand China, which are complemented by immediately prompts measures deterers in their quest to develop safe and more than 100 external laboratories mined by our Safety Alarm process to prehealthy products. around the world. vent injury and/or health hazards. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 25 CUSTOmERS: SAFE & hEAlThY PRODUCTS The IKEA Test laboratory in Älmhult, substances in the manufacturing process. has a mandatory web-based learning proSweden, has increased its work with proIf one country tightens its rules, we introgramme on food safety for all co-workers active risk assessment during the early duce these new regulations on all IKEA working with food in our restaurants, stages of home furnishing product develmarkets where and when possible. kitchens and stores. opment. Special technicians have been Examples of such legislation are the EU Two annual food safety audits are trained to work with designers and product RohS directive on hazardous substances performed by external parties in every developers from the drawing board, proin electrical and electronic components and IKEA store. The audit includes food hanviding input to constructions and advice the REACh legislation on the restriction of dling, cleaning practices, storage rooms based on prototypes. Tests are conducted chemicals. and garbage practices. If deviations from not only in relation to standards and reguIKEA participates in formal and informal protocol are detected, the store must lations, but also based on how customers networks related to REACh. For instance, immediately set up corrective measures eventually use the product. In addition, IKEA monitors the updates of The Internaand undergo a new audit. In addition, the teams conduct assembly tests to facilitional Chemical Secretariat’s (ChemSec) independent third-party auditors conduct tate the process for customers and make initiative “Substitute it Now” (SIN), which compliance and calibration audits to ensure the final product safer to use. lists substances that may be included in consistent audit judgement levels and REACh. follow-up procedures. SpECIAl FOCUS ON CHIlDREN’S SAFETY FOOD pRODUCTS IKEA pays particular attention to children’s products, which must meet especially high SAFE AND HEAlTHY FOOD pRODUCTS quality and safety requirements. We test health is an important parameter when we IKEA children’s products to strict national develop the IKEA food range. We try to and international safety standards and legminimise the use of chemical additives, islation at independent, third-party test such as certain preservatives, and have laboratories and institutes around the prohibited monosodium glutamate (MSG) world. Tests are made before we start proand AZO dyes, which are suspected to duction and thereafter on a regular basis. have negative health effects. Special risk assessment based on chilWe have banned all flavour enhancers in dren’s needs is a cornerstone of our quality IKEA branded food products. Also, IKEA does work during product development and in not allow genetically modified organisms the production stage. The purpose is to (GMO) in IKEA branded products. As it is detect and eliminate potential hazards and almost impossible to source GMO-free food to ensure the product is safe to use also in in the United States and Canada, an excepways an adult may not normally anticipate. tion of the ban has been issued for those Co-workers across IKEA who work with countries. however, our own packaged brand the Children’s IKEA range go through reguproducts are always GMO-free regardless lar training in the IKEA Children’s School of where they are sourced and sold. to learn about children’s development and IKEA has limits on artificially produced needs, with focus on quality, safety and trans fats in the cooking oil, food products health. and dishes sold and used in our stores. A maximum of 2 per cent of the total fat conUSINg THE SAFEST pOSSIblE tent may be trans fats, which is the smallCHEmICAlS est quantity that can be measured. IKEA aims to refrain from the use of chemicals and substances that could potentially Read more on page 49 be harmful to people and the environment. Industry-specific requirements for We strive to always use materials, surface IKEA food suppliers treatments and production techniques with the lowest possible emissions. ENSURINg RESTAURANT FOOD The IKEA range shall comply with the SAFETY strictest laws and safety standards on all IKEA is determined to ensure that the food our markets, and we have detailed requireserved in our restaurants and sold in the ments on the use of chemicals and other Swedish Food Markets is safe to eat. IKEA IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 26 CUSTOmERS: CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT Increased customer engagement helps IKEA make a difference ® IKEA customers are encouraged to contribute to positive social and environmental development through campaigns and activities run by IKEA and our partners. Customer engagement reached new highs in FY10 and helped us make a difference in many parts of the world. ANOTHER RECORD DONATION FROm SOFT TOYS CAmpAIgN During the holiday season at the end of each year, one euro for every soft toy sold in IKEA stores worldRead more on page 53 wide is donated, split between Save the Children and UNICEF projects aimed at improving children’s The IKEA Foundation education. The FY10 campaign generated 7.1 million euro, and the FY11 campaign generated another 8.6 million euro, enabling UNICEF and Save the Children to extend or start projects in 22 countries. During one extra week at the end of the FY11 campaign period leading up to Christmas 2010, donations were not only based on soft toys sales, but on all products in the Children’s IKEA range and a special children’s meal in the restaurants. And, for the first time, stores outside the IKEA Group took part in the campaign, bringing the number of participating stores to more than 300. Since the campaign began in 2003, the IKEA Foundation has donated 35.2 million euro, enabling improved schools for approximately 8 million children in close to 40 countries. SUCCESS FOR SUNNAN lAmp SAlES AND DONATIONS For every SUNNAN solar-powered lamp sold in IKEA stores, the IKEA Foundation donates one SUNNAN lamp, split between UNICEF and Save the Children. The lamps are distributed to children in developing countries to help them play, read, write and study after dusk. In the first 12 months from the start in June 2009, more than 500,000 SUNNAN lamps were sold – double the initial goal. Donating lamps is an important contribution to children in developing countries – especially girls – who struggle to keep up at school because their only opportunity to do homework is at night after completing household chores. SOFT TOYS ENgAgE CUSTOmERS AND CO-WORKERS Since the annual IKEA Soft Toys campaign began in 2003, the IKEA Foundation has donated 35.2 million euro benefiting approximately eight million children in close to 40 countries. There are many examples of how the campaign engages both customers and co-workers – and the commitment grows from year to year! For example, IKEA Poland encouraged additional soft toy sales by inviting customers to “give twice” by buying a soft toy and leaving it in transparent boxes placed near the store exits. As a result 6,000 soft toys were donated to eight children’s hospitals around Poland in addition to the donation made by the IKEA Foundation to UNICEF and Save the Children educational projects. In Sweden, two co-workers from the store that generated the biggest soft toy sales were treated to a field trip to Moldavia with UNICEF to visit projects funded by the campaign. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 27 CUSTOmERS: CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT IKEA FAmIlY mEmbERS INvITED TO HElp pAKISTAN FlOOD vICTImS With homes, schools, hospitals, crops and livestock being destroyed by the 2010 flooding in Pakistan, an estimated nine million children and their families urgently needed shelter, food, water and health care. The IKEA Foundation appealed to millions of IKEA FAMIlY members to support a web-based donation campaign benefitting UNICEF and Save the Children emergency relief efforts in Pakistan. In addition, we have donated more than one million IKEA products, including 700,000 buckets, 200,000 blankets and 10,000 SUNNAN lamps. HIgH ENgAgEmENT AmONg IKEA FAmIlY mEmbERS In several IKEA stores, the IKEA FAMIlY customer club is used to engage customers in a variety of Read about current community projects. It can be through specific activities and campaigns, as well as through IKEA donaIKEA FAmIlY activities tions that are based on the number of times the IKEA FAMIlY membership card is swiped in-store. in your country at In the UK, every IKEA FAMIlY card swipe raises money for the conservation charity Woodland Trust. www.IKEA.com Since 2007, about one million GbP have been raised, and 230 acres of woodland have been created. IKEA FAMIlY members that swipe their cards in Sweden raise 0.25 SEK to Save the Children’s parent hotline, and this has generated four million SEK in the past two years. In Australia, IKEA FAMIlY members can now choose which charity IKEA donates money to – each swipe generates 0.10 AUD to UNICEF Australia or, depending on which store the card is swiped in, three different local charities that work with children and young people. In France, each card swipe during February every year generates 0.20 euro in money or IKEA furniture to “Fondation Abbé Pierre”, an NGO that helps the most disadvantaged find decent, long-term housing. And IKEA Spain ran an IKEA FAMIlY card swipe activity in March and April, when 0.10 euro was donated to support a variety of social projects selected at store level. SUCCESS FOR CHRISTmAS TREE CAmpAIgN IN RUSSIA Several IKEA markets have run Christmas Tree Campaigns in recent years. The latest country to successfully use this to engage customers in forestry issues was Russia. All Russian stores offered the opportunity for customers to bring back trees, purchased at IKEA, after the holidays to get part of the money back. For each returned tree, IKEA Russia donated 50 roubles to WWF. Nearly 60 percent of the trees sold were returned, enabling the donation of 1.6 million roubles to a WWF school project in Arkhangelsk in northern Russia, teaching children the basics of responsible forestry and engaging them in tree planting. The returned Christmas trees were used by IKEA suppliers to produce items such as chipboard and pellets, while twigs and needles that could not be refined were used as bio-fuel. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 28 CUSTOmERS: CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT The way we work CUSTOmERS jOIN glObAllY, customers can return batteries and comaims to identify products and services that NATIONAllY AND lOCAllY pact fluorescent light (CFL) bulbs at most we could offer to help our customers live IKEA wants to help its customers to engage IKEA stores. CFl bulbs use 80 percent less a more sustainable life at home and to crein activities that in some way contribute energy and last 10 times longer than tradiate customer awareness of how they can to a better world. These activities can be tional bulbs. however, CFl bulbs contain help reduce climate impact. The focus is on global, national or local. a small amount of mercury, which means reducing energy and water consumption, The IKEA FAMIlY customer club, with that the bulbs have to be recycled in a preventing food waste and minimising more than 38 million members in 23 counsafe way. other household waste. tries, is often used to engage customers in IKEA has started investigating the a variety of community projects. opportunities for full recyclability of differRead more on page 83 ent materials used in IKEA products, and Sustainable life at home For more information on activities how cyclic systems can save scarce natural in your country, please visit resources and minimise CO2 emissions. ENgAgEmENT IN EARTH HOUR www.IKEA.com During Earth hour, IKEA units from around Read more on page 85 the world pledge support of planet earth by ENCOURAgINg AND ENAblINg Closing the loops turning off non-essential exterior and inteRECYClINg rior lighting, as well as offering a range of IKEA wants to make it easy for customers climate-related activities for customers Read more on page 70 to recycle our products at the end of their and co-workers. WWF runs the Earth hour Waste lifecycle. Our Sustainability Direction for event annually to increase awareness of FY15 states that IKEA must take responsiclimate change and to inspire practical bility to enable and encourage customers pROmOTINg A mORE SUSTAINAblE actions that reduce our carbon footprint. to recycle and reuse products when they lIFE AT HOmE are no longer wanted. We want to inspire IKEA customers and Read more about Earth Hour at Today, many stores offer at least some co-workers to adopt more sustainable www.earthhour.org opportunities for customers to return and behaviour in their everyday life and thus sort waste for recycling. For example, reduce their environmental impact. IKEA SAlES SOFT TOYS CAmpAIgN (mIllION EURO) 4.2 5.4 7.1 8.6 2007 2008 2009 2010 IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 29 CO-WORKERS IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 30 CO-WORKERS: WhEN WE GROW, IKEA GROWS Strong co-worker relations help us grow and develop together IKEA co-workers are our most valuable resource. We want co-workers that share our values to stay and grow with us. This is why we place emphasis on safe and healthy working conditions, sound benefits and career development based on equal opportunities and strong corporate values. NEW gOAlS FOR CO-WORKER SATISFACTION We want our co-workers to stay and thrive with IKEA, and we continuously monitor overall job satisfaction and motivation through a company-wide survey called “vOICE”. In FY10, IKEA set the goal for the end of FY15 that the global average vOICE index should reach 700 out of a maximum 1000, up from 659 in FY10. We have also decided that the leadership index, which measures co-workers’ view on their managers, shall reach 75 by the end of FY15 compared to today’s 73. National and local improvement goals are to be set based on the surveys’ sub-categories that are the most important for that particular organisation. mORE TRANSpARENT CAREER OppORTUNITIES SUppORT DIvERSITY IKEA has decided to introduce more transparent ways of spotting potential and promoting co-workers in order to increase diversity and expand the pool of upcoming talent. For example, co-workers can nominate themselves to the new international “backpacker Programme”. Nominees are assessed through an online global tool before national human Resources teams finalise the selection of a total of 200 young potentials for a one-year trainee programme in two different countries. The programme will not only help IKEA develop leaders for key positions and recruit them internally, but also provide each country with a broad pool of potential future leaders to develop in local programmes. The Backpacker Programme is expected to run for five years, with a 50/50 ratio of male and female participants. Another way to promote diversity and equal opportunities is the “+200” project, which has the objective of identifying internal candidates to be developed as potential successors to 200 top management positions. CO-WORKER ADvOCATE TEAm SUppORTS U.S. CO-WORKERS In the United States, IKEA co-workers who may have concerns with their managers, think they may have been unfairly treated or just need coaching on work relations have access to a special internal hR function to assist them. This Co-worker Relations team assists in anticipating, addressing and diffusing workplace issues; resolving disputes between and among management and co-workers; as well as working to maintain a positive and productive work environment. Co-workers’ issues can be reported to the “iSpeak” call-centre or website, and a team of four people stand by to listen to their concerns, mediate, provide advice and suggest solutions or conduct an investigation. The team also has access to external competencies to help with, for example, legal advice. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 31 CO-WORKERS: WhEN WE GROW, IKEA GROWS bETTER HEAlTH & SAFETY STANDARDS, WORKINg CONDITIONS Today, IKEA units base most of their occupational health and safety standards on local regulations and national legislation that vary from country to country. IKEA is now looking into the various standards, and we aim to level out differences by setting a minimum standard. We are also looking into various ways of improving general working conditions in key areas. For example, IKEA and representatives from the European Works Council have conducted a case study at a saw mill in Slovakia, owned by IKEA’s industrial arm Swedwood, in order to learn more about working conditions outside the retail environment. The aim is to develop guidelines and spread good examples to other IKEA industrial units. NEW pRINCIplES AND gUIDElINES FOR COmpENSATION & bENEFITS IKEA wants to offer competitive and transparent compensation and benefits that attract, motivate and retain talent. To support this, IKEA has developed global, mandatory guidelines for compensation and benefits that are to be implemented on all markets during FY12. The guidelines provide a common global approach combined with clear local responsibility to secure relevance, competitiveness and to meet the individual need in line with different life situations. Each country must offer the same benefit structure for all co-workers in the country and support co-workers with individually adapted benefits to reflect and meet changing needs in life over the years. Benefits are to be based on core IKEA values as well as local laws and market conditions, and there must be an element that is considered outstanding on the market. For example, legislated parental leave varies from country to country, and IKEA may locally select this as an area where outstanding benefits could be offered. “A gREAT plACE TO WORK” In 2010, the Great Place to Work Institute’s annual Trust Index Survey listed IKEA Poland as the best large workplace (more than 1,000 employees) in Poland, and the 49th best large workplace in Europe. IKEA Spain and IKEA Finland were ranked the second and third best large workplace in their respective countries. Nearly 300,000 employees provided feedback on 1,300 companies, making this the largest annual workplace survey in the world. The survey’s definition of a great workplace is an organisation where employees trust the people they work for, have pride in what they do and enjoy the people they work with. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 32 CO-WORKERS: WhEN WE GROW, IKEA GROWS The way we work OUR vAlUES SHOW US THE WAY tive relationships based on mutual respect. value and belonging. Well-functioning IKEA embraces human rights and respect Through our commitment to this dialogue, internal communication is a foundation for for the individual, and the way we work is we challenge ourselves, our co-workers and our co-workers’ ability to perform their based on a strong and living company cultheir associations to find innovative and tasks and to learn and develop, as well as ture. The foundation is a set of shared valsustainable solutions based on the IKEA culfor effective leadership. ues that guide us in our everyday work. ture of simplicity and cost-consciousness. Each manager is responsible for ensuring We value togetherness, humbleness, IKEA supports each co-worker’s right to that his or her co-workers have the ability simplicity, cost-consciousness and common freedom of association and does not express and tools to receive and understand relevant sense. We share a strong desire to learn and any preference within the institutional and information. Communication skills are part of improve. We encourage co-workers to quesrecognised co-worker associations. We all basic leadership training programmes, tion accepted solutions and test new ideas, respect the rights of our co-workers to join, and there are a number of tools and specialand see mistakes as a way to grow and form or not to join a co-worker association ists available to support managers. develop. We expect our managers to lead by of their choice without fear of reprisal, interThe IKEA Intranet is complemented by example, to live and explain the IKEA values. ference, intimidation or harassment. a variety of different channels such as regular meetings, easily accessible notice lISTENINg TO OUR CO-WORKERS STRIvINg FOR DIvERSITY AND boards and plasma screens, newsletters IKEA uses a company-wide survey called EQUAl OppORTUNITIES and closed-circuit radio. The global co“vOICE” to monitor how co-workers view We are convinced that IKEA becomes more worker Magazine Readme which is distribvarious aspects of their employment at creative and dynamic with a diverse work uted to all co-workers and translated into IKEA. Each year, we ask our co-workers to force, and we strive to recruit co-workers 19 languages. This magazine is in many fill in the survey anonymously to highlight of different backgrounds and experiences. parts of the organisation complemented what motivates them and what they are disThe top 800 IKEA managers around the by national and local magazines. satisfied with. Results from the survey help world represent more than 50 different In many countries, IKEA has webdefine areas to develop at IKEA. As a comnationalities, and our overall ambition is to enabled services on the Internet to better plement, the “IKEA leadership Index” quanhave a workforce that mirrors the diverse reach co-workers with limited computer tifies how co-workers view their managers. IKEA customer base. access at work and better access outside work. Co-workers can log in through the web SAFE AND HEAlTHY WORKINg SUppORT TO FUlFIllINg CAREERS browser of any computer or mobile phone to CONDITIONS We want our co-workers to have a fulfilling access a range of simply written benefit IKEA strives to offer a safe and healthy career and grow with us, both professionally descriptions and self-serve applications relatwork environment for all our co-workers. and personally. Each co-worker is in charge ing to wages and benefits, as well as news The safety of co-workers and customers is of his or her own competence development and information about various IKEA activities. a top priority at IKEA, and much emphasis with continuous support from IKEA. is placed on making sure co-workers get Co-workers who have mastered their TRANSpARENT jOb mARKET appropriate training and have access to the current job are encouraged to seek new chalTHROUgH “jObS AT IKEA” right tools and safety-gear. lenges. This could be in the form of more We want to make it easy for potential job All co-workers within retail and distriburesponsibility or through an alternative applicants to see whether IKEA fits their tion undergo safety training before starting career route inside IKEA by changing location needs and aspirations, and we want to to work at IKEA. This includes training on or work function. The annual development recruit co-workers who will enjoy a longhow to use equipment and machinery, fire talk is one opportunity to discuss and outline term career with IKEA. This is why IKEA and evacuation training, routines to prevent career paths as well as training needs. values are one important aspect of the “Jobs and handle workplace accidents, ergonomCompetence development in many forms at IKEA” section of the IKEA website. The ics, etc. If appropriate, co-workers are also is available to all, from the introduction of content and structure gives an overview of trained on how to handle threats – such as new co-workers to top management, often what it is like to work at IKEA, with co-worker bomb threats – and robbery situations. in the form of on-the-job training complestories and descriptions of various jobs, and Each country shall have its own safety mented by traditional classroom courses and job applications can be made online. committee with co-worker representatives, a wide range of web-based training activities In FY10, IKEA received nearly one million working actively to secure a safe working for all aspects of IKEA operations. applications, both for unsolicited and specific environment. Each IKEA unit also has a E-learning activities from the IKEA learnopen positions. risk manager, responsible for local safety ing Centre help develop relevant and essenroutines and drills based on the IKEA tial skills for various IKEA functions and reach SUppORTINg WORK-lIFE bAlANCE Group Risk Manual. Safety work is evalumany co-workers with the same education. Co-workers of different ages are at differated annually. ent stages of their lives, and have different KEEpINg CO-WORKERS INFORmED professional needs and abilities. DIAlOgUE WITH UNIONS Access to relevant information is a necesIKEA can meet individual co-worker IKEA strives to have open and honest diasity to enable co-workers to do their job, needs for work-life balance in various ways, logues with co-workers, unions and other but IKEA also wants to build strong relafor example, by offering flexible working co-worker associations locally and internations with co-workers and help them hours, partor full-time work, more or less tionally, building and developing construcengage in their workplace with a sense of responsibility, job sharing or telecommuting. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 33 CO-WORKERS: WhEN WE GROW, IKEA GROWS COmmENTS TO KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 KpI – CO-WORKERS: vOICE Overall results from vOICE and the leadership index remain FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY15 steady. There is a clear connection between good leadership and vOICE and leadership index (IKEA total) a good working climate, which in turn has a clear connection to Overall business results. This is why we have ambitious global goals for vOICE index 629 646 663 659 700 FY15. With global goals as a base, national and local improvement leadership Index 70 72 73 73 75 targets are developed from local survey results and the priorities that are the most important for that particular organisation. There are more women than men working on the IKEA sales floors, and while the share of women is increasing at management KpI – CO-WORKERS: DIvERSITY level, we still have some way to go before we reach our goal of full FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY15 gender balance. When the percentage of male/female managers does not add up to 100, it is due to vacancies. management – share of male/female IKEA operates in a constantly evolving and competitive retail Stores – 64/36 65/34 60/38 50/50 environment with high staff turnover. however, staff turnover conRetail management – 64/36 60/39 58/42 50/50 tinued to decrease in FY10, as a result of the economic downturn Distribution – 67/33 69/31 58/40 50/50 as well as persistent efforts to increase the retention rate. The Trading – 64/36 65/35 61/39 50/50 average length of employment for an IKEA co-worker is around Others – 74/26 68/32 62/38 50/50 four years, and staff turnover is significantly lower among fullTOTAl management – – – 60/39 50/50 time co-workers. OTHER FIgURES FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Staff turnover Part-time – 32 22.4 20.5 Full-time – 16 11.9 10.6 All – 24 16.4 14.8 CO-WORKERS 127,000 41 Total number of Total number of co-workers countries IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 34 SUPPLIERS IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 35 SUpplIERS: CODE OF CONDUCT Ten years of learning guide us into the future IKEA relies on good, long-term relations with suppliers who take social and environmental responsibility. Our focus is to motivate and support suppliers’ continuous efforts to improve. The IKEA code of conduct IWAY has played, and will continue to play, an important role in positive developments. CElEbRATINg TEN YEARS OF IWAY DEvElOpmENTS 2010 marks the ten-year anniversary for the IKEA code of conduct, IWAY. Our social and environmental requirements have helped both IKEA and its suppliers to become more responsible and more competitive in a society that rightfully expects us to constantly do better. IKEA has started the work to take IWAY to the next level, making significant efforts to reach full compliance deeper into our supply chains. Since it was first introduced in 2000, IWAY has contributed to many large and small improvements in the IKEA supply chain. Many suppliers have also experienced that investments in working conditions and the environment often lead to more orders, better productivity and improved profitability, thereby improving competitiveness. So far, hundreds of lakes, rivers and local communities have benefited from IKEA-required waste water treatment installations at factories, and improved water management has made a huge difference especially in developing countries. hundreds of thousands of workers now know more about their basic rights, for example about the benefits they are entitled to. They have opportunities to influence health and safety aspects at their workplace, and many accidents have been prevented through better fire safety equipment and regular evacuation drills. Over the years, the focus in IWAY and our work has shifted to be more about what needs to be achieved rather than on detailing how to do it. This has opened up opportunities for flexible solutions better adapted to each individual situation, encouraging suppliers to take more responsibility themselves. Monitoring and audits have remained an important part of securing compliance, but we have also devoted an increasing amount of resources to supporting and developing suppliers in a number of key areas in order to strengthen their ability to fulfil and surpass our requirements. A working group has now started planning for IWAY of the future, which is expected to be ready for implementation in FY13. The work will involve a variety of internal competencies and external experts to ensure the best possible scope and content. SUppORTINg SUpplIER DEvElOpmENT IKEA representatives are often on-site at suppliers, where an open dialogue encourages active responsibility for social and environmental issues. A new, systematic approach to home furnishing supplier development was introduced in FY10. Initially around 200 suppliers are eligible to be part of a Supplier Development Programme (SDP). Read more on page 39 Home furnishing suppliers IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 36 SUpplIERS: CODE OF CONDUCT The way we work THE IKEA SUpplY CHAIN developments become sustainable and labour. It has been established in order IKEA has thousands of suppliers and servindependent of IKEA presence. to make the IKEA position on child labour ice providers covering the wide range of clear to suppliers, their sub-contractors products and services required for global THE CODE OF CONDUCT IWAY and their employees, as well as to other operations. In addition to the suppliers of IWAY is the IKEA code of conduct, first relevant parties. All actions taken shall be home furnishing products in the IKEA introduced in 2000. It specifies the requirein the best interests of the child. range, there are food product suppliers, ments that we place on suppliers of prodIKEA conducts regular audits to ensure goods transport service providers and ucts and services. We focus on building the that there are no children working on companies that provide IKEA with indirect suppliers’ understanding of what they need home furnishing suppliers’ premises all services and materials. In turn, most of to comply with so that they can implement over the world. In addition, KPMG, a thirdthese have a number of sub-suppliers. the most suitable measures more indeparty auditor, conducts unannounced Our main focus has been on IKEA home pendently. In addition to the main docurandom checks at hundreds of suppliers furnishing suppliers, and on supporting ment, there are several industry-specific and their sub-contractors in India with spethem in taking responsibility for people and supplements and a special code of conduct cial emphasis on child labour. Third-party the environment. IKEA co-workers are for child labour. IKEA suppliers are responauditor Intertek has started conducting often on-site at these suppliers, and our sible for communicating the content of the child labour audits at IKEA sub-suppliers close and long-term relationships with IKEA code of conduct to their employees in bangladesh. them have contributed to many improveand sub-suppliers. ments. Over the past few years, IKEA has New suppliers are selected based on Read more on page 38 gradually increased its efforts to also supa list of IWAY start-up requirements. This Requirements in The IKEA Way on port developments with the vast range of helps us select suppliers that share our Preventing Child Labour other suppliers and service providers. values and who want to grow and develop together with us. COllAbORATION ON glObAl SUpplY ClOSE AND lONg-TERm Suppliers must comply with the IWAY CHAIN STANDARDS RElATIONSHIpS start-up requirements before being allowed IKEA is a member of the Global Social The supply chain is often long with numerto deliver to IKEA, while being given a Compliance Programme (GSCP), an indusous sub-suppliers. Many IKEA home furmaximum implementation time of 12 try-initiated programme working towards a nishing suppliers operate in developing months from the first delivery date for sustainable approach for the improvement countries that struggle with social and other IWAY requirements. of working and environmental conditions in environmental challenges. global supply chains. We believe IKEA contributes to positive Read more on page 38 GSCP provides a platform for compadevelopments in the supply chain by Requirements in the IKEA code nies to build consensus on best practices being on-site and conducting responsible of conduct and to work in partnership with suppliers business, and by cooperating with others on the continuous improvement of working – companies, authorities and NGOs. THE IKEA WAY ON pREvENTINg and environmental conditions through IKEA strives to build long-term relationCHIlD lAbOUR training and capacity building activities. ships with suppliers who share our values IKEA does not accept child labour and and want to grow and develop together works actively to prevent it. All IKEA supRead more about global Social with IKEA. Our focus is to motivate and pliers and sub-contractors must comply Compliance programme at support suppliers to take more responsibilwith a special code of conduct on child www.gscpnet.com ity and ownership themselves, so that labour, The IKEA Way on Preventing Child NUmbER OF IKEA SUpplIERS 1,074* 251 90 39 IKEA Home IKEA Transport IKEA Food IKEA Catalogue Furnishing suppliers service providers suppliers (global) suppliers (excluding Customer Delivery carriers) * IKEA home furnishing suppliers operate in 55 countries around the world, including Swedwood and Swedspan, which are part of the IKEA Group. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 37 SUpplIERS: CODE OF CONDUCT / IWAY The IKEA code of conduct – IWAY IWAY specifies the requirements that we place on suppliers of products and services. Suppliers are responsible for communicating the content of the IKEA code of conduct to their employees and sub-suppliers. below is a summary of some of the key points of IWAY. 1. lEgAl COmplIANCE Suppliers must: have facilities for personal hygiene, The IKEA supplier shall always comply with • Work to reduce energy consumption in those instances where housing the most demanding requirements whether • Prevent pollution to air, ground facilities are provided they are relevant applicable laws or IKEA and water • Pay at least the minimum legal wage IWAY specific requirements. • Handle, store and dispose of chemicals and compensate for overtime and hazardous waste in an environ• Base overtime on voluntary agree2. START-Up REQUIREmENTS mentally safe manner ments, not exceeding legal limits The following criteria need to be fulfilled • Ensure that workers handling chemicals • Allow time off and regular breaks before starting up a business relationship and hazardous waste have the right • Not discriminate on any basis with IKEA: competence and are adequately trained • Not prevent workers from exercising • No child labour collective bargaining activities • No forced or bonded labour 4. SOCIAl AND WORKINg • Not accept corporal punishment, • No severe environmental pollution CONDITIONS threats of violence or other forms of • No severe safety hazards IKEA expects its suppliers to respect mental or physical coercion • A transparent and reliable system for fundamental human rights, and to treat records of working hours and wages their workers fairly and with respect. • Insurance covering medical treatment Suppliers must: for work related accidents to all workers • Provide a healthy and safe working environment 3. ENvIRONmENTAl STANDARDS • Provide health and safety training Suppliers shall have plans in place to for workers reduce the environmental impacts • Ensure their buildings are safe, have from their production and operations. reasonable privacy, are quiet and The IKEA Way on preventing Child labour The IKEA Way on preventing Child labour details the IKEA position on child labour and specifies mandatory requirements for IKEA suppliers and their sub-contractors. Below is a summary of the key points. 1. gENERAl pRINCIplE If child labour is found in any place of proand overtime should be set with special IKEA does not accept child labour. IKEA duction, IKEA requires the supplier to consideration to the worker’s young age. supports the United Nations (UN) Convenimplement an immediate corrective action tion on the Rights of the Child (1989). Our plan. The corrective action plan shall take 4. lAbOUR FORCE REgISTER position is also based on the International the child’s best interests into consideration Suppliers shall maintain documentation labour Organisation (IlO) Minimum Age and enable more viable and sustainable for every worker verifying the worker’s Convention no. 138 and the Worst Forms of alternatives for the child’s development. date of birth. Child labour convention no.182. 3. YOUNg WORKERS 5. mONITORINg 2. ImplEmENTATION IKEA supports the legal employment of Suppliers are obliged to keep IKEA informed IKEA requires that all suppliers shall recogyoung workers. Young workers of legal at all times about all places of production nise the UN Convention on the Rights of working age have, until the age of 18, the (including their sub-contractors). IKEA has the Child, and take actions to prevent child right to be protected. reserved the right to make unannounced labour. IKEA requires all its suppliers to ensure visits at any time to all places of production Suppliers must comply with all relevant that young workers are treated according (including their sub-contractors) of IKEA national and international laws, regulations to the law, including measures to avoid products. and provisions applicable in the country of hazardous jobs, night shifts and ensure production. minimum wages. limits for working hours IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 38 SUpplIERS: hOME FURNIShING SUPPlIERS A new generation of supplier development programmes IKEA is a production-oriented company, and we are often on-site in the factories. This active presence and a solid understanding of production terms give us influence and the opportunity to take on an active role in supplier development. Over the next few years, prioritised suppliers will be eligible for development programmes in six different categories. INTRODUCINg SUpplIER DEvElOpmENT pROgRAmmES A new, systematic approach to home furnishing supplier development was introduced in FY10. All 1,074 IKEA home furnishing suppliers have been classified based on capacity, performance and longterm potential, including sustainability aspects. Initially, around 200 suppliers with the highest priority classification are eligible to be part of a Supplier Development Programme (SDP). During the SDP analysis phase, IKEA identifies a limited number of suppliers with particular potential to improve within a specific area, and offers support for a certain period of time. Support can be provided within six main categories: sustainability, purchasing (including raw materials), logistics, manufacturing, quality and product development. SDP Sustainability focuses on two sub-categories: energy and water. Forestry issues and several other environmental aspects of suppliers’ activities, such as raw material utilisation, are sub-categories covered by other SDP categories. gOAl TO REACH 100 pERCENT IWAY COmplIANCE bY END FY12 One of the goals in our new Sustainability Direction is that all IKEA home furnishing suppliers shall Read more on comply with all requirements in the code of conduct IWAY by the end of FY12. New suppliers must page 36–38 comply with the IWAY start-up requirements before being allowed to deliver to IKEA, while being IWAY code of conduct given a maximum implementation time of 12 months from the first delivery date for other IWAY requirements. It is realistic to expect challenges to achieve full IWAY compliance by FY12 among suppliers in some Asian countries. For instance, full IWAY compliance in China will take longer since there are major challenges related to freedom of association and working hours. There is a wide gap between legislated working hours and reality in China. The high share of migrant workers in China means that in some regions an 80 hour working week is not uncommon. We have decided to take a stepwise approach to meeting this challenge by working with our suppliers to first secure a maximum 60-hour total work week by the end of FY12 and then work towards the legal limit of 40 working hours per week plus a maximum of 36 overtime hours per month. Further, IWAY states that workers should have freedom of association. Today, Chinese legislation restricts this, and it is not possible for our Chinese suppliers to comply with our requirement. To improve social and working conditions in China, IKEA cooperates with other international companies and organisations while also seeking support from Chinese authorities. In the meantime, the IWAY requirement on “health & Safety Committees” allows Chinese workers to give input on their working situation. INCREASED EFFORTS TO SECURE IWAY AT SUb-SUpplIERS The work to secure the IKEA code of conduct IWAY at sub-suppliers has progressed and we have increased our support to suppliers in their work to implement and maintain the IWAY requirements at sub-suppliers’ units. We have also increased the number of sub-supplier audits. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 39 SUpplIERS: hOME FURNIShING SUPPlIERS Updated global guidelines on how to work with suppliers on IWAY and to better secure the requirements at sub-suppliers were introduced in FY10. The work with sub-suppliers is primarily focused on compliance with the IWAY start-up requirements at those sub-suppliers that are categorised as critical. The purchasing organisation in South Asia, where suppliers often use many sub-suppliers that can be home-based and/or spread over a large geographical area, has developed a web-based real-time database of sub-suppliers. here, suppliers continuously update details on their sub-suppliers to the end of the supply chain, providing the necessary details to allow for concentrated improvement efforts as well as unannounced audits in high-risk areas. IKEA is currently looking into a common database solution that can be used where today’s systems do not meet IKEA’s needs. IWAY CAlIbRATION AND TRAININg ACTIvITIES The Compliance and Monitoring Group (CMG) has conducted a large number of IWAY calibration activities during the year following the updated IWAY requirements in FY09. This has given those working with IWAY the opportunity to take part in discussions and workshops in the factories aimed at clarifying the revised IWAY requirements and increasing understanding. COOpERATINg WITH OTHERS ON CHAllENgINg TOpICS IKEA believes that cooperation with others helps us achieve more than we could on our own, not least when it comes to challenging areas and topics that are not unique for IKEA. For example, in South Asia, we collaborate with other retailers to support positive developments related to wages and compensation, as well as code of conduct implementation at subsuppliers. In northwestern vietnam, Save the Children has helped us educate 1,500 parents and village influencers in children’s rights to prevent child labour in the often home-based textile industry. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 40 SUpplIERS: hOME FURNIShING SUPPlIERS The way we work IWAY SUppORT AND mONITORINg with start-up requirements is resolved, sands of sub-suppliers represents a major IKEA co-workers from our local and suppliers are still on probation for six challenge. regional IKEA Trading Service Offices are months with intensified monitoring. IKEA initiates wood supply chain audits often on-site at suppliers’ factories to supNon-compliance data are followed up at sub-suppliers of wood raw material for port and motivate suppliers to implement on a monthly basis. IKEA products. For other types of suband maintain IWAY requirements. Their The IKEA Compliance and Monitoring suppliers outside of suppliers’ premises, active presence contributes to suppliers’ group (CMG) is responsible for ensuring we conduct a limited number of IWAY development. that the same audit judgement level and audits. These audits primarily target subIKEA auditors regularly visit suppliers follow-up procedures are used worldwide. suppliers who produce a main part of an to ensure that IWAY criteria are met. These This is done through separate calibration IKEA product and those who use processes visits can be both announced and unanactivities and training as well as complirecognised as potentially harmful to the nounced. Over the last few years, the ance audits to verify results. Together environment or to the health or safety of number of unannounced audits has inthese ensure a common audit and impleworkers. Audits also target sub-suppliers creased substantially. These give us a mentation standard. operating in an industry or supply setup more accurate picture of suppliers’ factoThird-party auditors such as KPMG, that is prone to child labour and/or forced ries and help us focus support to specific Intertek Testing Services and Pricewaterand bonded labour. areas of non-compliance. houseCoopers verify IKEA working methEach supplier is audited at least every ods and audit results. These third-party COOpERATION WITH bSR ON second year, and more frequently in some auditors also conduct their own audits at “ONE vOICE – bEYOND mONITORINg” countries based on risk assessment. IKEA IKEA suppliers. business for Social Responsibility (bSR) auditors help with action plans when there is an organisation developing socially is non-compliance, and they conduct followSUpplIERS RESpONSIblE FOR IWAY responsible business solutions for many up visits to review progress. AT SUb-SUpplIERS of the world’s leading corporations. IKEA There are clear mandatory directions A sub-supplier is defined as a company is part of the bSR project “One voice – for how to conduct audits, what the consesupplying services, raw material, compobeyond Monitoring” to address corporate quences are in case of incompliance, how nents, and/or production capacity to an social responsibility challenges in China. to follow up, etc. Incompliance with the IKEA supplier. It is the responsibility of the IWAY start-up requirements leads to imIKEA suppliers to ensure that their subRead more about business mediate stop of deliveries, while suppliers suppliers acknowledge, understand and for Social Responsibility at have up to 90 days to implement corrective accept the IWAY requirements. however, www.bsr.org actions in case of non-compliance with the IKEA supply chain is often long, and other requirements. Once non-compliance ensuring IWAY compliance at many thouIKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 41 SUpplIERS: hOME FURNIShING SUPPlIERS COmmENTS ON KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 KpI – SUpplIERS: HOmE FURNISHINg SUpplIERS The total number of IKEA suppliers has decreased over the last FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY12 few years, which means that the total number of audits conducted IWAY approved home furnishing suppliers, % has also decreased. however, the average number of audits per supplier has increased somewhat. Each supplier is audited at least Europe 78 80 79 89 100 every second year, and more frequently in some regions based on Americas 67 91 83 85 100 risk assessment. The number of unannounced audits has Asia, total 17 21 22 26 100 increased substantially over the last few years. China 4 7 7 7 100 Our new overall goal is that all home furnishing suppliers shall South Asia 32 34 41 62 100 be IWAY approved by the end of FY12, and, in general, compliance South East Asia 52 63 65 68 100 is moving in the right direction on all three continents. All regions 50 54 52 57 100 To achieve full IWAY compliance by FY12 among suppliers in some Asian countries we face challenges relating to, for instance, working hours, minimum legal wages and social insurance. Although we have made progress, working hours continue to be above legal requirements and international norms in some regions. It is also true that in China and vietnam legal restriction regarding freedom of association prevents suppliers from meeting IWAY requirements. In both of these cases, although not fully approving the suppliers, we have given an exception to these questions in order to work with suppliers to solve issues that are complex and not always fully under their own control. China South Asia There is a wide gap between legislated working hours and reality South Asia shows significantly improved IWAY approval rates, most in China. The high share of migrant workers in China means that notably when it comes to working hours. Excessive overtime is in some regions an 80 hour working week is not uncommon. common in the region, but our focused efforts to support suppliers We have decided to take a step-wise approach to meeting this with guidelines and action plans have led to substantial improvechallenge by working with our suppliers to first secure a maximum ments. Compliance with requirements related to wages, benefits 60-hour total work week by the end of FY12 and then work and working hours increased to 92.2 percent from 82.5 percent. towards the legal limit of 40 working hours per week plus a maximum of 36 overtime hours per month. South East Asia We feel this is a realistic and pragmatic approach, and as we will South East Asia, too, shows improvements in almost all IWAY continue to have a long-term relationship with most of our suppliers requirement categories. however, the region continues to face this will lead to a more sustainable implementation of IWAY. challenges related to working hours, which is primarily due to legOur requirement regarding freedom of association contradicts islation in Thailand that allows for a total of 84 hours worked per Chinese legislation, and it is not currently possible for our Chinese week. We have again begun to work with our suppliers to take a suppliers to comply. The development of workers’ health and step-by-step approach to meeting a 60-hour work week and a safety committees has provided workers with a voice in their everyfully sustainable IWAY implementation by the end of FY12. day working conditions. however, this still does not represent freedom of association. Still, only 7 percent of Chinese suppliers are IWAY approved with the above exceptions taken into consideration. Achieving full compliance with social insurance requirements remains a challenge, but we are progressing and have secured full coverage of accident insurance in FY10. We have also seen steady progress related to chemical and waste management, fire prevention and workers’ health and safety, and today the average IWAY fulfilment rate for Chinese suppliers is 93 percent. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 42 SUpplIERS: hOME FURNIShING SUPPlIERS OTHER FIgURES FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Number of IKEA Trading IWAY audits/of which were unannounced Number of third party audits /of which were unannounced Europe 492/7 480/21 375/70 365/29 Europe 14 17/16 15/15 12/12 Americas 42/0 31/0 29/2 29/1 Americas 0 0 0 0 Asia 785/207 693/359 646/451 645/501 Asia 34 29/15 30/30 35/35 Total 1,319/214 1,204/380 1,049/523 1,039/531 Total 48 46/31 45/45 47/47 Number of IKEA Cmg calibration audits Number of third party child labour audits Europe 22 20 19 21 Total 343 435 365 365 Americas 2 2 2 2 Terminated business, number of suppliers Asia 20 24 22 32 Due to IWAY Total 44 46 43 55 non-compliance only 24 20 10 10 Due to non-compliance and other reasons 32 28 43 17 pURCHASINg pER REgION, % 62 34 4 Europe Asia North America % % % AvERAgE IWAY FUlFIlmENT RATES 100 99 94 98 Europe Americas Asia All regions % % % % IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 43 SUpplIERS: hOME FURNIShING SUPPlIERS AvERAgE IWAY FUlFIlmENT RATES FY10 – REgIONS EUROpE AmERICAS ASIA TOTAl REgIONS % 08 09 10 Dir. 08 09 10 Dir. 08 09 10 Dir. 08 09 10 Dir. 100 100 100 100 100 Start-up 1. 100.0 100 100.0 100 99.8 100 99.9 100 requirements 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 general 2. 99.5 100 98.8 100 98.3 100 99.3 100 conditions 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 3. Environment 99.2 100 97.8 100 96.7 100 98.7 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 4. Chemicals 99.4 100 99.2 100 98.4 100 99.2 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Hazardous and 5. non hazardous 99.4 100 99.2 100 98.0 100 99.2 100 waste 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 6. Fire prevention 99.1 100 98.4 100 97.8 100 98.8 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Workers’ health 7. 99.5 100 98.8 100 97.9 100 99.1 100 and safety 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 8. Housing facilities 99.8 100 100.0 100 98.0 100 99.3 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Wages, 9. benefits and 99.0 100 99.3 100 69.3 100 89.2 100 working hours * 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 10. Child labour 99.9 100 100.0 100 97.8 100 99.4 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Forced and 11. 99.9 100 100.0 100 99.5 100 99.8 100 bonded labour 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 12. Discrimination 99.8 100 100.0 100 99.0 100 99.6 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Freedom of 13. 100.0 100 100.0 100 99.6 100 100.0 100 association * 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Harassment 14. abuse and disci99.9 100 99.2 100 99.0 100 99.6 100 plinary actions 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Total 99.5 100 99.0 100 94.1 100 97.8 100 50 50 50 50 50 * See Comments on KPIs and figures 2010 on page 42. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 44 SUpplIERS: hOME FURNIShING SUPPlIERS AvERAgE IWAY FUlFIlmENT RATES FY10 – ASIA CHINA SOUTH ASIA SOUTH EAST ASIA TOTAl ASIA % 08 09 10 Dir. 08 09 10 Dir. 08 09 10 Dir. 08 09 10 Dir. 100 100 100 100 100 Start-up 1. 99.7 100 100.0 100 100.0 100 99.8 100 requirements 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 general 2. 98.5 100 98.7 100 96.9 100 98.3 100 conditions 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 3. Environment 96.9 100 97.9 100 94.4 100 96.7 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 4. Chemicals 98.8 100 97.3 100 97.7 100 98.4 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Hazardous and 5. non hazardous 98.3 100 98.7 100 95.7 100 98.0 100 waste 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 6. Fire prevention 97.9 100 98.0 100 96.8 100 97.8 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Workers’ health 7. 97.8 100 99.2 100 97.3 100 97.9 100 and safety 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 8. Housing facilities 98.2 100 95.1 100 100.0 100 98.0 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Wages, 9. benefits and 60.7 100 92.2 100 94.2 100 69.3 100 working hours * 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 10. Child labour 97.4 100 97.9 100 99.5 100 97.8 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Forced and 11. 99.4 100 99.4 100 100.0 100 99.5 100 bonded labour 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 12. Discrimination 99.3 100 98.2 100 97.9 100 99.0 100 50 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Freedom of 13. 0.0 100 99.4 100 100.0 100 99.6 100 association * 50 100 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Harassment 14. abuse and disci98.7 100 99.7 100 100.0 100 99.0 100 plinary actions 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 50 100 Total 92.9 100 97.8 100 96.8 100 94.1 100 50 50 50 50 50 * See Comments on KPIs and figures 2010 on page 42. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 45 SUpplIERS: TRANSPORT SERvICE PROvIDERS making sure IKEA uses responsible ® transport service providers IKEA transport service providers are key to efficient and sustainable goods shipments from suppliers to warehouses and stores, and to home deliveries from store to customer. In FY10, customer delivery transport providers started implementing IWAY to secure our requirements on social and environmental responsibility. INTRODUCINg IWAY AT CUSTOmER DElIvERY TRANSpORT pROvIDERS IKEA’s long-haul ocean and land transport service providers have been covered by the code of conduct IWAY since 2005. In FY10, IKEA expanded the IWAY scope to include customer delivery carriers that transport products from our customer distribution centres (CDC) directly to IKEA customers. These carriers generally use smaller vehicles to transport products to customers’ homes. In the first year, eight customer delivery carriers representing 20 percent of our total expenditure in this category were audited and approved as compliant with IWAY as well as the industry-specific requirements. This indicates a generally high level of preparedness in the industry with regard to the issues included in IWAY. The goal is that these carriers as well as the long-haul carriers shall comply with IWAY and the industry-specific requirements by the end of FY12. New suppliers must comply with the IWAY startup requirements before being allowed to deliver to IKEA, while being given a maximum implementation time of nine months for all other requirements. ClEAN CARgO DATA TO bE USED FOR pROCUREmENT IKEA is part of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG), a project under business for Social Responsibility (bSR). The Environmental Performance Matrix, which maps ocean carriers’ environmental impact, was developed in FY09, and carriers have provided data for both FY09 and FY10. The way we work IWAY SUppORT AND mONITORINg Read more on page 36 50 points in Russia, Ukraine & Asia Pacific) IKEA products are transported by road, IWAY code of conduct in the ranking developed under ERRT. The rail and sea between suppliers, distribution survey, and hence ranking, includes the centres and IKEA stores, and from our impact from the largest sub-contractors to Read more on page 47 stores home to our customers. give a better overview of a carrier’s total Industry-specific requirements for IKEA audits its transport service providsituation. IKEA transport service providers ers at least every 24 months to monitor In North America, the minimum compliance with our code of conduct IWAY, USINg THE ERRT ENvIRONmENTAl requirements to procure land and customer including the transport industry-specific pERFORmANCE SURvEY delivery carriers is that they must be a requirements. IKEA is a member of the European Retailmember of the U.S. Environmental ProtecIn addition, IKEA transport social & ers Round Table (ERRT) and uses its Envition Agency (EPA) Smartway programme, environmental developers engage in diaronmental Performance Survey to evaluate and have a score of 1.0 or above. logue with transport service providers on a set of environmental indicators before a regular basis to support best-practice procuring land carriers and customer delivRead more about the European exchanges between suppliers and to make ery carriers. IKEA will only procure transRetailers Round Table at sure transport service providers conduct port services from suppliers who achieve a www.errt.org their own internal audits annually. minimum score (100 points in Europe, and IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 46 SUpplIERS: TRANSPORT SERvICE PROvIDERS Industry-specific requirements for IKEA transport service providers IKEA transport service providers must comply with the requirements in our code of conduct IWAY, including industry-specific requirements. Below is a summary of key points in the industry-specific requirements. 1. INDUSTRY-SpECIFIC START-Up 2. OTHER INDUSTRY-SpECIFIC • First aid equipment in all trucks and REQUIREmENTS REQUIREmENTS locomotives • Trucks must be 10 years or younger • Practical plans for reducing CO2 • Appropriate housing facilities (5 years for vehicles less than emissions, including annual targets • Working time capped at 60 hours 3.5 tonnes) • Anti-alcohol and anti-drug policy including overtime per week • Completed Environmental Performance combined with clear communication • Regular rest periods and daily breaks Survey (EPS) with annual update • Emergency phone numbers to all • A minimum EPS score of 100 in Europe truck drivers and 50 in Russia & Asia Pacific • Fire-fighting equipment in vehicles • In North America, carriers must be a • Driver license checks at least annually member of the EPA SmartWay pro• Appropriate personal protective equipgramme and have a score of at least 1.0 ment including safety vests COmmENTS ON KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 KpI – SUpplIERS: TRANSpORT SERvICE pROvIDERS IKEA transport service providers are registered as IWAY-approved FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY12 only if they fulfil both general IWAY requirements and the industryIWAY approved transport service providers*, % specific requirements. Approval rates in all three carrier categories exceeded the land 5 48 82 83 100 goals set for FY10, reflecting the industry’s responsiveness to Ocean 5 38 42 96 100 demands from customers and society within the social and enviCustomer Delivery** – – – 21 100 ronmental area. In FY10, customer delivery carriers were audited * Approval rates are calculated on the total IKEA expenditure in each category, and carriers are rated as approved only if they fulfil both IWAY and industry-specific for the first time, and all audited carriers were also approved, requirements. indicating a high level of preparedness in this sector. ** Excludes locally and nationally procured Customer Delivery carriers. IKEA uses a limited number of ocean carriers, and the sharp increase in approvals follows the audits of a handful of carriers that represent a large share of our total expenditure in this category. OTHER FIgURES FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 modes of transport (% goods volume) Road 69 69 72 73 Ocean 17 18 15 16 Rail 5 4 3 2 Combined transport 8 9 10 9 mODES OF TRANSpORT (% gOODS vOlUmE) 73% 16% 2% 9% Road Ocean Rail Combined transport IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 47 SUpplIERS: FOOD SUPPlIERS Introducing IWAY at national food suppliers IKEA purchases fresh and packaged food from both global and national suppliers, and our IWAY audits at global suppliers have shown a high level of compliance with our social and environmental requirements. In FY10, we took the first step towards implementing the code of conduct at more than 1,000 national food suppliers. All glObAl FOOD SUpplIERS AUDITED bY THE END OF 2010 The auditing of global food suppliers started in FY09, and all 90 were audited at least once by the end of 2010. So far, all audited suppliers have been IWAY approved as a result of the high level of preparedness and strong control culture in the industry. INTRODUCINg IWAY AT NATIONAl FOOD SUpplIERS IKEA has taken a first step towards implementing our code of conduct IWAY at national food suppliers. All national food suppliers are expected to have signed the IWAY Compliance Commitment by the end of 2010, and they will have a maximum of 12 months to implement the code of conduct. IKEA realises that monitoring and auditing the many national food suppliers will be a challenge, requiring both resources and time. The first IWAY audits among more than a thousand national food suppliers are expected to be conducted in FY12, with around 100 suppliers selected for audits based on risk assessment. IKEA bRANDED FOOD pRODUCTS The IKEA branded food products sold in the Swedish Food Market in-store are produced by some 40 suppliers. The FY10 range consisted of 90 products, and approximately 50 new products will be launched over the next year. All IKEA branded food products are based on Swedish recipes and traditions. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 48 SUpplIERS: FOOD SUPPlIERS The way we work IKEA FOOD SUpplIERS Global food suppliers’ compliance of IWAY food suppliers must have an approved food Packaged food for the Swedish Food Market requirements is monitored by IKEA audisafety management certification, such as is purchased centrally from our global tors. In FY12, audits at national food supplithe bRC Global Standard for Food Safety, suppliers, while food for the IKEA restauers will be introduced. and provide relevant documentation to rants is purchased from both global and The IKEA Compliance and Monitoring prove this. National food suppliers must national suppliers. The global range, group (CMG) is responsible for ensuring have a hazard Analysis Critical Control bought from 90 suppliers, is the same in that the same audit judgement level and Point (hACCP) system in place, and proall IKEA stores worldwide. In addition, follow-up procedures are used worldwide. vide documentation upon request. each country purchases food for the local This is done through separate calibration part of the menu. activities and training as well as compliRead more on page 36 ance audits to verify results. Together IWAY code of conduct REQUIREmENTS ON FOOD SUpplIERS these ensure a common audit and impleIn addition to the requirements in IWAY, mentation standard. Read more on page 49 IKEA food suppliers must fulfil a number of The food-specific requirements are not Industry-specific requirements for industry-specific requirements. part of the IWAY audits. however, all global IKEA Food suppliers Industry-specific requirements for IKEA Food suppliers IKEA food suppliers must comply with the requirements in our code of conduct IWAY, including industry–specific requirements. Below is a summary of key points. 1. FOOD SAFETY, TRACEAbIlITY, sodium, total fat content, saturated fat, • Restrictions on additives, such as TESTINg AND lAbEllINg trans fats, carbohydrates and sugars. AZO colours and MSG (monosodium • A person appointed as responsible for If the product has a declared content of glutamate) food safety systems, including crisis dietary fibres, reduced sugars, or if the management, recalls, etc. product claims to be free from certain 3. ANImAl WElFARE & SpECIES • Food safety training for all co-workers allergens, e.g. gluten, this should also pROTECTION on a regular basis be analysed • No ingredients from force-fed animals • A Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point • Appropriate, legal labels and packaging and those that have been subject to (hACCP) system in place for all IKEA markets routine administration of antibiotics or • A Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) hormones third party approved food safety man2. gENERAl pRODUCT • Compliance with specific animal welfare agement certification REQUIREmENTS standards (i.e. on broiler chicken) that • Full traceability for all ingredients in • No use of genetically modified food have been approved by IKEA IKEA products including packaging ingredients • No fish from endangered stocks material • Restrictions on levels of industrially • Membership in the “Salmon Dialogue” • Routines for analysis from raw material produced trans fatty acids in the if supplying salmon products to finished products total fat content of food products • No lobster or tiger prawns/scampi • Verified declared shelf life of products (below 2 percent) unless certified by an international • Verified declared content and nutritional • Palm oil only from members of the organic standard values. The product shall be analysed Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil for energy, water, protein, ash content, (RSPO) COmmENTS ON KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 KpI – SUpplIERS: FOOD SUpplIERS The auditing of global food suppliers started in FY09, and we FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY15 expect to have audited all 90 at least once by the end of 2010. So IWAY approved food suppliers, % far, all audited suppliers have been IWAY approved as a result of Global the high level of preparedness and strong control culture in the food suppliers – 13 41 67 100 industry. The first IWAY audits among national food suppliers are National expected to be conducted in FY12, with around 100 suppliers food suppliers – – – – 100 selected for audits based on risk assessment. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 49 SUpplIERS: CATAlOGUE SUPPlIERS Introducing audits at IKEA Catalogue Suppliers ® We have worked with the environmental aspects of the IKEA Catalogue since the early ‘90s, and our paper and print suppliers have been required to report environmental data for a number of years. In FY10, we decided to develop code of conduct audit procedures and will conduct the first audits during FY11. INTRODUCINg SYSTEmATIC AUDITS FOR CATAlOgUE SUpplIERS IKEA Catalogue suppliers have provided regular information on environmental performance and compliance towards the IKEA Catalogue Sustainability Requirements since 2002. At the end of FY10, IKEA decided to conduct systematic audits of IKEA Catalogue suppliers. We have started to develop audit procedures and train internal resources to conduct audits based on the IKEA Catalogue Sustainability Requirements. The first audits will be conducted during FY11. IKEA mONITORS THE ImpACT OF THE CATAlOgUE All IKEA Catalogue suppliers are required to report water and energy consumption, as well as emissions to water and air. This data is used by IKEA to calculate the environmental impact indicators per catalogue copy annually. The way we work THE IKEA CATAlOgUE IS OUR mAIN STRIvINg FOR SUSTAINAblE bleaching technology in the paper and pulp mARKETINg CHANNEl CATAlOgUE pRODUCTION industry has developed since then, and the The IKEA Catalogue has been an indispenAll catalogue suppliers document data on focus is on avoiding the use of elementary sable way of communicating the IKEA fibre sourcing and use; water and energy chlorine. Today, the paper we use for the range to our customers. The IKEA Cataconsumption; as well as emissions to water IKEA Catalogue is a mix of both TCF and logue 2011 (produced in FY10) was printed and air. Using this information, IKEA ECF (Elementary Chlorine Free) paper. in more than 197 million copies in 29 lanreports the catalogue’s environmental In FY08-09, we moved to a new comguages and 61 editions. It is read by more impact per copy. pact format for the IKEA Catalogue to than 400 million people in 38 countries. The IKEA Catalogue was the first major reduce paper consumption and cut transcolour publication in the world to be printed portation needs. This also resulted in lower on TCF (Totally Chlorine Free) paper. The CO2 emissions per copy. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 50 SUpplIERS: CATAlOGUE SUPPlIERS Industry-specific requirements for IKEA Catalogue suppliers IKEA catalogue suppliers must comply with the IKEA Catalogue Sustainability Requirements, which are based on the code of conduct IWAY, as well as industry-specific requirements for pulp and paper suppliers; artwork, repro and IT online service suppliers; and for gravure and offset printing suppliers. below is a summary of key points in the industryspecific requirements. 1. pUlp AND pApER SUpplIERS: 2. ARTWORK, REpRO AND IT ONlINE • Emissions to air and water must • The origin of wood fibres for pulp and SERvICE SUpplIERS: be documented paper must be known • A procedure to take environmental • All transport related to printed • Virgin wood fibre must comply with aspects into consideration when purproducts must be documented IKEA wood requirements chasing computers and screens • No elementary chlorine used for bleach• Reuse or recycling/destruction of 4. OFFSET pRINTERS: ing processes discarded electronics by authorised • Safe discard of plate developer • All transport of fibre, pulp and paper companies • Documentation of production and paper must be documented • Use of energy must be documented consumption, including waste • Use of energy must be documented and energy reduction targets set • Use of energy must be documented and energy reduction targets set and energy reduction targets set • Use of energy from renewable sources 3. gRAvURE pRINTERS: • Clean water consumption must be must be reported • Safe plating processes and safe documented • Specific limits on emissions to air chrome management • Emissions to air and water must be and water • Documentation of production and documented paper consumption • All transport related to printed products • Use of energy must be documented must be documented and energy reduction targets set • Clean water consumption must be documented COmmENTS ON KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 The IKEA Catalogue 2011 (produced in FY10) involved a total of FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 39 suppliers. Overall, the industry-specific environmental data has improved, reflecting increased integration of sustainability aspects Environmental key performance indicators in the purchasing process and in supplier selection. Energy conPrinted number of Catalogues (millions) 193 198 198 197 sumption and CO2 emissions have continued to decrease, and the Certified paper suppliers (%) 82 61 94 89 share of certified fibres has increased. Catalogue paper (tonnes) 108,240 113,099 103,784 102,476 however, vOC emissions per copy have increased. This increase FSC Certified Chain-ofhas been identified to derive from two large-volume printing supCustody fibre (%) 5 5 19 21 pliers. An investigation has been started together with the suppliRecycled fibre content (%) 8 6 6 11 ers, and there will be corrective action plans. In addition, the Energy consumption share of certified suppliers decreased with the inclusion of a new (GWh = million kWh) 629 617 603 584 paper supplier. Within the implementation of a corrective action Share of renewable energy (%) 38 40 51 50 plan, this supplier is expected to get its environmental manageCO2 emissions from ment system certified by December 2010. Catalogue production (tonnes) 127,233 130,961 120,426 95,905 Water consumption (m3) 2,913,406 3,552,789 2,998,621 2,815,209 Environmental data per Catalogue copy OTHER FIgURES Water consumption (litres) 17.48 17.92 14.96 14.26 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Energy consumption (kWh) 3.26 3.11 3.04 2.96 Fossil carbon dioxide IKEA Catalogue Requirements approved suppliers, % (kg CO2) 0.66 0.69 0.61 0.49 IKEA Catalogue SustainabilEmissions to air (gr vOC, ity Requirements, approved volatile organic compounds) 1.04 1.01 0.75 1.12 suppliers 70 71 73 86 Emissions to wastewater Industry-specific require(gr COD, Chemical Oxygen ments, approved suppliers 54 53 50 65 Demand) 4.09 3.88 3.83 3.49 IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 51 COMMUNITIES IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 52 COmmUNITIES: ThE IKEA FOUNDATION The IKEA Foundation projects reach out to 100 million children IKEA believes that home is the most important place in the world, and children are the most important people in the world. That’s why the IKEA Foundation works in partnership with UNICEF and Save the Children to make a difference for millions of children in need around the world by reducing malnutrition and infant disease, and by dramatically improving literacy. ExTENDED COmmITmENT TO HEAlTH pROjECTS UNICEF’s child survival programmes in India focus on improving the health and nutrition of children, and increasing the number of children surviving their first five years. The programme supported by the IKEA Foundation consists of three parts: the health projects involve immunization, maternal and child care, and establishment of sick born care units; the nutrition projects focus on advocating for breastfeeding and nutritious food for children and expecting mothers; and the water and sanitation projects aim at ensuring water safety and better sanitation in households and institutions. In FY10, the IKEA Foundation decided to invest an additional 7.5 million euro in UNICEF’s water and sanitation programme – which is a doubling of previous donations. This support will help expand the scope of this programme in 15 states. Close to 80 percent of all childhood deaths in India take place within the first year of the child’s life, and the majority of these deaths occur in the first week. The IKEA Foundation supports UNICEF’s approach of setting up “model” Sick Newborn Care Units in district hospitals, providing essential instruments, training staff and renovating premises. here, vulnerable newborn babies receive essential care to survive their first days and weeks of life. The initial “model” sick newborn care unit funded by the IKEA Foundation has now been scaled up by the Indian government, 213 are operational and 291 clinics are due to open in 15 states. In addition, the IKEA Foundation decided to invest 1.8 million euro in the US Columbia University’s Earth’s Institute programme in India’s Uttar Pradesh. The donation will be used to set up “model districts” to help give poor rural families greater access to health care. This support complements the UNICEF child survival programmes funded by the IKEA Foundation. COTTON pROjECT vIllAgES IN pAKISTAN AFFECTED bY FlOODS The IKEA Foundation supports UNICEF and Save the Children child rights projects running 2009– Read more on page 64 2015 covering a number of cotton producing states in India and Pakistan. The devastating floods Cotton in the summer of 2010 will cause delays to the projects in the provinces of Sindh and Punjab in Pakistan. “I WANT TO bECOmE A TEACHER” When the Save the Children child rights project, sponsored by the IKEA Foundation, came to her village in Maharashtra, India, 12-yearold Sweta stopped skipping school to pick cotton. “Now my family wants me to get an education instead. And I want to become a teacher.” Sweta belongs to a child group, where the village motivator helps her stay on top of her homework. Girls usually have less time to play and study than boys, as they’re expected to help with younger siblings, do the laundry and cook from an early age. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 53 COmmUNITIES: ThE IKEA FOUNDATION SUppORT TO pAKISTAN FlOOD vICTImS To help UNICEF and Save the Children alleviate the most urgent needs following the unprecedented Read more on page 27 flooding in Pakistan in 2010, we have donated more than one million IKEA products, including Customer engagement 700,000 buckets, 200,000 blankets and 10,000 SUNNAN lamps. In addition, the IKEA Foundation appealed to IKEA FAMIlY members to support a web-based donation campaign benefiting UNICEF and Save the Children’s emergency work in Pakistan. SUppORT TO HAITI EARTHQUAKE vICTImS On January 12, 2010, an earthquake devastated impoverished haiti’s capital, Port-au-Prince, leaving three million people in urgent need of assistance. The IKEA Foundation supported the earthquake victims with around 100,000 IKEA products, such as pillows and quilts. UNDp pROjECT TO EmpOWER WOmEN mAKES pROgRESS The IKEA Foundation has a long history of investing in projects attacking the root causes of child labour in India. As women are important change agents to create a better future for children, the IKEA Foundation initiated a cooperation with UNDP in 2009. The programme aims to empower 50,000 women in Uttar Pradesh to become entrepreneurs, leaders, role models and agents of change. The project is progressing as planned. During the first 18 months of the project, 3,000 women have received training on credit management, and a dairy production company employing 12,000 women and a craft-producing company employing 5,000 women have been established. The goal for the end of 2013 is that the women supported by the project achieve a secure and enhanced income and effectively participate and contribute to decision-making in domestic and public spheres. The way we work REACHINg OUT TO 100 mIllION quality education and a sustainable family Read more about UNICEF at CHIlDREN income – whilst applying innovative soluwww.unicef.org In 2005, IKEA Social Initiative was formed to tions to accelerate development. expand our support of social projects on a global level. In 2010, IKEA Social InitiativeRead more about Save the Children Read more about at www.savethechildren.net funded programmes were included in the the IKEA Foundation at Stichting IKEA Foundation (the IKEA Foundawww.ikeafoundation.org tion), and all programmes will be executed in Read more about UNDp at the name of the IKEA Foundation as of 2011. UNICEF, SAvE THE CHIlDREN AND www.undp.org The IKEA Foundation is a Dutch charitUNDp ARE pARTNERS able foundation, funded by the Stichting UNICEF and Save the Children are the IKEA lONg-TERm COmmITmENTS FOCUS INGKA Foundation, which also owns the Foundation’s two largest partners, being ON SOUTH ASIA IKEA Group parent company, INGKA holdthe leading organisations working to long-term commitments are focused on ing b.v. Donations from the Stichting IKEA improve children’s rights. Together we South Asia, and particularly India, where Foundation during 2010 total an estimated work for a better everyday life for the the needs of children are great and IKEA 45 million euro. many children. has been doing business for many years. The IKEA Foundation funds holistic, Since 2009, the IKEA Foundation has long-term programmes addressing chilalso cooperated with the United Nations HEAlTH, EDUCATION AND WOmEN’S dren’s fundamental needs with the aim to Development Programme (UNDP) in the EmpOWERmENT create substantial and lasting change – Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. The cooperaThe IKEA Foundation focuses its long-term enabling them to eventually take charge of tion is focused on empowering women as programmes on three areas; a healthy their own future. a means to reach the ultimate goal of makstart in life; education and protection; and We work with strong strategic partners ing improvements for children – women and women’s empowerment. Over the proto achieve large scale results by addressing mothers are the key to improving children’s gramme period, the IKEA Foundation has four fundamentals in children’s lives – a wellbeing and achieving lasting change in committed 125 million euro to these proplace to call home, a healthy start in life, a society. grammes in South Asia. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 54 COmmUNITIES: ThE IKEA FOUNDATION The support to child survival programmes Women’s empowerment OTHER IKEA FOUNDATION in India with UNICEF and Earth Institute Women and mothers are important change COllAbORATIONS totals approximately 68 million euro over agents for improving children’s well-being The IKEA Foundation also partners with a the project period. The education and proand achieving lasting change in society. number of other organisations. To find a tection programmes with Save the Children This is why all programmes supported by full list of current partners, go to the IKEA and UNICEF in the cotton-seed and cotton the IKEA Foundation include communityFoundation’s website. producing areas of India and Pakistan, as based actions that help empower women to well as the UNICEF projects in the carpet create a better future for themselves, their Read more about the IKEA Founbelt and metal ware industry of Uttar communities and their children. A specific dation at www.ikeafoundation.org Pradesh, India, will benefit from a 51 milcooperation with UNDP will enhance the lion euro donation over the project period. social, economic and political empowerEmERgENCY RElIEF The women empowerment programme ment of 50,000 women in 500 villages. The IKEA Foundation is committed to prowith UNDP is funded with 5.5 million euro tecting children in emergencies. We help over the project period. THE IKEA SOFT TOYS CAmpAIgN with product donations and invest in their During the holiday season at the end of recovery by providing financial support A healthy start in life each year, one euro for every soft toy sold for children’s rehabilitation and resumed Since 2007, the IKEA Foundation supports in IKEA stores worldwide is donated, split education. Financial support can be proUNICEF programmes in 18 Indian states between Save the Children and UNICEF vided to assist with the midand longaimed at increasing child survival rates as projects aimed at improving children’s eduterm recovery in the aftermath of disasters well as improving their life-long developcation. Since the campaign began in 2003, such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones. ment. Strong emphasis is placed on prethe IKEA Foundation has donated 35.2 milTo support immediate humanitarian ventive health, Nutrition and Water and lion euro, enabling improved schools for relief efforts during major emergencies, Environmental Sanitation initiatives. It approximately 8 million children in close to the IKEA Foundation helps with in-kind reaches out to 80 million children and 40 countries. donations of IKEA products such as blan10 million women with proven low-cost kets, cooking utensils and comforting actions that have a big impact on child and Read more on page 27 soft toys. maternal survival. Customer engagement Child rights in cotton and carpet areas SUNNAN lAmp SAlES AND The IKEA Foundation believes that children DONATIONS everywhere have the right to be protected For every SUNNAN lamp customers buy, from exploitation, abuse and neglect. All one is donated from the IKEA Foundation, children should have access to quality edusplit between UNICEF and Save the Children cation, and child labour is unacceptable. to give to children who cannot draw, write between 2009 and 2015, some 10 million or read after sunset in developing countries. children will benefit from the IKEA FoundaIn the first 12 months from the start in June tion-supported programmes, managed by 2009, more than 500,000 SUNNAN lamps UNICEF and Save the Children. Close to were sold, enabling donations to children in 20,000 villages in the carpet-making disneed in Pakistan and India. tricts of India and in the cottonand cotton seed-growing areas in India and Pakistan Read more on page 27 will benefit. Customer engagement IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 55 COmmUNITIES: OThER COMMUNITY PROJECTS IKEA wants to be a good neighbour ® in the local community On top of the IKEA Foundation’s commitment to improving the life opportunities of the many children, IKEA wants to be a good neighbour in the local community. This means that all IKEA units shall engage in local social and environmental issues, and lend a helping hand in times of need. mANY lOCAl INITIATIvES TO SUppORT THE lOCAl COmmUNITY Our efforts to be a good neighbour in the local community are reflected in a wide range of activities initiated by IKEA stores, distribution centres and offices. Below are a few examples of national and local activities that have taken place during the year to support social and environmental causes. All Canadian IKEA stores and their 4,500 co-workers help “Make-A-Wish® Canada” grant room makeover wishes to children living with life-threatening medical conditions. Stores donate products in-kind and IKEA co-workers offer inspirational home furnishing expertise. In addition, customers were invited to donate $1 CAD to the organisation at the self-serve check-outs during July–September to help Make-A-Wish® Canada create lasting memories for deserving children. In Germany, “Operation Daywork” offers students aged 15 and over a day off school to support children around the world. Their wages are donated towards building schools in countries such as Rwanda, Sudan and Angola. In FY10, IKEA provided 330 students with work as part of Operation Daywork, and donated 20,000 euro. SUppORTINg SOW A SEED IN bORNEO IKEA supports Sow a Seed, a project aiming to reforest and maintain 18,500 hectares of lowland forest in Sabah in Malaysian borneo, and to protect the area from logging for a period of 50 years. Since the start in 1998, nearly 9,500 hectares of forest have been replanted with native tree species. The project has also contributed to the building of homes, meeting places for social events, and field accommodations for more than 150 local workers and their families. The planting phase is expected to be completed in 2013, and funds have been set aside for maintenance until 2023. The project also provides three years of research funding for the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. Sow a Seed is a partnership between IKEA, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, the Yayasan Sabah Group and the Malaysian forestry company RbJ. Read more at “About IKEA/Our responsibility/ Forestry/Sow a seed” at www.IKEA.com IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 56 COmmUNITIES: OThER COMMUNITY PROJECTS The IKEA store in Innsbruck, Austria, donated 7,000 euro to refurbish the local bIWAK youth commune for young, unaccompanied refugees, contributing to a more cheerful, lively and communicative atmosphere in the house. The Perryville distribution centre in Maryland, US, helped the Cecil County Domestic violence and Rape Crisis Center by carrying out a 5,000 USD refurbishment of the facility. Co-workers volunteered their time to paint and furnish the kitchen, the office, the foyer and the basement tweens room. In the UK, IKEA Coventry participates in “Operation Christmas Child”, run by the Samaritan’s Purse charity. In FY10, the store donated display toys and various IKEA products to orphans and children in need, and this Christmas all co-workers were encouraged to donate toys, educational supplies, hygiene products and sweets, pack then in shoeboxes and wrap them as gifts. IKEA Trading North America made a donation of 5,000 USD to help restore the buffalo bend Nature Park outside houston, Texas. The money was used to buy 140 trees, which were planted by IKEA co-workers. In Russia, IKEA and the Kirov Certification and Quality Centre work together with a Russian forest concession owner to help find ways of getting additional income from a well-managed forest without increasing logging. Job opportunities and extra income can be generated from, for example, berries, mushrooms and honey, as well as from hunting. The way we work glObAl, NATIONAl AND lOCAl THE IKEA CHARITY pOlICY WWF, UNICEF AND SAvE THE COmmUNITY pROjECTS IKEA has a Charity Policy and Community CHIlDREN ARE KEY pARTNERS IKEA engages in community projects Involvement Guidelines for global, national UNICEF, Save the Children and WWF at a global level as well as nationally and and local community support. The guideare the preferred partners in community locally, supporting projects that are lines clarify principles and definitions, what projects supported by IKEA. All three designed to match the needs of the comkind of projects IKEA prefers to support are global IKEA partners, and we have munities in which they take place. and with which type of partners. They also well-established and well-functioning As part of our commitment to being provide guidance on how to structure relationships. a good neighbour, most IKEA stores are projects, as well as how to work with actively involved in their local communities accounting. Read more on page 53 in partnership with carefully selected All IKEA-sponsored projects should The IKEA Foundation organisations. The IKEA FAMIlY customer focus on prioritised social and/or environclub, with more than 38 million members mental issues. The prioritised social issues Read more on page 59 in 23 countries, is sometimes used to also are related to children, the homeless, and IKEA and WWF forestry projects engage IKEA customers in various commuvictims of emergencies and/or natural nity projects. There are many examples of disasters. The prioritised environmental Read more on page 64 national and local community projects, issues are related to the protection of natuIKEA and WWF cotton projects which can be found on the IKEA website. ral resources, climate change, and education and training in these areas. Read more on page 73 IKEA and WWF climate projects For more information on what IKEA is doing in your country, please visit www.IKEA.com IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 57 ENVIRONMENT IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 58 ENvIRONmENT: FORESTRY More certified wood volumes and wider scope for IKEA requirements ® Wood has always been one of the most important raw materials for IKEA. Our IWAY Forestry requirements demand the legality and traceability of the timber used in our products, which means that the IKEA standard is applied throughout the supply chain. In addition to these minimum requirements, our certified wood volumes increased substantially in FY10. The decision has also been taken to apply IWAY Forestry requirements to suppliers of board materials. SUbSTANTIAl INCREASE OF CERTIFIED WOOD vOlUmES The share of certified solid wood increased substantially in FY10 to 23.6 percent, from 16.2 percent the year before. This improvement is a result of several factors. In 2009, certified wood areas increased by 15 million hectares globally, thus increasing the overall availability of certified wood. IKEA has actively supported certification efforts in some of our key wood sourcing areas, notably Russia, in cooperation with WWF and the national FSC organisation. Chinese certified forest areas have also increased substantially as a result of a cooperation between IKEA, WWF and other parties. All Swedwood and Swedspan production units, with one exception, are now FSC chain-of-custody certified. All Swedwood forest leases are also Forest Management-certified. Nearly 42 percent of Swedwood’s solid wood is FSC-certified. IKEA FORESTRY REQUIREmENTS FOR bOARD mATERIAlS As of September 1, 2010, the IKEA forestry requirements for wood also apply to board materials. Read more on page 62 This means that the volume of wood-based products covered by our requirements has more than IKEA requirements doubled compared to before, when the requirements applied only to solid wood products. for wood used in Applying IKEA forestry requirements to board materials means that IKEA suppliers must impleIKEA products ment systems to ensure that our requirements, including legality of the wood used in the board, are met. board product suppliers and key sub-suppliers have been consulted, and practical trials have been performed as part of preparations during FY10. IKEA purchasing teams have been trained by IKEA forestry specialists on the requirements and how to provide support to suppliers. In addition, our IWAY auditors have had specific training on monitoring this new scope. The work to set goals for the volume of certified board material is expected to be completed in FY11. Many of the roughly 100 board product suppliers are expected to achieve full compliance from the start but will have four months to adjust to the new requirements and put action plans in place before being subject to normal noncompliance consequences. Some implementation challenges are expected in China and South East Asia, while most European and Russian suppliers are well prepared to meet the new requirements. IKEA is in active dialogue with both product suppliers and key board material manufacturers with the aim of facilitating and encouraging increased use of certified wood in all IKEA wood-based products. IKEA AND WWF HElp INCREASE CERTIFICATION IN CHINA A joint IKEA and WWF project has helped increase the FSC-certified area in Northeast China. So far, six Chinese forest bureaus have had a total of 1.4 million hectares of forest certified, representing 88 percent of the total FSC-certified area in China. The project has also mapped high conservation value forests, with tiger conservation as a key indicator, and developed forest management plans for nine forest bureaus in the area. Read more about the IKEA and WWF cooperation on forestry at www.panda.org/IKEA IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 59 ENvIRONmENT: FORESTRY ExTRA EFFORTS TO SECURE lEgAl WOOD SOURCINg IN CHINA During the year, IKEA purchasing teams and forestry specialists have focused efforts on helping Chinese suppliers to improve their procedures to secure that the wood they use for IKEA products comes from legal sources. All business dialogues have systematically included discussions around illegal logging, and we have conducted a large number of wood supply chain audits in China. In addition, IKEA has helped several suppliers identify controversial wood sources and supported their efforts to replace them with safer alternatives. More than 80 audits were conducted by IKEA or third-party auditors in China in FY10. A small share of this audited volume, 4.2 percent, was not approved due to unclear origin or non-compliant procedures. however, none of these audits showed any evidence of illegal wood in the supply chain. pREpARED FOR lEgISlATION AgAINST IllEgAl lOggINg The lacey Act in the United States prohibited import of products containing illegally felled wood already in 2008. Similar legislation will be introduced in the EU after 2012 and is being discussed in Australia, Switzerland and Japan. IKEA welcomes such legislation, as it helps motivate and drive global improvements in forestry management. IKEA is well prepared to meet these new demands. We are increasing our use of FSC-certified wood and have long had systems in place to avoid questionable wood entering the supply chain. This means that we can expect to comply with the demands for appropriate due diligence systems. TWO NEW AllIANCES TO pROmOTE lEgAl WOOD TRADE In FY10, IKEA joined two alliances aimed at promoting legal wood trade through functional market Read more about the regulation. Forest legality Alliance IKEA and other retailers launched the Timber Retail Coalition (TRC) in April 2010 to help ensure at www.wri.org/fla minimum ethical standards for all timber and wood products sold in the European Union. The TRC will work to promote the introduction of EU-wide regulation on timber sourcing practices. by providing a single platform for engaging with policymakers, the TRC will support measures to curb illegal logging by ensuring that illegally harvested timber products do not have easy access to the EU marketplace. To influence and support the development of tools and guidelines based on the U.S. Lacey Act, IKEA joined the Forest legality Alliance (FlA). FlA is a joint effort of the World Resources Institute and the Environmental Investigation Agency, supported by the United States Agency for International Development and companies in the forest sector. The goal is to reduce illegal logging through supporting the supply of legal forest products. DIgITAl mAp TO SAFEgUARD RUSSIAN FORESTS IKEA has funded a World Resource Institute project in Russia to develop a new digital map of the Russian State Forest bureaus’ holdings and borders. The map is available on the Internet and provides detailed information, for example, about the high conservation value forests in Karelia and Irkutsk. It assists IKEA and others to better assess wood sourcing risks in the area. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 60 ENvIRONmENT: FORESTRY The way we work IKEA FORESTRY REQUIREmENTS tainable forestry practises. Our suppliers in could be entering the IKEA supply chain All IKEA solid wood and board product supthese areas struggle with low availability of triggers a stop of deliveries and an audit. pliers must live up to the IKEA code of concertified wood volumes and traceability in Audits in the Swedwood and Swedspan duct IWAY as well as the IKEA forestry complex supply chains. To be able to opersupply chain are always conducted by requirements. ate in these regions, IKEA has systems in third-party auditors to avoid conflicts of We do not accept wood from forests place to avoid controversial wood entering interest as the two industrial groups are where high conservation values are threatthe supply chain, and we cooperate with owned by the IKEA Group. ened. In sensitive areas we require the forforest managers and NGOs to increase est manager to have a certified managethe availability of wood from responsibly IKEA FORESTRY SpECIAlISTS ment plan that respects the conservation managed forests. We believe we best conIKEA forestry specialists spread knowledge values. We require our suppliers to docutribute to lasting positive change by conabout responsible forestry in the wood supment the origin of their wood. ducting responsible business and actively ply chain. They also support our trading Suppliers must deliver a wood procuresupporting certification development in service offices with wood supply chain ment plan and demonstrate that they have countries such as China and Russia. audits, when they trace the supply of wood systems to ensure that IKEA minimum The Wood Supply function of IKEA all the way back to the forest to verify that requirements are met before they are works to support selected wood suppliers IKEA requirements are met. allowed to start deliveries to IKEA. Our forin developing efficient and sustainable supestry specialists assess the wood procureply strategies. Its aim is to secure future SpECIAl FOCUS ON lOggINg IN ment plan and the evidence provided. Comprice reductions and access to competitive RUSSIA AND CHINA pliance with the requirements is followed up wood raw material. IKEA is engaged in a number of projects through regular audits and reporting. together with WWF to address the chalmONITORINg FOCUSED ON HIgHlenges of illegal logging and unsustainable Read more on page 62 RISK SUpplY forestry in Russia and China, which are IKEA requirements for wood used in IKEA suppliers must be able to report the two of IKEA’s most important wood sourcIKEA products origin of their wood every four months, ing countries. We have also chosen to which forms the basis for the risk assessconcentrate most of our own resources A STRATEgIC AppROACH TO ment and planning of our wood supply here by dedicating two-thirds of our forestry FORESTRY CHAllENgES chain audits. specialists to the area. Some of these speOur long-term goal is to source all wood IKEA focuses its approach and cialists focus entirely on cross-border trade used in IKEA products from forests verified resources for supplier monitoring and wood as approximately one-third of the wood as responsibly managed, according to a supply chain audits on high-risk suppliers IKEA suppliers source in Russia is procsystem recognised by IKEA. IKEA refers to and high-risk areas. This means that IKEA essed in China. such forests as preferred sources. Today, suppliers sourcing wood certified by IKEA conducts seminars and training Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), includacknowledged forest certification schemes sessions in Russia and China together with ing Forest Management (FM) and Chain of such as FSC is mainly monitored through representatives from forestry companies Custody (CoC) standards, is the only certiindependent auditors. Our own audit and authorities such as customs. IKEA also fication scheme recognised by IKEA. The resources focus on suppliers that are not encourages suppliers to participate in the current goal is that 35 percent of IKEA’s yet forest management or chain-of-cusWWF initiative Global Forest & Trade Network solid wood volumes shall come from pretody certified, e.g. suppliers operating in (GFTN) to strengthen their commitment ferred sources by the end of FY12. areas associated with risks of unacceptable to eliminate illegal logging and promoting Wood is a valuable resource. Resource forest management practises, including responsible forestry. GFTN in Russia has efficiency is therefore of great importance illegal logging, and suppliers that have 41 members, representing large forest not only from an environmental point of failed earlier audits. companies with around 75 percent of FSC view but also from a cost perspective. We In addition, third-party auditors, such certified areas in Russia. In China, IKEA are constantly searching for new techas Rainforest Alliance SmartWood Proworks with the Rainforest Alliance Trees niques to get the best possible return from gramme, conduct wood supply chain audits Programme, WWF China and the Chinese every tree trunk. for IKEA. Wood supply chain audits by IKEA Academy of Forestry in addition to the ForOur global sourcing means that we or third party auditors are based on risk est Stewardship Council (FSC), to improve source wood also from regions that are assessments using supplier data on wood the standards of forest management and troubled by illegal logging and other unsusorigin. Any indication that unwanted wood availability of certified wood. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 61 ENvIRONmENT: FORESTRY COOpERATINg WITH WWF and paper industry. IKEA sources acacia Read more about the IKEA cooperates with WWF to support WWF projects on from plantations in Indonesia, vietnam responsible forestry, and to increase the www.panda.org/IKEA and Malaysia. availability of certified wood. For example, Today, the acacia used for IKEA prodthere are joint WWF projects aiming to ucts must comply with our minimum Read more about the gFTN on ensure responsible forest management forestry requirements, which means that www.gftn.panda.org practices and to curb illegal logging in the the origin must be known and it must not cross-border trade between China and be illegally felled. Our long-term goal is Russia, as well as a number of projects in mOST IKEA OUTDOOR FURNITURE to source all wood in the outdoor furniture laos, Cambodia, vietnam, lithuania, bulIS mADE FROm ACACIA range from forests that are independently garia, Romania and Ukraine. IKEA outdoor furniture represents about verified by a third party as responsibly IKEA is also a member of the Global 6 percent of the wood used for our home managed. Forest & Trade Network (GFTN). The GFTN furnishing offer. IKEA does not use wood Today, the availability of FSC-certified is a WWF initiative to eliminate illegal logfrom high value tropical tree species, e.g. acacia in vietnam is limited. IKEA cooperging and drive improvements in forest teak or mahogany. Most of our outdoor ates with WWF to increase suppliers’ ability management. Participants are committed furniture is made of acacia, which is sturdy to meet requirements on timber legality, to promoting responsible forestry and and hardwearing. Acacia is mostly grown and to help plantation owners to develop credible certification. in plantations to produce wood for the pulp responsible management. IKEA requirements for wood used in IKEA products The IKEA Forestry Standard is a material-specific supplement to the IKEA code of conduct IWAY. It contains basic requirements for IKEA wood product suppliers. As of September 1, 2010, the requirements also apply to suppliers of board materials. 1. mINImUm CRITERIA ON WOOD FOR • Not from officially recognised and geo2. CRITERIA FOR IKEA pREFERRED IKEA pRODUCTS graphically identified commercial GenetWOOD SOURCES • Not from forests that have been illegally ically Modified (GM) tree plantations Wood certified according to Forest Stewardharvested ship Council (FSC) Forest Management (FM) • Not from forestry operations engaged Suppliers must have procedures in place to and Chain of Custody (CoC) standards in forest related social conflicts secure this throughout their supply chain. meets the IKEA requirements for preferred • Not harvested in uncertified Intact They must know the origin of their wood sources. Suppliers using preferred wood Natural Forests (INF) or other geographiand accept audits at every link in the chain. sources must also have a valid FSC Chain cally identified High Conservation Value They regularly report the wood origin, volof Custody or other chain of custody certifiForests (hCvF) ume and species used in IKEA products via cate recognised by IKEA, covering in its • Not harvested from natural forests in the IKEA Forest Tracing System. scope the production for IKEA. the tropical and sub-tropical regions being converted to plantations or nonforest use IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 62 ENvIRONmENT: FORESTRY COmmENTS ON KpI AND FIgURES 2010 KpI – ENvIRONmENT: FORESTRY The amount of solid wood used for IKEA products has decreased, FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY12 partly as a result of increased use of board material. Responsible forest management, % The share of certified solid wood increased substantially in Wood* used in IKEA FY10 to 23.6 percent, from 16.2 percent the year before. The products coming overall availability has increased, and nearly 42 percent of from forests certified as responsiSwedwood’s solid wood is now FSC-certified. bly managed 6 7 16 24 35 In order for us to reach our goal of a 35 percent share of certiAudited wood* fied wood in the range in FY12, we will continue to support supplivolumes that comply with IKEA minimum ers in their work to ensure proper documentation. Today, some forestry requirements 59 80 92 97 100 strategically important IKEA suppliers have access to wood from * Solid wood, veneer, plywood & layer glued certified forests, but have not fully implemented chain-of-custody certification to verify this. As a result these wood volumes cannot be accounted for in the statistics over certified wood. The work to set goals for the volume of certified board material is expected OTHER FIgURES to be completed in FY11. In FY10, the number of wood supply chain audits increased FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 substantially, and the audited wood volumes more than doubled, Total amount of wood used in IKEA products (m3) while the approved share of these volumes increased to 97 perSolid wood 7,080,000 7,223,000 5,686,000 5,320,000 cent. Cases of non-compliance are most commonly related to a board material – – – 7,000,000 lack of proper administrative routines, and the past few years’ positive development means that we are approaching the FY12 Number of wood supply chain audits goal of 100 percent. Performed by IKEA 50 84 60 117 IKEA focuses its approach and resources for supplier monitorPerformed by 3rd party (e.g. from Smartwood) 4 3 3 7 ing and wood supply chain audits on high-risk suppliers and highrisk areas. A majority of audits were conducted in Russia and Audited volumes in wood supply chain audits China, the balkan and South East Asia. For instance, more than Cubic metres 900,000 1,500,000 500,000 1,270,820 80 audits were conducted by IKEA or third-party auditors in China. Share of total wood used A small share of this audited volume, 4.2 percent, was not approved in IKEA products, % 14 20 9 24 due to unclear origin or non-compliant procedures. however, none of these audits showed any evidence of illegal wood in the supply chain. TOp 5 TREE SpECIES USED FOR SOlID WOOD IN IKEA pRODUCTS pine beech Spruce birch Acacia TOp 5 SOURCINg COUNTRIES FOR SOlID WOOD 22.3 % 14.8 % 14.5 % 9.4 % 4.7% poland China Russia Romania Sweden IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 63 ENvIRONmENT: COTTON Increasing the share of more sustainable cotton in the range more and more farmers join IKEA-supported projects in India and pakistan aimed at making conventional cotton production more sustainable. Our engagement has continued to generate very encouraging results, despite devastating floods in Pakistan, and the share of more sustainable cotton in the IKEA range has increased. We now aim to reach 100 percent by the end of FY15. ExpANDINg FARmINg pROjECTS IN INDIA AND pAKISTAN IKEA and WWF started working together to support cotton farmers by introducing more sustainable farming practices in 2005. Today, IKEA supports projects run by a number of organisations in order to reach a larger number of farmers. In FY10, an additional three cotton farming projects with local partners were initiated in India, bringing the current total to 15 projects in six states in India and one in Pakistan. On average, participating farmers in all our projects have halved their water consumption and chemical pesticide use, while the use of chemical fertilisers has been cut by 30 percent. The 2009/2010 harvest of this more sustainable cotton reached 160,000 tonnes with around 62,000 farmers using better management practices. harvested volumes as well as the number of farmers using the new practices are expected to increase rapidly over the next few years as successful project farmers spread their knowledge and inspire others. During the 2010/2011 season, we expect the harvest of more sustainable cotton to reach 254,000 tonnes, involving some 80,000 farmers. Inspired by the work done by IKEA and WWF, one IKEA textile supplier in India has independently started similar projects involving neighbouring farmers. INCREASED SHARE OF mORE SUSTAINAblE COTTON IN THE RANgE IKEA purchased 25,500 tonnes of more sustainable cotton from project farmers during the 2009/2010 season, more than twice as much as the year before. This means that the share of more sustainable cotton in the IKEA range jumped to around 13.4 percent of our total cotton use. IKEA will continue to buy only parts of the volumes created with more sustainable management practices in order to avoid creating premium prices and to speed up the process of making this cotton a tradable commodity available to all. “OUR HEAlTH IS mUCH bETTER NOW” Tapu Kehar Rangapara in Gujarat, India, suffered from serious health problems triggered by the chemicals used on his cotton farm. When he joined the IKEAfunded cotton farming project, things soon started to improve. “I used to be exhausted all the time. I had bad rashes to my skin, and my wife and I both had constant headaches. Now we are much healthier and life is better.” IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 64 ENvIRONmENT: COTTON TOWARDS “bETTER COTTON” IN THE IKEA RANgE bY FY15 IKEA wants all cotton used for IKEA products to be produced according to the social and environmental criteria developed by the better Cotton Initiative (bCI) by the end of FY15. bCI started testing its draft criteria in 2009-2010 in regional pilot projects in West Africa, brazil, Pakistan and India. The first cotton to be produced according to the draft BCI criteria was harvested in October 2010 in Pakistan, in an area that was initially part of the IKEA and WWF project. IKEA aims to buy some of this first Better Cotton harvest. NEW INITIATIvE TO HElp SpEED Up CApACITY bUIlDINg IKEA, the Rabobank Foundation, bCI, the Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative (IDh), WWF, Solidaridad Read more about and a number of international retailers have developed a joint strategy to speed up the implementaSolidaridad at tion of better Cotton as a tradable commodity. www.solidaridadTo support this strategy, the better Cotton Fast Track Programme (bCFTP) and a related fund have network.org been established. The fund will initially be used to run 10 Solidaridad cotton projects in India and two WWF projects in Pakistan. The goal is to reach a production of one million tonnes of better Cotton by 2015. pROjECT FARmERS AFFECTED bY FlOODS heavy monsoon rains from July 2010 onwards have left many millions of people in Pakistan injured Read more on page 53 or homeless, and around 15 percent of the nation’s cotton crops were lost due to flooding. Heavy The IKEA Foundation rains have also hit parts of India and China, causing harvest delays and contributing to all-time high prices for cotton on the world market. Farmers working on IKEA-supported projects in southern Punjab, Pakistan, have had some damage to their crops, while largely escaping significant losses. To help UNICEF and Save the Children alleviate the most urgent needs in Pakistan, the IKEA Foundation donated more than one million IKEA products, including 700,000 buckets, 200,000 blankets and 10,000 SUNNAN lamps. The way we work A STRATEgIC AppROACH TO COTTON by-step increasing the share of this more The projects are based on hands-on trainCHAllENgES sustainable cotton across the range. ing in the field, which allows farmers themCotton is one of the most important raw IKEA cooperates with WWF and local selves to see and experience the benefits materials for IKEA. It has excellent comfort partners to spread more sustainable cotton of changing the way they grow cotton. qualities as it is soft and breathable – and growing practices, and the IKEA FoundaSuccessful farmers act as an inspiration to it is a renewable resource. At the same tion cooperates with UNICEF and Save the others, and better farming practices are time, it is a material associated with major Children to address children’s rights issues being spread from farmer to farmer. Their concerns for both people and the environassociated with cotton farming. IKEA is also environmental impact is reduced and ment. IKEA works to reduce its need for a founding member of the better Cotton efficiency improved, while cotton crop cotton, but it is not realistic to believe that Initiative (bCI). yields are maintained and their earnings all cotton can be replaced with alternative increased. materials. This is why we work actively IKEA SUppORTS COTTON FARmINg An increase in sustainable farming practo increase the availability of more sustainpROjECTS tices leads to significant improvements in able cotton. IKEA cooperates with WWF and other partmainstream cotton farming in several cottonby encouraging cotton farmers to introners to influence mainstream farmers in producing states in both countries and drasduce more sustainable farming practices, India and Pakistan – two of IKEA’s main tically increases available volumes of cotton IKEA has set out to create lasting and cotton sourcing countries – to grow cotton grown in a more sustainable manner. large-scale improvements in conventional in a more sustainable way. It started as cotton cultivation. Together with parties Farmer Field Schools with 20 weeks of CONNECTINg SUpplIERS TO mORE including other international companies, training for 450 farmers in 2005. The SUSTAINAblE COTTON NGOs, governments and authorities, we projects also involve local organisations We support IKEA suppliers working with can actively contribute to improve convenin order to reach larger number of farmers, cotton textiles to connect with suitable raw tional cotton production and take part in and IKEA now estimates that around material sources. IKEA has also facilitated making this more sustainable raw material 80,000 farmers have introduced or are access to a number of new cotton sources a globally available commodity – without about to introduce more sustainable to enable suppliers to blend the right qualcreating premium prices. We are steppractices. ity. In return, the suppliers must commit IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 65 ENvIRONmENT: COTTON to buying more sustainable cotton as it bCI has developed draft criteria for better India and Pakistan will benefit from the becomes available. Cotton. Criteria cover environmental asIKEA Foundation-supported programmes, pects, such as the use of chemicals and managed by UNICEF and Save the Children. SEARCHINg FOR FUNCTIONAl water, as well as social aspects relating to TRACEAbIlITY SYSTEmS child labour, working conditions and wages. Read more on page 53 Tracing the cotton used in IKEA products all Criteria testing started in 2009 in regional The IKEA Foundation the way back to the farms it grew on is an pilot projects in West Africa, brazil, Pakistan important part of securing more sustainaand India. The tests will be monitored and REDUCINg OUR NEED FOR COTTON ble cotton products. Today, IKEA uses a evaluated over the next few years to see if At the same time as IKEA works to use web-based traceability system initially the criteria need further revision. Once more sustainable cotton, we also try to introduced to be used in connection with these criteria have been fully evaluated, set reduce our reliance on cotton as a raw our cotton projects in India and Pakistan. and introduced, bCI will take on responsibilmaterial for our products. This system is being introduced throughout ity for verifying compliance at farm level. One way to reduce the need for cotton the IKEA cotton supply chain, but IKEA is is to use blends, for example a blend of also search for alternative, innovative soluRead more on cotton and linen. Alternative materials play tions that may be better suited for largewww.bettercotton.org an important role, too. For example, lyocell scale tracing. made from cellulose fibres is already used ADDRESSINg CHIlDREN’S RIgHTS in a number of IKEA products that require pART OF THE bETTER COTTON IN pAKISTAN AND INDIA similar characteristics as cotton. IKEA INITIATIvE (bCI) We believe that children everywhere have expects the range of lyocell textile products IKEA is one of the founding members of the right to be protected from exploitation, to increase substantially in coming years, the better Cotton Initiative (bCI). This gloabuse and neglect. All children should have significantly contributing to a decreased bal multi-stakeholder organisation aims to access to quality education, and child labour use of cotton. make global cotton production better for is unacceptable. The IKEA Foundation has In addition, IKEA suppliers are adapting the people who produce it, better for the identified cotton and cotton-seed farming production to meet new quality standards environment it grows in and better for the as areas where there is a great need to that reduce the amount of cotton needed sector’s future. leading participants are improve the rights and lives of children. and the weight of textiles, while the overall international companies and NGOs, as well between 2009 and 2015, around 10 million textile quality is enhanced. as an increasing number of ginners and children in more than 15,000 villages in textile producers. cotton and cotton-seed growing areas in COmmENTS ON KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 KpI – ENvIRONmENT: COTTON The volume of more sustainable cotton increased substantially in FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY15 FY10, and we have now set out to reach 100 percent in the IKEA Share of more cotton textile range by the end of FY15. sustainable cotton used harvested volumes are expected to increase rapidly over the in IKEA products, % – – 6.2 13.4 100 next few years as successful farmers spread their knowledge and inspire others, and more and more IKEA textile suppliers commit to buying this more sustainable cotton. OTHER FIgURES FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Cotton used in IKEA products, tonnes Total cotton use – – 185,000 190,000 SHARE OF mORE SUSTAINAblE COTTON USED IN IKEA pRODUCTS, % 6.2 % 13.4 % FY09 FY10 IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 66 ENvIRONmENT: WATER Starting to tackle water issues throughout the value chain IKEA wants to minimise the water footprint throughout the value chain, from raw material sourcing all the way to customers’ homes. In FY10, our first attempt to map the full IKEA footprint confirmed the importance of continued efforts to help improve agricultural practices in cotton farming. A FIRST ATTEmpT TO mAp OUR WATER FOOTpRINT A first rough estimate of IKEA’s overall water footprint based on data from FY09 was developed in Read more on page 64 FY10. While we still lack consistent and reliable data from most parts of IKEA operations, it is clear Cotton that the most significant footprint comes from raw material extraction, and cotton cultivation in particular. In addition, business for Social Responsibility (bSR) has helped us make a brief overall assessment of water-related risks in the IKEA value chain. The footprint mapping and risk assessment confirm the importance of IKEA’s contribution to introduce better water management practices in conventional cotton farming. They also show the potential in supporting suppliers of textile and metal products in their work to reduce consumption and improve water treatment, as well as in helping customers reduce their consumption at home. ImpROvED WATER TREATmENT AT SOUTH ASIAN SUpplIERS The number of suppliers in South Asia with biological water treatment plants increased dramatically in FY10. During the year, the number of suppliers with functional treatment plants jumped from five to 32 in Pakistan, Bangladesh and India, and only a handful of suppliers are still in the process of introducing them. Suppliers had support from an IKEA water specialist and an external consultant, who mapped each supplier’s water treatment to see how they could be upgraded and provided technical knowhow. In addition, training sessions were held at every supplier to teach them how to optimise plant operations once installed. biological treatment plants are now a precondition for new textile suppliers in South Asia. Today more than 75,000 cubic metres of waste water is treated through these treatment plants every day. Some existing suppliers have decided to take water treatment one step further and install reverse osmosis treatment plants at their factories. “DRIp IRRIgATION HAlvED mY WATER USE” Farmer Dilip Patel in Gujarat, India, joined the IKEA-funded project to introduce more sustainable cotton-farming practices a few years ago, and his farm is thriving. “The best thing I did was to invest in drip irrigation. I have halved my water use and the yield has increased by 40 percent. Now two of my neighbours have decided to install drip irrigation, too.” IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 67 ENvIRONmENT: WATER SUpplIER pROjECTS TO ImpROvE WATER CONSERvATION The IKEA purchasing teams in South Asia and Turkey are starting pilot projects aimed at reducing Read more on page 39 water use and recycling more water. Home furnishing suppliers IKEA water specialists have helped map water consumption at selected suppliers, and they are now developing action plans on how to prevent water waste and how to better conserve and recycle water. The ambition is to spread the results and learnings from these pilots to other suppliers. Water is also one of the sub-categories for the new IKEA Supplier Development Programmes (SDP). While the most suitable suppliers for SDP water projects are yet to be identified, a programme description has been developed and an SDP water project leader has been identified. lOCAl INITIATIvES TO RAISE CUSTOmER AWARENESS Some IKEA stores have started local initiatives to help raise customer awareness of water-related environmental challenges. For example, our Italian stores try to decrease the use of bottled mineral water by encouraging customers to drink local tap water instead. In collaboration with a local NGO and public water companies, IKEA SlOM glass bottles with stoppers were sold with a label with information about the quality of local tap water. For every bottle sold, 0.2 euro was donated to the NGO legambiente, and a total of 6,000 euro was donated to remedy pollution in the lambro River after an environmental accident. In addition, three Italian stores offer IKEA FAMIlY members, in a special “water house” outside the store, free sparkling and still purified water, which is taken from the local public aqueduct. This “water house” project won the Sustainability International Forum (SIF) Prize in 2010. SWEDWOOD plANT TO TREAT STORm AND lOg YARD WATER Swedwood in Wielbark, Poland has received a break-through environmental permit to construct an improved water treatment plant for storm and log yard water. Swedwood may now treat this water onsite instead of collecting it for evaporation or transportation to a municipal water treatment plant. All storm and log yard water at Wielbark will be collected for oil and particle separation and then directed to a specially designed infiltration pond. The aim is to protect local aquatic systems, invest in sustainable usage of water and, at the same time, minimise transportation. The way we work SUSTAINAblE WATER pRACTICES IN WATER TREATmENT AT IKEA suppliers in regions with scarce water COTTON FARmINg SUpplIERS resources. In India, we have helped suppliThe IKEA-supported projects for more susThe IKEA code of conduct, IWAY, includes ers improve water recycling and set targets tainable cotton farming in India and Pakirequirements on water treatment. IKEA for continued improvements. stan have reduced participating farmers’ supports suppliers to implement waste All IKEA Catalogue suppliers are water consumption significantly through water treatment processes to ensure water required to monitor and report water conthe introduction of better management quality in suppliers’ local communities. sumption as well as emissions to wastewapractices. Cotton farming can be highly Audits have proven good progress particuter. IKEA calculates and reports this data water intensive if appropriate irrigation larly in South Asia, where IKEA has supper Catalogue copy. methods are not used, and project results ported the implementation and mainteshow that the water consumption can often nance of waste water treatment systems Read more on page 39 be halved. to ensure that capacity is appropriate for Home furnishing suppliers waste water volumes. Read more on page 64 All IKEA home furnishing suppliers must Read more on page 50 Cotton have action plans on how to reduce their Catalogue suppliers environmental impact, and IKEA supports IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 68 ENvIRONmENT: WATER DESIgN TO mINImISE WATER USE IN REDUCINg WATER CONSUmpTION more sustainable life at home by reducing mANUFACTURINg AT IKEA their energy and water consumption, and Product design can, to some extent, deterAll IKEA stores and distribution centres help them save money at the same time. mine the amount of water needed in manmeasure their water use, and several stores IKEA kitchen taps are already fitted with a ufacturing, and IKEA uses a number of have implemented various measures to Pressure Compensating Aerator (PCA) that techniques that reduce consumption. A reduce consumption. For instance, IKEA can reduce water use by 30 percent or printing technique called Soft Pigment France is one of the countries that installs more by limiting the water pressure and Printing (SPP) reduces the water consumpwaterless urinals in new stores and retrofits adding air to the water flow, and we are tion by 60 percent compared to traditional others with grey water systems so that roof constantly looking for other innovative printing techniques while also giving the run-off water can be used for toilet flushing. techniques to support reduced household textile a soft feel and excellent light-fastwater usage. ness. Today, around 40 percent of our HElpINg CUSTOmERS SAvE WATER printed textile products are produced with AT HOmE Read more on page 19 techniques that require less water. We have decided to develop the IKEA More sustainable products range to support IKEA customers live a COmmENTS ON KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 OTHER FIgURES Reducing our water footprint is one of the overall priorities in the FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 IKEA Sustainability Direction. A first rough estimate of our overall Estimated water footprint (1,000 m3) footprint based on data from FY09 was developed in FY10. Over Raw material extraction 1,700,000 the next few years, we will address water issues more widely across the value chain. Production 153,000 While the estimates are still rough, it is clear that the most sigIKEA units 4,900 nificant footprint comes from cotton cultivation. This confirms the Customers using IKEA products 125,000 importance of our ongoing efforts to spread more sustainable Total ~ 1,982,900 water management practices in cotton producing areas in India and Pakistan. ESTImATED WATER FOOTpRINT Raw material production IKEA Customers 85.8% 7.7% 0.2% 6.3% IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 69 ENvIRONmENT: WASTE We want to minimise waste throughout the value chain Economising on resources is part and parcel of the IKEA culture, and we strive to minimise waste throughout the value chain. We have set an overall goal for FY15 to have zero waste to landfill from our own operations, and have decided that all IKEA markets shall enable and encourage customers to reuse or recycle all IKEA products at end-of-life. pRODUCTS AND SOlUTIONS TO HElp CUSTOmERS mINImISE WASTE IKEA wants to develop products and solutions that enable customers to conveniently sort and reduce Read more on page 83 household waste volumes. A training module has been developed to help product developers, techniSustainable life at home cians and others to learn more about household waste issues. In FY10, IKEA extended the range of products that help customers with waste-sorting, moving from mainly kitchen-based products to also include solutions suitable for secondary storage areas. For example, RETUR is a series of wall-hanging storage products to be used for paper, cardboard, batteries, glass and plastic, etc., and DIMPA provides a low-price portable alternative. IKEA has a climate-related project focused on reducing energy and water consumption, preventing unnecessary food waste and minimising other household waste. The project aims to provide input to IKEA range development on solutions that would have the biggest positive impact, and to develop communication that inspires co-workers and customers to live a more sustainable life at home. mINImISINg WASTE AT IKEA STORES AND DISTRIbUTION CENTRES All IKEA stores and distribution centres recycle large quantities of material. The “Waste Management Manual“ for the IKEA group was first established in 1999. The manual requires all stores to, at a minimum, sort the most common waste items: cardboard, paper, plastic, wood, metal and glass. In some stores, as many as 15 categories of waste are sorted. In practice, this ensures that almost 75 percent of the waste is sorted in the stores and more than 80 percent is recycled or used for energy production. This helps us to save resources and can result in considerable savings. IKEA stores and distribution centres also work to minimise damage to products. however, when damage does occur, IKEA attempts to repair products rather than simply discard them. The results of efforts made in the stores are measured in the Recovery Index. WASTE RECYClINg FOR CUSTOmERS AT IKEA STORES IKEA wants to make it easy for customers to recycle our products at the end of their life-cycle. Our Sustainability Direction for FY15 states that IKEA must take responsibility to enable and encourage customers to recycle and reuse products when they are no longer wanted. Today, many stores offer at least some opportunities for customers to return and sort waste for recycling. For example, customers can return batteries and compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFL) at most IKEA stores. CFl bulbs use 80 percent less energy and last 10 times longer than traditional bulbs. however, CFl bulbs contain a small amount of mercury, which means that the bulbs have to be recycled in a safe way. FROm TRASH TO TREASURE What some may see as trash can be a treasure to someone else. This is why IKEA Coventry, UK, donates ex-display textiles, such as sofa covers, curtains and loose fabrics to local schools with little money for materials. here, artistic students use them for creating new products, such as textile recycling bags, or to design clothes and organise fashion shows. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 70 ENVIRONMENT: WASTE WASTE MANAGEMENT AT IKEA SUPPLIERS IKEA wants to minimise the amount of waste generated in the manufacturing process, and if possible Read more on page 85 to use it in the production of other home furnishing products. Our designers, product developers and Closing the loops technicians get great ideas by spending time in the factories and talking to suppliers. LUSY BLOM cushion is one good example. It is filled with leftovers from IKEA quilt production, so we can make sure the content is safe and healthy as well as making use of material that would otherwise be wasted. Waste from production can still come to good use even if it is not suited for home furnishing products. For example, the production units at Swedwood and Swedspan – the industrial groups owned by IKEA – often use their own wood waste to produce energy instead of relying on oil and gas. Some IKEA suppliers use materials and production methods that generate hazardous waste. This is why our code of conduct IWAY states that suppliers must handle, store and dispose of hazardous waste in an environmentally safe manner, and that workers must have the appropriate competence and protection as needed. INVESTIGATING HOW TO TURN WASTE INTO RESOURCES Turning waste into resources and minimising its environmental impact are serious challenges to society as a whole. This is why we have started a project called “Closing the loops” to investigate the opportunities for full recyclability of different materials used in IKEA products, and how cyclic systems can save scarce natural resources and minimise CO2 emissions. REUSE, RECYCLE – OR PASS IT ON! In Sweden, IKEA has started a “Buy & Sell” website for used IKEA products to prolong their life, through the IKEA community “Life at home”. Advertising is free of charge for IKEA FAMILY members. All advertisements will also be displayed on Sweden’s largest classified listings site Blocket, while IKEA products advertised on Blocket will automatically be shown on the IKEA community site. Try it out on www.ikea.se/ livethemma COMMENTS ON KPIS AND FIGURES 2010 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: WASTE Our overall goal for FY15 is that no waste from our own operations FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Goal FY15 shall go to landfills. Already today, a high share of our waste is Waste recycled, reclaimed or used in energy production, % recycled, reclaimed or used for energy production. Distribution 76 90 90 91 100 The amount of waste generated by our stores decreased partly as a result of consistent efforts to repair damaged goods to sell Swedwood 68 72 74 95 100 “as is” in stores’ bargain corner, which is also reflected in the Swedspan – – – 86 100 improved Recovery Index. Stores 84 85 86 84 100 Swedspan was formed as a spin-off from Swedwood in 2008, and started reporting comparable data in FY10. OTHER FIGURES FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Amount of waste, tonnes Distribution – 33,952 38,929 34,369 Stores – 276,173 285,156 279,778 Recovery Index, % IKEA stores 64 61 61 66 IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 71 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE Tackling climate change with a wide range of actions IKEA wants to take a leading role towards a low carbon society and significantly reduce the carbon footprint from all parts of our operations, while also helping to reduce CO2 emissions in society. This is why IKEA tackles climate change with a wide range of actions throughout the value chain. In FY10, we started the work to set specific emission reduction targets, and intensified our efforts to find adequate measuring methods. IKEA WANTS TO HAvE A pOSITIvE ImpACT ON THE ClImATE We are reducing CO2 emissions from our own operations, while also examining the opportunities IKEA has to help reduce emissions in society and support our customers to reduce their emissions. Together with WWF, we have investigated some of these opportunities and how to calculate climate-positive aspects from what we do together with our customers. Inspiring and enabling IKEA customers to make changes at home can make a huge difference. If 50 million customers reduce their food waste by 14 percent, this would save approximately six million tonnes of CO2 per year. And if 20 million households cut the power used for equipment in stand-by mode by 50 percent, it would save 1.4 million tonnes of CO2. AmbITION TO SET SpECIFIC EmISSION REDUCTION TARgETS Our commitment to tackling climate change means that all parts of IKEA have started to develop specific reduction targets and methods of measuring CO2 emissions from our own operations, the supply chain and from travel to IKEA stores. ROAD-TESTINg NEW gREENHOUSE gAS pROTOCOl STANDARDS In FY10, IKEA was one of the companies that were invited to road-test new global standards in the Read more about Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GhG Protocol). The tested standards were designed to provide methods to the greenhouse gas account for emissions associated with individual products across their life-cycles and of corporations protocol at across their value chains. www.ghgprotocol.org The draft standards were used during the road-test to update IKEA carbon footprint calculations and to report on areas that were not part of earlier mapping activities, for example products’ end-oflife, building materials and employee commuting. however, available data are still inadequate and inconsistent in some areas, and emission calculations can only be considered as rough estimates. IKEA continues to explore and cooperate with others to develop new, improved measuring and reporting methods that will give us the tools we need to accurately monitor our CO2 emissions. WE WANT gOOD TECHNOlOgY TO bE AvAIlAblE TO THE mANY Modern technology can help our customers cut their energy consumption and save money while also reducing their CO2 emissions. IKEA induction hobs are one good example of how we can make energyefficient solutions available to the many people by offering good quality at affordable prices. In 2010, we reduced the price on one of our most popular induction hobs substantially in most European markets. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 72 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE The way we work EmISSION REDUCTIONS Energy use at suppliers 2010–2011 life at home, and at creating customer THROUgHOUT THE vAlUE CHAIN This supplier energy pilot focuses on awareness of how their behaviour can help IKEA wants to reduce carbon dioxide emisPoland and China, and the identification of to reduce climate impact. sions from all aspects of our operations barriers that prevent us from proceeding – from how raw materials are extracted; faster to a low-carbon supply chain. The Read more on page 83 how our products are manufactured; how project aims to develop relevant strategies Sustainable life at home the products are transported; how we heat, to remove these barriers, as well as to cool and light our buildings; how people develop and run specific actions. The learnClimate perspective on food products are transported to and from our stores; ings can help us support suppliers’ efforts 2009–2011 from the use of our products in customers’ to save energy and reduce their climate This project aims at finding ways to adapt homes; and finally at the end of a product’s impact, while also improving efficiency and the IKEA food range to be more climate life-cycle. reducing costs. smart, and what IKEA can do to influence This is a great challenge, but IKEA is both food suppliers and the customers who making progress. We are investigating the Read more on page 78 buy our food products. climate impact from all our operations and Energy use at suppliers are in the process of setting specific emisRead more on page 84 sion reduction targets, and we cooperate Transport of people 2007–2010 Climate perspective on food products with others to establish standards on Pilot projects in the United Kingdom, China measuring and follow-up. and the United States have explored more Closing the loops 2010–2011 sustainable ways to transport people to This project investigates the opportunities COOpERATINg WITH WWF ON and from IKEA stores, helping them to for full recyclability of different materials ClImATE CHANgE leave the car at home and reduce CO2 used in IKEA products, and how cyclic sysIKEA has cooperated with WWF to tackle emissions. A toolbox developed as part of tems can save scarce natural resources climate change since 2007. A majority of the project will offer guidance to IKEA and minimise CO2 emissions. It will explore carbon dioxide emissions related to IKEA stores on strategies to achieve more sushow to close material loops, with specific come from material extraction, suppliers, tainable transportation. focus on recyclable products and use of customer transportation, and the use and recycled materials in new products. disposal of products – areas that IKEA Read more on page 81 can only indirectly influence. This is why Transport of people Read more on page 85 several climate projects aim at increasing Closing the loops our ability to positively influence suppliers, Sustainable life at home 2010–2011 customers, policy makers and others while This project aims at identifying smart prodalso developing our range to become more ucts and services that IKEA can offer to energy efficient. Below is a brief summary help our customers live a more sustainable of our climate projects. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 73 ENVIRONMENT: ClImATE COMMENTS ON KPIS AND FIGURES 2010 OTHER FIGURES IKEA wants to take a leading role towards a low carbon society, FY10 and significantly reduce the carbon footprint from all parts of our Estimated CO2 emissions, tonnes operations, while also helping to reduce CO2 emissions in society. We have estimated CO2 emissions from our value chain based Raw materials 15,700,000 on the draft Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Production and distribution 3,400,000 Reporting Standard developed by the World Resources Institute – Suppliers 2,800,000 (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Develop– Goods transport 580,000 ment (WBCSD). Current calculations show that 85 percent of the – Business travel 40,000 carbon dioxide emissions related to IKEA and our products are IKEA 920,000 attributed to material extraction, customer transportation, the use – Buildings 820,000 of products and their end-of-life. These rough estimates help us – Employee commuting 100,000 identify the most important areas to focus on. Customers 8,200,000 We have measured energy consumption for IKEA buildings for – Transportation to stores 2,100,000 a number of years, and CO2 emissions are calculated from these – Product use 6,100,000 data. Here, we can see that emissions are increasing not only in Products end-of-life 1,600,000 absolute terms as a result of increased sales, but also in relative Total ~ 30,000,000 terms: CO2 emissions expressed as kilograms per sold cubic metre Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) Scope 1-2-3 of IKEA products increased by 30 percent to 34.3 kg. CO2 emissions, tonnes A newly acquired Swedspan factory adds to CO2 emissions, but Scope 1 (Direct emissions the main reason for the overall increase is that the share of renewfrom sources owned or controlled by IKEA) 123,015 able energy used in IKEA buildings decreased during the year. Scope 2 (Emissions generated When our supply agreements for grid electricity from renewable from purchased electricity sources expired in major markets – Germany and France – they consumed by IKEA buildings) 695,170 were not replaced, as IKEA has decided not to pay premium prices Scope 3 (Estimate based on the draft GHG Protocol for “green” grid electricity. This is one of the reasons why IKEA Corporate Value Chain invests in alternative solutions, such as solar panel systems and Accounting and Reporting Standard) ~ 29,200,000 wind turbines. Total Scope 1-2-3 ~ 30,000,000 The reported CO2 emissions from IKEA suppliers include all home furnishing suppliers, food suppliers and catalogue suppliers. Today, around 70 percent of home furnishing suppliers report actual figures for energy consumption and CO2 emissions, and OTHER FIGURES these figures are well in line with previous years’ estimates. FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 IKEA buildings CO2 emission, tonnes Stores 309,366 314,744 326,700 435,344 Distribution 42,616 41,604 39,963 47,999 Swedwood 196,001 230,000 239,620 246,277 Swedspan – – – 83,835 Offices 5,178 5,178* 2,950 4,730 Total 553,161 586,348 609,233 818,185 *not available, assumed similar as 2007 Total kg CO2/m3 sold IKEA products 25.9 25.7 26.4 34.3 ESTIMATED TOTAl CO2 EMISSIONS 53 % Raw materials 12 % Production and 3 % IKEA 27 Customers % 5 % Products end-of-life distribution IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 74 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / ENERGY USE IN IKEA bUIlDINGS Continued investments in renewable energy for IKEA buildings ® IKEA buildings are where we have the best opportunities to directly influence CO2 emissions, and our investments in renewable energy have increased substantially. To speed up our work to increase energy efficiency and reduce the use of fossil fuel, all IKEA countries have been given the task to set specific CO2 reduction targets. mAjOR INvESTmENTS IN WIND AND SOlAR pOWER The implementation of the FY09 decision to install photovoltaic (solar) panels on around 150 stores and distribution centres is progressing well, and the cost of solar panel systems and installation has decreased significantly. In FY10, the number of buildings with solar panel systems nearly doubled, from nine to 17, and we expect to reach around 40 buildings by the end of FY11. Among the countries that have or are about to install solar panel systems are Spain, Germany, the United States, Canada, Czech Republic, belgium, Italy, the UK and France. IKEA has also increased its investments in wind turbines in France and Germany, with 52 turbines installed or in the process of being installed and connected to the power grid. These installations are expected to generate around 95 GWh, the equivalent of 10 percent of the total FY09 electricity consumption in IKEA buildings. SETTINg gOAlS TO REDUCE ClImATE ImpACT FROm OUR bUIlDINgS Our Sustainability Direction states that IKEA shall significantly reduce CO2 emissions from our own operations by being innovative, energy efficient and using more renewable energy. During FY11, all IKEA countries are to develop reduction goals for energy consumption and CO2 emissions for their stores, distribution centres and factories. The goals are to be based on the direction decided in FY06 that all IKEA buildings should, longterm, run on 100 percent renewable energy and that energy efficiency should improve by 25 percent compared to 2005. Over the past few years, our energy project IKEA Goes Renewable has helped IKEA realise some of the many potentials to save energy and shift from fossil fuels to the relatively high share of renewable energy being used to run IKEA buildings. Specific goals beyond the overall direction will help IKEA gain momentum in its work to reduce the climate impact from our own buildings over the next few years. SOlAR pANEl INSTAllATIONS IN NORTH AmERICA IKEA U.S. already has solar panels fitted to three stores around the country, and has started installations on another seven stores and one distribution centre in California. Once all are in use in 2011, the 20,000 panels in California will have an annual output of 6,650 MWh of electricity, representing CO2 reductions equalling the yearly emissions of 914 cars. The distribution centre in Tejon will have one of the top ten largest commercial rooftop systems in the United States. By the end of 2010, IKEA Canada will have fitted three Ontario stores with solar panels that are expected to produce around 960 MWh per year, roughly the equivalent of what it takes to power 100 homes. This will be what is believed to be the largest rooftop solar installation owned by a retailer in Canada. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 75 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / ENERGY USE IN IKEA bUIlDINGS SpECIFIC ENERgY EFFICIENCY TARgETS FOR NEW STORES IKEA has decided to introduce specific energy efficiency targets for new stores. The current target of 45 kilowatt hours (kWh) per cubic metre of sold goods at the fifth year of operation has been replaced by individual targets appropriate for each stores’ conditions, such as the climate, store opening hours, etc. Research and experience show that new stores in some locations are unable to reach the previous target, while stores in some other locations have the potential to limit their energy consumption to 25–30 kWh/m3. The current average performance for existing stores is close to 70 kWh/m3. STRONg ACTION plANS bASED ON RETRO-FIT AUDIT RESUlTS In FY08-09, IKEA conducted an audit of all buildings and created individual action plans to make retrofits in order to improve their energy efficiency and use of renewable energy. The implementation of action plans continued in FY10, with many successful examples. In Canada, the Vaughan store has improved its energy efficiency by almost 35 percent or 3,500 MWh a year, by implementing a series of energy saving measures including reducing the ventilation speed when the store is not busy, fitting fans to blow hot air down from the ceiling and improving the automatic control of lighting and heating systems. In Austria, the Wels distribution centre has reduced its CO2 emissions by 62 percent since FY05 and has made annual energy consumption savings of about 19 percent or 1,100 MWh. And, at the end of FY10, they started building a biomass boiler alongside the existing gas boiler to further cut their CO2 emissions. Our industrial group Swedwood has reduced its oil and gas consumption by 71 percent compared to FY05, saving 18,500 MWh a year. The factory in Älmhult, Sweden, has reduced its oil consumption by 98 percent by switching from burning oil to wood waste. At the end of FY10, some 1,000 action points remained to be implemented, while more than 2,000 have been completed. The way we work “IKEA gOES RENEWAblE” renewable energy. National management AlTERNATIvE ENERgY SOURCES “IKEA Goes Renewable” (IGR) is our teams are supported by a central team of USED FOR HEATINg project to reduce carbon dioxide emissions experts and facilitators, as well as coordiIKEA wants to move away from the from IKEA buildings. Our long-term direcnators at each local unit. dependence on fossil fuels. This is why tion is that all IKEA buildings shall be supspace and water heating for new IKEA plied with 100 percent renewable energy. STANDARDS FOR ENERgY buildings comes from more sustainable We also want to improve our overall energy mANAgEmENT sources whenever possible. This is done efficiency by 25 percent compared to FY05. IKEA establishes and updates standards using ground source heat pumps, air heat IKEA defines renewable energy as energy continuously in order to make better equippumps, biomass boilers and solar panels. derived from resources that are regenerated ment and energy management choices. Most new construction projects incorponaturally or cannot be depleted. IKEA has This translates into savings that improve rate one or more renewable sources of decided not to pay premium prices for grid energy efficiency considerably. IKEA has heating. All new stores in Sweden are electricity from renewable sources. This is standards for the most important building being fitted with geothermal heating and one of the reasons why IKEA invests in components of stores, and specifies a cooling systems, and more than 25 IKEA alternative solutions, such as solar panel range of energy efficient measures for new units worldwide have been fitted with biosystems and wind turbines, to supply its IKEA buildings. mass boilers since FY05. Solar hot water buildings with renewable electricity. InvestA number of projects – on both a global heating systems are installed at more than ments in more sustainable energy solutions and local level – are being undertaken to 50 IKEA sites. At the logan store in brisoften represent significant cost savings and encourage all IKEA buildings to continubane, Australia, the system supplies all hot relatively short pay-back periods. ously improve energy efficiency. Some of water for the store all year round using these get input and support from partners, heat from the sun. The savings on energy CENTRAl SUppORT FOR DElEgATED such as the partnerships between WWF costs is expected to cover investment costs RESpONSIbIlITIES and IKEA in around ten countries including in only two years. Each IKEA market is responsible for reducAustria and Switzerland. IKEA also coopering its carbon dioxide emissions from its ates with other retailers in the European buildings and for increasing its use of Retail Round Table (ERRT). IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 76 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / ENERGY USE IN IKEA bUIlDINGS COmmENTS ON KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 KpI – ENvIRONmENT: RENEWAblE ENERgY In FY10, the number of installed solar panel systems nearly doubled, FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Direction and we expect the share of renewable energy to rise during FY11 Renewable energy IKEA buildings, % of total consumption as a result of our rapid increase of solar panel systems combined with investments in more than 50 large wind turbines and some Stores 28 37 38 34 100 new biomass boilers and heat pumps. Distribution 30 37 41 34 100 however, in FY10 the share of renewable energy used in IKEA Swedwood 59 60 63 59 100 buildings decreased. When our supply agreements for grid electricSwedspan – – – 62 100 ity from renewable sources expired in major markets – Germany Total 42 47 50 47 100 and France – they were not replaced. IKEA has decided not to pay premium prices for “green” grid electricity, and this is one of the reasons why we invest in alternative solutions to supply our buildings with renewable electricity. KpI – ENvIRONmENT: ENERgY EFFICIENCY Meanwhile, the energy efficiency of IKEA buildings continues FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Direction to improve, with Swedwood showing significant progress. Overall, Improved energy efficiency, % compared to 2005/m3 sold goods our energy consumption has increased, partly as a result of a cold Stores 10 7 5 7 25 winter and hot summer in many locations. however, the energy efficiency still improved as the energy consumption in our stores Distribution 24 21 21 22 25 and Swedwood increased less than their productivity, whilst our Swedwood 15 28 23 37 25 distribution centres reduced their energy consumption faster than Swedspan – – – – 25 their productivity decreased. Swedspan was formed as a spin-off from Swedwood, and since FY10 was their first year of full operation, there is no benchmark available. OTHER FIgURES FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 IKEA buildings with solar panels installed – – 9 17 ACTUAl ENERgY CONSUmpTION IN IKEA bUIlDINgS (gWh) Total 3,531 Stores 1,572 Swedwood 901 Swedspan 846 Distribution 212 IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 77 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / ENERGY USE AT SUPPlIERS Big potential to improve energy efficiency at IKEA suppliers ® IKEA wants to help suppliers save energy and reduce their climate impact, while also improving efficiency and reducing costs. Several successful energy projects with suppliers during FY10 prove that relatively modest investments often lead to big improvements. The experiences will be used to further realise the huge potential at key suppliers in coming years. gREAT RESUlTS FROm SUpplIER ENERgY pROjECTS In FY10, IKEA and 70 suppliers worked together in energy projects with the goal of reducing consumption and carbon dioxide emissions, while also saving costs and increasing competitiveness. In total, participating suppliers are estimated to have saved more than 150 GWh of energy and reduced CO2 emissions by more than 40,000 tonnes. Two Chinese glass suppliers have reduced their energy consumption by 46 percent and 30 percent respectively, and the carbon footprint by 40 percent and 21 percent. A board material supplier in Lithuania improved the energy efficiency by 37 percent and saved 350,000 euro in just one year. One textile supplier in bangladesh has reduced energy consumption by 20 percent and cut CO2 emissions by 10,000 tonnes in the first six months of the project. This supplier expects to reduce costs by 530,000 euro in the first year alone as a result of investing 70,000 euro in a number of energy efficiency measures. Many suppliers also invest in technology with longer pay-back periods. A plastics supplier in Czech Republic has started the installation of a solar power plant to cover up to 50 percent of the factory’s electricity need, while a Slovenian aluminium supplier has installed biomass boilers that halved CO2 emissions compared to the old oil-fuelled system. pROjECT TO HElp REmOvE lOW-CARbON bARRIERS IKEA and WWF have launched a follow-up to a supplier energy efficiency project that ran in FY08–09. The earlier project delivered action plans to improve supplier energy efficiency based on energy audits at selected suppliers in China, Poland and Sweden, but also helped raise IKEA’s awareness of barriers preventing us from proceeding faster to a low-carbon supply chain. The follow-up project focuses on Poland and China, and runs until the end of FY11. The aim is to identify specific barriers and develop relevant strategies to remove these barriers, as well as to develop and run specific actions. The project explores what needs to happen at IKEA and what needs to happen externally, for example when it comes to infrastructure and legislation. The second half of the project is about creating an innovation platform. Two suppliers in different energy-intensive material categories – plastics and textiles – are taking part. We have analysed their energy set-up and the best practices, and will now explore what would be required from an innovation perspective to improve energy efficiency. A workshop with global innovators and incubators, as well as various competencies from IKEA and WWF, will start a dialogue that may result in new solutions. Ideas and proposals will be evaluated to see if they can be tested in later pilot projects. bIOmASS plANT AT SWEDSpAN mAKES A DIFFERENCE Swedspan, an industrial group within IKEA, has decided to minimise CO2 emissions at its new board production unit in Poland with the aid of a biomass combined heating and power plant. Once installed in spring 2011, the plant is expected to produce an annual surplus of around 40,000 MWh of renewable electricity, which can be supplied to the electricity grid. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 78 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / TRANSPORT OF PRODUCTS New measures to improve goods transport filling rates Effective distribution in the entire goods flow from supplier to customer is important to achieve low prices and to minimise the environmental impact from transport. In FY10, we decided to remove wooden pallets from the supply chain as part of our constant quest to increase filling rates and decrease CO2 emissions from transport. REmOvINg WOODEN pAllETS FROm THE IKEA SUpplY CHAIN by the end of FY11, all IKEA suppliers are expected to have phased out wooden pallets and instead use more sustainable alternatives such as paper pallets and recycled plastic loading ledges. Abandoning wooden pallets means that we no longer have to transport empty but bulky pallets from the stores backwards in the supply chain. Paper pallets and loading ledges can be adapted to product size, which means optimised unit loads and improved filling rates. In addition, IKEA product developers and packaging specialists can optimise designs to fit trucks and containers rather than fixed pallet sizes. Most suppliers in North America and Asia Pacific have already stopped using wooden pallets, and around 40 percent of European suppliers. Internally, IKEA stores and distribution centres are in the process of developing new storage solutions to handle unit loads without wooden pallets. NEW CONTAINER STANDARD ImpROvES FIllINg RATES IKEA has decided to move away from the current Dry-van (Dv) containers with a standard height of 2.4 metres and increasingly use the high-Cube (hC) containers with a standard height of 2.7 metres. This is expected to improve filling rates. In turn, this will reduce the number of shipments and contribute to keeping CO2 increases from transport lower than the overall IKEA sales growth. Many IKEA products can be shipped with higher filling rates by combining the HC container with paper pallets and loading ledges. For example, an HC container can fit 25 percent more LACK tables than a Dv container. TESTINg ElECTRIC vEHIClES FOR CUSTOmER HOmE DElIvERIES IKEA and a transport service provider in Paris, France, have tested the potential of using electric and/ or compressed natural gas (CNG) vehicles for customer deliveries. So far, results have been more favourable towards CNG vehicles, due to electric vehicles’ limited reach per charge. The ambition is to test alternative technology in two more markets during FY11. COllAbORATION TO DEvElOp ClImATE pROTECTION plATFORm IKEA has been part of a group of leading companies from different industries, who have joined forces Read more at to launch a multi-industry, voluntary programme focused on reducing the environmental impact of www.epa.gov/ European road transport. The aim is to promote green procurement of transport services and of fuelsmartwaylogistics saving and/or emission-reducing technologies in order to reduce energy use, greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants in freight transportation. Two European IKEA transport carriers have been part of evaluating the U.S. EPA SmartWay tools to see how a similar solution would work in Europe. The programme is expected to help IKEA more accurately report CO2 emissions from transport. EvERYONE WINS WITH RE-DESIgNED EKTORp Since its launch in 1996, the EKTORP sofa has been one of our most popular products. but the bulk made it a challenge to transport and store in a cost-effective and environmentally sound manner. Now EKTORP has been turned into a customer assembly piece. Thanks to the flatpack, each pallet can fit twice as many sofas as before. And everyone wins: the cost for IKEA has dropped, CO2 emissions from transport have dropped, and the price has dropped. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 79 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / TRANSPORT OF PRODUCTS The way we work STRIvINg FOR mORE EFFICIENT We choose rail transport where possible, IKEA works to increase the awareness gOODS TRANSpORT and where this is the more environmentally along the value chain. Each IKEA trading IKEA has strived for innovative and effiadapted option. Truck and container loads area has a filling rate coordinator, and cient transport solutions for our products are optimised to maximise fill rates and analysis tools and training packages are ever since the early 1950s, with flatpacked minimise the number of transports, and we available for all. furniture being the first major breakwork actively with transport service providthrough. Effective distribution in the entire ers to reduce their environmental footprint. INDUSTRY-SpECIFIC REQUIREmENTS goods flow from supplier to customer is an IKEA transport service providers must important piece of the jigsaw to achieve a INNOvATIvE DESIgN INCREASES comply with the requirements in our code low price, and to minimise the environFIllINg RATES of conduct IWAY, including industry-specific mental impact from transport. Smart packaging is the most effective way requirements. IKEA products are purchased both gloto reduce the environmental impact from bally and regionally to secure low prices goods transport. Already at the drawing and high quality while also trying to avoid table, designers and product developers unnecessary transport. We use direct delivinclude considerations to packaging solueries from suppliers to stores to a large tions as part of their assignment. Product extent, and try to minimise goods going packaging is optimised to increase filling into intermediate storage in distribution rates. centres. COmmENTS ON KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 KpI – ENvIRONmENT: TRANSpORT OF pRODUCTS The target to reduce CO2 emissions per transported cubic metre FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY10 kilometre (CO2/m3km) by 12 percent in FY10 was surpassed. For CO2 emissions reduction per transported m3 kilometre (CO2 gram/m3km) the end of FY15, the goal is to reduce emissions by 10 percent, with FY10 as the base year and calculated as grams per cubic Compared to FY05 –12 –14 –12 –18 –12 metre transported goods (CO2/m3) instead of grams per transported cubic metre kilometre. Filling rates are stable to slightly higher, and we expect conKpI – ENvIRONmENT: TRANSpORT OF pRODUCTS tinued positive developments as wooden pallets are being phased out and the use of high Cube containers increases. FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY12 Filling rate, % Inbound (supplier to warehouse) 62 60 63 64 70 OTHER FIgURES Outbound (wareFY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 house to store) 56 58 60 60 70 modes of transport (goods volume) Road 69 69 72 73 Ocean 17 18 15 16 Rail 5 4 3 2 Combined (including barge) 8 9 10 9 IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 80 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / TRANSPORT OF PEOPlE Helping customers and co-workers use more sustainable transportation IKEA wants to help customers and co-workers use more sustainable modes of transport to travel to and from IKEA easily. A number of global and local initiatives support this ambition, and we have developed a “toolbox” together with WWF to spread ideas and solutions for more environmentally friendly people transport. Internally, more and more co-workers choose virtual meetings before travel. TOOlbOx AvAIlAblE FOR IKEA STORES In FY10, IKEA and WWF finalised pilot projects aimed at finding more sustainable ways to transport people to and from IKEA stores. IKEA stores in the United States have tested a toolbox of measures to help people get to the stores in a more sustainable manner by promoting mass transit, improving home delivery services and exploring other solutions that enable customers and co-workers to use more environmentally friendly transport modes. The toolbox helps stores evaluate their current situation before determining how they can help and influence customers and co-workers to make more sustainable transportation choices. Tests in the United States show that effective communication can increase the use of public transport, and encourage car sharing and car pooling as well as the use of low-emission vehicles. The U.S. experience will now be evaluated before the toolbox is implemented at IKEA stores around the world. Examples of toolbox content: • A checklist of opportunities for promoting sustainable transport • Guidelines for how to work with municipalities and external partners on improving alternative transportation access to stores • A model for how to calculate the effect of implemented measures lOCAl INITIATIvES TO pROmOTE SUSTAINAblE TRANSpORT There are many local examples of initiatives aimed at promoting sustainable transport for customers and co-workers. Public transport solutions are an important consideration when planning new stores and upgrading others. The store in Ancona, Italy, promoted the construction of a train stop in front of the store. Some stores in Sweden, Austria and Australia have real-time electronic timetables for local buses at the exits. Many stores offer free shuttle buses to and from the city centre. In Norway, the Furuset store also offered free daily IKEA buses during the summer to two different cities 90 and 130 kilometres away. A discount on home delivery, “goody bags” and a tour guide were part of the package to ensure customers enjoyed the trip to IKEA while leaving the car at home. FREE ElECTRIC CAR CHARgERS AT IKEA HElSINgbORg The new IKEA store in helsingborg, Sweden, has electric car charging stations in the parking lot, providing electricity from renewable sources for customers’ cars free of charge. Some new stores under development in other countries will have the same offer, and more and more stores reserve their most attractive parking spaces near the entrance for electric and hybrid cars. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 81 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / TRANSPORT OF PEOPlE Some IKEA stores run public transport campaigns aimed at customers. Most stores in Italy offer refunds for bus tickets used to reach the store, and some stores have had promotions for customers arriving by public transport that included receiving a free lunch or discounted home delivery. There are also local initiatives to encourage co-workers to use public transport to and from work. IKEA Czech, Slovakia and hungary have offered various solutions for providing co-workers with free or subsidised public transport passes in the past two years – and today nearly 80 percent of co-workers commute by public transport. “Green” cars are a good solution when public transport is not an option; and in Italy, IKEA sponsors co-workers buying hybrid or natural-gas cars with 150 euro. The Tempelhof store has accepted an invitation from the German General Motors branch Opel to test the latest generation of fuel cell powered cars. It will be used as an IKEA pool car and will be available for co-workers to use for business purposes, such as after sales service. Yet, nothing could be more sustainable than riding a bike. This is why some IKEA locations, including three stores in Austria, offer pools of bicycles that co-workers can borrow to get to and from work. CONTINUED SUCCESS FOR “mEETINg THE IKEA WAY” The work to reduce IKEA business travel continued, and there has been a substantial shift from travel to virtual meetings via video, web and phone in the past few years. The number of web meetings jumped to 82,000 in FY10 from 52,000 the year before, and involved an average of 20,000 participants every month. During the year, the number of available locations for video meetings more than tripled. Regular training and information sessions are being held on all locations to encourage use and make sure participants get the best possible experience from video meetings. INCREASINg AWARENESS OF ClImATE ImpACT FROm TRAvEl All IKEA co-workers now have better opportunities to make informed choices of local travel alternatives to and from IKEA units. When searching for information on the IKEA Intranet on how to get to a specific location, the CO2 footprint for the various alternatives such as cars, trains and buses are listed. In close cooperation with our travel agencies, the work to improve the CO2 reporting and information on air travel is ongoing, both on a corporate and on an individual trip level. Today, co-workers are not routinely informed of the CO2 footprint from their air travel. however, the ongoing work to reduce the number of travel agencies to larger ones with better reporting routines will in time provide conditions for improved carbon-related information to travellers. Read more about NEW COllAbORATION TO ImpROvE bUSINESS TRAvEl mANAgEmENT NbTA Europe at www.nbtaeurope.org IKEA has been elected as a member of the Strategic Advisory board of the National business Travel Association (NbTA) Europe. NbTA offers a range of services to European business travel and meetings professionals, including research and reports, benchmarking tools and a CSR toolkit. COmmENTS ON KpIS AND FIgURES 2010 OTHER FIgURES IKEA stores get around 600 million visits each year, and just under FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 10 percent use public transportation. The ambition for the coming Customers years is to improve the access to our stores and, whenever possiCustomers travelling ble, offer our customers more sustainable modes of transport. to IKEA stores by Our internal work to reduce business travel has progressed public transportation (%) 9 9 9.7 9.6 well, and we have saved around 25 million euro annually in FY09 business travel and FY10 compared to the 2007 base year. The number of web business travel expenditure meetings has increased substantially, and we see a continued posindex, base year 2007 100 – 69 67 itive trend with more and more co-workers choosing virtual meetNumber of web meetings – – 52,000 82,434 ings before travel. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 82 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / SUSTAINAblE lIFE AT hOME promoting a more sustainable life at home We believe that IKEA products and services can help our customers live a more sustainable life at home, and thus slow down climate change. We strive to make good technological solutions available at low prices and we have stepped up activities to inspire customers to live a more sustainable life at home. gETTINg READY FOR COmmUNICATION pIlOT IKEA and WWF are working together in a climate-related project to promote a more sustainable life at home by inspiring IKEA customers and co-workers to adopt more sustainable behaviours and thus reduce their environmental impact. The focus is on reducing energy and water consumption, preventing food waste and minimising other household waste. The project aims to provide input to IKEA range development on solutions that would have the biggest positive impact, and to develop communication that inspires co-workers and customers to live a more sustainable life at home. During FY10, the project started with a workshop with WWF experts, various IKEA competencies and some external designers to create a project platform and provide input to IKEA product development. A project strategy for communication and customer engagement will be developed together with two IKEA pilot markets during FY11. We want to engage customers through communication and activities, showing that even small changes make a big difference to the environment and to household expenses. CUSTOmERS SHARE IDEAS ON ENERgY, WASTE AND WATER IKEA Spain celebrated “environmental month” during June to inspire co-workers and customers to change habits towards a more sustainable life at home. Customers contributed 555 tips and ideas on how to save energy, waste and water on a special IKEA website. The ideas that received the most votes from customers received a kit containing IKEA products such as a SUNNAN lamp and energy saving bulbs, and a WWF membership. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 83 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / ClIMATE PERSPECTIvE ON FOOD PRODUCTS moving towards a more climate-friendly food offer IKEA wants to adapt the food range in restaurants and Swedish Food markets to be more sustainable, and we have taken the first steps to take greenhouse gas emissions into account when developing new products. An estimate of food products’ carbon footprint will help us prioritise the work in coming years. gUIDElINES FOR DEvElOpINg ClImATE-FRIENDlY FOOD pRODUCTS IKEA cooperates with WWF in a project aimed at finding ways of adapting the IKEA food range to be more sustainable, with a special focus on the climate. The initial goal is to identify short-term greenhouse gas reduction potentials. The next step is to initiate and implement actions to reduce the climate impact from all food-related operations and outline a strategy for long-term adaptation of the IKEA food business. In FY10, the project developed a set of internal guidelines for food product developers to help select the most sustainable solutions and alternatives for new dishes. To facilitate the work to minimise greenhouse gas emissions, a “carbon calculator” has been developed, enabling product developers to calculate and compare estimated emissions from a wide range of common food ingredients. The guidelines and calculator will be introduced during FY11. Pilot projects to develop, test and communicate national “low-carbon” food dishes are expected to start in the United States and Spain in FY11. TURNINg FOOD WASTE INTO FUEl At some of our stores in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Austria, food waste goes to a special treatment centre, where it gets reused as biogas fuel for cars and buses. In addition, a number of countries sort food waste for composting and animal feed. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 84 ENvIRONmENT: ClIMATE / ClOSING ThE lOOPS project to improve the recyclability of IKEA products ® We believe that turning waste into resources is an important step towards a more sustainable society, and we are committed to improving the recyclability of IKEA products as well as increasing the use of recycled materials in our range. This has the potential to reduce our overall environmental footprint as well as our impact on the climate. pIlOT pROjECTS TO TEST FUll RECYClAbIlITY “Closing the loops” is a project that supports our Sustainability Direction goal to turn waste into resources. This project, started together with WWF in 2010, aims to find new and innovative ways to handle materials. During the project, we will investigate aspects of full recyclability and how cyclic systems can save natural resources, minimise CO2 emissions and optimally have a positive impact on the environment. We will explore how to close material loops, with specific focus on recyclable products and use of recycled materials in new products. Especially interesting is the potential for upcycling, where recycling can improve or maintain the quality and value of the materials. Still, increased traditional recycling and controlled downcycling are also important ways to use materials in a more effective way. We are still in the early stages of this project, mapping the potential barriers and incentives for closed loops of materials. In FY11, we plan to run pilot studies where material loops are to be closed and evaluated. Products and packaging materials will, on a small scale, be collected in order to investigate materials flows. The pilot studies will help IKEA obtain more information about the end-of-life stage of products. As a next step, IKEA plans to use this information to develop support tools for the consideration and inclusion of end-of-life aspects necessary from the start of product design and development. mAKINg mATERIAl “ANTI-lOOpS” ExTINCT One vision for IKEA is to make material ”anti-loops” extinct. An anti-loop is when a product is not returned for effective recycling or when it is returned to nature with negative environmental impact at the end of its life. Instead, we want to make sure that products and packaging materials are part of efficient and effective material cycles, either technical or biological. • External loops – when IKEA products are returned to professional external parties and processed into material for new products, that later can be used by IKEA or other parties. • Internal loops – when material in the form of IKEA products are returned to IKEA and turned into new IKEA products. • Bio-loops – when IKEA products are made from biodegradable materials that are returned to nature without negative environmental impact. IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 85 METRICS & REFERENCES IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 86 mETRICS & REFERENCES: KPIs measuring progress with Key performance Indicators This chapter provides an overview of all KpIs found throughout the report. Customers Suppliers KpI – CUSTOmERS: mORE SUSTAINAblE pRODUCTS KpI – SUpplIERS: HOmE FURNISHINg SUpplIERS FY10 goal FY15 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY12 IKEA home furnishing products classified as more sustainabile, % – 90 IWAY approved home furnishing suppliers, % Renewable, recyclable, recycled materials % – 100 Europe 78 80 79 89 100 Americas 67 91 83 85 100 Improved efficiency, % Asia, total 17 21 22 26 100 Improved efficiency of energy consuming products (compared to the average installed on the China 4 7 7 7 100 market 2008) – 50 South Asia 32 34 41 62 100 Improved efficiency water consuming products South East Asia 52 63 65 68 100 (compared to the average installed on the market 2008) – 50 All regions 50 54 52 57 100 KpI – SUpplIERS: TRANSpORT SERvICE pROvIDERS Co-workers FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY12 IWAY approved transport service providers*, % land 5 48 82 83 100 Ocean 5 38 42 96 100 KpI – CO-WORKERS: vOICE Customer Delivery** – – – 21 100 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY15 * Approval rates are calculated on the total IKEA expenditure in each category, and carriers are rated as approved only if they fulfil both IWAY and industry specific vOICE and leadership index (IKEA total) requirements. Overall ** Excludes locally and nationally procured Customer Delivery carriers. vOICE index 629 646 663 659 700 leadership Index 70 72 73 73 75 KpI – SUpplIERS: FOOD SUpplIERS FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY15 KpI – CO-WORKERS: DIvERSITY IWAY approved food suppliers, % FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY15 Global management – share of male/female food suppliers – 13 41 67 100 National Stores – 64/36 65/34 60/38 50/50 food suppliers – – – – 100 Retail management – 64/36 60/39 58/42 50/50 Distribution – 67/33 69/31 58/40 50/50 Trading – 64/36 65/35 61/39 50/50 Others – 74/26 68/32 62/38 50/50 TOTAl management – – – 60/39 50/50 IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 87 mETRICS & REFERENCES: KPIs Environment KpI – ENvIRONmENT: FORESTRY KpI – ENvIRONmENT: RENEWAblE ENERgY FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY12 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Direction Responsible forest management, % Renewable energy IKEA buildings, % of total consumption Wood* used in IKEA Stores 28 37 38 34 100 products coming from forests Distribution 30 37 41 34 100 certified as responsiSwedwood 59 60 63 59 100 bly managed 6 7 16 24 35 Swedspan – – – 62 100 Audited wood* volumes that comply Total 42 47 50 47 100 with IKEA minimum forestry requirements 59 80 92 97 100 * Solid wood, veneer, plywood & layer glued KpI – ENvIRONmENT: ENERgY EFFICIENCY FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 Direction KpI – ENvIRONmENT: COTTON Improved energy efficiency, % compared to 2005/m3 sold goods FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY15 Stores 10 7 5 7 25 Share of more Distribution 24 21 21 22 25 sustainable Swedwood 15 28 23 37 25 cotton used in IKEA products, % – – 6.2 13.4 100 Swedspan – – – – 25 KpI – ENvIRONmENT: WASTE KpI – ENvIRONmENT: TRANSpORT OF pRODUCTS FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY15 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY10 Waste recycled, reclaimed or used in energy production, % CO2 emissions reduction per transported m3 kilometre (CO2 gram/m3km) Distribution 76 90 90 91 100 Compared to FY05 –12 –14 –12 –18 –12 Swedwood 68 72 74 95 100 Swedspan – – – 86 100 Stores 84 85 86 84 100 KpI – ENvIRONmENT: TRANSpORT OF pRODUCTS FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 goal FY12 Filling rate, % Inbound (supplier to warehouse) 62 60 63 64 70 Outbound (warehouse to store) 56 58 60 60 70 IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 88 mEtrICs & rEfErENCEs: CRoSS-REfEREnCE TABlE Communication on progress IKEA is committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. As a signatory to the initiative, we communicate how the work in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption is progressing. The cross-references in the table below indicate where progress related to the respective principle can be found in the IKEA Sustainability Report 2010. Cross-rEfErENCE tAblE (GlobAl CompACt) Global Compact page Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 14–17, 36–45 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 36–45 labour standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 33, 41–45 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 41–45 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 37–45, 54–55 31–34, 38, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 44–45 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 59–85 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 59–85 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 72, 78, 81–83 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 15 IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 89 mETRICS & REFERENCES: lIST OF KEY ORGANISATIONS list of key organisations IKEA engages in regular dialogue with a number of key NgOs and other organisations. This list gives a short overview of what they do, and how IKEA cooperates with them on a global level. better Cotton Initiative (bCI) aims to NGOs and sustainability platforms to integlobal Compact is a network founded by promote measurable improvements in grate farm animal welfare into public prothe United Nations. It promotes responsithe key environmental and social impacts curement, policy and reporting frameble corporate citizenship, and provides polof cotton cultivation worldwide to make it works. IKEA and CIWF work together on icy dialogues, training, and networks to more sustainable, and works to develop improving farm animal welfare standards ensure that business is involved in solving globally accepted criteria for “better Cotin the IKEA food business. the challenges of globalisation. The organiton”. The bCI is a collaborative, multiRead more at www.ciwf.org.uk sation’s activities are based on ten universtakeholder effort initiated by WWF, the sal principles that promote human rights, global conservation organisation, and the European Retailers Round Table labour rights, environmentally sustainable International Finance Corporation. leading (ERRT) is a network organisation for retail business practices and anti-corruption. participants are international companies companies in Europe. The group liaises Global Compact encourages companies to and NGOs. IKEA is one of the founding with policy makers in the European Union work with UN agencies, labour and civil members of the bCI. on issues related to the retail industry, to society to support universal environmental Read more at www.bettercotton.org help companies stay informed of developand social principles. IKEA is a member of ments. It also provides an opportunity to the Global Compact. business for Social Responsibility promote industry interests. Focus for activRead more at www.unglobalcompact.org (bSR) is a global organisation that helps ities include consumer protection, food member companies achieve business sucsafety, environmental issues, corporate global Forest & Trade Network cess while respecting ethical values, peosocial responsibility and trade issues. IKEA (gFTN) is WWF’s initiative to eliminate ple, communities and the environment. is a member of the organisation. illegal logging and drive improvements in IKEA is a member of bSR. Read more on www.errt.org forest management. Participants are comRead more at www.bsr.org mitted to promoting responsible forestry Forest legality Alliance (FlA) is a joint and credible certification. IKEA is part of Clean Cargo Working group (CCWg) effort of the World Resources Institute and this network as we have global purchasing is administered by bSR, and is working to the Environmental Investigation Agency, and forestry operations in our five most promote sustainable product transportasupported by the United States Agency for important wood sourcing countries: Russia, tion. CCWG develops voluntary environInternational Development and companies Poland, China, Romania and Sweden. mental management guidelines and measin the forest sector. FlA’s goal is to reduce Read more at www.gftn.panda.org ures to help evaluate and improve the perillegal logging through supporting the supformance of freight transport. The aim of ply of legal forest products. IKEA is one of global Social Compliance programme CCWG is to integrate product transport into its members. (gSCp) is a collaborative initiative for corporate supply chain management. IKEA Read more at www.wri.org/fla companies to build consensus on best is a member of the CCWG. practices in labour and environmental Read more at www.bsr.org/ Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an standards in the supply chain. The aim is to CSRResources/WgO/CC-gF/index.cfm international network promoting responsidevelop a sustainable global approach to ble management of the world’s forests. improving working and environmental conCompassion in World Farming Through consultative processes, FSC sets ditions in global supply chains. With a joint (CIWF) is a recognised international farm international standards for responsible forapproach, the Programme can reduce audit animal welfare charity. It engages with est management and accredits independfatigue and duplication, making monitoring Europe’s leading food companies, supportent third-party organisations which certify and improvement processes more efficient ing products and initiatives that represent forest managers and forest product profor both companies and suppliers. Particitangible benefits for farm animals. The ducers to FSC standards. IKEA supports pating companies represent retailers and charity bases its work on a solutions-led the Forest Stewardship Council, and was consumer goods manufacturers. approach, developing relationships with one of the first members of FSC when it Read more at www.gscpnet.com/ food companies that are based on trust, was founded in 1993. mutual benefit and reward for progress. Read more at www.fsc.org CIWF also works in partnership with other IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 90 mETRICS & REFERENCES: lIST OF KEY ORGANISATIONS greenpeace is an international non-profit environmental organisations, in the discusindividuals, businesses, foundations and organisation focusing on biodiversity and sion. IKEA is a member of the Retail Forum. governments. The IKEA Foundation has the environment. Greenpeace campaigns, Read more at http://ec.europa.eu/ supported UNICEF programmes for more amongst other things, to stop climate environment/industry/retail/index_ than a decade. UNICEF has a corporate change, protect ancient forests and en.htm”ec.europa.eu/environment/ partnership with IKEA, working together encourage sustainable trade. IKEA disindustry/retail on both a global and local level. cusses forestry issues with Greenpeace. Roundtable on Sustainable palm Oil Read more about our joint projects at Read more at www.greenpeace.org (RSpO) is a non-profit association workwww.unicef.org/corporate_partners/ ing to develop and implement global standindex_25092.html International labour Organization ards for sustainable palm oil. The organisa(IlO) is a specialised agency of the United tion includes stakeholders from the entire UNDp, the United Nations Development Nations, and is committed to social justice palm oil industry – palm oil producers, programme is the UN’s global developand developing internationally recognised palm oil processors, traders, consumer ment network, an organisation advocating human and labour rights. The IlO is a trigoods manufacturers, retailers, investors for change and connecting countries to partite agency bringing together repreand NGOs involved in environmental conknowledge, experience and resources to sentatives from governments, employers servation and social development. IKEA help people build a better life. UNDP is on and workers. One of its main responsibilihas been a member since 2006. the ground in 166 countries, working with ties is to shape and oversee international Read more at www.rspo.org them on their own solutions to global and labour standards. IKEA engages in dianational development challenges. Their logue with the IlO on working conditions Save the Children is the world’s leading focus is to help countries build and share and labour standards. independent organisation for Children with solutions to the challenges of democratic Read more at www.ilo.org 29 national organisations working together governance, poverty reduction, crisis preto deliver programmes in more than 120 vention and recovery, environment and The Network for Transport and Environcountries around the world. From emerenergy, and hIv/AIDS. In all their activities, ment (NTm) is a non-profit organisation, gency relief to long-term development, UNDP encourages the protection of human which works for a common base of values Save the Children helps children achieve rights and the empowerment of women. to calculate the environmental impact of a happy, healthy and secure childhood by The IKEA Foundation cooperates with UNDP various modes of transport. IKEA is a memsecuring and protecting children’s rights in a women’s empowerment project in Uttar ber of the organisation. to food, shelter, health care and education, Pradesh, India. Read more at www.ntmcalc.se and to freedom from violence, abuse and Read more at www.undp.org exploitation. Save the Children listens to Rainforest Alliance is a non-profit organichildren, involves children and ensures UTZ Certified is an independent, nonsation that works to conserve biodiversity their views are taken into account. Working profit organisation that operates the and promote sustainable agricultural and on both a governmental level with decision world’s largest and fastest growing certififorestry practices. The organisation is present makers and on the ground close to the cation programme for responsible coffee in approximately 60 countries around the children and the communities, Save the and cacao production. All coffee served and world, helping communities, businesses and Children delivers immediate and lasting sold at IKEA is UTZ certified. governments to change their land-use pracimprovements to children’s lives. The IKEA Read more at www.utzcertified.org tices. Rainforest Alliance provides input to Foundation and Save the Children have IKEA wood procurement practices, and Rainworked together since 1994 to develop WWF, the global conservation organisaforest Alliance’s SmartWood Programme is long-term projects that will make a change tion, is one of the world’s largest and most used for audits in certain regions. for more children around the world. Save experienced conservation organisations. Read more at www.rainforest-alliance.org the Children has a global corporate partWWF’s mission is to stop the degradation nership with IKEA, working together on of the planet’s natural environment and The Retail Forum is a multi-stakeholder both an international and a local level. to build a future in which humans live in platform set up in order to exchange best Read more at www.savethechildren.net harmony with nature, by conserving the practices on sustainability in the European world’s biological diversity, ensuring the retail sector and to identify opportunities UNICEF, the United Nations Children’s sustainable use of renewable natural and barriers that may further or hinder the Fund is on the ground in over 150 counresources and promoting the reduction of achievement of sustainable consumption tries and territories to help children survive pollution and wasteful consumption. WWF and production. During 2010, issues such and thrive, from early childhood through and IKEA cooperate on projects that focus as sustainable forestry, life-cycle data on adolescence. The world’s largest provider on sustainable forestry, sustainable cotton daily use products, carbon footprint of of vaccines for developing countries, production and climate change. stores and product labelling have been disUNICEF supports child health and nutrition, Read more on WWF and IKEA joint cussed. The Retail Forum has been initiated good water and sanitation, quality basic projects at www.panda.org/IKEA by the European retail sector together with education for all boys and girls, and the the European Commission, and the objecprotection of children from violence, tive is to engage all key stakeholders, such exploitation and AIDS. UNICEF is funded as producers, suppliers, and consumer and entirely by the voluntary contributions of IKEA Sustainability Repor t 2010 91
