UNGC Communication on Progress 2011 www.parco.com.pk Pak-Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) A brief Introduction www.parco.com.pk PAKARAB REFINERY LTD (PARCO) is a Joint Venture between the Government of Pakistan and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, incorporated as a public limited company in 1974. As an integrated energy company, PARCO is the leading player in Pakistan`s petroleum industry with major operations in refining, transportation, storage, marketing, oil supply and logistics. With the largest refinery in Pakistan having a capacity of 100,000 BPD representing 35% of the country`s refining capacity, strategic storage of over one million tons, over 2000 kms of cross country pipeline network including its JV subsidiary Pak-Arab Pipeline Company Limited (PAPCO), a rapidly expanding retail outlets network owned by TOTAL PARCO a joint venture between PARCO and TOTAL of France, distribution of imported OMV lubricants from Austria, marketing of LPG (Pearl Gas) under Technical Support and Services Agreement with SHV of Holland and sale of locally blended lubricants under Pearl brand PARCO has emerged as the strategic fuel supplier to the country. PARCO`s Core Functions Refining Pipelines Storage Marketing The performance of the company can be judged by the fact that it has maintained its AAA and A1+ long and short term credit rating by Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) for twelve consecutive years. The company set another first in Pakistan when it obtained three simultaneous international certifications: ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System). PARCO has also received Environment Excellence Awards for the last five consecutive years and is rated among the top 10 organizations in Pakistan for outstanding achievement in Environment Management. Apart from business success, PARCO believes that ethical, socially responsible operations and environmental stewardship are fundamental to its long-term sustainable growth. Our performance in these areas combined with our technical and operating strengths impacts our financial results and overall success. Employees and business partners play an important role in achieving our aspirations while pursuing incessant improvement. Processing and handling hydrocarbons is our business and it comes with its share of hazards. PARCO proactively identifies, minimizes and mitigates situations that have the potential to cause harm to the health and safety of its employees, customers, service providers, communities, public and the environment. The focus and diversity of technical, social and environmental projects of PARCO speak for themselves. CSR – Schools & Clinics Support Program Our cross country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and underprivileged communities. PARCO Schools & Clinics Support Program is aimed at providing basic education and health facilities. The program is an ongoing initiative in which new schools and clinics are identified and existing ones are improved by providing basic infrastructure and other necessities that are beneficial for the surrounding communities. Communities are happy that PARCO is there for help when they need it most. CSR – PARCO Flood Relief Program PARCO has always responded passionately to the nation’s distress calls during natural calamities, such as the earthquake or floods. PARCO also supports culture and heritage by patronizing indigenous music, poetry and the arts. As a member of WWF, PARCO helps in conservation of nature, with several initiatives to its credit. In keeping with the Values of the company and our traditions, PARCO makes philanthropic contributions to institutions that are making significant efforts to help the underprivileged. A competent and motivated team has transformed PARCO into a dynamic organization. At PARCO people are encouraged to apply their creative energies and contribute to the company’s Vision which aims at promoting the interests of the Company, its shareholders, giving a definite competitive advantage while serving the nation and society. From producing environment friendly products to efficient, world class engineering facilities and infrastructure, building a competent team, and major social initiatives, PARCO is doing its utmost in Providing Energy with Responsibility. Map of Pakistan showing PARCO Pipeline Network and Installations HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment: At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security CSR Actions Work-Life Balance Healthy Environment Education Facilities Basic Health Facilities Protection of Company Work Safety Road Safety Corporate Citizenship For Employees Assets and Employees Results At PARCO offices, we PARCO provides a healthy PARCO supports PARCO provides 100% In order to maintain a safe PARCO ensures that All PARCO drivers are discourage late sittings and and green working education of the free medical cover to its and secure working Personal Protective provided training to encourage our staff to environment to its children of its employees, their spouses environment, PARCO Equipment (PPE) is comply with Road complete work during office employees and has been employees, and has and children (up to 18 employs security services provided to all Safety Rules, Pakistan hours. This helps employees winning prizes for its established a special years), for unmarried for protection of company employees. Service Traffic Code, etc. to spend quality time with Corporate Garden for the fund for this purpose. daughters over 18 years, assets as well as employees Providers are also and reimbursement of required to provide PPE`s PARCO ensures that all their families and pursue last 9 years. We have been Scholarships and at all PARCO locations. its employees and staff other personal interests. ST ranked 1 for 6 consecutive educational support is 60% medical costs of to their staff. of Service Providers years in the Corporate also provided to staff. employees’ parents. Employees posted at practice Road Safety Garden Category in the Ibn-e-Sina Hospital at outstations work on ROTA The School at PARCO `s regulations and competition held by the While pursuing its business, PARCO ensures, as far as System, where they work for Mid-Country Refinery Mid-Country Refinery precautions as Horticultural Society of possible that its internal and external stakeholders are 20 days and then enjoy 8 (MCR) Housing Complex (MCR) ensures timely responsible citizens. Pakistan. assured of basic human rights and facilities. days paid leave with their provides subsidized medical assistance to Our HSE department education to the the employees and their conducts monthly PARCO has implemented proactive CSR Initiatives in families. employees` children till families posted at the Road Safety trainings. Health, Education and Community Development for PARCO organizes Family Day, Refinery in Qasba Gujrat the underprivileged sections of society pre-university level. The annually for all employees which is in a remote PARCO engineers at the refinery School also has a board Please see various CSR and other initiatives in Principles and their families. which includes PARCO area. 5 and 8. PARCO`s Mid-Country management and Refinery has achieved more Some examples are: parents of children. than 7 million man hours without lost time accident Free Eye Camps are organized regularly by PARCO for (LTA) for PARCO staff and communities around MCR. Since September, 2006 tomore than 10 million man date, 2,890 eye patients have been examined. 159 successful cataract surgeries with intra-ocular lens have hours without lost time Proper road markings been performed and 259 refractory glasses have been Security Personnel performing safety accident (LTA) for Service checks and road safety signs provided. PARCO Family Day Providers’ staff. PARCO`s PARCO`s Corporate Headquarters are installed within all A standard operating Pipeline Division has PARCO facilities and procedure, with successfully completed 2 PARCO has received locations for strict communication and million man hours without National Environment compliance. command levels has been lost time accident (LTA). Excellence Awards for the established to report security YEARLY LTA & LTIR last 5 years in a row. incidents, accidents, natural 3.5 updated March 2010 calamities and other risk 3 MCR LTA P/L LTA MCR LTIR 2.5 situations. P/L LTIR LTA & LTIR PARCO Family Day 2 1.89 1.5 1.03 0.99 1.08 1 0.78 0.65 0.55 0.485 0.465 0.425 0.51 0.5 0.378 PARCO Mid-Country Refinery 0 0 0 School 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 YEARS Receiving the NFEH award for 2010-11 PARCO Family Day Ibn-e-Sina Hospital at PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 1 of 12 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 (contd.) BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment: At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security CSR Actions Work-Life Balance Healthy Environment Education Facilities Basic Health Facilities Work Safety Road Safety Corporate Citizenship For Employees Results PARCO holds an annual PARCO conducts in-house Occupational Health Safety and PARCO partnered PARCO`s Schools and Clinics Support Program PARCO sponsors 5 NonInter-Station competition Environment (OHSE) training programs every week which are with the National launched in 2007 to improve the education and health Management Staff and 2 infrastructure in adjoining communities supports Rural for the Best Housekeeping attended by employees and Service Providers` staff. Highway and Management Staff for “Hajj” Health Clinics, Primary, Middle and Secondary Schools, (Holy Pilgrimage) annually. at PARCO Stations and Motorway Police to being run by Government of Pakistan. Terminals. develop and distribute 10,000 Booklets on Road Safety for motorists commuting on National Highways for Apart from our own increasing awareness PARCO renovated Schools employees, PARCO also of Road Safety assists staff of external regulations. MD PARCO announcing the Hajj MD PARCO presenting the Best Service Providers working Ballot results Housekeeping Trophy to the with PARCO by providing PARCO has a cafeteria for winning Station Incharge. financial assistance for employees where nutritious At its Mid-Country Refinery, illness or accidents not meals are served at more PARCO provides international covered by insurance or PARCO renovated Rural Health Clinics than 70% subsidy. PARCO level facilities for Sports like The 2010 floods caused catastrophic damage to hospitalization cover. employs 2 cooks at each Cricket (Flood Lit Stadium), infrastructure across large areas of Pakistan. PARCO made a contribution of Rs 40 million to Prime Station and Terminal for Hockey, Football, Volleyball, Filtered potable drinking Minister’s Flood Relief Fund which included employees’ cooking meals for staff. Swimming, Tennis, etc. Indoor one day salary. PARCO also opened a PARCONIANS water is made available to PARCO provides dowry sports are also provided in a FLOOD RELIEF account in which the Company all employees and their grant, funeral assistance and Club Complex e.g. Bowling contributed Rs 10 million. Besides this, the employees families. education assistance for Alley, Gymnasium, Annual Sports & Graduation and their relatives also generously contributed more Badminton, Table Tennis, Ceremonies at PARCO School than Rs 3 million. In a major ongoing relief program, children of employees. Snooker, Squash, etc. Regular HSE/OHSE trainings are conducted by the HSE department approximately 35,000 flood affectees have been provided cooked food, 1,200 dry food packets were Before mobilization, Service Providers` staff undertake distributed, 3,000 flood affectees were treated at Orientation & Training covering Occupational, Health, Safety & Medical Camps and 200 families were provided tented Environment procedures and practices. accommodation. PARCO has now launched an expanded Rs 60 million rehabilitation program to rebuild homes destroyed by floods near its Stations, Terminals and Mid-Country Refinery (MCR). PARCO`s Road Safety booklets being distributed to commuters on national Club Dining Hall Gymnasium Snooker Cricket Stadium highways Blankets distribution PARCO Tent Village for Medical Camp Flood Affectees Auditorium Bowling Alley Table Tennis Swimming Pool Food distribution Re-construction of flood affected communities PARCO Flood Relief Camp www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 2 of 12 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment: PARCO makes all possible efforts to avoid complicity in Human Rights Abuses and abides by the laws of the country. Management Systems HR Management, Operations, Contract Management, etc. Actions Ethical Standards and fair dealings with shareholders, staff, Equal Opportunity Employer Anti – Harassment Policy customers, suppliers, service providers and other external partners Results At the time of recruitment, every employee of PARCO signs a declaration agreeing to All appointments in PARCO are based on merit for filling approved vacant positions. Our Government of Pakistan has promulgated the Protection Against Harassment of Women at the the PARCO`s Guiding Principles which include a complete set of guidelines on fair and recruitment process ensures fair and competitive matching of candidates with job Workplace Act, 2010 with an objective to create a safe working environment for women which ethical dealings with customers, internal and external stakeholders and communities. specifications. Non-job factors e.g. gender, origin, religion, and external influence are not is free of harassment, abuse and intimidation so that they can work with dignity. PARCO Violations of these principles are viewed seriously, have resulted in disciplinary action, considered. Under–age employment is strictly forbidden. enforces this Act throughout the company and has placed it on its intranet portal to educate and in some cases have led to the termination of service. Following are some highlights PARCO provides equal opportunity to both male and female employees in all its areas of women at workplace about their rights. PARCO has also formed a committee which deals with of PARCO`s Guiding Principles: operations. The company has females working in Engineering, Finance, Projects, IT, harassment complaints, takes suggestions and gives recommendations to Management. We practice a merit-based equal-opportunity policy for recruitment and reject any Telecom, Marketing, HR, and Medical functions. Employees, including head of departments, are advised to report any acts of harassment by any influence of gender, color, caste, faith, ethnic origin or recommendations by influential gender as such harassment is considered misconduct liable of disciplinary action. persons. PARCO provides equal career growth opportunity to both male and female employees, some of whom are also heading key departments and sections in the Company. PARCO believes in tempering its policies with human values that can raise the human capital of the Company and the Nation. Management and Engineering Trainees, upon successful completion of their training, are employed on merit as permanent employees without discrimination. PARCO believes that valid profits are made by good businesses through efficient services, productivity of operations, value addition, innovative financing and strategic Benefits, facilities and allowances, as specified in the Company`s policies are provided to all management of its assets and skills, while contributing to the well being of the Society. employees and their dependants without discrimination. PARCO believes in the value of transparency, openness and self-examination, and consider them as safeguards against potential faults. We consider our Suppliers and Service Providers as our business partners and deal with them with the same fairness that we reserve for our employees and customers. As a Company we are acknowledged as a responsible corporate citizen in the community of business and industry of Pakistan. We strive for zero impact on the environment and contribute significantly to reducing the damage done to nature by man. We do not tolerate unsafe and hazardous-to-health work practices in transit or the work place. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 3 of 12 LABOR Principle 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment: PARCO believes in addressing Employee issues practically and providing the right of collective bargaining to all its workers by complete compliance to all Industrial Relations Ordinances and Laws. Management Systems HR Management, Industrial Relations, Operations, CSR Actions Collective Bargaining Negotiations and Union Charter Proactive focus and redressal of Employee Grievances to maintain a good Freedom of Association Signing Organizational Climate Results Facilities and benefits provided to unionized staff exceed those required under the Industrial PARCO workers are free to form or join a trade union of their choice without fear of intimidation or PARCO has a history of good management – employee relations. There Relations Ordinance and Labor Laws prevalent in Pakistan. Examples are mentioned in reprisal. has never been a labor strike since PARCO`s inception, and all CBA Principle 1. agreements have been negotiated in a friendly atmosphere. The Company complies with Industrial Relations Ordinance 2010. PARCO has one registered trade union PARCO takes care of its employees in all spheres and tries its level best to address all employee comprising of all non-management employees represented by 10 Collective Bargaining Agents (CBA). The CBA agreement is negotiated every two years and the last issues. The Company has developed a Grievance Handling Policy under which grievances are agreement was signed for the period, 1st August 2009 till 30th July 2011. resolved expeditiously as per policy and labor laws of the Country. Both the CBA and Management made efforts to fulfill the genuine requirements of workers. PARCO holds annual events to recognize long service, reward outstanding employees, etc. NonManagement staff are included without discrimination, and also participate actively in organizing these events. The CBA and other workers are members of the organizing committees of these events including Family Day, Award Ceremony, Corporate and Sports events, etc. PARCO sports teams include staff from all levels and functions. A CBA – Management meeting in progress MD PARCO and General Secretary CBA signing the agreement for 2009-11 PARCO Cricket Team www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 4 of 12 LABOR Principle 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR Our Commitment: PARCO completely disallows any form of forced or compulsory labor in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Business Partners, Operations Actions The terms of employment at PARCO provide maximum Maintaining industry-competitive Compensation and Benefits Compliance by checking of Vendors/Suppliers/ Service Providers freedom to employees to voluntarily enter or leave the organization on free will. Results PARCO`s employment contracts do not violate human rights or labor All ILO conventions ratified by the Government of Pakistan have been implemented. Vendors/Suppliers/Contractors are checked by PARCO that no forced labor is utilized for PARCO`s jobs. laws. Workers are provided excellent benefits like group insurance, pension, gratuity, Suppliers are selected after they confirm the legitimacy of their labor practices and assure that they are not in All employment contracts can be terminated by giving notice of 30 days provident fund, accident compensation, health care and other facilities which are violation of any law of the land (this includes labor laws, Industrial Relations Ordinance, etc.) by either party. better than the provisions of Labor Laws. PARCO conducts open competitive bidding for different jobs to provide equal opportunity to all qualified Exit Interviews and surveys are conducted by Human Resource PARCO hires the services of external independent consultants to conduct surveys and vendors/suppliers. Department to gain direct feedback from separating employees and take advise industry competitive salaries. The findings are then shared with the HR Review remedial measures for enhancing Employee Satisfaction. Committee, which includes top management and decisions are taken for compensation PARCO employees visit suppliers and vendors to visually observe and report if any children are employed or if increases/adjustments/salary restructuring related to inflation, competition, merit forced labor is practiced. Separation process, payment of outstanding dues, post retirement performance, location, etc. benefits, etc. are done expeditiously. All workers in PARCO are above the minimum wage fixed by the Government and are paid competitively according to market conditions. PARCO also ensures that all Contractors/Service Providers follow the prevailing minimum wages of the country. Wages are paid on time every month. Workers are also given 5% profit of the Company under the Workers’ Profit Participation Fund. There is no discrimination in wages or benefits on the basis of gender, religion, origin or any other external job factor. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 5 of 12 LABOR Principle 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR Our Commitment: PARCO forbids engagement of any form of child labor in its operations or by any of its business partners. Management Systems Human Resource Management, Operations Business Partners, CSR Actions Documented procedures prohibit employment of Third party audit of Labor conditions Inclusion of Labor Laws (that disallows child PARCO assists in enhancing primary and secondary schooling to Child Labor labor) in contracts with Business Partners reduce Child Labor in its adjoining communities Results No child labor has ever been employed by PARCO. Despite the Regular third party audits are conducted by the By asking Suppliers and Service Providers to adhere to Under PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program, the Company supports schools and fact that under the labor laws of Pakistan the minimum age of Labor Directorate and other authorities who the laws of the country, they are required to comply clinics of rural communities located near PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery and its Stations & hiring is 14 years, PARCO`s minimum age limit for induction is 18 ensure elimination of Child Labor and compliance with all labor laws, meet security and human rights Terminals in the Sindh and Punjab provinces of Pakistan. years, which is thoroughly checked by birth certificates, of other requirements of Labor Laws. requirements as well as eliminate employment of educational transcripts, national identity card, NADRA (National Around 42 Government schools and clinics have been provided assistance for developing under-age workers. Database and Registration Authority) and other age verification infrastructure, procurement of equipment, etc., to help them sustain their operations for documents, thus ensuring that there is no child labor across the providing basic facilities to the communities. Out of 42 institutions, 33 are schools where company. more than 9,000 children are receiving education. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised the communities` interest to enroll their children in these refurbished and wellmaintained schools diverting them from child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. PARCO has developed two new primary school campuses in partnership with The Citizens Foundation a reputed local NGO in Karachi and Muzaffargarh. These campuses are built in under-privileged communities and impart quality education to around 550 children. A third PARCO campus is also being built near our refinery which will cater to secondary education for 260 children. The campus is expected to be completed by May 2011. A Mobile Clinic van regularly visits nearby communities to provide basic health care and medicines which also help children maintain their health and enhance attendance at schools. Free Eye camps are conducted every year in partnership with NGO`s specializing in eye care. PARCO Primary Campus I, Karachi PARCO Primary Campus II, Muzaffargarh PARCO supported Schools Well furnished Classrooms PARCO Secondary Campus III at Muzaffargarh PARCO supported Schools (Under Construction) www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 6 of 12 LABOR Principle 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. Our Commitment: PARCO provides equal employment opportunity and supports diversity of human capital in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management CSR Actions Ensuring Equal Enforcing Code of Workforce Diversity Merit-driven Appointments Expand PARCO`s interaction Organizing Plant Visits for Technology Transfer Employment Opportunities Ethics and Promotions with Educational Institutions University students for all Results PARCO offers equal opportunities PARCO ensures that PARCO employs 1,193 direct Hiring and promotions are done PARCO undertakes regular summer Universities show keen interest in PARCO offers Trainee Program in the fields of to all qualified applicants, employees abide with employees, including 23 on merit, performance, and winter internships for students visiting PARCO’s facilities and the management and engineering. The training ranges from the Company`s Code of qualifications and ultimate belonging to business and engineering company organizes plant visits for 1 to 2 years and provides the candidate learning and including women and minorities people from minorities. disciplines where the selection of exposure to different aspects of a real life working of any origin, religion, ethnicity, Ethics. Every employee These employees come from potential of each employee petroleum, chemical, civil, electrical, internees is done on merit. Every year color, caste or creed. PARCO has to sign, at the time all over the country, through professional and electronics, telecommunication, and environment. Upon demonstrating satisfactory we take 100 internees. ensures that no discrimination is of induction, a irrespective of transparent HR processes. If any other engineering and business performance at the end of the training, the Trainee is made amongst employees and declaration agreeing to domicile/origin, ethnicity, employee exerts external students belonging to different then inducted as a permanent employee if a suitable PARCO`s Principles pressure of any sort he/she is universities. vacancy exists. till date, male and female religion, gender, or any other minorities belonging to different which include a non-job dimension. Thus automatically disqualified and faiths are employed at all levels complete guideline on there are workers of all ages, faces disciplinary action. including senior management avoiding from all provinces i.e. from positions. discrimination, the northern most cities to ensuring fair and the southern most city of ethical dealings with all Karachi. internal and external stakeholders including Despite being a petroleum communities and engineering organization, customers. PARCO encourages women Since 1975, PARCO has trained more than 850 for employment at the MidEngineering and Management trainees. Since January Country Refinery, which is 2009 alone, 60 trainees have been inducted in PARCO. located in a remote area, by PARCO also participates actively in This number is increasing and shows that PARCO has not Career Fairs at the leading Engineering providing separate stopped inducting fresh talent even at a time when and Management educational accommodation for single Pakistan is facing an economic downturn. institutions where counseling and job women. opportunities at PARCO, etc. are discussed with students. In 2010, more than 800 students were provided career counseling. PARCO received over 500 applications for internships. Minorities are given extra holidays in accordance with their religious customs. PARCO has a huge reservoir of highly skilled and experienced human capital and many of our experts are PARCO gives special employment teaching at different universities transferring preference to handicapped knowledge and skills to the younger generation. Joint applicants and has employed 5 research projects are also undertaken with educational such people. PARCO`s experienced and diverse institutions. workforce See Anti Harassment Policy in Principle 2. PARCO also supports research, conferences, trade fairs, workshops A cordial and healthy working and other events of educational relationship is maintained throughout the company institutions. We also provide technical equipment for labs of engineering institutions. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 7 of 12 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment: PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR and Administration Actions Environment friendly Efficient Effluent Environmental Auditing, Environment Friendly Products Solid Waste Management Supply-Chain Management Certification and Awards Results During the year 2010, approx 3.6 Impact on the environment from the PARCO is a fully IMS CERTIFIED ENERGY Company PARCO proactively works to ensure that its products Solid waste generated at MCR is disposed in a manner that protects human Million Metric Tons of crude oil refining process is controlled by treating and amongst the first in Pakistan to and fuels are environment friendly. Gasoline complies health and the environment. It takes an inclusive approach that endeavors to was transported from Karachi to and managing emissions. Low NOx (Nitrous with the Euro II standard while our refinery is also protect surface and ground-water, air, flora and fauna. simultaneously achieve three international PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery Oxide) burners and Sulfur removal from capable of producing Euro II HSD. Sulfur is extracted fuel gases are examples. Effluents are certifications, that is, ISO 9001:2008 (Quality (MCR) at Mahmood Kot through during refining and sold as a solid by-product. PARCO’s Mid Country Refinery and Stations and Terminals have designated treated in a state of the art effluent Management System), ISO 14001:2004 an 870 km pipeline network, procedures and areas for effective system of waste collection and segregation. treatment plant involving extensive (Environmental Management System) and Drums marked in yellow and green are placed in each area e.g. plant, ensuring safe and secure chemical and biological treatment. Waste OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and maintenance, truck loading, laboratory, office area, etc. Hazardous, non transportation. This efficient water is discharged/reused for plants after Safety Management System) hazardous waste and recyclable materials are segregated at the source. supply chain eliminates the compliance with NEQS (National movement of oil tankers Environmental Quality Standards) is ensured. All contractors equipment is significantly contributing in checked for compliance to NEQS. All reduction of air pollution. effluents are checked and verified regularly before discharging by third party EPA Similarly, the WOP (White Oil (Environment Protection Agency) approved Pipeline) from Karachi to Labs to comply with NEQS. Mahmood-Kot (817km) transports around 8.5 Million Metric Tons/yr of HSD (High Speed Diesel). The Solid Waste Management yard is the storage point for waste at MCR. It is a well organized area catering for everything from spent catalyst and chemical drums to used batteries. An internationally operating third party has been contracted for disposing the waste. PARCO`s effluent treatment plant at Mid-Country Refinery Various chemicals in use are stored in a well ventilated warehouse and it is ensured PARCO`s efficient and cost effective, that a minimum level of inventory is kept cross–country Pipeline System to minimize the hazard. The chemical ware house is equipped with deluge valve system Around 110 tons of hazardous waste was disposed in 2009-10 at an audited, to suppress any kind of contamination. certified and EPA approved facility. During hazardous waste management, Plastic trays and HDPE sheets have been around 10,000 empty metal and plastic drums were sold with safe placed under the chemical drums to meet recycling/disposal guarantees. Sale of the empty drums recovered two thirds the required level of protection. of the waste disposal cost. EMS (Environment Management System) Impact Assessment registers have been prepared at every Station, and EMS impact is assessed on regular basis to ensure IMS conformance with ISO and EMS requirements. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 8 of 12 ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment: PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Increasing HSE Awareness Environment Reduction in Pollution HSE Training Programs Ground Water Sampling Other Environmental and Wildlife Stewardship and Performance Certificates and Protection Initiatives Excellence Awards Results Environmental awareness is The National Forum At PARCO, we have an in-house PARCO takes pride in its PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery The surrounding area of Mid Country About 36 km of PARCO’s pipelines traverse through made within the company for Environment and Environmental Stewardship. (MCR) has developed a Health Safety and Environment Refinery (MCR) has many fuel service Kirthar National Park. In order to preserve neighboring through an HSE bulletin (an inHealth (NFEH) has 2000 km of oil pipelines comprehensive ground and soil (HSE) training programs. PARCO is stations and auto workshops which wildlife, PARCO contributed significantly to the Sindh house circulation) on notice awarded PARCO with traversing the country, save EMS 14001 certified company and are potential contaminants for ground Wild Life Department for the preservation of Wildlife boards, intranet, etc. monitoring plan to ensure that there thousands of gallons of fuel the Annual water. Realizing this environmental in the Kirthar National Park and Mahal Kohistan Environmental is no contamination in soil and all relevant employees including and reduce pollution that aspect, MCR has developed a Wildlife Sanctuary. PARCO has installed a tube well would otherwise have been Excellence Award for water and has developed base line Top, Middle and Lower and pond for crocodiles besides constructing a 700 comprehensive ground and soil caused by tank lorries traffic. the fifth consecutive data for continuous monitoring. We Management are fully aware of monitoring plan, whereby 8 soil gallon overhead tank to ensure water supply for wild year in 2010. The perform 3rd party (EPA certified) Environmental Management samples are collected twice a year to life including the rare Chinkara Deer, Sindh Ibex and NFEH is a nonground water monitoring of the Systems (EMS) and National ensure that there is no contamination the endangered Houbara Bustard species. government, nonEnvironmental Quality Standards in soil and water. surrounding areas of PARCO profit organization Refinery and Corporate (NEQS). This is ensured by our which works in The ground water monitoring of the collaboration with Headquarters twice a year, to routine EMS and HSE in house surroundings of MCR is performed the United Nations ensure that the community nearby is trainings pertaining to Air against 16 parameters through a third Environmental using safe underground water. Emissions Management, Effluent party (EPA certified) consultant, twice Program (UNEP) and There are 16 different parameters Discharge Management and Solid a year, to ensure that the community is supported by the that are tested: pH, Color, TDS, Taste Waste Management supported by nearby is using safe underground Ministry of water. and Odor, Total Hardness, Faecal Standard Operating Procedures. Environment, Government of Coliform, Coliform Organisms, The refining complex at Arsenic, Chloride, Sulphate, Iron, PARCO’s Mid-Country Environmental training is Pakistan. conducted twice a month in Cyanide, Lead, Selenium and Refinery is equipped with a state-of-the-art effluent which PARCO employees and PARCO has been Manganese. treatment plant, low NOx Service Provider`s staff placed among the 10 A comprehensive noise survey is also (Nitrous Oxide) and SOx participate. All contractors are best organizations of carried out regularly at the boundary (Sulphur Oxide) burners and responsible for complying with Pakistan in Environment walls of the MCR in order to make a Sulfur Recovery Unit. our Environmental Policy and sure that the community surrounded Approximately, 16% of the legal requirements as part of Management. by MCR is not affected by the noise refinery’s cost has been their contractual obligations. generated due to operations of utilized in this project. EMS training is also refinery. conducted at all stations in NOx (Oil Fired) NEQS Results which PARCO`s and Service An environmental project of rerouting PARCO 700 Provider`s staff attend the pipelines around Lake Manchar was undertaken at a 600 Ambient air monitoring at 1 Km and 2 training sessions. heavy cost to preserve the natural environment of this 500 Km distance around PARCO’s Midlake. mg/Nm3 400 Country Refinery is also done twice a 300 year by EPA certified third party 200 NFEH Award 2006 Ground water Sampling 100 monitoring NOx, SOx, CO and 0 Dec-06 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Dec-09 particulate matter. Month Monitoring is carried out by EPA aprroved 3rd party SOx NEQS* Results 6000 5000 4000 mg/Nm3 3000 2000 1000 NFEH Award 2007 0 Dec-06 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Dec-09 Month *The NEQS for SOx is 1700mg/Nm3 based on 1% sulfur contents in fuel. Above NEQS is prorated on the basis of sulfur contents in fuel . Monitoring is carried out by EPA aprroved 3rd party www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 9 of 12 ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment: PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Increasing HSE Awareness Environment Training Programs Other Environment Protection Initiatives Leadership and Performance Certificates and Excellence Awards Results PARCO infuses the core In designing and aligning its oil pipelines routes, environmental matters During the last one year, a total of 113 HSE training sessions were conducted which were attended by value of preserving the were addressed and the requirements of Pakistan Environmental 1,500 participants. 22 out of 133 HSE training sessions were conducted on Environment Management environment, even in its Protection Agency (EPA) fully complied with. No property on the World in which 375 participants participated. Three IMS training sessions on EMS 14001:2004 were also products. The company has Heritage List is impacted. conducted during last 12 months. recently installed a US$ 132 million Diesel Hydro Desulphurization (DHDS) Plant which is the latest among these endeavors. NFEH Award 2008 PARCO is now the only refinery in Pakistan with the capability of producing Euro II compliant low sulphur Diesel. NFEH Award 2009 Training Sessions in Progress Fire Drills are conducted regularly at all PARCO locations to increase preparedness in case of emergency. Specific measures were also taken to avoid disturbance to wildlife and vegetation. Even in choosing our main pipeline pumps, care was exercised to ensure that pump specifications conformed to the noise level of +/85db(A) to remain within environmentally safe limits. NFEH Award 2010 PARCO`s Diesel Hydro Desulphurization Plant PARCO placed among the Top 10 organizations for excellence in Environment Management Also see Lost Time data mentioned in Principle 1. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 10 of 12 ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment: PARCO makes all efforts to minimize the impact of its operations on environment by utilizing technologies that are environment friendly. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Diesel Hydro-Desulphurization Plant (DHDS) Effluent Treatment Plant Incident Reporting System Air Dispersion Modeling to produce Euro II Spec High Speed Diesel Results With commissioning of the DHDS plant at its Mid-Country PARCO Mid-Country Refinery uses an Environmental Monitoring software for PARCO`s Effluent Treatment Plant has a capacity of Electronic Incident Reporting System (IRS) has been implemented Refinery, PARCO now has the capability of producing High 3 in PARCO to facilitate employees in easy, user-friendly reporting. Atmospheric Dispersion Modeling. The software helps identify the theoretical 340m /hr. Waste water from the refinery is collected Speed Diesel conforming EURO II standards and is the only This IRS system has a standard operating procedure for Incident concentration of certain environmental pollutants like Sulfur Oxides and Nitrogen and through skimming, neutralization, dissolved air refinery in Pakistan to have achieved this capability. This Investigation of online reported near misses, accidents or injuries. Oxides released from the heater stacks in the refinery. MCR has developed an floatation, aeration, clarification, filtration and drying product will help EURO II compliant automobiles to integrated solution using the MAESTRO System developed by ATM-PRO in order to operations, the effluent water is brought within NEQs perform better by being fuel efficient and give low perform realistic impact assessment of industrial pollution. The solution consists of limits before discharge into local drainage or reuse for emissions. All impacts on the community, flora and fauna software called “MAESTRO W/D/P” that generates local meteorology taking into plants. identified in the Environmental Impact Assessment study account the topography and land use in the surroundings of the industry and a sample for the DHDS project had mitigation strategies which were set of pre-calculated data basis, providing one year of meteorological (3D) data fields implemented with meticulous care. and dispersion calculation of the sources within the company. PARCO Incident Reporting System A Panoramic view of DHDS Plant Effluent Treatment Plant www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 11 of 12 ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. Our Commitment: PARCO does not allow any form of corruption and monitors its business transactions with internal and external stakeholders to eliminate this malpractice. Management Systems All Corporate Functions Actions Corporate Governance Transactions with Suppliers, Contractors, Service Providers Elimination of Discrimination Results PARCO adopts international standards of accounting. In PARCO`s 37 years of operations there has been no instance of extortion or bribery. Elimination of discrimination during selection of Vendors/Contactors/Service Providers by check and balances against introduction of discriminatory conditions. Compliance with Statement of Ethics and Business Practices is pursued at all levels and Suppliers/Service providers are required to sign integrity pact with PARCO to declare that locations. the supplier/service provider has not used any external or internal influence, commission Pre-qualified Vendors/Contractors list is periodically updated through advertisements placed in or fee in getting the contract from PARCO. newspapers and evaluations based on predetermined criteria. Compliance with the Company’s Financial Authority Manual specifying fiscal limits for transactions at various levels and positions. Contracts/Supplies in excess of Rs 50 million are approved by a Bid Evaluation Committee of Board of Directors while contracts in excess of Rs 100 million are approved by the Board of Constitution of Company Procurement Policy is approved by Board of Directors. Directors. No discrimination is made on basis of gender, religion, caste, origin, etc., while hiring an Any form of extortion and bribery, given or taken, is a very serious misconduct according employee. HR policies are transparent and merit based where there are no influences or to the HR Policy of the company and the concerned employee is liable to be terminated pressures as mentioned in Principle 6. for such misconduct. PARCO has an Internal Audit Department which conducts periodical audits for procedural compliance and reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Constitution of separate committees for transparent and merit-based prequalification, All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of the quotations opening, tender opening, etc. Company. Development of Annual Procurement Plan and plans for contractual work and services by Compliance with regulations of the Security & Exchange Commission of Pakistan. external Service Providers which are pre-approved by the Company and subsequently monitored in monthly and quarterly management review meetings. Signing of UNGC Charter supporting UNGC`s Ten Principles and our CSR efforts are reported in the Company’s Annual Report for the year 2010. All contracts, business activities, operations, procurements, etc., are subject to Internal and External Audit. Purchase Orders are issued to technically compliant commercially lowest bidders for procurement under Rs 1 million. An Internal Evaluation Committee has been formed to evaluate proposals for orders of Rs 1 million and above. Centralized Procurement with due diligence and more than one step evaluation process for selection of Supplier/Service Provider. PARCO Materials Department is not allowed to commit any terms and conditions with any Supplier/Service Provider against any law of Pakistan. Payment to any Supplier/Service Provider/Contractor is made after proper inspection by the concerned Department and confirmation of acceptance by End User through signing of inspection report. MD PARCO signing the United Nations Global Compact Charter PARCO employees, if found involved in corruption in any form or contravening with any Company Policy on Ethics, Finance, Procurement, HR, Operations or any other function, face disciplinary action. Such deviations can lead to termination of service and are reflected in the employee`s performance appraisal. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP Page 12 of 12
