mission possible Sustainability update 2011 NET SALES 2010 (MILLION EURO) 9,980 key FACTS 2010 49 MILLION CHILDREN in 54 countries reached through school feeding programmes 8.5 billion Forest Stewardship CouncilTM labelled packages reached consumers ­ in 23 countries 74billion litres of product delivered in tetra pak packages NUMBER OF PACKAGES top 10 markets (billion) (billion packages) China, 34 Brazil, 11 USA & Canada, 8 Iberia, 8 98 111 129 141 158 Russia Area, 7 02 04 06 08 10 China, 34 Arabia, 7 Brazil, 11 Germany & Switzerland, 6 USA & Canada, 8 Mexico, 6 Iberia, 8 Japan, 6 Russia Area, 7 Thailand, 5 Arabia, 7 Germany & Switzerland, 6 Mexico, 6 Japan, 6 WORLD WIDE presence IN 2010 TYPE of Products packed (%) Liquid dairy products, 63% Juices & nectars, 19% Still drinks, 8% Markets covered, >170 Dairy alternatives, 4% Market & Sales offices, 119 Wine & spirits, 3% Plants, 43 Other products, 3% Research & Development units, 11 contents Our vision CEO letter 2 Our approach 4 Value chain 6 Environment Our strategy 8 Carbon reduction 10 Recycling 12 Innovation 14 Natural resources 16 People & society Our priority 18 Food for development 20 Our people 22 Community engagement 24 Governance Our responsibility 26 Supply chain 29 Ethical business practice 30 Report parameters How we report 32 21,800 employees www.tetrapak.com/SU2011 1 Our vision I CEO letter Step-change for sustainability Same purpose, new drivers backdrop to meeting that need today We’ve focused on enhancing the At Tetra Pak, everything we do is driven is very different. ­environmental profile of our business, by a simple promise: to protect what’s The world’s population is growing. our products and our services – from the good. By 2050 it will touch 9 billion, greatly design of processing and filling equipThat commitment relates not just to increasing the demand for food. That ment to the recycling of our cartons. ensuring the safety of the food we eat demand is being amplified by the rapid We’ve collaborated closely with WWF and drink. It’s also about minimising our growth of the middle classes in emergand Forest Stewardship Council to seimpact on the environment; helping our ing economies, putting more strain on cure sustainable supplies of paperboard customers worldwide to build their businatural resources like land, energy and and promote responsible forestry. nesses; ensuring a robust, reliable and water. And this is all taking place at a And we’ve set ourselves tough far-reaching food supply; and improvtime when we must urgently address environmental targets. In 2005, for ing the health and lifestyles of people the issue of climate change. example, as a member of WWF Climate across the globe. That is why at Tetra Pak we’re focusSavers, we pledged to cut our absolute We have been doing this since 1952, ing our skills and our know-how on carbon emissions by 10% within five by offering market-leading packaging addressing this rising and widening years. We succeeded – reducing emisand processing solutions. During those demand for safe and nutritious food in sions by 13%, despite a 23% increase 60 years, the need for safe and reliable a sustainable, responsible way. in sales. food hasn’t changed. But the global Since 2004, we’ve been a signatory to Sound foundations the United Nations Global Compact, and In doing so, we’re building on a wellwe continue to embed its 10 principles established legacy of good corporate on environment, labour, anti-corruption citizenship and responsible industry and human rights across our operations, leadership that dates back as far as the as we report here in our Communication company itself. on Progress. Through our core business, Through six decades we have worked and the activities of our Food for Declosely with local entrepreneurs to supvelopment Office, we’re also helping to port the creation of food processing and meet the UN Millennium Development packaging businesses around the world. Goals to reduce poverty, and improve We’ve helped establish school feeding health, education and gender equality programmes that now benefit some worldwide. Tetra Pak is a signatory to UN Global Compact since 2004 49 million children in more than 50 and endorse the 10 principles. countries. 2 Our vision I CEO letter “Our new 2020 strategy is about continuity but it’s also about transformation” A step change in 2011 But we know we need to do more. So from 2011, we will step up our efforts to improve operational performance and reduce our environmental footprint right along the value chain. Our 2020 strategy, introduced earlier this year, puts our environmental ambitions at the heart of our business. It is a strategy focused on continuity – doing what we do well and building on our achievements – but it’s also about transformation. We recognise the need to grow in all markets, to accelerate innovation, to enhance our operational performance, achieve environmental excellence, develop our people and build our reputation. My role is to set the goals and create the mindset that will make this happen. At that point, our success is down to the creativity and the commitment of Tetra Pak people. Working together We can’t do it alone. To drive positive change along the value chain, we must continue to build on our strong partnerships with customers, suppliers, governments and non-governmental organisations. With these relationships in place, I’m confident that we can achieve our business growth ambitions in a way that fully reflects our promise: to protect what’s good, both inside and outside the carton. Dennis Jönsson, President & CEO Tetra Pak 3 Our vision I Our approach Mission possible Understanding the trends and drivers affecting our industry is essential to running our own business successfully. Increasingly, sustainability is one of those drivers. PROTECTS WHAT’S GOOD. That is Integrated value chain pacts – as well as helping our customers our promise, and the guiding principle Around the world, population growth, reduce theirs. We’re also creating benefit behind all that we do. As the world’s increasing incomes, and climate change for society by supporting wider developleading provider of food processing are putting ever-more pressure on ment goals as defined by the UN. and packaging solutions, we live our natural resources. Concerns are rising; vision – to make food safe and available, and companies are increasingly being Destination 2020 ­everywhere – every single day. That held accountable for the impact of their At Tetra Pak, we have pledged to grow vision hasn’t wavered, but the way we products and their operations on the our business in a way that’s environmake it happen is evolving. environment. mentally, socially and economically Linked to this, public scrutiny of large responsible. We are committed to supcorporations is becoming more intense, porting and promoting the 10 principles not just in relation to environmental of the UN Global Compact, addressing performance, but also with regard to human rights, labour standards, the labour practices, human rights and their environment and anti-corruption. contribution to society as a whole. Towards the end of 2009, the global 9 Global As a result, our customers are driving dairy industry signed the Global Dairy transparency, traceability, ethical busiAgenda for Action, an initiative to tackle ­drivers ness practices, and operational efficienclimate change and continually improve These 2020 megatrends are shapcies right through the value chain. the sustainability of milk supply around ing our industry, driving innovation We believe that only companies that the world through greater cooperation. and a step-change in sustainability: embrace these challenges proactively, We are playing an active part. In the 1. Growing population and turn them into opportunities, will spirit of this pledge, we’ve committed (1.3 billion more consumers) be competitive in the future. We’ve reto reduce emissions, improve energy, 2. BRIC* countries among the sponded by developing more renewable transport and resource efficiency, top 10 economies 3. Resources: water scarcity packaging and leaner food processing and minimise loss of milk and milk and ­forest depletion and filling solutions. We’re increasing products. 4. Globalisation/migration efficiency and reducing operational imReach 5. A geing population (+60 year-olds to triple) 6. Technology: 100% ‘green’ consumers 7. Stricter environmental ­­ legis­lation and taxes 8. Emerging middle class 9. Urbanisation * Brazil, Russia, India, China in more than 170 countries 4 Our vision I Our approach Specifically, by 2020, we will ensure that greenhouse gas emissions across our value chain are no higher than they were in 2010, despite a significant increase in our business. We will also double the global recycling rate for our cartons. We’re putting the roadmaps, budgets and targets in place now to make sure this happens. Adding Value Millennium As well as driving our own goals in these ­Development Goals areas, we’re also helping our customers The UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are a set achieve theirs. of shared objectives, agreed by world leaders, which aim Reducing operational impact: as a leading supplier to end poverty and hunger, widen access to education, of food processing and packaging solutions our techniimprove health, and promote environmental sustainabilcal know-how and equipment innovations support our ity, through global partnership, by 2015. At Tetra Pak, we’re strongly committed to doing our bit customers’ efforts to reduce costs and increase environto make this happen. Through our core business and FfD mental efficiency in their operations. we contribute directly to six of these goals and, indirectly, Packaging from sustainable sources: towards our to all eight. goal of the totally renewable package, we’re committed to securing a sustainable supply of paperboard for our cartons through Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™) certification. We’re also working on the ­development of plant-based polyethylene closures, helping stimulate demand for renewable plastics in the supply chain. Sustainable nutrition for emerging communities: our pioneering Food for Development (FfD) programmes give us broad experience in integrated value chain partnerships. With our customers, we’re building on this to develop new business models that tackle nutritional challenges at the base of the economic pyramid. Customer scorecard In our Customer Satisfaction Survey 2010, our environmental rating hit an all-time high, five points above 2009. That’s something we want to continue, and the survey Read more about Tetra Pak and the MDGs on the back points the way. Customer and post-consumer waste cover of this report. collection and improving recycling were mentioned as areas where we can do more, along with greater energy, water, and waste efficiency in our food processing and filling equipment. We can also do a better job of explaining the sustainability upside of carton packaging. 5 ISO 1 Avsnitt Our vision I Value chain AI PE CEN 134 28 CEN 134 4001 28 ISO 1 ISO 1 AI PE PE 4001 4001 AI THE TETRA PAK value chain reaction The power to create positive social, environmental and economic impacts is multiplied when you work hand-in-hand with partners along the value chain. 2. Food production Together with DeLaval, our customers and others, we’re helping develop local milk production, like in Pakistan and Bangladesh. We’re also involved in the dairy industry’s initiative to tackle climate change. CEN CEN 134 134 CEN 28 28 134 28 ISO 1 ISO 1 AI PE AI PE PE 4001 400I1SO 14 AI 1. ­Supply 3. our manufacturing With suppliers, we’re committed to sourcing paperboard For maximum efficiency and minimum waste in ­production, certified by the FSC aiming for 50% by 2012. We’re also we’re using World Class Manufacturing. We’ve achieved an involved in an industry initiative for responsible sourcing, absolute reduction in carbon ­emissions of 13% since 2005 production, use and recycling of aluminium, and we’re and have set a 2020 climate target extending across our working on renewable polyethylene closures. value chain. 6 Our vision I Value chain CEN 134 28 PE AI PE AI NEC 31 824 SI EP IA CEN 134 28 5. Customer food processing and ISO filling 140 8. Recycling EP IA 01 Our solutions not only ensure food safety and high nutritional We aim to double the global carton recycling rate content, they also help customers maximise water and energy from 20% in 2010 to 40% by 2020. We’re working with efficiency, and minimise waste. stakeholders and supporting technologies to boost sustainable and economical recycling. 4. Transport and distribution 7. Raising consumer We track greenhouse gas emissions for outbound shipments of packaging awareness material and minimise them by avoiding air transport, using rail where posWe’re supporting activities to raise environmental sible and consolidating shipments. awareness of how we can all help increase recycling. We combine these initiatives with school feeding programmes that provide nutrition and develop good eating habits. 6. Cooperation with ­Customers and Retailers With customers, we’re finding ways to make nutritious food ­affordable to those on low incomes. And through industry organisations, we’re working with retailers and customers to encourage greater recycling. 7 Environment I Our strategy At Tetra Pak, ongoing focus on the environment means tackling our footprint right across the value chain, innovating for more ­sustainable products and INCREASING recycling rates 8 Environment I Our strategy Doing more with less Developing high-value solutions with low environmental impact makes good business sense. It will boost our competitiveness in a world of rising population, cost pressures and growing strain on natural resources Aiming high A giant step We see 2020 as a milestone, not an Driving environmental excellence is Taking the long view is one of our core endpoint, in our drive for environmena strategic priority for us. This means values. Our environmental strategy to tal excellence – but it’s one important strong commitment to ambitious 2020 sets out a step-change in performstep on the way to a fully sustainable ­environmental programmes with an ance, coupling innovation in high-value food chain. end vision of fully sustainable packagsolutions with a significant reduction in ing, using only renewable materials, our environmental impact. leaving a minimal environmental footprint and zero waste. That is a big ambition. But we have a Our environmental strategy One of our key ambitions is to offer solid foundation to build on. has three main thrusts: sustainable packaging made entirely from renewable materials. ReplacGood groundwork 1. Reduce environmental footing aluminium foil, for example, will print across the value chain significantly lower the carbon footprint For over 20 years we’ve used methods As well as sustainable sourcing and of aseptic cartons. Finding an effective like Design for Environment and Lifereducing our operational impacts, we alternative oxygen barrier – essential to cycle Assessment to help us understand will help customers minimise water aseptic packaging – is our big technical our environmental impacts. This helps use, energy consumption and waste challenge. generated during food processing and us improve how packages are made, packaging. 3. Increase recycling used, transported and disposed of, and By decoupling business growth Improving the recycling of used evaluate the sustainability of new solufrom climate impact, we will meet our packages is especially important. We tions to food processing. challenging 2020 climate goal (see have a long track record of engaging page 10). local communities to make recycling a We manage our impacts with care, reality around the world, and our new we consult widely, and we partner 2. Develop sustainable recycling goal (see page 13) takes this with ­organisations like the World ­products to another level. To deliver better value with lower Meeting it will be a challenge, with Resources Institute, the Forest Stewardimpact, we’re preparing a sustainability continued growth and rising volumes, ship C ­ ouncil and WWF to inform our roadmap for our product portfolio. but by really stepping up innovative decision-making. Tough target-setting and innovation solutions, we know we can get there. will drive improvements. 9 Environment I Carbon reduction 60 Expanding growth, not emissions billion more Our new climate goal means working with suppliers and packages customers to cap greenhouse gas emissions at 2010 levels were delivered in by 2020 right along the value chain. 2010 than in 2002 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The good news: by 2020, we expect our year, to highlight opportunities for CO2 eq in operations sales to increase by more than 60%. The efficiency gains and reduced power (thousand tonnes) better news: our greenhouse gas emisuse. Both shortand long-term energy sions won’t exceed today’s level. savings are targeted, and we will share lessons across the organisation. Peak performance A key focus is the process of convertCombating climate change is something ing paperboard, aluminium foil, and we take seriously. Since 2005, we’ve polymers into packaging material, 378 368 350 348 343 achieved an absolute reduction in operasince packaging material production 06 07 08 09 10 tional greenhouse gas emissions of 13%, currently accounts for 78% of our operawhile growing 23%. By applying energy tional greenhouse gas emissions. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS efficiency measures across our operaAnother is controlling heat in laminaby function, 2010 tions, and using the resulting savings tors, which consumes in the region of (%) to purchase WWF-approved renewable 70–80% of the electric power used in a electricity and Gold Standard Renewconverting line. able Energy Certificates, we’ve exceeded A pre-study targeted at improving the the 10% emissions reduction target set efficiency of laminator motor drives by in 2005 with WWF Climate Savers. 15% is already underway. Lose to gain External energy experts are already Carton packaging material ­auditing several of our factories each production, 78% Closures, straws, strips and film production, 16% Processing equipment and packaging machines production, 2% Support services, 2% Market companies, 2% 10 Environment I Carbon reduction since 2005 we have cut absolute greenhouse gas emissions by Total commitment 13% Value for customers is a priority, and we can help reduce their emissions by stepping up carbon-lean innovations in packaging, food processing, and filling equipment (see page 15). Through smarter coordination and optimisation of equipment we can help customers’ operations be more efficient. We’re working with suppliers too. Suppliers of our base materials must report on their carbon footprint and commit to continuous improvement. ­Initiatives to measure travel emissions are also in place. Greenhouse gas Managing and measuring emissions from outbound shipments We use the World Class Manufacturing (WCM) system to manage every aspect are monitored through a centralised of production, including environment. WCM helps us reduce waste, cut impacts system, Logistics Control Tower. and minimise cost. For instance, we’ve identified a potential 5–7% net saving if we can eliminate start-up waste from new packaging material runs in our factoIt’s about making it all add up: ries. Best practices to increase efficiency and cut impacts are collected centrally ­efficiency plus innovation equals growth and shared across our factories. plus lower emissions. Every year each production plant reports on agreed environmental measures such as chemicals use and water consumption, as well as emissions and waste. Energy consumption figures are compiled quarterly. To better monitor impact along the value chain, we’re starting to integrate environmental information on equipment manufacturing, spare parts, logistics, travel, and building design into a coordinated database. We have already established environmental assessment as part of the travel supplier sourcing process. Tetra Laval’s Travel and Transport team provides information on the environmental performance of travel suppliers and works with them to help improve their performance. By 2010 56 of our 63 factories had been certified to ISO 14001. Certification for new and remaining plants is currently in progress. Our emission reports are audited by Ecofys. We report our emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project Supply Chain for the benefit of our customers. 11 Environment I Recycling 32BILLION TETRA PAK CARTONS RECYCLED IN 2010 Paper dragon China is well known for impressive ­economic growth. Now, high carton sales are translating into booming recycling rates and volumes of recycled material, too. With limited local waste management regulation, continued growth relies on facilitating sorting and collection. So we’re building a more effective network by linking small-scale collectors to government-supported collection companies, working with non-governmental organisations and customers to raise awareness of the importance of recycling cartons, and investing in technologies that boost its economic benefits. The result? Recycling rates for our cartons in China rose from zero in 2002 to nearly 13% in 2010. Squaring the Visitors to the 2010 Shanghai Expo experienced the lifecycle of a Tetra Pak circle for cartons carton through on-site collection and an A new plant in Barcelona is reusing cartons in a way that’s both climate-smart exhibition of products made from recyand economically smart. cled cartons. Jointly sponsored with the Our cartons are based on paper with layers of polymers and aluminium foil. Expo Coordination Bureau and a l­ocal Barcelona’s new Stora Enso poly-al recycling plant is the first in Europe newspaper, this campaign attracted to apply pyrolysis to separated polylaminate to evaporate the plastic layer and some 728,000 people and collected over separate the aluminium. The evaporated gas by-product is used to ­generate 10 million 250 ml cartons. electricity and steam – meeting 10% of the plant’s energy needs Partnering with local recyclers, we’re – and the resulting high-grade aluminium is reused. also supporting the development and The plant recovers fibre from 60,000 tonnes of used beverage cartons, testing of a method of delamination, and will recover about 9,000 tonnes of polylaminates, annually. launched in 2009. By separating the raw Tetra Pak contributed expertise and technical assistance, and will help materials in cartons, the value of recycled with supply of recycling material. materials is increased by nearly a third. Another recycling plant applying pyrolysis technology is in operation in Brazil. 12 Environment I Recycling Slim waSTE Doubling our recycling rates globally by 2020 means investing in technology and in partnerships with local communities. Six steps to Foot to the floor A key challenge is to aggressively higher rates Smarter solutions for carton recycling promote sustainable and economical Our efforts to promote recycling are designed to make an impact at are part of expanding our business and recycling methods that reduce collection every step of our carton’s lifecycle, protecting our brand. costs and generate higher commodity from design to manufacture, use For reasons of food safety and package value. and recovery. stiffness, Tetra Pak cartons are made In Europe, some regulated and man1. D esign for Environment from virgin paperboard. After use, that dated take-back schemes are already for Recyclability paperboard can be recycled into paper achieving 65% recycling rates. In China, 2. Participate in industry-based products like packaging and tissue ­paper, Vietnam, India and Brazil, we form ­recycling organisations and the plastic and aluminium ­lining partnerships to develop community 3. E ngage consumers can be recovered to make composite recycling infrastructure, improve safety 4. Support recycling t­ echnologies products like roof tiles, or converted into and find commodity buyers for waste 5. Influence public policy paraffinic oils and ­aluminium powders collectors. As a result, the number of 6. B uild public/private ­partnerships for industrial use. cartons ­recycled around the world has We want to double the global recycling grown from 10 to 32 billion in 10 years. rate of our cartons – from 20% in 2010 to Our global 2020 target means doubling 40% by 2020. Our experience in China recycling rates, and tripling the number GLOBAL RECYCLING RATE tetra pak packages proves it can be done, even in markets of cartons recycled, based on our esti(%) lacking legislation: national recycling mated growth rate. rates for our cartons leapt from zero in Our country managers are absolutely 2002 to nearly 13% in 2010. key in realising this goal: it’s up to our local companies to find the most effective Communal effort approach for their respective markets. Beyond designing for greater recyTo drive progress, recycling rates and 14.6 16.0 16.3 18.1 20.1 clability, we promote recycling in greenhouse gas targets now make up 8% 02 04 06 08 10 several ways. These include investing of our managers’ annual performance in technologies that boost the economic evaluation. number of recycled return, and working with partners to tetra pak packages raise consumer awareness and set up (billion) collection. 14.3 17.7 20.8 25.6 31.8 02 04 06 08 10 13 Environment I Innovation Thinking Tear ahead of the Pack along dotted line From the day the revolutionary Tetra Pak carton Tetra Evero Aseptic is convenient package first took shape, it set a benchmark for to hold, store, pour and recycle. ongoing innovation that’s part of our DNA today. In 2012 we plan to launch a new version with a function to quickly separate the polymer top from the Our focus is on efficient cuswell as minimising waste. By driving FSC-certified ­paperboard sleeve. tomer solutions that deliver environmental i­ nnovation and applying This is useful where plastic and paperboard are ­sorted separately. high functionality, reduce opour sustainability know-how, we intend It also makes it ­easier to flatten erational costs, and minimise to differentiate ourselves from competithe package, saving space in the environmental impact. Key tors and remain a unique partner to our kitchen. During 2011, we’re customer concerns include use customers in the long term. offering the option of a of energy, water and chemicals, as renewable polymer (highdensity polyethylene) top to our customers. Sweet dreams are made of this From a Brazilian sugar cane plantation to your lips. As part of our move toward fully renewable packaging, we will produce closures containing plant-based plastic for selected cartons for the first time in 2011. As our cartons are primarily paperboard they are already 73% renewable on average. The addition of polymers closures made from plants boosts this even more. Early research shows that producing plant-based plastics – from growing the sugar cane to manufacturing the material – has a lower carbon footprint than conventional fossil fuel-based polymers. The Better Sugarcane Initiative is piloting a standard for responsible sugar cane production, management and processing and we will encourage green polymer suppliers to apply it. Our aim is to have closures made from renewable feedstock across our full packaging range. How quickly this happens will depend on customer uptake and the availability of polymers from renewable sources, which is currently limited. Closures aren’t the endgame, just another big step on the road toward our aim of offering 100% renewable cartons. 14 Environment I Innovation Streamlined food processing and packaging Improving performance and minimispower consumption of customers’ ing waste are top priorities for customfilling lines by up to 50%. To reach ers to control cost and environmental this reduction level we’re researching impact. Our innovations need to alternative technologies that will also deliver this. reduce chemical use in the sterilisation It’s a long-term trend: our most process. energy-efficient filling equipment uses less than a third of the energy of Water recovery standard lines from the mid-1990s and Recovery and reuse minimise water since 2000, we’ve halved the ­water consumption of filling machines. consumption. We provide closed ­cooling water systems for our processPune Leeds ing equipment, as well as solutions the way One-step UHT to recover water and valuable milk Designing new converting factories to optiIn 2010, we launched OneStep components. mise efficiency and minimise waste tackles technology for Ultra High Temperathe biggest greenhouse gas challenge in ture (UHT) milk production. OneStep Mixing it up our operations – efficient manufacture of combines heat treatment, separation, Our TetraPlant Master automapackaging material. and standardisation, enabling customtion platform is used in customers’ Our €100 million, state-of-the-art plant ers to reduce energy consumption ­f actories for controlling and optimisin Chakan, near Pune, India, is due to open and lower their carbon footprint by ing activities like recipe handling and in late 2012. To conserve energy, we’re about 40%. Water use is cut by up to juice and vitamin mixing. To help installing the most efficient electrical fit60% and effluent load by 40%, thanks customers manage their environmentings. A building management service with to reduced product losses. Operating tal performance, we’re broadening occupancy sensors will monitor and manage costs are halved compared to convenits scope. In 2010, an environmental heating, ventilation and air conditioning and tional UHT production. report module was launched that an innovative vapour absorption machine tracks key performance indicators like Sterilisation yields fruit will capture heat from generators to enhance energy consumption and greenhouse Through a radically different approach cooling capacity. Glass roofing will keep gas emissions against target values, to sterilisation, we can reduce the artificial lighting to a minimum. Combined highlighting areas for improvement. with solar power, this will reduce nonmanufacturing energy use by 30%. Energy efficiency is just one aspect. ­Rainwater harvesting and water-efficient fixtures will reduce water consumption by 30%. Landscaping will feature over 2,000 native plants and includes keeping 15% of the site untouched. Our ambition is to certify the Chakan factory to Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold level. LEED is an internationally recognised green building rating and certification system. 15 Environment I Natural resources Seeing the wood for the trees Our core business relies on healthy forests, and we have a stake in ­sustaining them. As one of the world’s largest paperboard purchasers, our buying power can make a difference to how natural resources are managed. FORESTRY traceability A natural advantage In 2010 28% of the (%) Managing forests responsibly is essenpaperboard we 100% 3 1 1 tial for the well-being of society. Forests purchased was FSC 20 13 13 24 17 3 provide jobs, clean water, fresh air, and certified. We’ve set an help combat climate change. They are interim target of 50% home to almost 80% of land-based plant in 2012, another step and animal biodiversity. on the way to our ulti76 77 80 86 86 They’re also necessary to our compamate aim of 100%. 06 07 08 09 10 ny, to guarantee future pulp supply for In addition, we are part of a joint EU Step 3T – FSC CoC our carton packages. About 5% of global industry commitment to ensure suppliStep 2T – PEFC CoC pulp production is used for paperboard, ers around the world are c­ ertified for Step 1 – known and legal with annual demand set to increase CoC by 2015, and our global operaapproximately 2% to 2025. We purchase tions by 2018. By late 2010, 99% of our FSC: Forest Stewardship Council two million tons of paperboard every paperboard came from such suppliers. PEFC: Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes year from suppliers based in Scandina­Regarding our own operations, 85 CoC: Chain of Custody via, the US, Brazil, and Russia, who in of our 199 markets and 22 of our 36 turn source wood from about 20 differfactories were FSC CoC certified by late ent countries. 2010. To maintain our certification, Around three quarters of Tetra Pak sites are audited yearly by independent accredited certifiers and our operations Water-wise packaging is made from renewable sources. It’s our goal to continually are audited by the Rainforest Alliance. A growing concern for society increase this percentage on the way In using natural resources, we strive is water. The paper industry is a to entirely renewable packaging – for to balance environmental, social and ­significant water user, and it’s imporexample by replacing fossil-fuel based economic concerns and these expectatant in our food industry ­customers’ operations. With them, we are plastic caps with renewable polymers. tions are outlined for suppliers in our ­exploring closed-loop systems Forestry Guideline. We also strengthen in dairy processing. Through the Two-tiered approach responsible stewardship by financing ­Alliance for Beverage Cartons, we’re We source from forests that are intraining for small forestry owners on helping develop an industry-wide dependently certified to comply with the importance of certification. methodology to measure our water footprint. Tetra Pak will have a water responsible forest practices and look for Responsible forest management policy in place by year-end 2011. full traceability of paperboard through ­benefits us all – and future generations the supply chain. We do this through the will thank us for it. FSC forestry management and Chain of ­Custody (CoC) certification schemes. 16 Environment I Natural resources Labels count influencing responsible forestry practices Sourcing responsibly by choosing renewable Our long-term goal is to offer all our customers the raw materials is important to us. Certified option to use the FSC label. Since FSC-certified forests forest products are a key part of this. represent only about 6% of the world’s productive The FSC scheme is the most stringent forests, short supply is the biggest hurdle. standard for responsible forest management We will continue increasing supply by urging forest on a global scale. Present in 50 countries, it smallholders to certify, and at the same time stimulate enjoys wide support – thanks to its robust methodology, market demand by encouraging our customers to carry inclusive processes and credible third party certificathe FSC label. tion. Its aim: environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial and economically viable forest management. We contribute to the FSC multi-stakeholder process as an elected member of its International Board of Directors, alongside eight other stakeholder representatives including WWF. Our target for our customers is to deliver 16 billion packages carrying the FSC label during 2011. This represents 10% of our total packaging and almost double the 8.5 billion delivered in 2010. 8.5 BILLION FSC-LABELLED CARTONS REACHED CONSUMERS IN 2010 17 People & society I Our priority Tetra Pak cares about ­people and their livelihoods About health, wellness and nutrition, About investing in our people And building a strong value chain to make food safe and available, everywhere 18 People & society I Our priority Better Access to Healthy Food With concern about food security and wellness on the rise, the need for sustainable solutions for safe and healthy food has never been greater. New markets, new challenges We also work with governments to Our people, our community Our core business is about improving lift food hygiene standards and raise The development, health and safety access to safe food for the world’s growawareness of the dangers of raw milk of our employees is just as important. ing population. – through women’s seminars in Egypt, Every Tetra Pak facility has procedures In emerging markets, this presents for example. As well as building our in place to implement our safe worknew challenges – how to estabbusiness, these efforts address many of places commitment. We maintain sound lish a strong food value chain, the UN Millennium Development Goals labour practices, respect human rights, reach those at the base of (MDGs). and work with suppliers to ensure they the ­economic pyramid, and uphold equally high standards. ensure foods are appropriHealth and safety Number One We take an active role in the comate and available in remote For all consumers, trusting that the food munity wherever we operate around communities. they buy is safe and good for them is the world. Our support in emergency With customers ­essential. Interest in wellness is growsituations and FfD activities are about and other partners, ing, making transparency in the food sharing what we do best – making food we’re finding effective supply chain an important indicator of available safely and efficiently where it’s solutions to fulfil the safety and way to stand out in the marneeded most (see page 24). right to food. Our Food ket for retailers and customers. for ­Development (FfD) Our traceability methodology allows 49 experience can help make customers to continuously monitor nutritious food affordproducts to assure safety and quality. able to those on low Aurora Coopercentral in Brazil apply MILLION incomes. And in it to their newly launched Ultra High CHILDREN Pakistan, our Dairy Temperature(UHT) milk product. Hubs programme is A unique printed code on each package REACHED THROUGH SCHOOL successfully buildand distribution unit allows retailers ing a viable local dairy and consumers to access information on industry (see page 21). product origin via an internet portal. ­FEEDING PROGRAMMES 19 People & society I Food for Development The Power of Partnership Partnership is the most powerful tool for sustainable economic development. No one group can solve challenges like poverty and hunger, but working with others, we’re making a difference. Cow to consumer capacity building, safe and efficient We’re also exploring new, non-dairy At Tetra Pak and our sister company processing, and market development products based on local crops in DeLaval, we have in-depth knowledge are all part of creating a viable dairy ­Guyana, Colombia and other countries, and experience of the whole dairy value value chain. The FfD office is supporting and working with partners to develop chain – from cow to consumer. the launch of Dairy Hubs in Bangladesh, fortified products for severely malnourOur FfD office applies this experand interest exists in several other ished children. tise, in cooperation with others, to countries in developing and growing As well as customers and governhelp develop a country’s dairy sector, local milk production. ments, our partners include UN agenlaunching agriculture and school milk cies, donors, and non-governmental programmes to improve nutrition and Feeding young minds organisations including GAIN, GCNF, strengthen the food value chain. In over 50 countries, we are actively INCAP, USAID and WFP. Creating sustainable value starts involved in school feeding programmes By seeing the value chain as a whole, with meeting local needs. FfD partnerthat, together, benefit some 49 million these innovative partnerships tackle the ships bring vital financing, training, children – over half in developing MDGs by fighting poverty and malnutritechnology and marketing know-how economies. Supplying milk and nutrition, and promoting universal educawhere it’s needed. tious foods to schools improves health tion. They also strengthen food security Pakistan’s Dairy Hubs, a model develand learning outcomes and boosts live– and that’s good for all of us. oped by Tetra Pak in response to past lihoods by creating demand for locally food crises, showcase how agricultural produced, high quality food. • GAIN – Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition • GCNF – Global Child Nutrition ­Foundation • INCAP – Nutrition Institute of SCHOOL Central America and Panama NUTRITION ­ • USAID – United States Agency for International Development PROGRAMMES • WFP – the UN’s World Food ­Programme DELIVER MANY BENEFITS • Promote school a­ ttendance • Improve child health • Improve academic results • Support development of ­local agriculture • Create jobs through the value chain • Develop the private sector • Help build commercial ­markets 20 People & society I Food for Development An appetite for learning Good learning starts with good nutrition. Around the world, school feeding programmes in China, Japan, Mexico, Kenya, Thailand and Ukraine, to mention a few, are improving educational outcomes. As well as delivering health and educational benefits, these programmes are a catalyst for economic growth, technology transfer and job creation. From Bosnia to Uruguay, new pilots are also under way. Beyond milk, were working with customers to stimulate demand for local produce that appeals to local tastes by creating innovative beverages from fruit, maize, soybeans, rice, peas, and cassava. Guyana Passion fruit, cherry juice, and biscuits are on the menu for over 51,000 nursery and primary students thanks to the Guyana Ministry of Education National School Feeding Programme and World Bank ­Education for All Fast Track Initiative. Throughout 2010, locally grown fruit supplied juice for 596 schools, increasing attendance, improving nutrition, and creating fruit-farming jobs. We ­support the local customer in juice production, packaging and quality control. Iran Initiated in 2001, the state-funded Iranian school milk programme is one of the world’s largest, covering over 13 million students. Some 330 million portions of UHT milk were distributed during the 2010–2011 school year. We have partnered with WFP on school educational activities, and in 2009, a UHT school milk package collection and recycling programme was initiated at 120 elementary schools in Tehran. Kenya One of Africa’s biggest milk-producing nations, Kenya has run school milk initiatives since the 1970s. In 2008 a new, parent-pay school milk programme – Pacoh – was launched through a partnership between us, the Kenya Dairy Board and New Kenya Co-operative Creameries. White goods smallholder farmers from 20 villages in a 15–20 km radius. Village milk collection This success was recognised in October 2010 at the Asian CSR Awards, where In June 2009, Engro Foods, in partnership points were set up by the milk processing Tetra Pak Pakistan won the Excellence with Tetra Pak Pakistan, set up the Kasowal company. Emphasis is on breed, feed, Award in the Poverty Alleviation category. community ‘Dairy Hub’ in Pakistan as animal diseases and farm management More hubs are now being rolled out part of a ‘cow to consumer’ value chain skills. The aim: value chain efficiency. across Pakistan. approach. By late 2009, three more hubs had The third largest milk producer in the been set up by Nestlé Pakistan at Mian Scaling up world, Pakistan has some 50 million cows Channu, and another is underway at Our FfD office supports export of the and an annual milk production of around Chuchak (Okara) by Haleeb Foods. The model to other countries and approaches 36 billion litres. Dairy contributes 11% results are impressive. In one year, the potential donors for technical assistance of GDP. Yet yield is typically low, quality Engro Dairy Hub saw milk collection rise to train dairy hub employees. ­varies, and opportunities to run a profitfrom 400 to 8,500 litres per day. Across The concept has already been taken able dairy farming business are limited. all the dairy hubs, animal mortality was up in Bangladesh, where the first dairy reduced, 4,600 animals were vaccinated hub has seen milk collection increase from A herd of hundreds against various diseases and some 27,000 6,000 to 17,000 litres per day. The ambiBased on a one-herd concept, the farmers received training. tion is to have 60 dairy hubs operating Kasowal Dairy Hub groups together 800 there by 2020. 21 People & society I Our people Change agents 100,000 We invest in creating flexible, innovative, and motivated teams. This helps us stay ahead of customer needs in a fast-paced ­business environment. Days set aside annually for People front and centre ing of our environmental impacts, to eMployee Creating a culture of change, individual empower people to deliver the environresponsibility, and raising the bar on mental strategy. TRAINING performance will help us realise our To stay close to customers and each 2020 strategy. Investing in our people is function, much of our organisation is central to this. decentralised, and most competence About 100,000 days are set aside training is conducted at regional level, every year for employee training – an as are management of labour relations average of 4.5 days per person. We and health and safety. have mapped a competence profile for every job against its role in achieving Darwin was right our strategy, supported by learning Being responsive to change best equips catalogues of formal and informal us for future challenges. To kick-start training. change management capabilities in We focus on cross-functional, 2010, 100 managers representing differcompany-wide competence areas ent regions and functions took part in such as customer understanding, a four-day training programme. These quality, leadership and project graduates now use a company-wide management. We also aim to methodology, toolbox, and workshops deepen employee understandto effectively support change initiatives in their respective market organisations. World class best practice, and survey response rates are higher – 92% in 2010. Employees are our most important Over 90% of feedback was positive. asset. Our Employee Engagement A majority see Tetra Pak as an envisurvey rates the experience of working ronmentally responsible company, at Tetra Pak across 10 dimensions – exceeding the industry benchmark including diversity, leadership, and by 8%. engagement. Based on this feedback, global and Since 2008, our annual survey has local action plans are addressing areas been benchmarked with other compafor improvement. These include the nies in the global manufacturing indusneed for better teamwork and working try. Results show we exceed industry relations. 22 People & society I Our people Many voices, shared values As a company we’re decentralised, but our 21,800 employees are united by strong core values, shared performance indicators, global processes and a common leadership approach. Virtually all employees have performance and development plans, and their performance is measured through a company-wide review process. Goals and development plans are jointly defined between each employee and their manager and are cascaded down from company business scorecards. Financial incentives are offered for reaching certain goals, including environmental targets like recycling. We promote an inclusive approach safety net and we value employee insight. Our Every Tetra Pak facility has procedures in place to deliver on our commitment annual employee engagement survey to creating safe workplaces. Our approach builds on local laws and the diverse nature of each business operation. For instance, factories focus especially on (see box opposite) shapes our way of ­ergonomics, noise, and risks connected to machinery handling, while Occupaworking. tional Health and Safety initiatives in offices and factories address well-being Along with many manufacturing and risks relating to ergonomics and stress. companies, we face the challenge of increasing diversity. In 2010, 6.7% of senior management were women and 22% had non-European backgrounds. Management development processes are designed to raise this further. manager Employee age ­distribution (%) 2008 2010 (%) 30 and below 19.7 16.8 100% 31–40 34.6 37.8 41–50 28.7 29.0 51–60 14.9 14.3 61 and above 2.2 2.1 8.3 6.7 19.5 20.1 23.5 31.2 21.0 08 10 08 10 Female managers Non European top managers Female top managers 23 People & society I Community engagement being there when it counts With logistics systems and partnerships in place, we have an ­important contribution to make when communities need it most. Sustaining life Core strengths 3. S trong relationships with customIn emergencies, when infrastructure Three things help us make a real ers and others in the value chain. In fails and people are cut off from access ­difference: many cases, such as in Brazil, Haiti, to basic necessities, medicine, food and 1. L ong-standing engagement in the and Japan, we pooled resources to water are top priorities. Safe supplies local communities in which we opermultiply the impact. that don’t need cooling are essential. ate. Funding is allocated at executive With operations in every corner of the level, but support is organised on Building community world, it’s likely either we or our partthe ground. The Tetra Laval Board First, we look to our own value chain ners are already close to the scene, ­decides and facilitates support to provide in-kind donations. When with the logistics and supply in place quickly and effectively in disaster needs extend beyond supplying safe to respond rapidly. Through the Tetra situations. food and water, we support rebuilding Laval Board, we have a tradition of 2. E xperience generated from FfD proof infrastructure, such as schools and ­facilitating the distribution of cartons grammes, which provide insight into health clinics. The specifics of each enof water and food in emergencies. relief logistics and existing partnergagement depend on the event – what’s In the past two years, we’ve supported ships with local NGOs. In Pakistan needed, how best to supply it, and the victims of devastating earthquakes in and Haiti, for example, FfD already right partners to work with. Haiti and Japan, and floods in Pakistan had an established presence when and Brazil. crisis hit. Milk and human kindness When the earthquake hit Port au Prince, Haiti on January 12, 2010, many thousands of people lost their lives and over 1.5 million were left homeless. Three days after the quake, the Tetra Laval Board allocated €350,000 towards emergency relief. The funds were used to make 3.4 million rations of milk available to children in schools and communities. We were able to immediately kick-start our response because we already had a local presence through the FfD office’s involvement in the World Bank-funded school milk programme launched in 2008. Haitian dairy producer VIVA SA, our customer and partner in providing milk to school children, and other customers in the region – Parmalat, Rica, Alpina and Rudisa – were key for the supply of the milk, distributed through local NGOs. Feed the Children (FTC) was one such NGO. The US-based nonprofit relief organization delivered 153 truckloads of food and other essentials, and set up milk clinics in areas of greatest need. Our donations helped FTC provide 17,500 cases of milk and set up nine distribution sites serving 12,000 children. The school milk programme will continue in Port au Prince, not only providing essential food to 43,000 children in 2011, but giving them an incentive to attend school. 24 People & society I Community engagement Home is where the heart is In 2008 a nationwide Thai television series profiled the efforts of four popular actresses to promote recycling. Supported by Tetra Pak, the Jaew Saves Earth programme encouraged consumers to drop off used cartons at local outlets – and in just six months, more than 21 million cartons were recycled. That success inspired us to partner with the Princess Pa Foundation, the Thai Red Cross Society and Big C Supercenter, one of the country’s largest retailers, to supply roof tiles to people in need. Under the Green Roof project, used cartons dropped at Big C Growth of recycling rates stores are transformed into roof sheeting (polylaminate) and paper in Thailand products. Tetra Pak finances the conversion, and is promoting the (%) three-year, €750,000 campaign through various channels. In line with the Thai tradition of generosity and Nam Jai, or ‘flow of the heart’, the response has been overwhelming. In 2010, 7.2 million cartons were converted into 3,600 roof sheets. In 2011 the figure is expected to almost triple to 10,000 roof sheets for people whose homes have been damaged or destroyed by natural disas0.0 0.02 6.3 12.5 14.8 ters. For these efforts, Tetra Pak was awarded the Green Leadership Award from the Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship Awards 02 04 06 08 10 South East Asia 2011 by the think tank Enterprise Asia. SEARCH for cleaner schools One of the most respected environmental institutes in India, TERI –The Energy and Resource Institute, teamed up with Tetra Pak in a campaign to educate school-children and teachers about the importance of recycling. By 2011, Project SEARCH (Sensitisation, Education and Awareness on ­Recycling for a Cleaner Habitat) had targeted 160 schools in Delhi, ­Bangalore, Mumbai, and Chandigarh, mobilising 120,000 students. To make each school a ‘garbage free zone’, collection centres have been set up to collect dry waste, recyclables and used Tetra Pak cartons. In an 18-month period, the equivalent of 50,000 cartons and 4,000 kg of other dry waste was collected for recycling. Project SEARCH is expanding to 200 schools and 200,000 children in India and Dhaka, Bangladesh. Tetra Pak and partner Daman Ganga Recycled Resources received the 2011 ‘Parivartan Sustainability Leadership Award’ for thought leadership in recycling from the India Carbon Outlook. Parivartan is India’s first market development forum on ­sustainability and innovation. 25 Governance I Our responsibility At Tetra Pak, good governance means good business – a strong foundation of shared values, robust risk and compliance processes, and respect for the interests of others 26 Governance I Our responsibility Living our values Our company culture is based on strong, shared, core values. Behaving ethically is one of them. It’s the right thing to do. Good governance benefits suppliers, customers, consumers – and society at large. Doing the right thing anti-corruption, bribery, child exploitabeing followed, and reports to an audit Everything we do – from developing tion, and environmental issues. We also committee at board level. strategy, to making decisions, to how support the UN ­Global Compact’s 10 In 2010, our packaging material and we operate and act – is influenced by principles on human rights, labour, the closure factories also began reporting our Corporate Governance Framework. environment, and anti-corruption. into the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange Key elements of this include our We work closely with suppliers to (Sedex), an initiative to promote Charter of Responsibility, Group uphold high standards through our responsible business practices in the ­Policies and Procedures, Core Values, Business Conduct for Suppliers. supply chain (see page 30). Code of Business Conduct, and Risk Management and Assurance activities. Checking in Our Global Leadership Team is responAccountability is a top priority for us. sible for the framework, supported by Every year, our CEO and Global Leadera Corporate Governance Office and a ship Team submit a signed Management network of local governance, risk and Declaration to the Tetra Laval Board, compliance officers. assuring conformity to the Corporate Governance Framework. This is based Great expectations on detailed reports and self-assessments How we behave worldwide is set out in from all heads of market and business our Code of Business Conduct. This covareas. ers working conditions, anti-discriminaAcross the Group, Tetra Laval’s tion, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, internal audit team verifies that the financial reporting, obeying the law, framework, policies and procedures are 27 Governance I Our responsibility investing in engagement We breathe life into our core values by actively engaging ­employees in understanding where we’re going and why. LiVE Tetra Pak! Our core values build on our heritage Shared understanding Another way of helping us live our our core ­ and shape our future. At Tetra Pak, we values, is making our Corporate values believe it’s up to every one of us to be a Governance Framework easily accesShared values strengthen performance. role model in living them, everyday, in sible on our intranet and in training They guide how we work together, everything we do. programmes for key staff. how we conduct business, and how we ­behave towards our customers, To keep all 21,800 of us together as a We share best practice and work ­suppliers and stakeholders. team and re-affirm what our company continuously to improve our governance stands for all around the world, during framework. In 2010, management trainCustomer focus and 2009–2010 we rolled out a major intering programmes on corporate governlong-term view • add value and inspire our customers nal communications programme – LiVE ance were successfully launched and • lead with a focus beyond tomorrow Tetra Pak. The aim: to engage hearts all our market companies will complete • take opportunities to learn and grow and minds across the entire organisathese in 2011. A company-wide interaction around our strategy, core values tive e-learning programme will also be Quality and innovation • never compromise on quality and our brand. introduced. All this supports our leaders • drive for better, fit-for-purpose We used events, film, and different inin acting as role models for our Core ­solutions teractive activities to stimulate debate, Values. • foster breakthrough innovations trigger discussion and highlight issues Freedom and responsibility that affect us as we go about our day to • take  initiative and act in the best day activities. ­interests of our company and ­customers • take responsibility for our actions • c ontribute to the communities in which we operate Partnership and fun • r espect and rely on one another for exceptional results • work with our stakeholders • celebrate our achievements 28 Governance I Supply chain Back to Base We work closely with key suppliers to uphold high standards and enhance business value. A select few New challenges, new code The majority of our base materials There are challenges. Growth in emerg– ­paperboard, polymers, aluminium ing markets and an expanding supplier and ink – come from carefully selected base create complexity – including global suppliers. We see them as key ­different standards and enforcement ­strategic partners in meeting our levels in labour and environmental goals, for example on Forest Stewardprotection laws. ship C­ ouncilTM (FSCTM) certification, From 2011, all suppliers must sign our responsible aluminium procurement, Business Code of Conduct for Suppliers, and climate change. committing them to high standards of These 40 companies supply almost performance for labour, human rights 95% of the volume of our base material and the environment, as defined by the purchases, accounting for half our total UN Global Compact. Not meeting the purchasing spend and around 40% of criteria could mean losing our business. the impact of our packaging material on We expect our paperboard suppliclimate change during its life. ers to maintain management systems, It’s a big opportunity for responsible supply data and certify operations to sourcing. Every year we evaluate suprecognised standards like FSC. Forpliers’ operations and environmental est management and traceability are performance, including greenhouse audited at an average rate of two to four gas emissions, and adjust targets and suppliers per year. parameters in line with our strategic In an integrated value chain, custompriorities. In 2011, environmental criteers and suppliers must work closely ria counted for around 10% of the evalutogether to reduce end-­to-end impacts. ation – and this share is growing. We believe these strong relationships Sourcing responsibly improves risk will lay the best foundation for creating management and enhances performsustainable business value. ance. It’s also a great vehicle for shared learning, which in turn brings improvements and innovation. 29 Governance I Ethical business practice Ethical business practice Excellence Anti-corruption is an important element in our corporate ­governance and integrity framework. It is fundamental to in the supply ­building trust with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, chain and ­fostering a responsible, transparent business culture. In 2010, Tetra Pak joined the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) as a supplier. All our Fighting corruption is a cornerstone Speaking out packaging material and closure of the UN Global Compact. Its tenth Information on a breach of our Corpofactories currently report into the principle states that “businesses should rate Governance Framework or serious, Sedex system. work against corruption in all its forms, inappropriate behaviour can be reportSedex helps its members share ethical performance data between including extortion and bribery”. ed in confidence to senior management. customers and suppliers. The aim All reported incidents are investigated is the alignment of social and ethiThe power of no to the level determined by the Head of cal standards in the supply chain. The Tetra Pak Code of Business ConAudit and Group Chairman. Sedex is a secure, web-based system for input and measureduct sets out clearly our expectations In 2011, a web-based e-learning tool ment of responsible business regarding ethical behaviour. As well as on anti-corruption will be rolled out to practices. It’s based on four confidentiality and conflict of interest further raise awareness of these issues ­pillars: Labour Standards, Health & Safety, Environment, and requirements, it outlines that we have across Tetra Pak. ­Business Integrity. zero tolerance towards corruption, It enables members to manage bribery, and fraud. ethical practices in the global We will not offer, pay, request or supply chain more efficiently, promoting greater transparaccept a bribe. Bribery is the giving, ency through user-­friendly data promising or offering of gifts, loans, exchange. The common guidance fees, rewards, or advantages to a person signatory to and report formats provided by Sedex Members Ethical Trade as an inducement to do something dishonest, illegal, or a breach of trust. UN Global Compact Audit also increase comparability and usability. Our goal is to build trust and transparency with our customers, Since 2004 prove that our ‘house is in order’, and minimise risks. Sedex delivers customer efficiencies by offering a common platform for auditing, reporting, and corrective action along the value chain. 30 Governance I Ethical business practice 31 Report parameters How we report Every year, at Tetra Pak we report how we influence the sustainability issues that matter most to our business, and where we can have the greatest impact. We communicate our progress on Communication on Progress operations and along our value chain, sustainability every year, and publish This report also explains how we profrom 2009 to December 2010. These a report with a deeper strategic focus mote the 10 principles of the UN Global are featured because we have made a every two years. This printed report Compact on environmental performsignificant investment in, or impact on, and related website cover our strategic ance, labour and human rights practices, the activity. objectives, how we manage our responand anti-corruption, and how we diTetra Pak is a member of the Tetra sibilities and engage suppliers, customrectly support six of the UN’s eight MilLaval Group and some areas of engageers, consumers and other organisations lennium Development Goals. Together ment, such as disaster relief, are coorin our goals. with our website, this report constitutes dinated through Tetra Laval. Tetra Pak our 2011 Communication on Progress represents approximately 80% of Tetra What matters most and is submitted to the Global Compact Laval’s operations. We chose the topics in this report to to show how our commitment is being reflect the issues most relevant, or integrated into our business strategy material, to our business. To determine these, we mapped how our company and day-to-day operations. This update meets Global Compact Active criteria. Shared and our stakeholders rated the imporKey areas of disclosure and performagenda tance of sustainability issues in 2010. ance indicators, where possible, have Building strong relationships has Using internal strategy documents, been drawn from the Global Reporting ­always been an important part of how we do business. It’s a hallmark customer and employee engagement Initiative (GRI) framework for sustainof our sustainability approach, too. surveys, product lifecycle assessments, ability reporting. A GRI index is availBy joining efforts with people and trends analyses, academic research and able on our website. organisations who share our objectives, media reporting, we analysed findings positive impacts on society are magnified. We actively engage suppliers and against their impact on our business Scope sub-suppliers, employees, customers, and reputation. We have been reporting on our environretailers, consumers, governmental The printed and pdf versions of mental performance since 1999. Our and non-governmental organisations, this 2011 report provide a high-level opinion leaders, legislators and other last sustainability report was published members of our industry in meeting our document outlining our priorities and in 2009, and our latest Communication sustainability goals. approach. A web version is also availon Progress was submitted to the Global Their insight improves our performable with more detailed examples and Compact in July 2010. ance by helping us better understand our markets, tackle wider concerns and interactive media to explain how we Unless otherwise indicated, the 2011 develop more resilient strategies. For manage our impacts. report covers selected activities by our more information on our stakeholder 21,800 employees, across our global relationships, visit our on-line report. 32 Report parameters Partnerships Forest Stewardship CouncilTM (FSC TM) With a presence in 50 countries, strong UN Global Compact The Global Compact unites signatory Our choice of partners is based on our methodology and multi-stakeholder organisations committed to promoting combined ability to make a difference support, FSC is currently the certification its 10 principles. Tetra Pak also supports to communities and issues relevant to programme that best meets criteria for a number of wider UN objectives, includour business. sustainable forestry management on a ing the Millennium Development Goals. Here are some of the key organiglobal scale. Tetra Pak is a member of the www.unglobalcompact.org sations we work with to achieve our Board of Directors. www.fsc.org objectives: GAIN – Global Alliance for Improved World Resources Institute (WRI) Nutrition WWF The WRI is a respected environmental As a partner, Tetra Pak supports GAIN’s Since 2006, we have worked with WWF think tank and we are a member of its activities to reduce malnutrition by on issues where we have a common Corporate Consultative Group. providing nutrition to populations at risk. agenda – responsible forestry and www.wri.org www.gainhealth.org ­climate change. Tetra Pak is a member of two WWF multi-stakeholder initiatives, The Consumer Goods Forum GCNF – Global Child Nutrition the Global Forest and Trade Network The Consumer Goods Forum is a global, ­Foundation (GFTN) and Climate Savers. multi-stakeholder platform comprising GCNF’s mission is to expand learning www.wwf.org our customers, retailers and industry opportunities for children through ­colleagues. It focuses on five priority community-based feeding programmes. areas including sustainability, health and Since 2008, a Tetra Pak representative safety and human resource development. has been a member of the GCNF board. www.ciesnet.com www.gcnf.org ON-LINE REPORT Visit our on-line report for interactive material, case stories and further insights into how we manage our key impacts. www.tetrapak.com/SU2011 CONtact E-mail: SU2011@tetrapak.com www.facebook.com/tetrapak 33 Tetra Pak and the UN ­MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS © 2011, Tetra Pak, Lund, Sweden, Code 9161 en, 2011-07. Produced by One Stone and Solberg 2015 is the target date for achieving the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. We are directly helping address six of these.  radicate extreme ­poverty  E and hunger Food for Development (FfD) programmes, school nutrition, Dairy Hubs and emergency relief efforts tackle hunger and create employment and income opportunities at the base of the economic pyramid. Achieve universal ­primary education School feeding makes it easier for children world­ wide to complete a full course of primary education. Promote gender equality  and empower women School feeding makes girls more likely to attend school. Dairy Hubs empower women farmers. Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria  and other ­diseases We’re addressing HIV/AIDS among employees, local ­communities and along our supply chain in South ­Africa, Kenya and Nigeria through the Swedish ­Workplace HIV/AIDS Programme.  nsure environmental E sustainability Tetra Pak is driving environmental excellence along the value chain and setting ambitious targets to spur sustainable sourcing and innovation, combat climate change and increase recycling. A global partnership  for ­development Our FfD integrated value chain model strengthens the private sector, boosts agricultural development and builds local capacity. Our activities to reach 100% paperboard certified by the Forest Steward­ ship CouncilTM support the increase of sustainable forest management practices. Tetra Pak and PROTECTS WHAT’S GOOD are trademarks belonging to the Tetra Pak group. www.tetrapak.com
