GRI TABLE OF IDENTIFICATION AND GC PRINCIPLES The actions taken and progress achieved in relation to the ten principles of the Global Compact are described in the sustainability report 2010 and mapped in the GRI table of identification below. This table is published in the sustainability section of the Group website. Any update will be there availble. PROFILE 1. Strategy and analysis GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 1.01 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 3 organization. 1.02 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 3; 15 2. Organizational profile GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES 2.01 Name of the organization. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 14 2.02 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Sustainability Report 2010, 14-15 Operational structure of the organization, including main 2.03 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint Sustainability Report 2010, P. 14; 21 ventures. 2.04 Location of organization's headquarters. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 14 Number of countries where the organization operates, and Sustainability Report 2010, p. 14 names of countries with either major operations or that are 2.05 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Management report and consolidated financial statements 2010, p. 233-234 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 70 2.06 Nature of ownership and legal form. Corporate governance and share ownership report 2010, p. 9-10 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors 2.07 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 14-15 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.08 Scale of the reporting organization. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 31-32 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 14; 70 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 2.09 size, structure, or ownership. Management report and consolidated financial statements 2010, p. 22 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 17 3. Report parameters GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 3.01 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4 provided. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4 3.02 Date of most recent previous report (if any). The previous report was published in May 2010. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4 3.03 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) The reporting cycle is annual. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 140 3.04 Contact point for questions. Contacts Corporate Social Responsibility 3.05 Process for defining report content. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, 3.06 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4-5 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 3.07 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4 report. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.08 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 3.09 Sustainability Report 2010,p. 4 applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re3.10 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4 statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 3.11 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4 report. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in 3.12 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4 the report. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3.13 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 4 assurance for the report. 4. Governance, commitments, engagement GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Sustainability Report 2010, p. 21-23 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible Corporate governance and share ownership report 2010, p. 15-79 4.01 for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Management Corporate bodies' functions Sustainability Report 2010, p. 22 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is 4.02 also an executive officer. Corporate governance and share ownership report 2010, p. 37-38 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state 4.03 the number of members of the highest governance body that Sustainability Report 2010, p. 22 are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Sustainability Report 2010, p. 23; 52 4.04 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. European Works Council Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Sustainability Report 2010, p. 24 4.05 governance body, senior managers, and executives, and the organization's performance. Corporate governance and share ownership report 2010, p. 85-107 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 4.06 Related party transactions conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of Sustainability Report 2010, p. 22 the members of the highest governance body for guiding the 4.07 organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Corporate governance and share ownership report 2010, p. 20-21 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.08 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 10-11 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing Sustainability Report 2010, p. 24-26 the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including 4.09 The Board of Directors meets once a year to discuss and approve the sustainability relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or report of the Generali Group. Any updates of both the Ethical Code and the compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of Environmental Policy are subject to its approval. conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own 4.10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, Corporate governance and share ownership report 2010, p. 28-29 environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach 4.11 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 3 or principle is addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 4.12 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Sustainability Report 2010, p. 11-12 organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) 4.13 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 12; 82-83 and/or national/international advocacy organizations. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 19 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 4.15 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 19 whom to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 4.16 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 19 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 19 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Disclosure on management approach The Generali Group pursues an objective of long-term sustainable business development through a geographical and distributional diversification. Thus, the drivers of its growth are its solid distribution model based on proprietary networks, its leadership in core markets and its excellent positioning on markets with high growth potential. One of the Group goals is to create value for all its stakeholders and to properly let them share in the wealth generated. Economic and financial information is managed through planning, controlling and reporting systems. The Generali Group also considers the climate change. This topic was identified as one of the key strategic risks to the insurance business that can also offer new business opportunity. In 2009 and 2010 several in-house forums about the climate change and its implications on the business were organized at the request of the Top Management. They involved executives, senior and middle managers of many Group companies, also with the support of international experts. As clearly stated in the Environmental Policy, the Group commits to integration of climate protection prevention measures into its strategies. As a provider of specific insurances covering losses from natural phenomena, specifically from atmospheric ones, the Group constantly monitors the evolution of the situation, both with regard to existing and emerging risks, using specific stochastic simulation models of natural phenomena, in order to ensure that its products and risk mitigation tools are always suitable to the contingent situation. The attention to the topic of the climate change is confirmed by the Group adhesion to Carbon Disclosure Project. The Generali Group has always linked its growth to the development of the local communities where it operates and adopted employee policies that do not discriminate anybody and aim at enhancing local abilities, giving importance to the contribution of local people in terms of market knowledge. This approach is also adopted by companies recently acquired or newly created, whose workforce almost entirely numbers local employees, in the management positions as well. As for the supplies, local suppliers are largely preferred. Indirect economic impacts are mainly linked to corporate citizenship initiatives. In order to improve life conditions in the countries where Group companies operate, they themselves work together with local institutions and non-profit associations, providing one-shot or, most often, recurrent financial support for different public utilities (educational services, health services, social integration services, professional integration of disabled people, etc.) and/or for infrastructures such as schools, day care centres and health care centres. Zukunftsfonds in Germany represents a great, structured example of collaboration with local institutions and non-profit associations. In order to contribute to the alleviation of poverty among disadvantaged inhabitants, the Group has recently financed the launch of some business ventures and micro-insurance initiatives in India, where it entered only few years ago. ASPECT: Economic performance GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, EC1. Core donations and other community investments, retained Sustainability Report 2010, p. 32; 110 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for EC2. Core 7 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 26-27 the organization's activities due to climate change. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 44-45 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan EC3. Core obligations. Management report and consolidated financial statements 2010, p. 163-165 EC4. Core Significant financial assistance received from government. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 33 ASPECT: Market presence GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to The standard entry level wage in the Generali Group is higher than the local EC5. Additional 1 local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. minimun wage (if any). Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based EC6. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 99-100 suppliers at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior EC7. Core management hired from the local community at significant 6 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 41-42; 47 locations of operation. ASPECT: Indirect economic impacts GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Development and impact of infrastructure investments and EC8. Core services provided primarily for public benefit through Sustainability Report 2010, 109-110; 114-116 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic EC9. Additional Sustainability Report 2010, 111-112 impacts, including the extent of impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Disclosure on management approach Safeguarding the environment as a primary asset is one of the guiding values of the Generali Group, which is committed to gearing its own choices towards guaranteeing compatibility between economic initiatives and environmental requirements. Objectives and commitments with the aim of making a positive contribution to sustainable development are defined in the Environmental Policy of the Generali Group. Specific targets for both direct and indirect environmental impacts are defined in the document Group objectives and targets for environmental improvement. Actions to work towards attaining the Group objectives and targets are included in the Environmental Programme. The key environmental aspects are managed through an Environmental Management System (EMS) which complies with the requirements of the ISO 14001 standard and meets some ethical requirements. Such System currently involves six of the most important countries for corporate business, i.e. Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Switzerland. The System is supported by an organizational structure that is composed of a Sustainability Committee and an EMS Committee. The task of coordinating these Committees and drafting documentation for the System at the Group level is carried out by the Corporate Social Responsibility unit. Each country has also a Country CSR Committee, sometimes supported by national structures which have solely environmental powers. The proper implementation of the EMS and the specific attainment of the objectives are guaranteed by periodic monitoring of several indicators which cover all of the most significant environmental aspects directly or indirectly impacting on the business, i.e. materials, energy, water, emissions, waste, corporate mobility, products and services, procurement processes and investment activities. Data obtained feeds an internal information system which provides for a report for a review by the Top Management, in order to constantly assess the efficiency and effectiveness of the EMS with a view towards continual improvement. ASPECT: Materials GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES EN1. Core Materials used by weight or volume. 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 126 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 126 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input EN2. Core 8,9 materials. The Generali Group uses ecological paper, which is 45% of the total consumption. The recycled paper represents 8.6% of this percentage. ASPECT: Energy GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES EN3. Core Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 122-123 EN4. Core Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 122-123 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5. Additional 8,9 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 122-123 improvements. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy EN6. Additional based products and services, and reductions in energy 8,9 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 81-82 requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7. Additional 8,9 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 124; 130-132 reductions achieved. ASPECT: Water GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES EN8. Core Total water withdrawal by source. 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 127 Group companies do not draw sufficient quantities of water to significantly affect EN9. Additional Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 8 water sources. EN10. Additional Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 8,9 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 127 ASPECT: Biodiversity GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or EN11. Core adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 133 value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and EN12. Core services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 133 biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13. Additional Habitats protected or restored. 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 133 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing EN14. Additional 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 133 impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation This information is not collected, since the area subject to restrictions is extremely EN15. Additional list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by 8 small (150 m2). level of extinction risk. ASPECT: Emissions, effluents and waste GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES EN16. Core Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 131 EN17. Core Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 131 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and EN18. Additional 7,8,9 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 132 reductions achieved. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances are not measured, as immaterial for the EN19. Core Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 8 Group activities. NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and EN20. Core 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 131 weight. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 127 Discharged water is not measured, since water effluents from insurance-banking EN21. Core Total water discharge by quality and destination. 8 activities are similar to domestic sewage. Only in Switzerland water is returned to the Lugano lake without harming the environment. EN22. Core Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 128 The risk of potential spills of hazardous substances is not significant, when EN23. Core Total number and volume of significant spills. 8 considering the insurance-banking activities of the Generali Group. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24. Additional 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 128 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Discharged water from the Group activities washes into the urban sewage systems EN25. Additional water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by 8 without significantly harming the environment. the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. ASPECT: Products and services GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and EN26. Core 7,8,9 Sustainability Report 2010,p. 126-127 services, and extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials EN27. Core 8,9 There is no recycling and reuse system for the products in the Group. that are reclaimed by category. ASPECT: Compliance GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonEN28. Core monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 132 laws and regulations. ASPECT: Transport GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Significant environmental impacts of transporting products EN29. Additional and other goods and materials used for the organization's 8 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 129-132 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ASPECT: Overall GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Total environmental protection expenditures and investments EN30. Additional 7,8,9 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 132 by type. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Disclosure on management approach The Group's employee policies, which are set out by the Group CEO, are characterized by enhancement of employees' opportunities, development of their potential and respect for their rights. The workers' fundamental rights are stated in the Ethical Code of the Generali Group and in the European Social Charter that are based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization's Declaration. All staff are given a formal written employment contract. Exploitation, forced or compulsory labour and child labour are not tolerated in any form. The Group also recognises the right of its employees to join a trade union, to appoint workers' representatives and to exercise the relative functions, in accordance with freedom of association and with local regulations and practices. The personal and professional growth of its employees and the improvement of their competencies are encouraged through intense training activities that are managed by the Generali Group Innovation Academy (GGIA) and developed as to guide training investment in accordance with the Group's objectives and strategies. The Group values its employees and considers diversity as an opportunity for enrichment. The individual contribution to its success is recognized, also through appropriate and equal remuneration. Employees regularly receive performance appraisal through appropriate methods, also with a view of developing their carrier. The policies guaranteeing equal opportunities to specific categories such as women, disabled people, etc. aim at reducing possibile barriers through actions that are defined with them. The Group protects and guarantees working conditions that are respectful of individual dignity in safe, healthful working environments. ASPECT: Employment GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, LA1. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 35-37 and region. Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, LA2. Core 6 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 39-40 gender, and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not LA3. Additional provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major Sustainability Report 2010, p. 44-45 operations. ASPECT: Labor/management relations GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4. Core 1,3 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 53 agreements. Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational LA5. Core changes, including whether it is specified in collective 3 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 51-52 agreements. ASPECT: Occupational health and safety GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help LA6. Additional 1 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 49 monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA7. Core absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by 1 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 48; 51 region. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control LA8. Core programs in place to assist workforce members, their 1 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 50-51 families, or community members regarding serious diseases. In Italy and Spain formal agreeements with trade unions cover health and safety. They address topics such as: personal protective equipment, joint managementHealth and safety topics covered in formal agreements with employee health and safety committees, partecipation of worker representatives in LA9. Additional 1 trade unions. health and safety inspections, audits and accident investigations, training and education, complaints mechanism, right to refuse unsafe work and periodic inspections. In France, Israel and the Czech Republic . ASPECT: Training and education GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Average hours of training per year per employee by LA10. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 64 employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Sustainability Report 2010, p. 42; 62 LA11. Additional support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Training Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and LA12. Additional Sustainability Report 2010, p. 44 career development reviews. ASPECT: Diversity and equal opportunity GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of LA13. Core employees per category according to gender, age group, 1,6 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 22; 35-36; 38 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14. Core Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 1,6 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 44 HUMAN RIGHTS Disclosure on management approach The Generali Group commits to ensure and promote fundamental human and labour rights in all its spheres of influence. Such commitment is stated in the Ethical Code of the Generali Group and in the European Social Charter and further confirmed by the support of the UN Global Compact initiative. The topic of human rights lies with the Group CEO. As for employees, the Corporate Social Reponsibility unit annually monitors through questionnaires the prohibition of child, forced and compulsory labour, non discrimination and freedom of association and collective bargaining in all Group companies. In order to create awareness of fundamental human rights, respect for which must be guaranteed, the Group offers a widespread training through an e-learning course. It will gradually involve all employees over a period of time that should continue through the end of 2013. The number of employees who have done the course is constantly monitored. Respect for fundamental human and labour rights is also key in the supply chain. The Group encourages its suppliers to adopt the principles laid down in the Ethical Code and takes operational measures to ensure the right application of workplace health and safety, environmental protection and public health regulations. As an institutional investor, the Generali Group adopts ethical guidelines that forbid investment in financial instruments issued by companies that do not respect the fundamental human rights. On the one hand, it thus avoids being involved, through investments, in serious violations of human rights and, on the other, it persuades issuing companies to responsibly act. The Group set up a Council on Ethics, a consultative body to CFO for possible exclusion procedures from the investment universe of companies that violate the Group’s ethical criteria. The management system provides for a constant monitoring of investments, including checks designed to prevent the acquisition of securities issued by excluded companies. A half-yearly report is also sent to the Corporate Centre’s Group Risk Management department. The procedures by which to manage lack of respect for human rights are those implemented for reports of violation of the Ethical Code. They require reports to be notified to the Corporate Social Responsibility unit and to be analyzed, on the basis of elements revealed during the preliminary investigation, by a proper Commission, that consists of an outsider, too. Suitable disciplinary measures against people responsible for the violation of human rights are taken if the violation is ascertained. Said measures can also entail the removal of said people from the company. ASPECT: Investment and procurement practices GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS REFERENCES INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Percentage and total number of significant investment 1,2,3 HR1. Core agreements that include human rights clauses or that have Sustainability Report 2010, p. 105 4,5,6 undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have 1,2,3 HR2. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 100 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. 4,5,6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 1,2,3 HR3. Additional concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Sustainability Report 2010, p. 53 4,5,6 operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ASPECT: Non-discrimination GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES HR4. Core Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 1,2,6 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 53 ASPECT: Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom HR5. Core of association and collective bargaining may be at significant 1,2,3 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 53-55 risk, and actions taken to support these rights. ASPECT: Child labor GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of HR6. Core child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the 1,2,5 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 53-55 elimination of child labor. ASPECT: Forced and compulsory labor GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of HR7. Core forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to 1,2,4 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 53-55 the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. ASPECT: Security practices GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's HR8. Additional policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights 1,2 This information will be gathered to draw up the sustainability report 2011. that are relevant to operations. ASPECT: Indigenous rights GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of HR9. Additional 1,2 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 52 indigenous people and actions taken. SOCIETY Disclosure on management approach The impacts of activities on local communities have not only an economic nature, i.e. those associated to job offer and purchase of goods and services from local suppliers, but mainly concern logistic and environmental aspects. The former are, in fact, linked to commutes and transfers for duty whereas the latter are due to both transfers and building management. Before starting new activities – specifically, before entering new markets or moving a significant number of employees to new buildings, that are usually located in the same country or even in the same city – impacts from commutes in terms of their direct management or facilitation are carefully assessed. The impact on the social fabric of the communities where Group companies operate is also taken into consideration. The Group interacts with the local communities through several cultural, educational, etc. initiatives as to create a collaborative mood to favour integration and to have positive effects on both Group companies and the communities where they operate. In the main cities the Group constantly works together with institutions as to promote new initiatives with the aim of reducing traffic and emissions from commutes. An economic and eco-friendly management of the corporate mobility also contributes to limit the impact of operations on the communities. As for the access to products and services, sales and claims settlement networks of the Group are widespread in several markets and in low-populated areas, too. The distributional diversification of the Group and the possibility of communicating by phone or internet with the companies, not only in case of underwriting but also in the claim settlement process, contribute to reduce barriers to access to services. One of the Group goals is to provide those who would otherwise be excluded from the traditional market with insurance products. It is pursued through some specific microinsurance projects. In its sphere of influence the Generali Group is also committed to working against corruption in all its forms and to implementing all measures against it. The Group joins the UN Global Compact consistently with such commitment, that is stated in the Ethical Code. New policies addressed to some corrupt practices such as internal fraud have recently been adopted and disseminated to people who have relationships with the Generali Group. The risk is managed and monitored by departments reporting to the Group CEO. As stated in the Ethical Code, the Group does not support any event or initiative whose aim is mainly or exclusively of a political nature. Furthermore, it refrains from any direct or indirect pressure on political representatives and does not make any contribution to trade unions or associations with which conflict of interests may arise. The Group recognizes free competition in the market as a crucial factor for growth and constant business improvement. It bases its competitiveness on the quality of products and services provided and not on competitors’ discredit. ASPECT: Community GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Sustainability Report 2010, p. 123-125; 130-131 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and SO1. Core practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations The approach above described was adopted when some Italian officies were moved on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. to Mogliano Veneto and French offices were recently moved to Saint-Denis. Access points in low-populated or economically FS13. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 81; 111 disadvantaged areas by type. Initiatives to improve access to financial services for FS14. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 17; 84-85 disadvantaged people. ASPECT: Corruption GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for SO2. Core 10 Management report and consolidated financial statements 2010, p. 140 risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization's antiSO3. Core 10 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 29 corruption policies and procedures. SO4. Core Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 10 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 27; 29 ASPECT: Public policy GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES 1,2,3 Public policy positions and participation in public policy 4,5,6 SO5. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 10 development and lobbying. 7,8,9 10 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political SO6. Additional 10 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 10 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. ASPECT: Anti-competitive behavior GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, SO7. Additional Sustainability Report 2010, p. 93 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. ASPECT: Compliance GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonSO8. Core monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Sustainability Report 2010, p. 86; 93 regulations. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure on management approach As stated in the Ethical Code, in order to achieve its fundamental goal of customer satisfaction, the Group insists on high-quality products and services that are constantly updated to meet new requirements. Many initiatives of dialogue with customers are periodically organized as to learn expectations and satisfaction with regard to products and services provided. Managing relations with customers gains in importance and sales force therefore play a key role in achieving commercial strategies. The Group provides sales force with specific training courses, adequate support and guidelines on how they should go about their work. Contracts and communications with customers are based on the principles of correctness and honesty, professionalism, transparency and cooperation with a view to finding solutions that are most suited to their needs. Information provided to customers before any contract is signed is complete, transparent and comprehensible so they can make conscious purchase choices. To this end, Group companies implement information and training programmes with the aim of disseminating insurance and financial know-how. As for marketing communication, the Group is also in line with the fundamental ethical values of the civil society and it complies with the current regulations, the Ethical Code and other voluntary or self-regulatory codes adopted in some countries. In accordance with national legislation, the Generali Group guarantees the confidentiality and security of data and its processing through methods denying access to third parties, unless required for corporate aims or by a writ. Group management system and procedures to customer privacy protection are adequate. GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and FS15. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 79; 83-84 services. ASPECT: Customer health and safety GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and Group companies do not distribute/provide products/services impacting on health PR1. Core 1 percentage of significant products and services categories and safety. subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of Group companies do not distribute/provide products/services impacting on health PR2. Additional 1 products and services during their life cycle, by type of and safety. outcomes. ASPECT: Product and service labelling GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Type of product and service information required by PR3. Core procedures, and percentage of significant products and 8 Group products and services are not labelled. services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations PR4. Additional and voluntary codes concerning product and service 8 Group products and services are not labelled. information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of PR5. Additional Sustainability Report 2010, p. 94-97 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. FS16. Core Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. Sustainability Report 2010, p. 85 ASPECT: Marketing communications GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary PR6. Core codes related to marketing communications, including Sustainability Report 2010, p. 86 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, PR7. Additional Sustainability Report 2010, p. 86 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ASPECT: Customer privacy GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches PR8. Additional 1 Sustainability Report 2010, p. 29 of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ASPECT: Compliance GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with PR9. Core laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Sustainability Report 2010, p. 93-94 products and services. PRODUCT AND SERVICE IMPACT Disclosure on management approach By their very nature, insurance products have a social value because they provide protection for clients and meet their pension needs. Their social role becomes even more crucial against a general gradual reduction in public services. Among the range of products and guarantees offered there are also some with particular social or environmental value that meet specific needs of disabled, seriously ill people, immigrants, etc., that cover facilities that produce renewable energy, or that reward the virtuous conduct of the policyholders. Even if they represent a very small part of the corporate business, they contribute to raise awareness and persuade customers to responsibly act. The Group plays on investments of technical reserves that are in line with the guidelines complying with the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), sponsored by ONU, as to qualify all its products as ethical. Through investments according to such criteria, the Group ensures its clients not only the risk protection and adequate financial returns but also respect for fundamental human rights and environmental protection. The management system provides for constant monitoring of investments, including checks designed to prevent the acquisition of securities issued by companies that do not meet ethical criteria. ASPECT: Product portfolio GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Policies with specific environmental and social components FS1. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 79-84 applied to business lines. Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and FS2. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 26-27 social risks in business lines. Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and FS3. Core compliance with environmental and social requirements Sustainability Report 2010, p. 81 included in agreements or transactions. Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the FS4. Core environmental and social policies and procedures as applied Sustainability Report 2010, p. 62; 133-134 to business lines. Interactions with clients/investees/business partners FS5. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 82-83 regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities. Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific FS6. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 78 region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver FS7. Core a specific social benefit for each business line broken down Sustainability Report 2010, p. 79 by purpose. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver FS8. Core a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken Sustainability Report 2010, p. 79 down by purpose. ASPECT: Audit GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation Procedures and objectives of audits on the Environmental Management System of FS9. Core of environmental and social policies and risk assessment the Group are currently being defined. They will be carried out as from 2012. procedures. ASPECT: Active ownership GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's As a consequence of the recent change in ethical investment guidelines, an internal FS10. Core portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted working group was set up with the aim of defining monitoring activities and on environmental or social issues. dialogue with issuing companies about ESG themes. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative FS11. Core Sustainability Report 2010, p. 105 environmental or social screening. Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for There is still no voting policy applied to environmental or social issues for shares FS12. Core shares over which the reporting organization holds the right over which the Generali Group holds the right to vote shares or adives on voting. to vote shares or advises on voting.
