www.kead.or.kr Better Work, Better World Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled 2010 Sustainability Management Report * Voice icon kead has added a Voice Eye function that converts text information at the top right hand side of each page into voice for smooth communication with visually disabled people. www.kead.or.kr 2010 Sustainability Management Report ABOUT THE REPORT 2010 Sustainability Management Report of kead Report publication purpose As the first Sustainability management report describing the economic, social, and environmental responsibilities of the Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled(kead), this report has reflected the significant issues of various stakeholders, and it describes kead's efforts and performances with regard to sustainability management. Reporting period The reporting period for this report is from January 1 to  December 31, 2010; the performances of the past 3 year  have been used to show the performance trend in each  field. Report scope Activities and performances of the kead headquarters  and affiliated organizations Report frequency The next report is slated in 2012 by describing kead's  performances in 2011. kead plans to publish the report  annually. Criteria for drawing up the report: This report  has been drawn up by referring to the GRI(Global Re  porting Initiative) G3 Guidelines. Assurance The process of drawing up this report and the relevant  information have been assured by an outside agency, the  Korea Standards Association(KSA). Report distribution and opinion convergence This report has been published in Korean and English, and it can be read on the kead homepage. The opinions of stakeholders on this report are received through various channels including email, post, telephone, etc. Additional Information on the report Should you need further information apart from the content of this report or have queries, feel free to contact us at the following: Homepage: www.kead.or.kr / Tel: 82-31-728-7012 / Fax: 82-31-728-7280 / Email: minky185@kead. or.kr / Address: Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled Planning & Management Division 165 Gumiro, Bundanggu, Seongnamsi, Gyeonggido, Korea 463939 5 Contents Ⅰ. Introduction Ⅴ. kead: Valuing Talented Personnel kead Introduction 10 Employee Competency Consolidation 41 Management Strategy System 12 Enhancement of Employee Satisfaction 42 Stakeholder Engagement 14 Industrial Relations 43 Sustainability Management Issues 16 Ⅵ. kead: Fulfilling its Responsibilities as a Public Agency Ⅱ. kead: Growing Together with the Disabled People Enhancement of Management Efficiency 46 Employment Support for Disabled People 20 Implementation of Public Policies 48 Improvement of the Working Environment at the Workplace Hiring Disabled People 24 Ⅶ. kead: Putting Sustainability Management into Practice Economic Responsibility 52 Ⅲ. kead: Growing Together with Corporate Customers Social Responsibility 53 Employment Service for Companies 28 Environmental Responsibility 56 Financial Support for Companies 30 International Abilympics 57 International Abilympics Seoul 2011 58 Ⅳ. Efforts to Establish Employment Infrastructure for Disabled People Awareness Improvement Regarding Disabled People 34 Appendix Research and Development 35 kead 2010 Sustainability Report's 60 External Cooperation – Within Korea 36 Rate to Meet GRI G3 Guidelines External Cooperation – International Cooperation 37 Assurance Statement 68 ISO 26000 70 Diagnosis of ISO 26000 for kead 71 Description of Terms 72 CEO Message Biodiversity as set by the UN was a hot issue in 2010. On this planet, diverse species ranging from invisible microbes to huge elephants are linked with our lives, making up the abundant nature. Mutually dependent relations among humans are also common. When diverse ways of life are respected including coexistence in terms of ethnicity, gender, one's values, etc., humans can cherish the true meaning of evolution that Charles Darwin sought to find in Galapagos Islands. The mission of the Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled (kead) is to build an abundant future environment together with the disabled and normal people given such diversity by understanding the disabled people. 7 kead: Growing Alongside Korea's History of Employment of the Disabled When the first law enacting the mandatory employment system, which became the foundation of Korea's employment of disabled people, was proclaimed in 1990, kead was established as the management and execution agency of such system. In this regard, kead has shaped the history of disabled people's employment together with various NGOs to enhance the rights of disabled people. Since its establishment, kead has constantly offered various services for the vocational competency development of the disabled, job arrangement, and shaping of a firm's employment environment of the disabled. As a result, the employment rate of the disabled rose from 0.43% at the early stage of the establishment of kead to 1.94% in 2010. Still, the more important thing is that we can find working disabled people without difficulties in our surroundings, which we could not easily see in the past. We are looking at a future wherein such situation can be the everyday scene. kead: Helping Seriously Disabled People Return to Society In 2010, we actually made enormous efforts for seriously disabled people who have difficulties in getting a job. Korea's seriously disabled people account for 34.2% of the total number of registered disabled people. Note, however, that the employment rate for the seriously disabled was 17.8% as of June 2010, a far cry from the average employment rate of 60%. The employment rate for seriously disabled people is actually lower by 27.4% than that for mildly disabled people. kead has raised the rate of seriously disabled among the trainees at the 5 vocational competency development institutes affiliated with kead to about 70%. In particular, we have facilitated the employment of the seriously disabled through specialized training that has adopted training techniques suitable for the disabled having difficulties in employment, such as the intellectually disabled. kead also offered services to provide assistants for the work of the disabled to 181 seriously disabled people through the services in full swing, backing up the seriously disabled in their work in everyday life at the workplace by providing assistants in 2010. 58.9% of the disabled who were employed through our services in 2010 were seriously disabled, and the rate is gradually increasing. At least 34.1% of kead’s employees are women, with disabled people making up 19.1% of the total employees within kead’s organizations. We at kead always make an effort to expand the socially underprivileged people's right to work in society. Creation of Decent Jobs Centered on Large-Scale Companies As the industrial structure is enhanced, the tendency of the disabled – who are not competitive – to land temporary jobs is gradually rising. We believe that active protection actions for the socially underprivileged can coexist along with a fair society. kead continually made great efforts to provide the disabled with decent jobs in 2010. Our typical work involves helping the public sector and large private companies hire many disabled people. kead has held presentations on working at public offices for disabled people who want to become public servants and teachers and has operated examination preparation classes. We have also signed employment enhancement agreements with public agencies whose hiring is insufficient and have suggested suitable jobs for the disabled by supporting job analyses. Subsidiary – type standard workplace has given new hope to large-scale private companies. In terms of business features, numerous disabled people including those who are seriously disabled can get jobs more easily when large-scale companies having some difficulties in hiring the disabled establish a subsidiary. kead has supported employment creation for the disabled by building 15 subsidiary-type standard workplaces. Ethical Management: Boosting Chances of Sustainability Growth kead is leading the fulfillment of social responsibility as a public agency. Transparency, integrity, and accountability are the three core values in our ethical management. To actualize such values, kead uses each department's social contribution activities and integrity activity records as significant indicators for internal department evaluation. The social contribution activities per employee of kead numbered 6.3 in 2010, and we have been selected as an excellent agency in putting integrity into practice by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission for 4 years in a row thanks to our active anti – corruption policy. We are well aware that ethics should come first for us to work well. Thus, we evaluate the suitability of means in doing business from various ethical points of view. 2011: the Year of Arousing Empathy with Customers We come into contact with various customers, i.e., companies, disabled people's organizations, government, and academic circles. Our mission is to help the disabled get better jobs through close cooperation with the aforesaid customers. We think doing so requires empathy with customers above all. Sometimes, things that we consider right can actually be inconveniences on the part of customers. Still, we believe we can find optimum solutions through the process of empathy with customers without tenaciously insisting only on our opinions and position. All our employees including myself strongly feel that we can boost our organization's chances of sustainable growth through a series of such processes in 2011. President of Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled Ph.D. Lee, Seong-Gyu 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅰ2010 Sustainability Management Report Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled Ⅰ. Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled 9 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅰ. Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled kead Introduction View of HQ kead was founded in 1990 to promote disabled people's financial independence and employers' hiring of the disabled. Since our foundation, we have been leading the employment of the disabled in Korea through training, job arrangement, and hiring support for employers. Organization kead consists of HQ, Employment Development Institute, 5 vocational competency development institutes, and 15 branches. kead's status Semigovernment agency(commissioned agency type) Business details • Employment support for the disabled: job guidance(consultation and evaluation, job arrangement, adaptation guidance), vocational competency development and training, etc. • Supporting firms' hiring of disabled people: employment environment improvement, mandatory employment implementation support, etc. • Shaping the employment infrastructure for the disabled : R&D, statistical survey, awareness improvement, etc. No. of employees 609 15 branches of kead Budget KRW 2,446 billion Gyeonggi Northㅎern Branch Seoul Branch Gangwon Branch Seoul Southern Branch President Incheon Branch Gyeonggi Branch Auditor (non-standing) Chungbuk Branch Secretariat Daejeon Branch Daegu Branch Jeonbuk Branch Planning & Management Director Employment Promotion Director Ulsan Branch Gyeongnam Branch Gwangju Branch Busan Branch Planning & Competency Employment Promotion InternationNATIONAL Audit Office Management Development Promotion Support al Abilympics TEAM SUPPORT Office Bureau Bureau Bureau Secretariat BUREAU Jeju Branch Mgt & Planning Div. Operation Support Div. Information Support Div. Competency Devt. Planning Div. Competency Dev't Operation Div. PR Cooperation Office Employment Support Div. Corporate Support Div. Assistive Technology Div. Planning Operation Div. Abilympics Support Div. NATIONAL TEAM SUPPORT DIV. Employment Creation Div. 5 vocational competency development institutes [TEMPORARILY ORGANIZED for 2011] Ilsan Affiliated Agencies (1 Employment Dev't. Institute, 5 Vocational Competency Development Institutes, 15 Branches) Daejeon Daegu Ilsan Vocational Competency Development Institute • Seoul Branch • Gwangju Branch • Gangwon Branch Busan Employment Busan Vocational Competency Development Institute • Seoul Southern Branch • Daejeon Branch • Chungbuk Branch Jeonnam Development Daegu Vocational Competency Development Institute • Busan Branch • Ulsan Branch • Jeonbuk Branch Institute • Daegu Branch • Gyeonggi Branch • Gyeongnam Branch Daejeon Vocational Competency Development Institute • Incheon Branch • Gyeonggi • Jeju Branch Jeonnam Vocational Competency Development Institute Northern Branch History 1990 Sept Established the Korea Employment Promotion Agency for the Disabled 1993~2007 Installed 15 branches, employment development institute and 5 vocational competency development institutes in stages 2001 Collection of charges for employment of disabled people and payment of  employment subsidy 2004 Expansion of scope of mandate employment companies : Companies hiring  300 people or more → companies hiring 50 people or more 2009~2010 Adjusted mandate employment rate in the government and public sector  from 2% to 3% 2010 Changed agency name to kead 2010 Step by step adjustment of mandate employment rate in the private sector (2.3% in 2010 → 2.5% in 2012 → 2.7% in 2014) Ⅰ. Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled 11 11 kead HQ Governance As the top decision-making organization deciding the significant management issues of kead, the board of directors exercises voting rights on the management objectives, business plans, budget, etc., and plays a role in checking the management. The board of directors consists of the chairman and standing directors(2 directors) and non-standing directors(10 directors as of the end of December 2010) along with a non-standing auditor(1 auditor) who has a right to state an opinion. Personnel measures including the restriction of reappointment and differentiated performance-based payment according to the government’s management performance evaluation, based on laws and regulations, can be taken to the board chairman and standing directors. The non-standing directors consist of experts in kead’s business, and their reappointment is decided through individual job performance BOARD OF DIRECTORS assessment. kead consolidates the fairness and transparency of appointment through the recommendation of an Executive Recommendation Commission where outside stakeholders are included and the resolution of a Public Agency Operation Committee affiliated with the government. In particular, kead actively reflects the disabled people’s opinions by appointing or electing to the board of directors 1/3 of the standing and non-standing directors possessing expertise concerning the disabled people’s employment. The procedural instrument is prepared for pending key issues by reporting to the board of directors frequently. In addition, kead sufficiently lets citizens including the stakeholders know about its business details, such as personnel, organization, finance, business plan, etc., by disclosing and Members of the Board of Directors posting the board meeting minutes on the ALIO(management information disclosure system of public Position Name Career agencies) and kead homepage. Eight board meetings were held during 2010, and 33 agenda matters StandLee Seong-gyu President, kead have been handled. ing chief director Standing Kim Jong-jin Planning and director Management Director, kead Standing Cho Jong-ran Employment Promo●Status of Board Meeting Operation director tion Director, kead Non-standSoh Gi-hong Society & Budget Category 2008 2009 2010 ing director Deliberation Official, (By virtue of Ministry of the StratNo. of meetings held 8 7 8 position) egy and Finance Non-standGwon YoungEmployment No. of agenda 26cases 25cases 33cases ing director soon Equality Policy (By virtue of Official, Ministry of Attendance rate of 63.4% 79.4% 81.5% position) Employment and Labor Ministry non-standing directors Non-standChoi YoungDisabled People ing director hyun Policy Bureau (By virtue of Director, Ministry of position) Health and Welfare NonLee Jae-won Representative In addition, kead reflects the policy suggestions and advice of nonstanding directors on its standing Lawyer, Ulchi Law director (By Firm management through the production of a board operation manual and establishment of a policy appointment) suggestion management system. kead also makes great efforts to enhance understanding of kead's NonCho Choon-ja Chairman, business and significant pending issues by sending newsletters and regular publications. We have standing Chungnam Branch director (By of National Council appointof Homemaker's induced the participation of the non – standing directors in various fields including special lectures and ment) Classes legal advice for personnel; we have been supporting them to play a role as opinion leaders on issues NonLee Ho-seong Managing Director, standing the Korea Employers related to the disabled people's segment – which need public sympathy – through the contribution of director (By Federation appointcolumn articles, etc. ment) NonKim Jeong-rok Chairman, KAPPD standing director (By appointment) NonChoi Dong-ik Chairman, Korea standing Blind Union director (By appointment) NonGong Maria Professor of the standing Dept. of Rehabilitadirector (By tion and Welfare, Koappointrea National College ment) of Rehabilitation and Welfare NonHan Yong-gyu Principal, Gyeonggi standing Physical Education director (By High School appointment) 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅰ. Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled Management Strategy System Mission and Vision Mission and Vision Mission Help the employment of disabled kead strives to enhance the mandatory employment rate of the disabled – which can be considered its people who have difficulties getting a job by consolidating support social responsibility – according to its purpose of foundation, i.e., ensuring the financial independence for the public and private sectors. of disabled people by providing jobs to them and supporting employers' hiring of those disabled Vision An agency leading the achievement of 2.7% mandatory employpeople. In this context, we have established the organization's mission and vision as follows to secure ment by 2014 a better future : Our mission's target is the disabled having difficulties in getting a job, and we have made clear that the key factor to success in increasing the mandatory employment rate of the disabled is transforming companies. Concerning the vision, kead has set achievable objectives specifically in Mission Help disabled people who have difficulties in employment by consolidating support for the public and private sectors. pursuing them. Moreover, the vision indicates our will and intention to emerge as the best agency Agency leading 2.7% mandate employment achievement by 2014 related to employment for the disabled through high-quality service offering. Vision Create 54,000 jobs by 2014 Knowcustomer Dynamic Core values Core Values Excellence Action Professionalism Core values are the ones put in priority for the organization's operation and the creed shared by all our Strategic Consolidation Supply of disabled Shaping disabled objectives of corporate supporting service manpower with competitiveness people hiring environment employees. kead has set five core values as the code of conduct of all our employees, and we have Enhancement of substantiality Specialization of consultation and Activation of awareness been putting them into practice. of integrated evaluation service improvement supporting service Increase in subsidiary Expansion of Advancement of type standard employment network employment policy Strategic workplaces operation research Know-Customer Understanding of customers tasks Consolidation of Enhancement of substantiality Enhancement of basic assistive technology devices support in supportive employment statistics use Excellence Excellent service offering Expansion of support for assistant for work Strengthening of specialization of Consolidation of education/training for Professionalism Awareness of professionalism seriously disabled employers people Common Advancement of public agencies and enhancement Action kead person in action tasks of management efficiency Dynamic Dynamic organization Financial independence Sustainability management strategy through jobs kead perceives sustainability management – which considers the economic, environmental, and social issues in a balanced manner and seeks sustainability – as the driving force of kead's development. Our mid – and long – term management strategies established by converging the various opinions of key stakeholders set the top three strategic objectives and twelve strategic tasks for sustainability management from the perspectives of consumers(consolidation of corporate support service), suppliers(supply of disabled people manpower with competitiveness), and environment(shaping of employment conditions of the disabled). Disability awareness improvement Ⅰ. Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled 13 13 ●Sustainability Mgt. Strategy System Chart Consolidation of Supply of disabled Shaping Strategic corporate manpower disabled people hiring objectives supporting service with competitiveness environment Enhancement of substantiality Specialization of consultation Activation of awareness of integrated supporting service and evaluation service improvement Increase of subsidiary Expansion of employment network Advancement of employment standard workplaces operation policy research Strategic tasks Expansion of assistive technology Enhancement of substantiality Enhancement of basic statistics use devices support of supportive employment Expansion of support for Strengthening of specialization Consolidation of education/ assistant for work of seriously disabled people training for employers Marketing consolidation Contact Center establishment Support of developing countries Improvement in supporting Expansion of disabled Re-establishment of domestic companies hiring disable people manpower pool cooperative agency relationships Expansion of hiring expert network Vocational training development Enhancement of work efficiency Sustainable Job engineering technology strategic Creation of good quality of jobs Training and career development development tasks Enhancement of HR Job development to cope with aging Improvement of work facilities management efficiency Charge/encouragement subsidy Matching system improvement Expansion of fringe benefit system system reorganization Knowledge sharing and patent Expansion of investment in Responsibility in social contribution support disabled people training and ethical management Common Advancement of public agencies and enhancement of management efficiency tasks ●Process of Establishing Sustainability Strategic Tasks •Internal review data in each business segment •Re-arrangement of improvement/ innovation tasks •Media analysis, benchmarking •Review of management evaluation data, etc. •Analysis of relevance between trend and merits and demerits from the aspects of strategy, process/ Document function, infrastructure, HR, organizational structure, Analysis along with drawing strategy direction Relevance between impact and internal merits /demerits Establishment Significance Sustainability of Diagnosis by test strategy Sustainability interview by issue workshop Strategy Process •Carrying out interviews targeting 1-2 key persons in each business segment Relevance between •Interviews targeting key trend and stakeholder internal merits/ demerits •Drawing strategy direction thru relevance between impact and internal merits/demerits Stakeholder Opinion Survey •Questionnaire survey on major issues by sustainability category •1st phase: All employees •2nd phase: Stakeholders •S ignificance test: Test interest and impact Trend/Impact: KSA sustainability issue evaluation model S  takeholder Opinion Survey: Survey on stakeholder' opinions 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅰ. Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled Stakeholder Engagement kead has conducted communication activities including in-depth interviews and questionnaire surveys targeting key stakeholders to converge various stakeholders' opinions and significant issues through the publication of this sustainability management report. We have systematically identified stakeholders and key stakeholders through this research. We have described stakeholders' opinions and requirements and our efforts and achievements in the report. We shall improve the engagement process further such that stakeholders' various voices can be reflected. Research Purpose Targeting Stakeholders The stakeholder research – through which stakeholders' opinions are collected and analyzed – is essential to establishing sustainability management strategies and to deciding the contents of the report. The key tasks of this research are as follows: First is the materiality test for environment, ethical management, and social responsibility. Second is the evaluation of interest in sustainability management – related issues and performance. Third are other issue evaluation and collection of the voice of customers(VOC). This research has been conducted in association with an outside institution to collect and analyze objectively and effectively the voices of key stakeholder groups. Research Process Targeting Stakeholders Details of quantitative research kead has carried out the diagnosis of the social responsibility implementation level, internal staff Research method Online survey Research area Nationwide questionnaire survey, media analyses, and benchmarking based on ISO 26000 by requesting for Period Aug. 19 ~ Sept. 10, 2010 (for 23 days) internal and external environment analyses from an outside agency to draw sustainability management Effective samples 200 issues. Based on related issues drawn through the analyses, kead has conducted qualitative research Disabled people 50 on stakeholders and confirmed the kead-relevant issue list based on the research findings and carried out quantitative research. Corporate customers 50 Internal employees 26 Partner institutions 14 Government agencies 15 Step 1: Step 2: Step 3: Internal/external Qualitative Quantitative Underprivileged class 20 environment research research analyses Communities 25 Diagnose social Carry out due diligence with Develop qualitative guidelines responsibility implementation level development questionnaire Questionnaire survey Recruit and interview Data analysis on internal employees 2nd phase analysis based on Media analysis Analyze stakeholder' opinions reports and data Draw core issue pool Benchmarking and disclosing plan Confirm as stakeholder' key issue Ⅰ. Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled 15 15 External environmental issue? Quantitative Research Findings on Stakeholders Factors wherein the external The issues with the highest priority – according to the research on external environmental issues – are environment(trend) can affect kead’s various and consolidated customers' demands(disabled people, companies) followed by aging and management activities. employees' satisfaction and competency increase. For the internal environmental issues, employment support for the disabled, followed by customer satisfaction and accountability on external agreements had high priority. For the internal competency research, service development(new business), personnel Internal environmental issue? management, and manpower nurturing have been selected as important issues. Factors wherein kead can have an impact on the external environment In particular, concerns over the various and consolidated customer demands have been highest among (trend) the external environmental issues. Concerning the evaluation on kead's performance, consolidation of access to information has been evaluated relatively highly. In this research, for various and consolidated customer demands, a huge difference between concerns and performance evaluation has been noted; hence the need for improvement activities in the future. Issues requiring preferential response for low performance compared to concerns include increase in youth joblessness and irregular jobs, aging, and employment stability in small and medium – sized enterprises(SMEs). Based on the research, we have described our efforts to cope with such issues in this report, and we will reflect these on our future management strategies. * Stakeholder communication ● kead's Stakeholder Mapping Employees Labor-Management Council, workshop, junior • National • Central • Local Government • Other government board, internal mail based Assembly Government a local autonomous agencies on the work portal system, Ministry of Strategy & Finance entity Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights meeting Ministry of Health & Welfare Local autonomouse entity Commission Ministry of Public Adm. Local council National Human Rights ComCustomers On/Offline VOC channel, and Security Municipal and provincial mission meeting, public hearing, Ministry of Education, Science offices of education National Tax Services workshop and technology Public Procurement Service Ministry of Environment Small and Medium Business Government Policy suggestion and Adm. pending issues council, management performance report Other • Agencies jointly government arranging jobs Partner agencies institutions Joint research, knowledge Vocational training agency for Partner disabled people exchanges, business Broadcasting agency Contracted companies collaboration media Relevant colleges Community CSR(Corporate Social Responsibility) activities Ministry of • Board of directors Employment Employees • Internal Employees and Labor • Labor union Underprivileged Customer Community • FKTU, KCTU(labor unions) class • Overseas disabled people organizations • Disabled customers • Civil society-related NGOs • The aged • Corporate customers • General public • Foreign workers • Women, young people • General customers • Young jobless people (Trainees) • Disabled person organizations 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅰ. Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled Sustainability Management Issues Materiality test kead has examined stakeholders' various issues to put sustainability management into practice. We have reflected ISO26000(Social Responsibility Standard) on the materiality test process presented by GRI and have drawn the sustainability management issues. Based on the internal and external environment analyses and qualitative research on stakeholders, the relevant issues have been drawn. Moreover, through the quantitative research on stakeholders, we have measured the stakeholder's concerns regarding each issue. By measuring the impacts on kead's services by issue, we have ultimately evaluated materiality. kead has considered media analyses, benchmarking of advanced companies, and sustainability management standards and guidelines within the reporting period through preparation and connection stages to identify the sustainability management issues. To decide the priority of the issues collected *Relevance evaluation? through various channels, we have carried out the relevance test* and significance test**. kead has Evaluating issues considering the impacts conducted internal review on the key issues and confirmed the final issues through reporting to the on the short-term financial performance, relevance with the management strategy, management. In this report, kead focused on its activities concerning the major issues confirmed by status of responsiveness in the industry, the significance test. stakeholders' behaviors and concerns, social norm, and sustainability context Preparation stage Connection stage **Significance test? Value chain impact of Benchmarking of media Process wherein the key issues are decided sustainability management Stakeholder issue search advanced companies through tests based on stakeholders' diagnosis GRI G3 concerns and impacts by kead's decision making and activities Test object issue pool ***Accountability Relevance test by issue*** Relevance(5-part Materiality Test), ISO 26000: Relevance Materiality Test Significance test by issue**** ****Accountability, ISO 26000: Significance Key issue list Reporting Ⅰ. Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled 17 17 * Tailored training Means of Responding to Significant Issues A training program that enhances the employment rate of the disabled For various customers' demands identified as the foremost issues, kead offers employment support trainees by offering vocational training suitable for the individual firm's programs including tailored training* to disabled people customers and implements activities to requirement level and field. improve the working environment at the workplace for the disabled. For corporate customers, we **Subsidiary-type standard workplace operate systematic integrated support services and offer disabled people employment models When a company with difficulties including subsidiary-type standard workplace**. Significant issues related to disabled people in hiring the disabled establishes a subsidiary, this is a system that customers have been identified as employment support, trend of increasing seriously disabled promotes the disabled people's employment by acknowledging the people, and consolidation of accessibility of information. kead responds to each issue by establishing subsidiary's hiring of disabled people employment infrastructure, carrying out specialized training, building an online job arrangement as that of the parent company. system, etc. Materiality evaluation chart? kead also complies with the government's public policy through the implementation of management efficiency enhancement including business and function adjustment and improvement of personnel ① management system. With regard to the employee issues, kead develops a competency model for the employee's competency consolidation and operates a career development program. Through the reward system linked with competency and performance, we operate a personnel system wherein ② our employees can develop their capabilities and grow. We also operate a fringe benefit system such as extension of leave for child rearing to enhance employee satisfaction. kead has established a ③ cooperative relations network with local governments and vocational rehabilitation agencies through network agreements regarding issues of partner institutions. Moreover, we jointly carry out research, The chart is designed to put priority training/education, and job expo with the relevant partner institutions. to various issues, and it has marked impacts on the stakeholders and kead. The No. 1 area denotes the highest priority, and the No. 3 area, the lowest ●Significance Test Chart in 2010 priority. This report consists of issues centered on the No. 1 area. High Diversified and Consolidated Customer Needs Green: External Environment Trend Red: Impacts of kead on Society Support of Employment for Disabled People Blue: Internal Competency Issue Expansion of Service Responsibility Consolidation of Corporate Social Responsibility Increase in Importance of Employee Satisfaction Consolidation of Access to Information [Within Korea] Increase in Disabled People and Trend in Stakeholder Engagement Becoming Seriously Disabled People [Within Korea] Increase in Employment Stability Demand of SMEs Increase in Youth Unemployment and Non-Regular Positions, due to Growth Without Employment Increase in Demand for Transparency and Ethical Management Working Environment Improvement of Workplaces for Disabled People Aging Public Policy Formation and Implementation Deepening Gap between the Rich and Poor Prohibition of Discrimination Importance Increase in the Rights Increase in Risks of Merger and Abolition of Agencies and Business Reduction Medium and Roles of Partner Institutions of Disabled People PR (Improvement of Awareness on Disabled People) Expansion of Government's Various Evaluations Protection of Customer's Customer pressure Government Contro Personal Protection Consolidation Information Disabled People Hiring Model Development Service Quality Decline of Reliability on Organization Offering to and Research Data Dissemination Improvement Disabled Service People and [Within Korea] Birth Rate Decrease and Population Decline Development Companies Fierce Competition among Similar Agencies Accelerated Technology Development Human Resource Development (HRD) Infrastructure Expansion Corruption Diversification Management and Equal Opportunity Expansion Business Efficiency PR and Enhancement Industrial Relations Service Environmental Impacts Marketing Economic Achievements (Budget expenditure, fund stabilization, etc.) Globalization Contribution to Community Compliance with Social Laws and Regulations Leadership of the Management Responsibility on External Agreements Increase of Interest in Organizational Governance Strategy Planning and Implementation Organizational Culture Human Resource Stakeholder Engagement Management (HRM) Governance purchasing, contract Financial Management Freedom of Association and Collective Negotiation Low Medium High Impacts on kead's services and businesses 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅱ. Growing Together with thd Disabled People 19 Ⅱ 2010 Sustainability Management Report kead : Growing Together with the Disabled People 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅱ. Growing Together with thd Disabled People Employment Support for Disabled People Supported employment (car wash) Employment of the Seriously Disabled kead has been making huge efforts for disabled people's employment support and vocational rehabilitation since its establishment in 1990. As a result, the rate of mandatory employment of disabled people by firms rose from 0.43% in 1991 to 1.87% in 2009. Note, however, that the seriously disabled people – who account for over 34% – have great difficulties in getting a job despite our efforts. As of May 2010, the economic activity participation rate of the seriously disabled was 20.2%, a far cry from the 47.8% of the mildly disabled. The jobless rate of the former was 11.8%, which is very high, compared to the 5.4% of the mildly disabled. Accordingly, there is a need to shape the employment environment for the seriously disabled and to offer differentiated employment support services. Supported employment (assistants of restaurants) For the integrated employment of the seriously disabled, kead has been – since 1996 – implementing an employment project to support the seriously disabled in the mode of pre-assignment, post-training beyond a pre-training, post-assignment model. This program involves pre-assigning the seriously disabled to jobs and connecting them to general employment through intensive training by job instructors for 3~7 weeks. Each year, over 1,000 seriously disabled people complete this program; the rate of connection to employment was 68.3% in 2010. To expand the program, kead offers technical and financial support to private agencies wishing to implement the program, and we commission this project as well. Supported employment (caregiver) ●Status of Supported employment of Disabled People Category 2008 2009 2010 kead Completion 1,061 1,058 1,031 Employment 713 652 713 Commissioned Private Agency Completion 161 161 168 Employment 85 92 107 kead has endeavored for vocational competency evaluation to identify precisely the vocational merits and demerits of the seriously disabled and facilitate vocation selection. Currently, kead operates Vocational competency evaluation vocational competence evaluation centers at 15 branches, with 44 expert evaluators annually evaluating 6,000 disabled people on the average. Moreover, kead has developed 10 types of evaluation tools suitable for the Korean situation, and it uses and disseminates them. ●Status of Vocational Competency Evaluation Implementation Year 2008 2009 2010 No. of evaluated people 6,205 people 5,644 6,317 As a result of such efforts, about 58.9% of the disabled who were employed through our services are seriously disabled, and the rate is gradually rising. 21 Employment rate through Vocational Competency Development Training training kead offers various types of vocational competency development training and vocational rehabilitation 2008 80.4% services to about 2,500 people at five vocational competency development institutes(Ilsan, Busan, 2009 83.5% 2010 87.5% Daegu, Daejeon, Jeonnam) to nurture competitive disabled manpower. kead has also built a vocational training network with vocational training institutions so that disabled people can receive vocational training well. Through all this, we annually offer indirect vocational training services to about 1,000 people by subsidizing training expenses and handing down training Specialized training? techniques. Training offering specialized vocational competency development service considering the ●No. of People Who Received Vocational disability characteristics targeting the seriously disabled people who have difficulties Competency Development Training Services getting a job in the labor market. Category 2008 2009 2010 Total 3,919 4,228 4,232 Subtotal 2,537 2,434 2,632 Specialization training for people with hearing problems Direct training Vocational training 1,619 1,625 1,791 Vocational rehabilitation 918 809 841 Subtotal 1,382 1,794 1,600 Indirect training Vocational training by 488 400 396 public sector agencies Vocational training by 636 1,031 806 private sector agencies Training fees 258 363 398 *Training fee: Support within KRW 1 million per person within the scope of budget Nurturing specialized manpower kead offers about 70% of its total trainees to the seriously disabled, which are the underprivileged class in the labor market. In particular, for the 7 disability types that have difficulties in getting a job, kead conducts specialized training that has applied training techniques suitable for the disabled to enhance the training effects. Training Service kead offers systematic and professional training programs to foster specialized manpower that directly/indirectly carries out the services to promote employment of the disabled. We are engaged EDI behavior program in professional manpower nurturing business in the field of employment of the disabled, including counselors for vocational life of the disabled, vocational competency evaluators and job instructors. We also develop and operate training courses that can convey various expertise and technologies required in the employment sites. kead also carries out various training services to improve awareness on disabled people to improve desirable awareness of them, along with the employers and general public’s understanding of the disabled. We operate the EDI behavior program, a typical disability awareness improvement program, and support onsite training and cyber training according to the needs of each company that is interested in hiring disabled people. 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅱ. Growing Together with thd Disabled People Work Together Consolidation of Information Accessibility kead has been operating the nationwide network for disabled people’s employment that it has established so that disabled people and employers can more easily use the disabled people’s employment service. A total of 103 agencies including 15 kead branches, 5 vocational competency development institutes, and 83 joint agencies for the employment support business jointly use the disabled people employment information DB and provide high-quality employment information services to the disabled. www.worktogeter.co.kr Since November 2005, kead has been operating a disabled people employment portal dubbed “Work Together” through which the disabled can apply for jobs or employers can seek workers or both parties can search for the relevant information. Disabled people who seek jobs can be easily offered Certification of the Individual the information required for job and training through “Work Together” without visiting worksites. Information Protection Mark Employers can also easily use “Work Together” when they report disabled people employment charges, apply for employment subsidy, and report employment plans and implementation status reports. ●Status of Online Processing through Work Together as of 2010 Application for workers 1,252cases (7.7%) Application for work 3,480cases (21.4%) Implementation status report 5,467cases (33.7%) Charges report 2,670cases (16.4%) Application for employment subsidy 3,387cases (20.8%) Work Together is equipped with a real-time online job arrangement function as well as an information search function; thus, people can easily submit application forms to companies seeking workers. The employers can also suggest an interview online. Daily average visitors numbered 9,935 in 2010, with 3,596,777 people using Work Together annually. In 2011, Work Together is slated to develop and apply the functions of self-reporting type of paper test for vocational interest through painting, which can be conducted online; real-time test results can also be checked online. Therefore, customers’ access to information and convenience will be enhanced. To arrange jobs for the disabled, there are many cases wherein information on individual and companies is needed. Accordingly, information protection is very important when dealing with such data. kead carries out various information protection activities such as measures for the stability of Website and DB security so that customers can safely use Work Together. Consequently, we have gained certification for KAIT’s personal information protection mark(e-Privacy). 23 Tailored training, Canon Korea Creation of High-Quality Jobs kead operates about 70% of the trainees as those for tailored training to foster manpower suitable for firms’ demand. Tailored training results in higher training performance than general training in terms of employment rate and wage level; therefore, kead gradually expands the tailored training. For the creation of better jobs in particular, we implement tailored training linked with large-scale companies in a win-win strategy based on corporate social responsibility(CSR). ●Implementation Status of Tailored Training Category 2008 2009 2010 Tailored training rate 60.6% 70.3% 72.5% Employment rate 84.9% 86.3% 92.5% Number of people 529 people 688 people 750 people who completed *Rate of large-scale companies in tailored training in 2010: 40% No. of people who completed tailored training When a company wishing to hire disabled people requests for basic requirements, job requirements, and no. of people to hire at our branch or a Vocational Competency Development Institute, job analysis is carried out by the Vocational Competency Development Institute concerned. Based on the analysis 750peoples results, training programs are designed, and trainees are recruited and selected in consultation with the company. In other words, tailored training is carried out. The tailored training period is 1 month 688peoples to 6 months, and it is conducted in line with actual job performance as much as possible; the training can be regarded as a good channel to get a job in a large-scale company for the disabled. 529peoples ●Tailored Training Operation Process Application for tailored Signing an agreement for training tailored training Analysis of jobs (kead branch or vocational competency development ▶ (Company→vocational competency development ▶ required by the company 2008 2009 2010 institute) institute) ▶ Evaluation Company required Student recruitment and Training participant companies (Employment linkage or re-training) ▶ (ordered) jobcentered training ▶ selection • Booil Information • CJ Telenix ▶ • CJ FoodVille Employed through taiConstant management Follow-up guidance after • LG Philips lored training ▶ being employed ▶ and recall-training, as necessary • Hyosung kead • Samsung Electronics In 2010, we conducted tailored training for 291 disabled people along with 17 large-scale companies • ASE KOREA including Samsung Electronics and Samsung Electro-Mechanics in 2010. • Samsung Electro -Mechanics • Samsung SDS • Samsung SDI 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅱ. Growing Together with thd Disabled People Improvement of the Working Environment at the Workplace Hiring Disabled People Before and after automatic Improvement of Workplace Facilities door installation kead supports the improvement and supplementation of workplace and work facilities for workplaces where disabled people are hired, so that they do not experience inconveniences in vocational life, due to their disabilities. For example, we subsidize the cost of installation of a ramp that can replace stairs, toilet remodeling, and installation of automatically opening and closing doors for disabled workers who have difficulties walking. ●Status of Support of Facilities and Equipment at Workplaces Hiring the Disabled Category 2008 2009 2010 Companies to be assisted 192 138 163 (no. of companies) Assisted amount 1,419 1,268 1,339 Such support services for facilities employing disabled people contribute to new job creation for the disabled and employment retention by shaping the company’s disabled people hiring environment. Support in the form of employment facility funds In 2010, disabled workers in workplaces that benefited from such support numbered 588, with KRW 1,339 million in support provided to 163 companies(2.2%) out of a total of 7,305 companies hiring disabled people. Support in the Form of Assistants for Disabled Workers Some seriously disabled people cannot smoothly carry out their vocational life due to restrictions in everyday life activities. kead supports one-to-one matching service for those seriously disabled people who have difficulties in carrying out supplementary work including paper work because of disabilities although they have the core competencies required for the work. This project has offered the service to 47 and 225 seriously disabled people in 2009 and 2010, respectively, since the project was adopted in 2009 as a pilot project, contributing greatly to their adaptation to vocational life. In January 2011, we completed the evaluation and selection of the object and launched the service in February 2011. Service to support an assistant for disabled workers ●Details of Assistant Services for Disabled People Retardation ①S  upplementary work support including computer use-related work encephalopathy performance ②S  upport for grabbing an object or moving it, which can consume excessive time due to disability, or support functions that cannot be carried out in performing core work ③ Support for moving including wheelchair within working hours ④ Answering the telephone related to the main work or manual filing of documents Vision ① Technical support such as presentation of reporting of work ② Work-related support such as reading and writing by proxy, Braille transcribing, etc. ③ Information search in relation to the work including the Internet, newspaper, specialized book, etc. ④ Assistance in relation to the schedule including lecturing and training relevant to work Hearing& Language  ① Sign language interpretation in the case of conversing with a normal colleague or a superior ② Support in relation to the schedule including lecturing, training, etc., relevant to the work ③A  ssistance in telephone receiving and conversation recording relevant to the work 25 Illustration of common use Assistive Technology Device Support device kead promotes employment and employment stability by supporting assistive technology devices* for the disabled who suffer from difficulties in company life due to functional decline and loss. This program includes supporting common use and tailored assistive technology devices, apparatus development, and information offering through financial resources coming from lottery funds. ●Details of Assistive Technology Device Support Program Information terminal for visually disabled people Category Details Common use assistive kead buys assistive technology devices distributed in the market, and technology device support supports employers hiring the disabled in the form of such. Illustration of tailored Tailored assistive kead provides support in the form of assistive technology devices device technology device support that cannot be purchased in the market by having the equipment produced(by suppliers) in a tailored manner. Assistive technology Development of new assistive technology devices through device development development cost support(paying 80% of the development cost as a service project) Information offering, etc. Assistive technology device fair, expo, mobile exhibition, experience program, seminar and information offering Automatic movement device for a working chair When a company hiring the disabled and a vocational training institution apply for the support of assistive technology device at our branch and Vocational Competency Development Institute, the decision to support is made through professional consultation and evaluation. kead HQ then purchases Employment retention effect and produces through suppliers to provide the equipment to the disabled. Percentage Beneficiary of of disabled the assistive ●Organizations Implementing the Project people technology device program HQ Assistive Technology Division of the Supervision 64.3% 84.2% Employment Support Bureau 2010 kead’s employment information Affiliated 5 vocational competency development Tailored equipment support system data institutions institutes ※ Long service rate in 2010 15 branches Common use equipment support Satisfaction survey results kead provides support in the form of some 7,000 units of assistive technology devices annually to Effectiveness Productivity Contribution businesses hiring the disabled. In particular, it offers tailored equipment suitable for specific disability indicator improvement to productivity type and working environment increases. Before use 2.75% 2.75% After use 4.06% 4.03% ●Results of Assistive Technology Device Support Improvement 47.6% 46.5% (units, million KRW) *Satisfaction survey results on the assistive Category 2008 2009 2010 Total년 technology service(‘08, Korea Data Network) Total 6,658 7,807 8,192 22,657 Common use devices 5,592 5,752 5,745 17,089 Tailored devices 1,066 2,055 2,447 5,568 Cost 5,515 6,863 6,227 18,595 The employment retention rate of the beneficiaries of assistive technology devices was 84.2%(general employment: 64.3%). Productivity and working speed improved by 47.6% and 45.8%, respectively, as a result of the program satisfaction survey, implying that the program is very effective. 26 2010 Sustainability 2010 Sustainability Management Report Management Report Ⅲ 2010 Sustainability Management Report kead : Growing Together with Corporate Customers Ⅲ.Growing 한국장애인고용공단_지속가능경영보고서 Together with Corporate Customers 27 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅲ. Growing Together with Corporate Customers Employment Service for Companies Integrated Support Service Integrated Support Service Diagnosis Manual There are some companies that want to know about the method and kead’s support when they want to hire disabled people. kead has adopted – and has been using since 2009 – the integrated support service for more efficient and integrated support for companies. The integrated support service assists companies concerning all matters required for hiring disabled people in an integrated manner based on employment diagnosis as an advanced service promoting companies’ employment of disabled people. service process Basic diagnosis Job diagnosis Selection of suitable job Roadmap for company support Diagnosis of value system added productivity Establishment of • Operation of integrated service pilot projects system • Standard manual Expanded • Education to improve aware• Recruitment agent program • Facility loan Employment development implementation ness on disabled people • Seriously disabled people • Standard workplace • Reorganizaby 15 branches Operation tion plan • Offering information related to suporting program • Assistive technology support Stabilization disability discrimination law • Pilot employment program • Production system of TFT to • Forming reorganize stage • Offering employment stability • Tailored training program improvement consulting empathy with corporate all employees Implemenprogram (Use of specialized support tation ’11~’12 • Convenience facility support, outside agencies) stage diagnosis consulting results system etc. Adoption stage ’10 Design ✚ stage ’09 Benefit analysis on the employment of disabled people ’08 Agreement signing ceremony Mandatory Employment Implementation Guidance for employment enhancement Korea requires companies with 50 or more workers to hire disabled people. kead offers various services to increase disabled people’s employment by companies covered by the mandatory employment. Specifically, kead releases the list of companies with low rate of employment of the disabled to the press and media, thereby emphasizing corporate social responsibility. Moreover, kead induces disabled people’s employment by simultaneously and intensively supporting know-how on the hiring of disabled people. In particular, we greatly expanded the target companies for mandatory employment implementation guidance to mainly large-scale companies in 2010. Category 2009 2010 Ratio of disabled workers to full-time workers of companies Scope of list of release Public sector: Institutions with Public sector: Institutions with less covered by mandatory employobjects less than 1% employment rate than 1% employment rate ment between 2004 and 2009 Private sector: 0%, 300 people Private sector: Less than 0.5%, 300 or more people or more 25% 22.27% No. of companies targeted 182 468 17.36% for notice in advance 20% 17.86% No. of companies solving the 113 176 15% 13.59% low employment rate 10% 9.10% No. of lists of released 69 292 7.46% companies (public: 20, private: 49) (public: 17, private: 275) 4.55% 5% 3.62% No. of jobs created 132 people 223 people 1.10% (no. of seriously disabled (seriously disabled people: 26) (seriously disabled people: 57) 0% ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 people employed) compred compared compared compared compared to 04 to 05 to 06 to 07 to 08 Increase at anytime Increase in disabled people 29 Status of Support of Subsidiary-Type Standard Workplace established companies The subsidiary – type standard workplace establishment support service is a new means of implementing Parent name Subsidiary type standard workplace the system of mandatory employment of disabled people, which was devised to support the fulfillment POSCO POSWITH of corporate social responsibility(CSR) through disabled people employment. The service aims to UBASE UBASE UNITY provide good-quality jobs to the seriously disabled. When a company(parent company) covered by Korea Nazarene Dream & Challenge the mandatory employment establishes a subsidiary equipped with certain qualifications, the disabled University people hired by the subsidiary are regarded as those hired by the parent company. In other words, the Ellimbms ELIBS Insung Medical Insung Dream disabled hired by the subsidiary are counted as the parent company’s disabled people employment rate. Foundation This is a new employment model through which companies and disabled people can benefit mutually, NHN Nvisions and it was legally enacted in 2008. Jeju Animal Theme Nanuri Park The establishment and operation of this type of workplace can be the most desirable social contribution Catholic Academy Pyeonghwa Areum for companies considering productivity since the service is designed to offer jobs continually, not just Seowon Distribution TOPWITH temporarily. Hyundai Amis Amis Staffs Yuplus Support of employment Supply of disabled Samyang Food Samyang THS cost for disabled people manpower pool Joeun System Joeun Pro Sourcing Facility loans, and support of Samsung SDS Open Hands convenience facilities and assistive Offering suitable disabled manpower Himchan Hospital HIMCHANWITH technology devices S1 S1 CRM Subsidiary type standard workplace NVisions established by NHN Employment subsidy for disabled people Offering tailored training (employment of visually disabled people) 300,000-500,000 won per Implementation of tailored disabled person training for company-required jobs Corporate income tax break Reduction of corporate income tax for 4 years, since company establishment (2011) Since 2008 when the service was adopted, 33 large-scale companies including POSCO, NHN, Samsung SDA, and Samsung S1 signed agreements to establish these subsidiary-type standard workplaces, and 16 of them have completed such workplaces. This type of workplace will take root as an alternative to POSWITH established by POSCO lead smoothly the employment of seriously disabled people in the future as well. (Intellectually disabled people) ●No. of disabled people employed annually ●Status of budget support from 2008 to 2010 405 Year ‘08년 ‘09년 ‘10년 Total 212 Signing 8 11 14 33 MOU 129 Established companies 7 5 4 16 Establishment underway 1 6 10 17 ‛08 ‛09 ‛10 Subsidy Companies 3 5 6 14 for establish No, of employed Subsidy amount 2.2 3.77 3.91 9.88 -ment disabled people at (billion KRW) subsidiaries 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅲ. Growing Together with Corporate Customers Financial Support for Companies Status of employment Employment subsidy* subsidy SUPPORT kead offers a certain amount of subsidy to employers hiring disabled people exceeding the mandatory 441,546 employment rate(2.7%) to promote the stability of company life of disabled people and to induce their 438,113 hiring. The employment subsidy actually accounts for 3/4 of kead’s service budget, helps companies hiring the disabled immensely, and plays an important role in creating and retaining jobs for disabled 334,799 people in Korea. 152,050 ●Status of Employment Subsidy Support 149,045 115,353 Category 2008 2009 2010 Subsidy amount (million KRW) 115,353 149,045 152,050 No. of beneficiary companies 5,727 6,889 7,305 No. of disabled people 334,799 441,546 438,113 ’08 ’09 ’10 benefitting annually Subsidy amount (million KRW) No. of disabled people benefitting annually kead has reduced the subsidy payment frequency from six months to three months for subsidy applying employers and has increased the number of payments from two to five weekly; thus contributing to the new hiring of disabled people and to the increase in the number of years of service of the disabled in companies. By simplifying the subsidy application procedure, kead has adopted the E-application system and improved the system function. All recognized authorization institutions’ authorization can be used, and the documents to be attached have been greatly reduced so that companies can easily apply for subsidy. Consequently, the electronic application rate for subsidy has been rising sharply from 12.3% in 2008 to 26.8% in 2009 and 44.5% in 2010. We also minimize the illicit and illegal beneficiary rate by consolidating the prevention activity of those cases. E-application rate of employment subsidy Financing the Cost of Facilities Installation at Workplaces Employing Disabled People 44.5% kead gives loans to an employer to cover the installation cost including working facilities, auxiliary facilities, and convenience facilities related to the employment of disabled people: within KRW 50 million 26.8% per disabled person and KRW 1.5 billion per workplace with 3% interest rate per annum for 10 years' repayment(5years' grace period and 5years' even amount installment repayment). 12.3% ●Status of Financing Loans to Cover Cost of Installing Disabled People Facilities (Unit: places, million won) Category 2008 2009 2010 No. of supported 64 58 48 ’08 ’09 ’10 companies Subsidy amount 9,639 7,935 7,580 (million KRW) Illicit/illegal subsidy beneficiary rate 2008년 0.14% 2009년 0.07% 2010년 0.02% 31 Standard Workplace Agreement signing ceremony to establish subsidiary-type kead provides financial assistance to establish standard workplaces to encourage multiple number of standard workplace of STX workplaces employing the seriously disabled people free of charge. The standard workplace is one equipped with convenience and production facilities required for hiring disabled people and where more than 30% of the total workers are disabled people, half of whom are seriously disabled people. Through kead’s free assistance, 15 – 20 standard workplaces are newly established annually, and about 250 (seriously disabled people: 125) disabled people are newly hired. The standard workplace plays a huge role in expanding and stabilizing the employment of seriously disabled people whose employment is difficult. For large-scale companies, kead supports the establishment of subsidiary – type standard workplaces; thus simultaneously seeking the fulfillment of corporate social responsibility, productivity retention, and good – quality jobs for the disabled. PR Center of Products Made by Standard Workplace of Haman Service Area on Namhae Expressway ●Status of SUPPORT for Standard Workplaces Category General Subsidiary type 2008 No. of companies 15 7 Subsidy amount (million KRW) 7,415 2,200 2009 No. of companie 20 5 Subsidy amount (million KRW) 7,760 3,775 2010 No. of companie 16 4 Subsidy amount (million KRW) 6,159 3,910 kead offers various forms of support for management stability as well as establishment support for standard workplaces. A tax break system that reduces corporate income tax and wherein PAYE(personal income tax) can be reduced by 50% is slated to be implemented in 2011. kead also carries out various activities including sales promotional activities for product sales support. Subsidiary-type standard workplace BI ●Standard Workplace BI ●Meeting for Employers of Standard Workplaces Hiring Disabled People Nationwide 32 2010 Sustainability 2010 Sustainability Management Report Management Report Ⅳ 2010 Sustainability Management Report Efforts to Establish Employment Infrastructure for Disabled People Ⅳ.Efforts to Establish Employment 한국장애인고용공단_지속가능경영보고서 Infrastructure for Disabled People 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅳ. Efforts to Establish Employment Infrastructure for Disabled People Awareness Improvement Regarding Disabled People Presentation to support Awareness Improvement Activities for Firms companies kead is engaged in books and cyber education content supply as well as dispatch of awareness improvement education instructors to change the awareness of employers and colleagues regarding disabled people. For the awareness improvement education regarding disabled people, kead has developed a trainee – centered program beyond simply providing education. kead personnel let companies use the program. The awareness improvement education using the EDI Behavior Program contributes to the hiring of disabled people, with good responses from companies. We have been carrying out education targeting 10,000 people annually, and we will contribute to the building of a world without discrimination on disability by developing and disseminating various subject matters and channels for the improvement of awareness regarding the disabled. Service Info leaflets Awareness Improvement Activities for the General Public kead makes great efforts to address the general public’s prejudice with regard to the hiring of disabled people through PR activities for the general public. Through such activities, we want to expand awareness that disabled people can also be self-reliant if an opportunity is offered to them. In addition, we introduce and carry out PR on the various services offered by kead to increase the employment of the disabled. ●PR Activities to Address the Prejudice Regarding Disabled People Press releases related to Category Details Frequency employment Publication of monthly 10,000 per month 10,000 magazine per month Media campaign Activities to address prejudice through TV, radio 2 stories or more per year Public contest of works Prejudice awareness improvement works on disabled Once people including essay, poster, etc. per year Street campaign Enhancement of general public’s awareness of 20 or more campaigns employment of disabled people per year ●kead’s Services Introduction Activities Category Activities Production of PR video to introduce kead’s Presentation and distribution in various employment services promotional events Production of service info leaflets and Introduction of kead’s services for employers brochures Distribution of press releases Service PR targeting the general public Support of press/media coverage Broadcasting activities including cases of disabled people employment 35 Research and Development Research and development Policy and Employment Model Development kead’s Employment Development Institute carries out research contributing to the advancement of the disabled people employment policy and service specialization through R&D. For policy development research, the Institute evaluates the policies and services for the advancement of the employment policy for disabled people and presents alternatives. For the employment model research, the Institute develops programs and models for specialization in employing disabled people and implements a pilot project to create jobs for seriously disabled people. ●Research Procedure Academic forum of panelists employing the disabled Research demand survey Research Establishment (Ministry of advisory meeting, Research project of research plan Employment and Interim and final evaluation and Labor, kead HQ) ▶ and deliberation ▶ ▶ reporting report publication on the plan and research conference project selection ●Status of Key Project Implementation Category 2008 2009 2010 Seminar for disabled people employment policy R&D projects 30 22 23 Policy forums 4 4 5 Presentation of R&D projects 1 1 1 Publication of journal 2 3 4 (Disability and Employment) ●Statistics on Disabled People Employment Significant publication kead set up a department in charge of survey and statistical work in May 2007 to meet the survey and statistical demand, which becomes the base of policy establishment. Since then, kead has been continuously operating the service to create and manage disabled people employment data for rational policy and service development and expansion of generated statistical data use. Category Fact-finding Panel survey Fact-finding Statistics on survey of on the survey of firm’s disabled people disabled employment employment people’s of disabled of disabled economic people people activities Outline Identification of Identification of Identification of Collection of disabled people change factors in firm’s disabled statistics related to participating disabled people’s people hiring disabled people in economic economic factors activities activities Survey method Survey of 8,000 Annual tracking Survey of Collection and registered survey of about about 2,000 processing of disabled people 5,000 panelists companies every domestic and two years international statistics on disabled people 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅳ. Efforts to Establish Employment Infrastructure for Disabled People External Cooperation – Within Korea Agreement to Enhance Employment of Disabled People kead leads the employment of the disabled and creates high – quality jobs by signing agreements to enhance the employment of disabled people by large-scale companies with low employment rate of the disabled. The signing of such an agreement began in 2005, and kead has signed with 224 companies as of December 2010. The number of disabled people working for large – scale companies through the agreement was pegged at 3,325. The Employment and Labor Minister awards the True Company Award to companies that sincerely 2010 True Company Awards carried out the employment of disabled people after signing the agreement and produces and distributes Grand Prize Lotte Shopping a best practices collection. These cases are widely acknowledged as a significant means of implementing Gold Prize Sungwoo Hitech the large– scale company’s social responsibility in sustainability management aside from being selected Silver Prize Taesan LCD as an ILO model case. Bronze Prize KOTRA Bronze Prize Samyang Food Network Agreement kead has built a cooperative network with local governments and vocational rehabilitation institutions to prevent the duplication and omission of employment service for disabled people and has offered comprehensive and effective services through cooperation with the relevant institutions. In the network 2010 agreement signing building project, which began in 2004, 795 institutions have participated as of December 2010. Detailed ceremony to enhance employment information on the participating institutions is published annually to share resources and information in the regions concerned. Moreover, the information system on the employment of disabled people as maintained by kead is released to network participant institutions to enable common use of the information. By organizing working-level subcommittees by theme, joint projects are implemented by region, with a best practices contest held annually to find and disseminate effective job creation cases. This way, kead plays the role of coordinator as a central network agency for the network to function effectively. Exchanges with Relevant Partner Institutions The agreement to enhance the employment of disabled people or network agreement signed with Signing the MOU with the Seoul Office of Education companies and community welfare centers has direct impacts on the disabled people’s employment. The exchange agreement with other various institutions indirectly helps the employment of disabled people. As of the end of 2010, institutions signing the exchange agreements numbered 104, and they include educational institutions, press/media companies, research institutes, companies, and other disability-relevant organizations. The details of exchange ranged from joint research and education, joint hosting of job fair, and reporting for awareness improvement regarding disability to kead PR and co-implementation of vocational rehabilitation programs and contribution to communities. kead reorganized the management guidelines for exchange services in 2008 to be equipped with practicality as well as formality; it also consolidated the review of the need before signing an agreement and mandated the quarterly reporting of detailed implementation. Through all this, we encourage Training Agreement Signing earnestly fulfilling the agreed upon content while controlling unnecessary agreements. Ceremony with the National Rehabilitation Center 37 External Cooperation – International Cooperation International Development Cooperation with ILO International Development Cooperation Invitational training (2008) kead has been carrying out cooperative projects with the International Labor Organization(ILO) since 2005 to contribute to the development of disabled people employment in developing countries in the Asia – Pacific region. The cooperative programs implemented under the annual LOA between kead and ILO focus on the advancement of employment policies and preparation of adequate vocational training system so that disabled people in the Asia-Pacific region can have good-quality jobs. Toward this end, kead conducted training by inviting each country’s government policymakers, public officials, employers, training instructors of disabled people, and disability organizations’ representatives. kead also signed an MOU for sisterhood relationship establishment with Thailand, Mongolia, and Sri Lanka at the request of their governments; since then, it has constantly been implementing exchanges such as local technology consulting and equipment support. Sri Lanka invitational training ●Major Accomplishments during the period 2008 ~ 2010 2008 2009 2010 Invitational training • Sri Lanka(once) • Mongolia(twice) • Mongolia(once) • Mongolia(once) • Thailand(once) • Sri Lanka(once) • Fiji(once) • Sri Lanka(once) Local technology • Mongolia(once) • Mongolia(once) • Mongolia(once) consulting • Thailand(once) • Sri Lanka(once) Equipment support •Mongolia(41 units of • Mongolia(47 units of Visit of Tunisian public official equipment in 17types) equipment in 9 types) delegation Others • Production of cases • Research on integrated • Interim evaluation collection of disabled education/training of of sisterhood relation people’s employment disabled people projects Membership in the UN Global Compact In March 2009, kead became a member of the UN Global Compact for the third time as a semigovernment agency in Korea. In April 2009, kead became a member of the Global Compact Network Korea, and the Employment and Labor Minister, the president of kead, and secretary-general of the Declaration of membership in Global Compact Network Korea declared kead’s membership and 10 major principles to be observed in UN Global Compact (2009) September 2009. By the end of 2009, kead attended the International Labor Seminar of the UN Global Compact, Korea – China – Japan Round Table Conference, and human rights management courses. In 2010, kead inspected its sustainability, consolidated communication with stakeholders, and made great efforts to practice the UN Global Compact principles. Implementation of UN CRPD kead will comply with Article 32(Efforts to Share Including Integration, Information, and Experience of Disabled People) of the Agreement of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 38 2010 Sustainability 2010 Sustainability Management Report Management Report Ⅴ. Growing 한국장애인고용공단_지속가능경영보고서 Together with the Disabled People 39 Ⅴ 2010 Sustainability Management Report kead : Valuing Talented Personnel 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅴ. Valuing Talented Personnel Employee Competency Consolidation Training Model personnel of kead kead nurtures specialized personnel in line with its model personnel by offering various training Person Person opportunities to all employees. with equipped right values with prime expertise ●Training fees per person (units, thousand KRW) kead's model personnel Year 2008년 2009년 2010년 Person 액Total training expenses 353,974 343,770 293,939 Continuously developing challenging the future with Training expenses per person 553 548 483 person creativity and cooperation Key Direction in Conducting Training kead has prepared a human resources development roadmap for annual training to enhance the employee competency level. We have been identifying the training needs of our employees and reflecting them on our training courses prior to the establishment of education/training plans since 2009. ●Mid and Long-term Training Roadmap Details of Training Courses (results of training needs identification) ▶ 03. Making training take root Category Common Competency item Customer service Course 6 ▶ 02. Enhancement of training effectiveness • Constant renewal of training courses • Making training system take root • Securing internal training competency (CS) improvement _ Organization on overall operation of training competency system planning and evaluation Communication 5 • Building training results evaluation and improvement feedback system • Consolidation of linkage Improvement in 4 01. Establishment of implementation between training and HR system training system • Enhancement of competency Professionalism 12 based training system use improvement • Making member needs _ Diagnosis of insufficient competency and training system development Mgt Strategic thinking 4 survey systematic _ Systematization of personal competency consolidation competency • Establishment of educational management through training Improvement in 2 system and training system base by field • Fostering internal instructors and making decision making _ Selection of intensified training OJT solid by position/job Senior management 2 _ Preparation for internal competency common training base consolidation _ Activation of newcomer training Job Corporate 5 SUPPORTING JOB GROUP competency Disabled people 6 2009~2010 2011~2012 After 2013 training job group Disabled people hiring 16 job group Competency Development R&D job group 14 Planning/Supporting 31 job group kead has established an employee competency model through professional consulting in 2008 in an effort to develop human resources effectively. Based on the model, we are constantly conducting training for the development of the required competency of our employees. We also strive to strengthen employee competency through training by letting departments in charge of projects by field prepare for training courses for specialized training by job field. Classification of competency Definition of competency Common competency Essential competency to implement kead’s management objectives and strategy execution Management competency Competency required of a leader or a manager Job competency Knowledge and technology required in job execution 41 Results of training courses Operation of Training Courses by Hierarchy(Position) by hierarchy (position) kead operates training courses by hierarchy(position) to nurture work competency and knowledge Training No. of Year Course suitable for the position. The past group training-centered type has been changed since 2007 to on/ method trainees 2008 On Line 1 15 offline blended learning or online training. As a result, training efficiency is improving. B/L 2 58 2009 B/L 2 42 Operation of Point(Learning Hours) Completion System 2010 On Line 32 57 kead operates a point(learning hours) completion system to consolidate the employee’s self-driven B/L : Blended Learning development. All our employees can achieve the individual – targeted learning hours(points) annually by receiving points set according to reading, attending training, or seminar and training instructor activities. When an employee does not complete the required annual points, the evaluation of the Learning details per employee department concerned can be adversely affected. for the last 3 years <2008> Career Development Program(CDP) Operation Year Objective Performance (points) (points) kead has adopted in 2010 a career development program(CDP) focusing on job – specific personnel Grade 3 35 45 or higher to cement kead’s status as an agency specializing in disabled people employment by ensuring Grade 4 30 46 professionalism, meeting the desired growth from the individual employee aspect, and securing or lower outstanding personnel boasting of expertise and professionalism from the organizational aspect. Administrative 25 34 job application <2009> Year Objective Performance (points) (points) Grade 3 35 40 or higher Grade 3 30 42 Career development stage Details of career development or higher Master Grade 1 Stage wherein the business direction and strategy are set and Administrative 25 30 implemented through strategic and comprehensive business job application competency Stage wherein professional competency as nurtured and developed according to abilities and aptitude is displayed and performance is Grade 2급 generated <2010> Principal Objective Performance Stage wherein professional competency is greatly displayed, Grade 3 50hours 61.4 i.e., management mindset is improved, and work competency is demonstrated as a working person by playing the role of aiding ※Although learning hours were managed Senior planning job for higher positions and a leading/fostering role for lower Grade 4 positions by position by converting learning hours into points until 2009, it has been changed to the mode of managing actual learning hours by Junior Grade 5 Stage wherein professional competency, which plays a role as a front position since 2010. line worker, is established by accumulating job experience and expertise Stage wherein basic knowledge is obtained, i.e., job-related knowledge and technology are obtained, and future career is explored through OJT 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅴ. Valuing Talented Personnel Enhancement of Employee Satisfaction 2010 employee group training Status of kead Employees No. of employees by position원 executives – 2 people/ employees – 607 people Gender ratio Male – 401(65.8%)/ Female – 208(34.2%) Female manager ratio 7 people(manager or higher) Disabled people employment ratio 116 people(19.0%) Employment type Regular position – 609 people Age 30 or younger(19 people), 31~40 (305 people), 41~50(217 people), 51 or older(68 people) kead prohibits discrimination in human resource(HR) management on grounds of education background, gender, age, religion, and disability. We are always careful about equality and fairness in HR management so as not to place women or disabled people at a disadvantage; thus realizing the diversity of human resources along with social responsibility as a public agency. Competency and Performance-based HR Operation kead actualizes competency and performance-based HR management through which all employees can *Internal position contest A system of appointing employees in the display their competencies and can grow through a remuneration system linked with competency and lower hierarchy to the upper hierarchy posiperformance evaluations. In particular, we induce sound competition among manager-level personnel tions depending on their competency and performance in relation to the positions of HQ for performance creation through the separate operation of duty and position, internal position contest, division manager or higher open – type position, and job class system. **Open-type position kead offers fair and equal opportunities in promotion and self-development to all employees by adopting System of attracting external experts to conthe employees’ code of ethics. For the individual employee’s performance and achievement, we provide solidate expertise remuneration based on a fair HR evaluation system. Fringe Benefit System Operation kead pays childbirth encouragement subsidies to pregnant employees and employees who delivered a baby(including spouse) to solve the low birth problem and reduce the child rearing burden. This way, kead supports pregnant women’s company life. We also plan to operate a maternity protection room in 2011. In addition, we have extended the leave of absence for child rearing to 3 years and have included the period in one’s number of years of service and have encouraged the continuing payment system based on selective welfare. This way, kead actively follows the government’s action to cope with low birth rate. We provide assistance in school tuition for middle and high school students and offer no-interest loans to college students according to government criteria. Likewise, we actively support the employee’s self-development through the training and operation of degree courses at domestic and international training institutions. Moreover, multiple welfare systems including collective accident insurance and selective welfare system and accommodation for employees who have no family or relatives in the local area are offered. 43 Industrial Relations One heart volunteer service Status of Labor Union of Labor-Management kead establishes industrial relations based on laws and principles, observes labor-related laws and regulations, and guarantees labor union members’ free labor union activities. The Labor Ministry-related labor union of the kead branches was launched on December 12, 1994; grade 3 or lower employees of each department except HR Dept., Planning Dept., Auditor’s Office, and Secretary’s Office can be union members. As of the end of 2010, the number of labor union members stood at 457, and the labor union member ratio was 85.3%. Re-establishment of Labor-Management View kead has re-established the view of labor-management in October to lay down the foundation for Labor-Management social meeting by region advanced labor-management culture through internal competency concentration and establishment of trust relations via the sharing of win-win industrial relations values. We established our view of industrial relations as ‘Labor and Management are united, not two separate entities’, and 3 major philosophic principles, ‘Trust and Respect’, ‘Participation and Cooperation’, and ‘Self-Control and Responsibility’, and we use them. Cooperative Industrial Relations The management of kead acknowledges the labor union as a partner in enhancing competitiveness. Actually, kead operates joint organizations and joint projects to enhance employee satisfaction and fulfills its social responsibility through labor – management social contribution activities. We also share Specialized Advisory Group of industrial relations pending management issues and other significant issues on/offline, continually hold labor– management meetings by region wherein the working-level people of labor and management visit their organizations to listen to employees’ grievances, and operate the labor-management mobile grievance machinery. Consolidation of Labor-Management Communication The government’s request to make public agencies’ management efficient could have brought about conflicts between labor and management in 2010. Nonetheless, kead built labor– management partnership based on mutual trust by overcoming pending conflict factors between labor and management such as downsizing and wage freeze through labor – management communication. Specifically, kead held labor – management meetings by touring its branches nationwide, conducted grievances counseling, and regularly held the labor – management council meeting on pending management issues. To establish a communication culture through regular meetings between labor and management, we have been designating a Communication Day by branch or other institutions at least once a month since November 2010. To secure professionalism in labor-management relations, we have appointed personnel possessing certified labor attorney certification and former HR Dept. manager, etc., as advisers for labor– management relations, and we receive relevant advice from them. We have been holding labor – management advisory meetings since December 2010. We plan to inspect continually and achieve the tasks to advance labor – management relations by holding the meetings quarterly beginning 2011. 44 2010 Sustainability 2010 Sustainability Management Report Management Report Ⅵ 2010 Sustainability Management Report kead : Fulfilling its Responsibilities as a Public Agency Ⅵ. Fulfilling 한국장애인고용공단_지속가능경영보고서 its Responsibilities as a Public Agency 45 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅵ. Fulfilling its Responsibilities as a Public Agency Enhancement of Management Efficiency Reorganization of Business and Functions kead has constantly made great efforts to enhance management efficiency. In 2010, we abolished the honorary consultant system, which was deemed to be low in terms of effectiveness; instead, we have backed integrated support services for companies and assistant for work services in full swing. This way, we have operated our services through selection and concentration and have completely reorganized corporate support services as a tailored system to enhance business efficiency. We have strengthened professionalism in survey and research by actively using outside experts in the policy research field and by expanding the weight of employment development tasks with high practical use. In addition, kead has implemented job coordination and function reorganization. HR Management System Improvement kead has adopted the open-type position and internal position contest to strengthen organizational competitiveness in keeping with the government’s policy direction. As a result of preparing for a postmanagement system focused on competition and performance, we increased the open– type HR system from 1 position in 2009 to 6 positions in 2010. Moreover, kead consolidated the internal position contest system to 16 positions in 2010. We have also differentially adopted a job grade system for senior managers or higher from grade 1 to grade 6 through which remuneration is differentially paid according to job importance. ●Status of Internal Position Contest No. of Internal Position Contests 16 Position Equivalent to Grade 1 3 Position Equivalent to Grade 2 7 Teaching Position Office Director 6 Organization and HR Management kead decided to reduce its prescribed personnel number by 66 people from 658 to 592 in April 2009 in accordance with the government’s public agency advancement measure and reduced the number of employees by 49 compared to the targeted 35 in 2010. For organizational operation efficiency enhancement, we have been downsizing 1 Office and 2 Teams at HQ through our streamlined organization policy Status of downsizing since 2009. Such actions for management efficiency enhancement are aimed at improving productivity as a ‘working organization’ by preventing in advance managerial positions from becoming bigger and 658 greater. 640 639 ●Status of Personnel Downsizing 627 623 609 607 Category Before efficiency 2009 2010 2011 2012 enhancement 592 Prescribed number 658 639 623 607 592 of personnel (-19) (-16) (-16) (-15) (current target) Current no. of 640 627 609 personnel Before ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 efficiency enhancement Prescribed number of personnel Current no. of personnel 47 Group training of young interns Performance Through Management Enhancement kead has established a system to implement management efficiency enhancement reflecting the newly established ‘Management Strategy System’ after the government announced the advancement of public agencies in December 2008. kead has selected 26 tasks by field since 2009; as of 2010, out of a total of 26 tasks, 17 tasks have been completed in 2009. ●Implementation status of management efficiency enhancement Planned Total Tasks completed in ‘09 Tasks to be completed Declaration ceremony for implementlabor-management unity ation year Completed Completely Continuing Tasks in ‘10 Tasks in ‘11 Tasks in ‘12 tasks finished tasks tasks No. of tasks 26 17 9 8 3 4 2 Field Performance HR operation •Achieving at an early stage by reducing employees by 31(163%) compared to the targeted 19 in 2009, aiming at a 10% reduction of employees(66 people) by 2012 •Actively participating in the government’s job creation policy by hiring 48 young interns, exceeding the targeted 27 by 21 Budget cut •Cutting the budget by KRW 1.4 billion through reflection of budgeting in 2009 Labor-management and in-house saving plan One Heart volunteer service Function •Training 1,031 mildly disabled vocational trainees by expanding 27 private coordination training centers Business •Establishing performance and competency-focused competition HR system management including the expansion of outside open-type position and internal position(HQ improvement Division Managers) contest and activation of multiple position system. •Building a flexible remuneration system such as setting the position grade, adjustment of recommended proposal of 13.3% in initial salary for college graduate employees and standing directors’ remuneration adjustment, designing of salary/wage peak system, and expansion of differential performance-based pay Advancement of Industrial Relations In June 2009, kead’s labor union changed its higher organization to the Federation of Korean Trade Unions, and newly launched the kead labor union chapter under the Ministry of Employment and Labor: When the Employment and Labor Ministry – related public agency labor union was established, kead joined the labor union. Consisting of agencies with similar characteristics, the labor union can pursue common benefits and rational responses. On December 14, 2009, the kead labor union realized rational early settlement between labor and management with regard to the essential infringement of HR and managerial rights, unsuitable working conditions, and irrational clauses improvement including matters breaching labor– related laws and regulations. We have minimized labor-management conflicts by jointly applying for and operating the labor-management partnership program through a labor – management agreement. The joint labor – management activities designed to improve the rationality of collective agreement resulted in kead's selection as one of the best practicing agencies by the government in the public sector. 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅵ. Fulfilling its Responsibilities as a Public Agency Implementation of Public Policies Subsidiary-type Government Policy Direction standard workplace The government’s employment policy for disabled people is based on ‘active welfare’, one of the top five national policy indicators. The direction of active welfare is set to provide customized welfare thorough the government’s active intervention in the entire life cycle of humans requiring welfare. The government has also selected job creation for disabled people’s quality of life improvement and employment system improvement as one of the top 100 national tasks, and it has been operating such. The key point is that the government aims to provide more than 10,000 jobs to the disabled by increasing tailored jobs for their income preservation and social participation and by expanding the employment subsidy paid to employers who hire the disabled. kead established a measure to create jobs for disabled people in cooperation with the Employment and Labor Ministry in June 2010 to follow the government’s policy direction actively. Consisting of 11 detailed tasks in 4 fields, the measure aims to offer more support to the employers hiring seriously disabled people for the employment of those who have difficulties in getting a job. We offer more assistance to employers hiring seriously disabled people for their employment by selecting 11 detailed tasks in 4 fields. We create jobs for the seriously disabled by increasing standard workplaces and improve their employment environment through employment support, assistants for work, and assistive technology device support. By appointing departments in charge by detailed task, kead inspects their performances monthly, evaluates them, and enhances implementation by immediately preparing solutions to problems and measures to supplement them. ●Major Tasks for the Creation of Jobs for the Disabled National Assembly hires 4 fields Detailed tasks seriously disabled people Increase in jobs for the disabled •Mandatory employment rate increase and consolidation of through the mandatory mandatory employment implementation guidance employment system •Strengthening efforts to create jobs for the disabled in government and public agencies Support of workplaces hiring •Creating jobs for the seriously disabled by supporting the the disabled standard workplace establishment •Assisting in the establishment of social companies •Supporting employers hiring disabled people(employment subsidy, financing facilities and equipment, employment management expenses support, etc.) 2010 Disabled People EmploySupport of disabled people’s •Expansion of service for vocational competency development ment Promotion Convention competency development, of disabled people employment, and startups •Employment guidance suitable for the individual disabled person’s characteristics •Increase of jobs through disabled people’s startups support Improvement of employment •Assistance of free rental service for assistive technology environment for the disabled devices •Increase in working environment convenience •Improvement in awareness of the general public regarding the hiring of disabled people Assistive Technology Device Fair 49 Management Performance Evaluation Status of Internship System kead has been receiving the public agency management performance evaluation organized by the Category ’08 ’09 ’10 Ministry of Strategy and Finance as per the Public Agency Operation Act since 2004. We have laid down No. of interns the foundation for accountable management as a public agency through the performance evaluation 123 108 115 completing of four indicators(leadership/strategy, major business activities, management efficiency enhancement, internship and management performance) and have consolidated customer service further. Meanwhile, we are No. of 78 70 76 sincerely implementing projects for the disabled people’s employment according to the government employed policy direction. We received a rating of C in the management performance evaluation in 2008 and a B in 2009. 123 Coping with Young Disabled People’s Joblessness 115 108 Since 2006, kead has been operating an internship system targeting young disabled people aged 38 or younger to cope with young disabled people’s joblessness. The system offers a 3 – month internship program targeting companies covered by the mandatory employment to ensure the hiring of disabled 78 76 people and minimize the phenomenon of avoiding employing disabled people. Moreover, the system is 70 designed to provide career development opportunities by allowing disabled people experience working. Actually, some 100 young disabled people complete this internship program annually. Since 2009, kead has been commissioned for the Youth Internship for SMEs carried out by the Employment and Labor Ministry; it has made huge efforts to offer job experience opportunities to young disabled people. ’08 ’09 ’10 Loan Support for Funds to Improve Aged People’s Employment Environment Korea has already entered the aging society in 2000, and it is forecast to become an aged society in No. of interns completing internship 2019 and a super-aged society by 2016. kead has been supporting the expansion of jobs for the aged No. of employed since 2006. We assist the employers hiring aged people in terms of the cost required for work process automation facilities, musculoskeletal system disease prevention facilities, and health improvement facilities for aged workers. kead leads the actualization of a more productive society by using the Status of SMEs' experiences and know-how of the aged who have been employed through financial assistance to Internship System improve the aged people’s employment environment. Category ’09 ’10 No. of interns 206 144 ●Status of Loans to Improve the Aged People’s Employment Environment Category 2008 2009 2010 No. of assisted companies 25 29 23 Subsidy amount(million KRW) 4,061 5,000 3,600 50 2010 Sustainability 2010 Sustainability Management Report Management Report Ⅶ. Putting한국장애인고용공단_지속가능경영보고서 Sustainability Management into Practice Ⅶ 2010 Sustainability Management Report kead : Putting Sustainability Management into Practice 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅶ. Putting Sustainability Management into Practice Economic Responsibility Purchasing records for Status of Management products made by SMEs kead annually receives fund contribution and other assistances from the government and executes the budget required for service implementation. Net loss is annually generated, since we operate our 17.0 services and business with the government’s contribution without other profitable business. Note, 16.0 however, that the contribution is invested in companies hiring the disabled and to help disabled people 15.2 15.7 become financially independent. (92%) 14.2 (88%) 13.9 (91%) ●Financial Status (units : 100 million KRW, rounding off below the 100 million KRW) Category 2008 2009 2010 Current assets 85 81 80 Non-current assets 496 448 423 ’08 ’09 ’10 Total assets 581 529 503 Purchasing expenses(billion KRW) Current liabilities 6 8 6 Procucts made by SMEs Non-current liabilities 360 317 303 Total liabilities 366 325 309 Capital stock 517 527 545 Purchasing amount for Others △302 △323 △352 products made by seriously disabled people Total stockholders’ equity 215 204 193 (units : 100 million KRW) Sales 764 786 772 4.29 Net income △11 △13 △6 Government contribution 818 837 813 2.86 2.64 Ensuring Accounting Transparency The closing accounting data of kead is submitted to the Employment and Labor Ministry, Strategy and Finance Ministry, Board of Audit and Inspection of Korea, and National Assembly based on the fair supervision procedures of an outside accounting company. kead must prepare financial statements and ’08 ’09 ’10 closing accounting report under the international financial reporting standards(IFRS) beginning 2013. Therefore, kead plans to have no obstacles in adopting the standards through consulting and cooperation with our accounting firm. We also make great efforts to ensure transparency through procedures such as the routine audit of kead’s Auditor’s Office in advance in budget execution. ●Breakdown of Economic Performances (units : 100 million KRW) Category 2008 2009 2010 Salary/Wage 301 306 312 Purchasing expenses 160 152 170 (Products made by seriously disabled 2.64 2.86 4.29 people) Products made by small and medium142 139 157 sized enterprises(SMEs) Assets acquisition 62 49 42 53 Social Responsibility Labor-management Social Contribution Activities job sharing kead conducts company-wide social contribution activities to build a society that grows and develops together with the people and to realize sustainable development. Most of the expenses incurred for kead’s social contribution activities are funded by raised funds through our employees’ donation. We also reflect the social contribution activities on performance evaluation indicators and induce constant participation by all employees. Year 2008 2009 2010년 No. of annual participants 3,944 4,047 4,057명 No. of average 6.0 6.5 6.7회 participations per person (No. of annual participants/ Sharing rice of hope prescribed number of participants) Sharing Hope kead has encouraged disabled job seekers and disabled people’s families who suffer from difficulties due to economic downturn by donating some of the salaries/wages of its employees. Method to No. of Donated Employed Disabled people procure participants amount young who received rice finance interns assistance Community street cleaning activity Salary/wage 609 people KRW 16 people About 560 people donation 148,040,000 (Mar. 2009) kead also delivered donations collected by all its employees to console the bereaved who lost their families following the sinking of the Korean Navy patrol ship, the Cheonan. Period of collecting No. of participants Donated amount donations April 2010 583 people KRW 4,743,000 Selected as the recipient Won the Socially Contributing Company Grand Prize of the Socially Contributing Company Grand Prize kead was awarded the Socially Contributing Company Grand Prize in 2009 for its contribution to social development through its social contribution activities. Good Consumption Activities kead strives to seek win – win cooperation by purchasing products made by seriously disabled people preferentially. In 2010, we bought products made by SMEs by exceeding the legal purchasing rate. Category Target Purchasing ratio Preferential purchase of products 17 items 100% made by seriously disabled people Preferential purchase of products 90 items 91.4% made by SME 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅶ. Putting Sustainability Management into Practice Mid and long-term roadmap Ethical Management System Putting kead set 3 major ethical management core values – transparency, integrity, and accountability – in 2010 global ethical management to be a reliable agency for the employment of disabled people and established midand long-term Establishment into practice of ethical management Growing agency specializing in strategies and roadmap for ethical management. To present ethical judgment and specific standards hiring of disabled people Laying the of conduct, we have an ethical norm system including chart of ethics, code of ethics, and code of foundation for Stage 3 ethical (Advanced stage) conduct. The organizations to implement ethical management are functionally linked with the Planning management Stage 2 2013~15 (Establishment stage) Management Office and Auditor’s Office centered on the Ethical Management Commission. kead 2011~12 endeavors to improve company-wide implementation competency by appointing a leader who puts Stage 1 ethics into practice(one leader) for each institution. (Dissemination stage) 2009~10 Fulfillment to Enhance Integrity kead was selected as an outstanding agency in the improvement of integrity for four years in a row by kead’s integrity index the ‘Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission of Korea’, a government organization, for its various Year Score activities designed to improve its integrity. While continuously implementing improvement in the weak 2008 9.00 work field through feedback of the integrity survey results, we expand a preventive anti-corruption 2009 9.19 control system including corruption impact evaluation. In particular, kead always monitors irregularities, 2010 9.06 budget waste, and breach of the code of conduct by operating a Clean Reporting Center. Since 2009, we have organized TFT to improve internal integrity and have prepared for an internal public benefit reporting system and a protection system for corruption reporting persons. In addition, kead consolidates the Ethical management workshop monitoring of the execution of corporate credit card use and business promotion expenses. We also operate a contract system for job integrity and spearhead the establishment of an integrity organization culture wherein executives and senior managers put the system into practice first. Education and PR Activities on Ethical Practice Since 2007, kead has been carrying out cyber integrity education for all employees to form sympathy on ethical management and enhance integrity awareness. As a result of running two courses divided by position, all employees completed the courses in 2010. In addition, we have offered workshops and tour lectures and focused on leaders for ethical practice, which implements ethical management No. of trainees activities. We also operate CoP(World of Integrity, etc.) to share knowledge and know-how on ethical completing the cyber integrity education management. In 2009, kead developed an ethical management diagnosis model(keadEX) and conducted level diagnosis, and it has reflected the results on the 2010 implementation plan. Since 2010, we have Year No. of trainees been performing self-diagnosis by designating an Ethics Fulfillment Day monthly for the enhancement 2008 413 of interest in ethical practice. 2009 460 2010 689 ※The No. of training-completed trainees is cumulative number. 55 CS Vision, Slogan, SI Customer Satisfaction Management System kead puts customer-oriented management into practice to be an agency specializing in the employment of disabled people and enjoying the trust of customers. In 2009, we prepared mid – and long-term strategies and roadmap for customer satisfaction(CS) management and service identity(SI) of sympathy to enhance customer satisfaction through CS environment analyses and customer opinion convergence. In this context, in 2010, we have set and implemented the top 3 CS objectives including customer relationship management(CRM) system establishment, moment of truth service management consolidation and CS supporting system enhancement, and 9 implementation tasks. Activation of CRM kead has set up measures for customer management centered on disabled people and companies as CS management objectives in 2010 the core customers in an effort to cope actively with customer needs and demand. We segmented the disabled customers into 32 groups and corporate customers into 7 groups, making efforts to improve Customer relationship management system customer satisfaction through product development in line with each group's characteristics and serestablishment vice improvement. Furthermore, we have established a cooperative system by setting up a customer Consolidation of moment of truth(MOT) participating body including Disabled People Employment Measures Commission to activate smooth service management communication with customers. In addition, HQ’s CS Ombudsman system and customer monitoring 2010 Enhancement of CS management group in each branch and other institutions offer various types of advice and play a consulting role for system kead’s service improvement and CS enhancement. *Committee to Enhance Disabled People Employment Consolidation of MOT Service Quality kead established the organizing committee kead collects and processes the voice of customers(VOC) coming through various channels and sysconsisting of key figures in the academy and tematically analyzes and reflects the results on the overall work to consolidate communication with its press/media and disabled people-related agencies within the premises of kead’s 15 customers. We developed an input system to register VOC offline in 2009. In 2010, kead collects VOC branches to form empathy for the promotion by classifying VOC into consultation, questions, suggestions, proposals, complaints(grievances) and of the disabled people’s employment and others. We consolidate feedback activities by cyclically analyzing VOC and by reflecting the analysis to devise means of expanding the disabled results in the improvement of systems and services. For the service standardization of moment of people’s employment by region truth (MOT) institutions, kead cyclically inspects the compliance results by enacting a customer charter and producing a customer service manual. By reorganizing our homepage customer service center considering the customer’s accessibility and convenience, we promptly process customers’ questions Customer segmentation model and grievances. Enhancement of Customer Service(CS) Competency kead offers a variety of customer service training to nurture a customer-oriented mindset and improve the customer service skills of the internal employees who implement CS management activities on-site. We back the search of CS improvement tasks and implementation activities of field organizations by appointing leaders by branch or institution. Out of the CS activities, we expand the sharing of best practices through a creativity innovation contest. Every year, we conduct a questionnaire survey of customer satisfaction with public agencies; we scored 78 points, 82.8 points, and 84.6 points in 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively, and the score is continually rising. We conduct a telephone monitoring survey internally and reflect the results on the annual performance indicators. In 2010, kead’s score was 92.6 points, up 4.4 points compared to the previous year. We will do our very best to be an agency No. of VOC collection cases trusted by customers through the active reflection of customer opinions in the future. Year No. of cases 2009 1,702 2010 7,393 Special lectures on CS 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅶ. Putting Sustainability Management into Practice Environmental Responsibility Purchasing Amount for Energy Saving Activities Eco-Products kead operates an Energy Keeper system according to the instructions of a public institution’s energy Amount Year use rationalization implementation and executes energy – saving measures for creative and systematic (million KRW) energy use cut. We use electricity, city gas, and local heating system as main energy sources and plan to 2008 964 increase the objects of control in 5 vocational competency development institutes and 15 branches. We 2009 529 also cut electricity consumption by 10.4% annually through the improvement of worn-out equipment 2010 647 and a campaign to turn off monitors during break time, etc.(savings of KRW 92,885,000 and effect of planting 13,254 trees) 138.8% ●Means of Saving Energy in Each Field <Building and facility field> <Transportation field> 52.7% Compliance with suitable indoor Implementation of weekday temperature for heating and cooling restriction system of passenger cars Insulated film attachment (passenger cars for business and staff) Putting out lights and turning off monitors Operation of vehicle system to save energy ’09 ’10 during lunch break Integrated deployment of Recycling of assistive Gradual replacement with LED lights vehicles for business technology devices <Education/training and PR> <Common matters> PR using kead’s banner Establishment of energy saving plans Together with the Beautiful Training based on in-house plans Implementation of 10% energy Store Working in simple clothes during summer saving Designation and operation of energy keepers Participation in the energy saving campaign Recycling of Returned Assistive Technology Devices kead prevents resource waste and cuts the budget by consolidating the recycling of assistive technology devices generated by the resignation of disabled workers or disabled trainee's suspension of training before training completion. We recycled 540 sets of assistive technology devices in 2010 and saved KRW 1.4 billion. We also minimize impacts on the environment by recycling fixture assets for disposal using the Asset Market system adopted in 2008. ●Status of Return of Common Use Assistive Technology Devices and Recycling Category Support Return Recycling Recycling Total(A) before 2010 ’10 in ’10(B) rate(B/A) Total 5,745 412 366 46 572 138.8% Donation of reusable goods Assistance 4,121 186 164 22 232 124.7% for free Rental for free 1,624 226 202 24 340 150.4% Environment-Friendly Social Contribution Activities kead took part in the oil removing activity to restore Taean, which was greatly damaged by the largescale oil spillage in January 2008. We also contribute to actualize low carbon, green growth by donating reusable goods in association with the Beautiful Store. Year No. of donated items Reduced CO2 emission Effect of planting pine trees 2009 2,113 items 11,647Kg CO₂ 4,207 trees including books 2010 1,795 items 6,462Kg CO₂ 2,326 trees including clothing 57 International Abilympics International Abilympics Just as many small water drops gather together to form an ocean, participating disabled technicians’ sweat impresses many people. The drops of perspiration of those who constantly challenge the world beyond their disabilities and Banguri, the official mascot of the International Abilympics, inspire pure passion. The International Abilympics is the beginning of a better future beyond restrictions in reality. The International Abilympics(IA) was launched in 1981 when the UN declared the year as the World Disabled People’s Year. IA is held by touring the world’s major cities every four years, cheering up disabled people with vocational skills worldwide. It also offers an opportunity to improve vocational desire and capability so that disabled people can be financially independent and supports their social participation through occupation by shaping social reliability of the vocational competency of the disabled. IA increases positive awareness of global village citizens regarding normal and disabled people by hosting IA as a joyful, international festivity. year of venue no. of contested no. of participants hosting IA(year) skills categories 1st (’81) Tokyo, Japan 17 841people from 56 countries 2st (’85) Bogota, Colombia 12 987 from 54 countries 3st (’91) Sha Tin, Homg Kong 38 2,000 from 83 countries 4st (’95) Perth, Australia 37 1,000 from 32 countries 5st (’00) Prague, Czech 35 1,137 from 29 countries 6st (’03) New Delhi, India 33 1,116 from 33 countries 7st (’07) Shizuoka, Japan 30 910 from 34 countries 8st (’11) Seoul, Korea 40 1,500 from 50 countries planned ●the official mascot of the International Abilympics, Bangwoori 2010 Sustainability Management Report Ⅶ. Putting Sustainability Management into Practice 8th International Abilympics Seoul 2011 Emblem Domestic Skills Contest of the Disabled The Abilympics Korea was first held in 1981 to select the skilled disabled people who will participate in the 1st International Abilympics. The disabled who won in the Intellectually Disabled People’s Skills Contest held in four regions and the Local Disabled People’s Skills Games held by 16 cities and provinces and organized by kead can participate in Abilympics Korea. The disabled who won in the Abilympics Korea are qualified to take part in the national squad selection contest to participate in the International The emblem of the International Abilympics Abilympics. kead offers follow-up service to the winners in Abilympics Korea for a certain period of has been configured by combining the “A” from the event’s English name and the time for the development of disabled people’s employment. And if they want, kead offers employment infinite sign for athletes’ pure passion and support services including job arrangement and vocational competency development. As of the end of challenge of the world beyond disabilities. The infinite sign’s colors represent challenge, September 2010, the employment rate of the disabled winning a medal was 94.3%. creativity, passion and hope and express the global festival arena of the disabled as well. 8th INTERNATIONAL ABILYMPICS SEOUL 2011 The 8th International Abilympics Seoul will be held in Seoul aT Center from Sept. 25 to 30, 2011. Slogan Preparation is underway, targeting about 1,500 athletes in 40 vocational types participating from 50 countries. The vocational skills contest will be simultaneously held together with various programs 세계를 향한 끝없는 도전 such as international symposium and cultural events. In the event organizing committee, the first lady Contant Challenge to the World is attending the event as honorary committee chairwoman; the kead president, Chairman of Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and Seoul City Mayor are participating as co-chairmen. Contributing to the development of disabled people’s employment globally, not to mention Korea – that SKILLS CATEGORIES of the International Abilympics is our hope and our dream. ●Major Schedule Date(M/D) Event outline Venue 9. 25(sun) Registration and orientation aT Center 9. 26(Mon) Opening ceremony Olympic Hall of Seoul Olympic Park IAF Executive Committee Olympic Parktel Welcoming reception National Museum of Korea 9. 27(Tue) Vocational skills contest aT Center ~9. 29(Thu) International symposium /cultural events General assembly of IAF 9. 30 (Fri) Closing ceremony (prize awarding ceremony) Olympic Hall of Seoul Olympic Park Farewell ceremony 한국장애인고용공단_지속가능경영보고서 Appendix 59 2010 Sustainability Management Report Appendix 2010 Sustainability Management Report Appendix kead 2010 Sustainability Report's Rate to Meet GRI G3 Guidelines *Reporting level: ● Reported, ◐ Partially reported ○ Unreported, — N/A Large Item Index Details Reporting Page Categorization Level Corporate Summary Strategy 1.1 Declaration, in which the top decision ● 5~6 and Analysis maker revealed the relevance among reporting organizations, strategies and sustainability 1.2 Description of key impacts, risk factors ● 11, 16 and opportunities Organization 2.1 Company name ● 9 Profile 2.2 Major brands, products and services ● 9 2.3 Organization’s operation structure ● 9 including key departments, operating companies, subsidiaries and partner firms 2.4 Addresses of Headquarters/Divisions ● 9 2.5 No. of countries where key workplaces ● 9 are located and those countries’ names 2.6 Characteristics and legal type of ● 9 ownership 2.7 Market that offers services ● 9 2.8 Organization size(employees, net sales, ● 9 total capital, products & services, etc.) 2.9 Key changes during the reporting pe● 9 riod in consideration of size, structure and ownership structure 2.10 Awards received during the ◐ 52 reporting period Factors 3.1 Reporting period ● 3 of the Report 3.2 Recent report publication date — Initial report 3.3 Reporting cycle ● 3 3.4 Contact point for inquiries on the report ● 3 or report details 3.5 Procedure to define content to be ● 13~16 included in the report 3.6 Scope of report ● 3 3.7 Factors restricting report scope ● 3 61 3.8 Foundation of report on key issues in — comparison of the operation of limited partnership, some partial subsidiaries, lease facilities, outsourcing and other situations per period, and in comparison among reporting organizations 3.9 Data measuring techniques and calcula— tion criteria including assumptions and techniques backing up forecast applied in other information collection process including KPI 3.10 Effects and reasons of re-citation of — Initial report information offered by the previous reports 3.11 Major changes in the scope of report ● 3 and measuring methods 3.12 Table identifying the locations of each ● 59 component of GRI Report 3.13 Policy and current practices on outside ● 67 assurance of the report Governance 4.1 Governance including top committee ● 10 and Cooperation or commission responsible for specific work including strategy setting or supervision 4.2 Indication on whether the CEO holds ● 10 the board chair as well 4.3 No. of independent outside directors, ● 10 if the organization has a single board structure 4.4 Mechanism through which sharehold● 10 ers and employees deliver suggestions and recommendations to top governing organization 4.5 Relationships between remunerations ● 10 of CEO, senior management & management and organizational performances 4.6 Process to avoid conflicts of interest of ● 10 the board of directors 4.7 Process that board members think as — expertise required to lead organization’s strategy direction, based on economic, environmental and social issues 2010 Sustainability Management Report Appendix 4.8 Statement, code of conduct and behav● 36, 53 ioral principles on internally developed missions and core values in relation with economic, environmental an social performances and activities 4.9 Top governance procedure including ○ risks related to economic, environmental and social performances, and examination and management of opportunities 4.10 Process evaluating top governance, ○ especially, economic, environmental and social performances 4.11 Explanation on whether preventive ○ approach or principles are proclaimed, and on how they are mentioned 4.12 Details on the corporation’s engage● 36 ment among voluntary economic, environmental and social charters and a series of principles, or initiatives 4.13 Key members of associations, coun● 35 tries or international organizations 4.14 List of stakeholders who act within the ● 14 organizations 4.15 Identification of key stakeholders, and ● 12~14 basis of selection 4.16 Approach type on stakeholders ● 14 consultation viewed by frequency of consultation by type and by stakeholders group 4.17 Method to respond to significant ◐ 54 issues raised through stakeholders’ engagement Economic Performances Economic EC1 Economic value creation and ● 51~52 Performances distribution(including total income, operating expenses, wages/salaries of employees, donations, investment in community, earned surplus, investors and government compensation) EC2 Financial impacts of organizational ○ activities, due to climate change, and other risks and opportunity factors EC3 Scope of company’s burden in the ○ pension system EC4 Records of government subsidy ● 51 benefits 63 Market EC5 Wage ratio of newcomers’ wage to legal ● 52 minimum wage at key workplaces EC6 Local purchasing policy, practices and — None in local ratio at key workplaces purchase EC7 Local people hiring procedure and se— None in local nior managers’ ratio at key workplaces employment Indirect EcoEC8 Infrastructure investment, service sup● 33~34 nomic Effects porting activities and effects for public benefits EC9 Indirect economic impacts ● 22, 27~30 Environmental Performances Resources EN1 Total weight or volume of resources ○ currently used EN2 Ratio of recycled resources use ◐ 55 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption per primary ○ energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption per ○ primary energy source EN5 Saved energy by energy use cutting and ◐ 55 efficiency improvement EN6 Efforts to offer products and services ◐ 56 based on energy efficiency and recycled energy, and energy consumption cut, as a result of such efforts EN7 Indirect energy consumption and an ● 55 effort to reduce energy use Water EN8 Amount of water intake and use amount ○ EN9 Water sources seriously affected by — Used as only water intake water supply EN10 Ratio and total volume of recycled and ○ reused water Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased — Irrelevant, and managed within the habitat and in view of protection areas with biodiversity business characteristics EN12 Significant impacts, due to business — Irrelevant, activities, products and services within in view of the habitat and protection areas with business biodiversity characteristics EN13 Habitat to be protected or restored — Irrelevant, in view of business characteristics EN14 Strategy, current activity and future plan — Irrelevant, managing the impacts on biodiversity in view of business characteristics 2010 Sustainability Management Report Appendix EN15 No. of species impacted by organi— Irrelevant, zational activities among endangered in view of animals and plants business characteristics Emission, EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas ○ Waster Water, emissions Waste EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emis○ sions EN18 Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emis◐ 55 sions, and achievements EN19 Emissions of ozone destroying materi— No emission als EN20 Emissions of key pollutants like NOx , — No emission Sox into air EN21 Total waste volume and water quality ○ EN22 Total waste volume by type and final ○ processing method EN23 Total number of emission accidents, — and emissions EN24 Weight of all transported, imported, — None in reguexported wastes that are considered lated waste to be dangerous specified in the Basel Convention, and the ratio of wastes internationally transacted EN25 Water basins affected by waste — discharge, and names, sizes, protection objects and biodiversity values of relevant habitats Products and EN26 Efforts to reduce environmental im◐ 55 Services pacts of products and services and to manage scope to reduce such impacts EN27 Ratio of recyclable products at the clos● 55 ing time of product use period Compliance EN28 No. of cases of breaching environ— mental regulations, penalties and punishment Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of ○ transport of the products, goods and raw materials used for organization operation and logistics Whole EN30 Expenditure and investment for whole ○ environmental protection Labor Performances Employment LA1 Manpower status by employment type, ● 41 contract and region LA2 No. of employees by age, gender and ● 41 region, and turnover rate LA3 Benefits offered to only full time posi● 41 tions 65 Industrial LA4 Ratio of employees to which collective ● 42 Relations negotiation results are applied LA5 Notice period on the change in opera● 42 tion Health and LA6 Ratio of manpower represented by ○ Safety safety and health commission, in which labor and management that help the evaluation and improvement of the health and safety programs, jointly participate. LA7 Injury, disease and absence rate and ○ death toll related to work LA8 Education, training, prevention and — risk management program to help employees, their families and community members exposed to serious epidemics LA9 Health and safety issues, which are the ○ object of formal agreement with labor union Education and LA10 Annual average training hours per ● 40 Training person in terms of employee type LA11 Program for technology development ● 40 and life-long education to support continual employment possibility and career management LA12 Employee ratio receiving regular ● 39~40 performance and career development evaluation Diversity and LA13 Governing organization’s composition ● 41 Equal Opporby gender, minority group membership tunity and other diversity-related indicators, and number of employees LA14 Average wage ratio between male and ◐ 51 female employees by employee type Human Right Performances Eradication of HR1 Ratio of major investment contracts ○ Discriminacontaining human rights clauses or tion thru Mgt receiving human rights deliberation Practices HR2 Ratio of key suppliers or partner firms ○ receiving human rights deliberation HR3 Education status of employees on hu○ man rights policy and procedure HR4 Cases of discrimination ○ Freedom of HR5 Cases breaching freedom of association — None in Association and collective negotiations breach cases Children’s Labor HR6 Cases of child labor — 2010 Sustainability Management Report Appendix Forced and HR7 Cases of forced or coerced labor — Coerced Labor Security PracHR8 Ratio of trained security manpower on ○ tices human rights policy and procedure Native ResiHR9 Cases of breaching native residents’ — dents’ Rights rights and related actions Social performances Community SO1 Cases of programs to evaluate and ◐ 27 manage community impacts in the work activities’ beginning, operation and closing stages Corruption SO2 No. and ratio of business units, whose ● 53 corruption risks have been analyzed. SO3 Ratio of employees receiving education ● 53 on anti-corruption policy and procedure Public Policy SO4 Actions on corruption cases ○ SO5 View on public policy and engagement ● 47 in public policy establishment and lobby activities Competition SO6 Total amount of cash and things do— Disturbing nated to political parties, politicians and Activities related organizations of each country Unfair CompetiSO7 Cases of legal actions on unjust — tion Activities competition activities and monopoly, and the results Breach of Laws SO8 Cases of fines and non-monetary — and Regulations punishments, due to violation of laws and regulations Product Responsibility Performances Customer’s PR1 Procedure to improve customer’s ● 23~24 Health and health and safety in the life cycle of Safety products and services PR2 No. and type of cases violating regula— tions by products and services related to customer’s health and safety Product and PR3 Product and service information — Service Labeltype required for procedure, and ing ratios of main products and services corresponding to such information requirements PR4 Cases of breaching laws and — regulations related to product/service information and labeling, and cases of breach of voluntary regulations PR5 Customer satisfaction-relevant proce● 24, 54 dure containing the results of questionnaire survey on customer satisfaction 67 Marketing ComPR6 Procedure and program to comply with — munication laws, standards and voluntary norms related to marketing communication, such as ads, promotional activities and sponsorship PR7 No. of cases and types breaching — regulations on marketing communication, such as ads, promotional activities and sponsorship Customer PR8 Cases of breaches on customer’s Protection personal information protection and cases of complaints raised in relation with lost customer data PR9 No. of proven complaints regarding — breach of customer privacy 2010 Sustainability Management Report Appendix Assurance Statement To: The Management and Stakeholders of kead ■Introduction The Korean Standards Association(“Assurance Agency”) has received an independent request with regard to the “2010 kead Sustainability Management Report(“Report”) from the Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled(kead). The Assurance Agency presents an independent assurance statement on the report drawn up by kead after reviewing the data, performances, and relevant system evidence and validity of the report. kead is responsible for the collection, analyses, and arrangement of information as well as all assertions contained in the report in drawing up the report. ■Independence Other than offering third-party assurance on the report, the Assurance Agency is independent and autonomous from any and all influences of kead and its stakeholders. ■Assurance Standards and Level The Assurance Agency has performed assurance by applying the AA1000AS 2008 Assurance Standards (AA1000 AS) and GRI G3 Guidelines. We have set the following assurance principles of the AA1000AS 2008 Assurance Standards: foundation principle of inclusivity, principle of materiality, and principle of responsiveness. The reliability of kead's report has been assured by general standards. ■Assurance Type and Scope The Assurance Agency has performed Type 2 assurance in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standards(AA1000 AS). Type 2 assurance means that the sustainability and accuracy and quality of kead’s assertions and information contained in the report have been assessed based on the principle of report responsibility of the AA1000 Assurance Standards(AA1000 AS) 2008. The assurance objects are limited to the content of the 2011 kead Sustainability Report and site check through kead’s headquarters during the period January 1 – December 31, 2010. Assurance on any of the affiliated agencies has not been performed. ■Assurance Methods The Assurance Agency has conducted assurance after collecting the necessary information, data, and evidence related to the assurance scope using the following methods: • Review of sustainability issues that can have an impact on kead and serve as the object of stakeholders’ interest • Review of processes deciding the major issues contained in the report • Investigation of the suitability of the performance data collection system in each area and of the reporting process • Conducting interviews with employees who are responsible for sustainability management • Review of process and system for drawing up sustainability data by visiting the kead headquarters • Examination of internal documents and basic data backing up the core assertions in the report • Investigation on whether the financial information contained in the report and in the audit report match 69 ■Assurance Results The Assurance Agency reviewed the contents of the draft report, presented opinions, and revised the report as necessary. The Assurance Agency has identified that the sustainability management activities of kead have been reported without serious errors or bias in the sustainability report through assurance activities. • Inclusivity Is stakeholder engagement guaranteed in the process of developing and implementing strategic means to respond to sustainability? The Assurance Agency has decided that kead has operated proper engagement programs and channels to guarantee stakeholder engagement. In particular, kead has been found to carry out systematic communication activities to improve customer values based on detailed classification of customer groups. We recommend that kead integrate the stakeholder engagement process into the overall organizations and operate accordingly, and then reflect it on decision making for management activities. • Materiality Does the report contain important issues affecting kead and its stakeholders? The Assurance Agency has decided that kead has not omitted or excluded information important to the stakeholders. We have confirmed that kead has drawn key issues through a significance evaluation process that identifies sustainability issues through benchmarking in the industry, media search, questionnaire survey among stakeholders, telephone interviews, etc. kead should establish a process to monitor and improve those issues and relevant achievements continuously. • Responsiveness Does kead properly respond to stakeholder issues? kead reflects major sustainability management issues on the organization's policy and activities and responds to the interest of stakeholders. It is important for kead to report specifically the implementation direction and plan for sustainability management and improve stakeholders’ trust and reliability in the future. ■Recommendations for Improvement • Establish a sustainability management system and improve employees’ awareness of sustainability management throughout operating activities. • Develop indices for performance measurement and establish a management system along with reporting centered on performances vs. objectives linked with sustainability management strategies. • Continuously implement efficient environmental performance management and improvement activities by establishing a systematic green management system. • Link the sustainability management report and kead homepage and create separate sustainability management pages within the homepage. March 11, 2011 CEO KSA Choi Gap-hong 2010 Sustainability Management Report Appendix ISO 26000 Summary of ISO 26000 Concerning ISO 26000, its standard publication was decided by the International Organization for Standardization(ISO) in 2004 and was officially published on November 1,2010 through the 1st general assembly in March 2005 up to the 8th general assembly in May 2010. This international standard provides the social responsibility’s basic principles as well as guidelines for the relevant core themes and issues and instructions on the method to integrate them in an organization, after six major stakeholders’ representative experts – consumers, governments, companies, labor sector, NGO, and other service/support/research institutions – gather together. In other words, ISO 26000 aims to contribute to sustainable development, and it can apply to all types of organizations regardless of the organization’s size, business type, and location. ISO 26000 is not the management system guidelines that assure the 3rd party, but is the guidelines that aspire towards complying voluntarily with laws and regulations, valuing the stakeholders and seeking processes for continuous improvement. Note, however, that this standard is forecast to be used diversely as registration of partner firms of global companies to meet stakeholders’ high expectation level or management criteria or consumer and NGO evaluation and monitoring criteria, since ISO 26000 recommends social responsibility implementation within the impact range of an organization, not to mention the organization itself. Therefore, kead is advised to secure competitiveness and sustainability by identifying the impacts of the organization’s decision making and activities on society and environment and by securing a social responsibility management system through stakeholders’ identification and participation procedure to respond actively to the publication of ISO 26000. ●Overview of ISO 26000 Scope Clause 1 Social responsibility's two essential matters to put into practice Clause 5 Guidance on all types of organization, Social responsibility perception Identification and participation of stakeholder regardless of size or location Maximization of organizational contribution on sustainable development Definition Clause 2 Definitions of terms Core topics of social responsibility Clause 6 Organization governance Community’s Fair operation Consumer Human rights Labor practices Environment practices issues participation and development Clause 3 ▶ Social responsibility Related act and expectation Relationship between historic, characteristic and social responsibilities and sustainable development Clause 7 Relationship between org's characteristics and Org's understanding of social responsibility Clause 4 social responsibility Social responsibility principle _ Explanation responsibility Communication Practices for Voluntary integration of internal/ _ Transparency on social EXTERNAL initiative on social responsibility responsibilities responsibility _ Ethical behavior _Respect for stakeholder' interest Review and improvement of _ Respect for laws organizational acts practices Enhancement of reliability on social responsibility _ Respect for international related to social responsibility code of conduct _R  espect for human rights Reference: Source and addition guidance Appendix: Voluntary initiative and tool cases on social responsibility 71 Diagnosis of ISO 26000 for kead Diagnosis of ISO 26000 Implementation Level of kead The Korean Standards Association(KSA) has diagnosed kead’s social responsibility management system by classifying the status of social responsibility implementation into 8 stages based on ISO 26000(international standard proposal) and has measured the performance level according to 7 core themes. ●Status of Social Responsibility ●Status of Social Responsibility Management Diagnosis Performance Perception Governance 5.0 5.0 4.0 Improvement 4.0 Participation 4.0 Participation and 2.6 Human rights 3.0 development of 3.0 community 3.5 2.0 2.0 2.5 2.0 2.9 1.0 1.0 Verification 2.0 0 2.4 Analysis 0 2.9 Consumer issues Labor practices 4.2 2.3 2.4 2.1 Reporting Strategy 2.8 Execution Fair operation Environment practices kead has established a strategy to develop a social responsibility management system for its vision as Korea’s representative agency contributing to the enhancement of disabled people’s lives and sustainability. KSA tries to recognize kead’s social role and mission as an agency responsible for the employment of disabled people and identify and improve major issues through various channels with stakeholders. In this manner, KSA makes enormous efforts to realize kead’s mission and vision. kead needs to consider its structural feature, i.e., needs to satisfy both disabled people and corporate customers unlike other organizations. In this context, kead should continuously improve itself by activating and monitoring communication channels with kead-related stakeholders and by reflecting the stakeholders’ demands on the process and structure. KSA recommends that kead build an implementation system to improve all performances by expanding its role of promoting other organizations’ social responsibilities within the impact range of kead, in addition to those of the internal organizations of kead. March 11, 2011 CEO KSA Choi Gap-hong KSA is a knowledge service agency that carries out survey, research, development, promotion, guidance, training, and certification of business management techniques along with the dissemination of standards and support of standardization research and activities; it is an international and domestic secretariat agency for ISO 26000. KSA has participated in the development process of ISO 26000 as a representative agency in Korea. Likewise, KSA has launched the SR Standardization Forum, operating it with assistance from the Knowledge Economy Ministry-affiliated Korean Agency for Technology and Standards. As an agency specializing in the dissemination of ISO 26000 in Korea, KSA presents the means of implementing the standard. 2010 Sustainability Management Report Appendix Description of Terms GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Launched by CERES in 1997, GRI aims at developing the standard for sustainability management reporting, which is commonly used worldwide. GRI is a research agency supported by the United Nations Foundation in terms of funding. GRI released the third version of GRI Guidelines in October 2006. UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact(UNGC) presents the framework to combine its 10 major principles with corporate strategies in the human right, labor, environment, and anti-corruption fields. As the largest voluntary citizens’ initiative in the world, UNGC consists of thousands of members from more than 100 countries. Above all, UNGC aims to present and develop the social rationality of companies and world markets. EDI behavior program kead’s disability perception improvement program developed by focusing on Korea’s disabled people employment site, based on the US's windmills program. Employment subsidy Employment subsidy is a system of paying the employers hiring disabled people at a rate exceeding 2.7% as the mandatory employment rate for disabled people so as to promote disabled workers’ company life stability and induce employment. Service of assistant support for work Service through which auxiliary work except core work which disabled people need to carry out at work can be handled with the help of an assistant. Tailored training Training type wherein training is carried out by type of occupation, training level, and method as requested by a company based on an agreement with the company in advance; the company preferentially hires those who complete the training. Assistive technology device Any of the goods, devices, or production systems that can be commercially sold and easily purchased anytime or remodeled, altered, or produced by tailored order to maintain or improve disabled people’s skills Assistive technology service Any of the services including systematic consultation, assessment, device support, adaptation training, and follow-up management for the efficient support of assistive technology devices required for work Internship system Project of promoting the employment of disabled people to enhance broad perception of job and active job awareness through various experiences at the workplace for unemployed, highly educated disabled people and to improve employers’ hiring of disabled people 73 Network service for the employment of disabled people This service enables comprehensive and effective delivering of the service to local disabled people with complex and diverse desires. It is designed to use community resources more efficiently by exchanging the necessary resources and information through the cooperative relations network of the relevant institutions. Youth internship system of small and medium-sized enterprises Project of promoting youth employment to improve the job experience of young people and enhance their chances of landing a regular job by offering internship opportunities at private sector companies targeting jobless young disabled people who are directly affected by the sluggish economy. Support for the employment of seriously disabled people As a program for supporting site-centered work details, technology learning, social life learning, workplace manners, and interpersonal skills of seriously disabled people, this is carried out for 3~7 weeks to promote the employment activation of seriously disabled people who relatively have more difficulties in getting a job. Vocational competency evaluation Process to identify disabled people’s vocational characteristics and potential capabilities through body capability assessment, medical evaluation, psychological assessment, and work sample evaluation for job-seeking disabled people whose vocational goal setting is judged to be difficult with just an initial-stage interview Specialized training Training that offers specialized vocational competency development service considering the disability characteristics targeting serious disability types due to the difficulty of getting employment in the labor market. ●Disability Types of Specialized Training by Vocational Competency Development Institute Ilsan Busan Daejeon Jeonnam Daegu Vision Mental Hearing Encephalopathy Vision Hearing Encephalopathy Mental Retardation Retardation Intellectual Intellectual Intellectual (amputation) (spinal cord) Intellectual Intellectual When you cannot read the bar code(Voiceeye) of this report, please download the PDF file from our homepage(www.kead.or.kr). Designed by Storybeen.com 02-3453-2070 www.kead.or.kr Better Work, Better World Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled 2010 Sustainability Management Report
