2011 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT Company: VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD 2 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 Communica on on Pr ogr es s Repor t Name of the par ci pa ng compa ny: VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD Country: BULGARIA Sector: HEAVY MACHINE BUILDING INDUSTRY Reported period: 30 September 2010 – 30 August 2011 CONTENT: 1. Statement of con nued suppor t for the Gl obal Comp act 2. Descrip on of pr ac cal ac ons t aken t o imple ment t he Gl ob al Com pac t principles 2.1 Human Rights 2.2 Labour Standards 2.3 Environment 2.4 An -Cor rup on 3. Sharing the COP with the company’s stakeholders 3 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 1. Statement of con nued suppor t for the Gl obal Comp act Sofia, January 2010 София, януари 2010 г. Statement of Continued Support for Заявление за неизменна подкрепа the UN Global Compact на принципите, изложени в Глобалния договор на ООН We at Vaptsarov Holding AD, Bulgaria, firmly believe that for a company to be successful it За „Вапцаров Холдинг” АД, България, should not be only concerned by economical успешното развитие не означава само gain. We attach highest priority to always икономическа изгода. Висш приоритет на maintaining our status of a good corporate дружеството е да поддържа неизменния си citizen and to advance into reaching new moral статут на добър корпоративен гражданин и and spiritual levels: the ever higher social да овладява нови духовни висоти все поresponsibility. This can be only materialized голямата обществена отговорност. Това through very demanding requirements for може да се постигне само, когато налице са personal integrity, values, mission and vision of много строги изисквания за лична our people. неподкупност, морални ценности, чувство за мисия и далновидност. We at Vaptsarov Holding AD recognize UN Global Compact’ principles as being the При постигането на целта „Вапцаров guidelines towards reaching this aim and are Холдинг” АД се ръководи от принципите на committed to follow and promote them on a Глобалния договор на ООН, които решително sustainable basis. следва и чието прилагане неизменно насърчава. B. Bonev Б. Бонев Chairman of the Supervisory Board Председател на Надзорния съвет Since we jointed the UNGC Vaptsarov Holding (VH) team has been developing its ac vi es following the UN Global Compact principles. VH is pleased to provide informa on in thi s Commu ni ca on on Progr ess Repor t 2011. 4 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 2. Descrip on of pr ac cal ac ons t aken t o i mple ment t he Gl ob al Com pac t principles The management and employees of VAPTSAROV HOLDING (VH) are commi ed to adop ng and promo ng sus tai nabi lity wi thi n its indus try and commu ni es (see Sec ons 1 and 3) . VH states its contribu on to bus i nes s sus tai nabi lity, as fol lows : • Transforms the ten principles into management strategies and policies for its ac vi es and process es • Implements ac ons wi thi n huma n ri ght s, l abour standar ds , envi ronme nt and an corrup on ar eas • Commits to provide new opportuni es f or i m p r oveme nt a nd c on nuous development and sa sfac on of its em pl oyees , bus i nes s par t ner s and commu n i t y. The prac cal ac ons of VH provi ng t he appl i ca ons are shown f or t he r espec ve ar eas ( see sec ons 2. 1; 2. 2; 2. 3; 2. 4) of Commu ni ca on on Progr ess Repor t . In order to develop and reﬁne its goal s, strat egi es and pol ici es the im p act of its oper a ons and ac vi es on t he i ssue areas (see s ec ons 2. 1; 2.2; 2.3; 2.4) VHi den ﬁes opport uni es to enhance its performance and reputa on thr ough for ﬁedand c on nued al i gnm ent t o the Global Compact (designated in the report as Opportunities). The table below shows in what ways and the documents where the principles of the speciﬁc areas of the Communica on on Pr ogr es s repor t ar e expr es sed: Descrip on of UNGC pr i nc i pl es appl ica on wit hin t he organi z a onal oper a ons and ac vi es 2.1 Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protec on of int er na onal l y proclaimed human rights within their sphere of inﬂuence; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses The organiza on decl ar es its pol icy on huma n ri ght s pr ot ec on i nt he f oll owi n g doc umen t s CODE OF ETHICS TRAINING PROGRAMMES SOCIAL ACTIONS; VOLUNTEER INITIATIVES The organiza on: support a non-government organiza on in favour of gr oups of unequal soci al stat us as it has nominated a speciﬁc oﬃcial and a com mi e e for the appli ca on of t hese pol i ci es HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT ETHICAL COMMITTEE WORKING CONDITIONS COMMITTEE Descrip on of UNGC pr i nc i pl es appl ica on wit hin t he organi z a onal oper a ons and ac vi es 2.2 Labour Standards: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa on and the eﬀec ve recogni on of the ri ght to col lec ve bar gai ning; 5 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 Principle 4: the elimina on of al l for ms of for ced and comp ul sor y labour ; Principle 5: the eﬀec ve abol i on of chil d labour ; and Principle 6: eliminate discrimina on in res pect of emp l oyme nt and occupa on. The organiza on decl ar es its pol icy on huma n ri ght s pr ot ec on i nt he f oll owi n g doc umen t s CODE OF ETHICS TRAINING PROGRAMMES SOCIAL ACTIVITIES; VOLUNTEER INITIATIVES The organiza on has nomi nat ed a speci ﬁc oﬃ cial anda comm i e e for the appl ica on of these policies HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY WORKING CONDITIONS EXPERT WORKING CONDITIONS COMMITTEE ETHICAL COMMITTEE Descrip on of UNGC pr i nc i pl es appl ica on wit hin t he organi z a onal oper a ons and ac vi es 2.3 Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precau onar y appr oach to envi ronme nt al challenges; Principle 8: undertake ini a ves to promot e great er envi r onmen t al respons i bil ity; Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀus i on of envi ronme nt al ly fri endl y technologies. The organiza on decl ar es its envi ronme nt al pr ot ec on pol i cy i nt he f oll owin g documen t s Declara on of the m a nageme nt for int egr at ed m a nageme nt system BUSINESS PLAN TRAINING PROGRAMMES The organiza on has nomi nat ed a speci ﬁc oﬃ cial anda comm i e e for the appl ica on of these policies ENGINEER ECOLOGY ENVIRONMENTAL WORKING GROUPS Descrip on of UNGC pr i nc i pl es appl ica on wit hin t he organi z a onal oper a ons and ac vi es 2.4 An -Cor rup on: Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corrup on, inc l udi ng ext or on and bribery. Documents that might refer to elements of the an -cor rup on pol i cy: FINANCIAL RULES AND REGULATIONS PURCHASE RULES ASSOCIATED PERSONS AND POSSIBLE CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS The organiza on has wo r ked out a docume nt sta ng t he an corrup on and br i bery pol icy ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY CODE OF ETHICS The organiza on has nomi nat ed a speci ﬁc oﬃ cial anda comm i e e for the appl ica on of these policies HEAD OF ADMINISTRATION 6 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 2. 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Statement for Human Rights Respect and Support, Interna onal Huma n Ri ght s Conven on Our approximately 450 employees are the basis for the success of our business. The encouragement and development of our staﬀis par t of VH cor por at e cul tur e. Discrimina on abol i on – any f orms of dis cri min a on ar e not t oler at ed i n accordance wi th the valid CODE OF ETHICS. Social beneﬁts for the emp l oyees 1. Dental care – VH provides free dental service to its employees. On average 60-70 employees get dental services on a monthly basis. 2. Medical care VH provides constant medical service by a nurse equipped with ﬁrst aid kit, blood pressure apparatus and medicines. 3. Canteen – VH provides vouchers for the meals to its employees in the company based canteen oﬀer s heal thy food m e e ng t he s pec i ﬁc needs of all em pl o yees. . 4. Company transport – VH provides free shu l e for i ts emp l oyees to and from the working place. Employee Personal Development Projects 1. External trainings – conducted by external companies. Seventy-two employees from Project Management, Marke ng and Sal es , Pur chase, Huma n Res our ces , Improvements, Finance and Design departments have been trained. 2. Internal-company trainings upon customers request – they are conducted by the head of the respec ve uni t. Si xt yﬁve em pl oyees from P roduc on have been t r ai ned. 3. Internal-company trainings on speciﬁc topi cs they ar e conducted by the head of Produc on, De s i gn, Legal De par tme nt s. A hundr ed and ei ght ytwo emp l oyees have been trained. Further informa on a bout t he t rai ni ngs a t VH c oul d b e f ound i n a ppendi x ( COP 2011_Training.pdf) 7 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 Employee mo va on VH enhance its employees providing a working environment that encourages personal development and common understanding of the company goals. VH increases the value and a rac venes s of the wor ki ng pl ace t o promot e per s onal and organiza onal devel opme nt . VH increases the poten al of the or gani za on t o est abl i sh t rust wor t hy and f air wor ki ng environment encouraging employees to reach their full poten al vi a trai ni ngs and per sonal coaching. Main mo va on f act ors for the s taﬀ: • good remunera on • extra bonuses – fair rela on bet we en the per for me d wo r k and the recei ved bonus • stable corporate-employee rela ons • opportunity for career development based on personal quali es and achi eveme nt s Volunteer ini a ves The volunteer ini a ves i nspi r e VH e mpl oyees to f oll owt he pri nci ples compl ying wi t h t he company policies. Over the years VH has constantly supported various volunteering ini a ves and has proven t o be a soci al respons i ble compa ny not onl y as a dut y but as a willingness to contribute to society. The dona on camp ai gn or gani zed amo ng the emp l oyees res ul ted in gat her i ng the amo unt required for the purchase of an aspirator for the Home for medical and social cares for children from 0 to 3 years in the city of Pleven. Please, ﬁnd f ur ther i nf or ma on ab out th e co mmi t m en t of VH i n ap pendi x ( C OP 2011_Volunteer Days.pdf) 8 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 Social ac vi es The main principles of VH as to business, employees and the social and corporate responsibility are listed on the company web site, where VH states the overall company posi on, rul es and res pons i bi lity to al l i nt er es ted par es such as empl oyees , cust omer s , partners and shareholders. Long-term partnerships: • ‘Volunteering Days’ Ini a ve of the Am er i can Chambe r of Comme r ce i nBul gar i a • ‘Manager for a Day’ Ini a ve of Juni or Achi evemen t Founda on i n Bulgari a Opportunities The human resources development policy is strictly in line both with the development strategy of the company for renova on and new m a r ket s and the m a i n comp any phi los ophy: • Programmes for con nuous t rai ni ng and devel opme nt wi th di rect i m p act on t he business processes: Iden ﬁca on of empl o yee t r ai ni ng needs and objec ves i n the or gani za on Development, organiza on and im p l eme nt a on of trai ning progr amme s Employee training eﬃciency assess men t • Safety at the working place • Sa sfac on wit h t he wor k per f ormed by t he em pl oyee • People are mo vat ed wh en they ar e bel ieve and cont ri but e to the comp any m i ssi on • Following the procedure for recruitment and employment • Presen ng inf or ma on about the compa ny and i ts bus i nes s to new e m pl oyees • Any new employee should be supported in the introduc on pr oces s 9 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 Company Policy on Labour Main rights of the workers: Free choice of work, no forced labour: Nobody could be employed at VH against his/her will or to be forced to work. Child Labour Aboli on. Workers below 16 years of age are not hired at VH. Young workers between 16-18 years old are not hired thus there is no risk of accidents of imposing young workers to dangerous working condi ons . (See al so the CODE OF ETHI CS) . Working m e and or gani za on of wor k: in accordance wi t h appr oved compa ny r ul es. Con nuous trai ni ng: The numb er of trai ni ng hour s has become stabl e in the recent year . Health and safety working condi ons There is a Working Condi ons Commi ee ( W CC ) at VH i naccordance wit h t he r equi r emen t s of the Health and Safety Working Condi ons Ac t (HS WX A) . The Working Condi ons Commi ee conduct s mee ngs ever y three mont hs t o di scuss the undertaken ac ons for im p r oveme nt of the wo r ki ng condi ons i nVH a s wel l as i ntr oduc on of new technologies that might result in considerably reduc on of the occupa onal risks and accidents in the company. WCC has also mee ngs to devel op the pr ogr amme for wo r ki ng pl ace ri sk asses sme nt . VH has signed a contract with an independent labour safety organiza on f or annual preven ve exami na ons of the em pl oyees . During the reported period no labour accidents and incidents are recorded at VH, thus prac cal ly the ri sk of inci dent s coeﬃcient i s “0”. Two external and two internal trainings for health and safety working condi ons we r e conducted in the company during the reported period, as follows: 1. Training of oﬃcials that have t he r i ght and are det ermi n ed wi t h order s to conduct the respec ve types of ins truc ons . 2. Training of the WCC members. 3. Introductory training of the oﬃ cials i nconnec on wi th the f orthcomi ng cer ﬁca on of the company in accordance with ISO 14001:2004 and BS OHSAS 18001:2007. 4. Training of the electricians in VH for protec on and acqui ri ng a qual iﬁca on gr oup i n labour safety. 10 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 Opportunities VH policy on labour prac ci es emp hasi zes on ri sk pr even on f or the em pl oyees and f ocuses on improvement and sharing the best prac ces wi th t he suppl ier s and ot her bus i nes s partners via: • Working condi ons – me asur es f or decreasi ng t he numb er of the mo s t f requent viola ons of the heal th and saf et y wo r ki ng condi ons , in l i ne wi t h cl ear l y stated programme, policy and objec ves for wo r ki ng condi ons i m pr ovemen t . • Development of documents understanding and respect of VH requirements within its supplier network. • Communica ng the expecta ons to t he bus i nes s par t ner s 11 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 2. 3 ENVIRONMENT Informa on on the ecol ogi cal pr ogr es s Conducted trainings to enhance employee and management common understanding on environmental responsibility: • Ini al envi ronme nt al trai ni ng • Presenta on by the per son in char ge for the envi ronme nt Data and sta s cs: The data on natural gas, electricity and gas composites for welding consump on ar e regularly reported and analyzed. Compared to previous repor ng per i od t her e i s no signiﬁcant increase or decrease in the ener gy res our ces cons ump on. Environmental friendly Ac ons : • The grinding chamber was repaired to reduce dust emissions. In May 2011 measurements were made by an accredited laboratory and it proved that the dust quan ty is 2 mes l ower than t he nor m. • At the same m e me asur eme nt s we r e ma de on ﬂue gas emi s si ons i n t he heat chamber – СО, NO, SO2. They were also within the norms. • The non-organized emissions were above the norm in 2010. Correc ve ac ons have been implemented to make them within the norm in 2011. • Recycling has been introduces for speciﬁc wa stes . The m i xi ng of hazar dous and nonhazardous wastes is prohibited. The wastes are collected by licensed waste collec on companies. As per the legal requirements on hazardous chemical substances – VH is a ‘consumer in the chain’ and as such the obliga ons ar e: to dema nd and regi ster saf et y dat a sheet s from the manufacturers and the importers of the chemicals, and all employees working with the respec ve chemi cal s shoul d be ins tructed. As per the legal requirements on waters – VH has no obliga ons . VH has a cont ract wi th a state company for water treatment. The state water company regulates the need of measuring the admissible degree of water pollu on regar di ng the physi cal , chemi cal and industrial indices. Environment management system: Opera ons have been under taken for the pr ocedur es , ins truc ons and oper a ve document s for the implementa on of ISO 14001: 2004 standar d. The goal of VH is that the standar d be implemented by the end of the year. Seminars and conferences: • Par ci pa on i nVIA EXPO i nSOFI A 2011 – Gre en ener gy f orum. • Par ci pa on i nGre en I nnova on f orum 20 10 12 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 Reference for the energy sources consump on of VH is gi ven in the tabl e: September 2009 August 2010 September 2010 August 2011 Energy resource gJ/m3 Energy resource gJ/m3 Natural Gas 9814 Natural Gas 9278 Electrical Power 9720 Electrical Power 9720 Gas composites 1072 Gas composites 1105 total 20606 total 20103 Non hazardous wastes Tons Non hazardous wastes Tons metal turnings 463,4 metal turnings 390,9 non ferrous metals non ferrous metals 17,6 slag slag abrasive disks abrasive disks scraps 20 scraps 20 total 483,4 total 428,5 Hazardous wastes Tons Hazardous wastes Tons other other 0 *1 gear oil gear oil 3,5 *2 total 0 total 3,5 Main source of Main source of Environmental factor Conformance Environmental factor Conformance pollution pollution Dust No blasting chamber Dust Yes blasting chamber Noise Yes production Noise Yes production buildings buildings Waste waters Yes industrial Waste waters Yes industrial Paint dissolvers Yes emissions Paint dissolvers organized Yes emissions emissions Paint dissolvers Yes emissions Paint dissolvers non No emissions organized emissions Flue gas emissions Yes heat Flue gas emissions Yes heat Remarks: *1 temporary storage before handling over *2 handling over to authorized supplier VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD 13 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 2. 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION An -cor rup on mea s ures 1. Departments with so-called corrup on envi ronme nt have been deﬁned wi t h vi ewo f preven on of any cor rup on prac ces. 2. Counter checks are performed on contractors to avoid conﬂict of int er es t wh en m a ki ng deals, orders, etc. 3. Procedure has been worked out deﬁni ng penal es corr espondi ng t o t he t ype of viola ons in accor dance wi th the Cr i mi nal Code. 4. Transparency commi ee has been es tabl ished f or ma ki ng the we ekl y schedul e f or payments of the liabili es t o c ont ractor s, et c. , wi th v i ew pr i or i ty payme nt s f or materials and services and not to certain companies, close to a given oﬃ cial per s on i n charge of a speciﬁc ac vit y. 5. Training on ‘Corrup on and its For ms of De vel opme nt in Var i ous Br anc hes of Economy – Analogue for Bulgaria and Germany’ has been conducted by Mr. Rolf Schlo er er . 6. Regular mee ngs wi th oﬃcial s fromEc onomi c Pol i cef r omAn corrup on Pol i cy in Economy Department. Taking into considera on t he pr oduc on s peci ﬁcity, t he admi ni st ra on st r uctur e and established organiza on for si gni ng cont racts, real iza on and c ash ﬂows c ont r ol VHi nter nal analysis has shown that the precondi ons f or cor rup on pr ac ces i n the compan y ar e reduced to minimum. Joint eﬀor ts wi th ext er nal or gani za ons VH management takes part in key mee ngs, conf er ences and ot her publ icl y i m p or tant events related to the Global Compact targets: The Chairman of the Supervisory Board a ended a gl obal wo r kshop on topi c Gl obal For ce for Decency in Applying the Principles of Law and Fight against Corrup on Fi ght , 2425 September 2010, Soﬁa. VH coordinates its eﬀor ts on pr even on and ﬁght agai nst corrup on as i t i nteract s wi th organiza ons and/ or par cipat es i nvar i ous i ni a ves: VH has adopted the BORKOR Project concept – a complex model for preven on and counterac on agai ns t cor rup on and organi z ed cri me i nBul gar i a wit h t he kind assi stance of Mr. Rolf Schlo er er – Advi ser to the De put y Pr i m e M i ni ster and M i ni ster of Int er nal Aﬀair s. 14 VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD – Communica on on progress report 2011 3. AVAILABLE LINKS TO THE COMPANY’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This Communica on on pr ogr es s r epor t and encl os ur es ar e publ ished on VAPTSAROV HOLDING AD’S oﬃ cial web s ite At: http://vap.bg/global_compact.php Contact person: Mariya Petrova Quality Management System and Improvements Manager mariya.petrova@vap.bg Contact informa on: T: +359 64 882 111 F: +359 64 882 117 M: +359 884 311 374 E: office@vap.bg A: 6 Grivishko Shose str 5800 Pleven, Bulgaria www.vap.bg Date of submission: 01/09/2011
