COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) – 2011 PAHARPUR BUSINESS CENTRE & SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY INCUBATOR PARK (PBC™-STIP) “Sustainability – The “Only” way of Life 21, NEHRU PLACE GREENS, NEW DELHI 110 019. INDIA T: +91-(0)-11-4120 7171 F: +91-(0)-11-2620 7575 E: qualitylife@pbcnet.com www.pbcnet.com From the CEO’s Desk: Global Compact Compliance Statement “Avoid the unmanageable and manage the unavoidable” United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development Report 2007 It is our pleasure to once again share our organisation’s Communication on Progress (COP) and compliance to the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact. We are deeply committed to the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact and practice them in our business on a day-to-day basis. At Paharpur Business Centre and Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC™ STIP), we constantly strive to achieve higher standards of performance in all that we do. Our employees are driven by a common purpose, values, goals and aspirations. In December 2010, we achieved the coveted USGBC LEED EB Platinum certification under Operations and Maintenance category as the first office building in India to do so. PBC also got a 5 star rating from Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Ministry of Power, Government of India, for past annual average electricity consumption of 28 WH/hr/m2 It was indeed a great achievement for us, as PBC is a twenty five year old building. If we can do it, surely, others too can achieve this and benefit from it. Since then, we are engaged in constantly striving to reduce our energy and water foot print even further. I must say, this feat could not be achieved without the passion and dedication of the PBC Team, our customers and stakeholders. A number of initiatives have been taken to make occupants at Paharpur Business Centre, more conscious towards environment. This is a steady & ongoing process at PBC, and its outcome will be reflected in the years to follow. We have tried to encapsulate all of this in our communication on progress. We firmly believe that Sustainable development is all about improving the quality of life for all of us, including our stakeholders; and in doing so we ensure complete commitment to the triple bottom line strategy i.e. People, Planet, and Profit. We believe in “Doing the right thing and doing the things right” and it is this thought process that drives our business performance and our contribution to the society that we live in. A special focus in the last one year has been on the health and safety aspects of our building occupants – Clients, Employees, Visitors etc and we have taken a lot of initiatives, that are evident in the course of this report, that benefit the occupant health and productivity. Another important challenge that we are specially focusing on is affirmative action and Inclusivity at workplace. We do believe that positive discrimination at the workplace will surely help in reaching out to the marginalized segments of our society for inclusive growth and development. As a result of which we have incorporated various changes in our HR processes to ensure we address Inclusivity and diversity and if all is equal then opportunity is given to physically challenged people in order to bring them into the mainstream We believe that sharing our progress, our way of doing our business, any impacts that our business would have on the environment, society, community etc, leads to corporate governance and transparency. We strive to encapsulate this in our report – How do we meet the challenges thrown by Climate Change? We have taken a leadership role in our sphere of business, by working with public and private partners in order to create green and clean solutions that reap great benefits to the cause of environment and business alike. By adopting clean and green technologies and methodologies, we are able to demonstrate our deep commitment to the cause of environment protection and the way we conduct our business, by mitigating any adverse impacts that our business would have on the environment. We once again look forward to sharing our business achievements with you by way of this report and I hope you find the report useful and informative. Your views and feedback are important to us and we look forward to it, as we believe that we can create value by learning from all our stakeholders and by continual improvement. With best regards and good wishes for a great year ahead Kamal Meattle CEO PBCTM – STIP Service Portfolio Our Portfolio of Services includes: 1. BeAssured™ Security Services 2. BusinessPoint™ 3. CuisineArt™ Food and Beverages 4. Café Einstein™ A restaurant 5. CleanAir™ Indoor Air Quality Services 6. ClearVoice™ 7. Deutsches Haus 8. FinTax™ Financial and Legal Services 9. GreenGrocer™ 10. HappiGreens™ 11. IndianSpider.com™ Internet Services 12. Implement™ Engineering & Safety Services 13. LegalSpider.com™ 14. MyBusinessValet™ 15. MyConference™ 16. MyInterview™ 17. MyOffice™ 18. MicroManage™ Property Management Systems 19. MyTraining™ 20. OfficeSupply™ 21. OutReach™ 22. PBC-PR 23. PBC Art Gallery 24. QualityLife™ 25. Relocate™ 26. SpringClean™ 27. TravelSpider™ Associate Services 28. Moduleone.com 29. Alltimejobs.com 30. Packaging Legends 31. Spring Clean Limited Mission & Vision Our Mission To be an excellent, world-class business support services company; committed to deliver benchmarked, quality oriented services to address customers' specific needs, whilst caring for the environment & people around us. We firmly believe and abide by the concept that service excellence and delivering quality service by following the triple bottom line approach and the ten universal principles of United Nations Global Compact must be a key part of the very structure and operation of an organization, and that people and systems in the organization must be constantly tuned to customer needs and to management's evolving concept of service excellence and sustainable development. Our Vision To stand out as an organization, with passion for quality service, care for environment & sensitive to people around, which inspires us from within to professionally provide end-to-end business support to our customers whom we see as the essence of our success. Policies Quality Policy Quality policy underlines the commitment of the management and employees of Paharpur Business Centre & Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC™ STIP) towards achieving quality in service by providing quality services and facilities that consistently meet and exceed customer expectation. To have a motivated and committed team by sustaining a working environment where each employee will be encouraged to excel. The Quality Policy is communicated to all employees for effective implementation and will be reviewed periodically for adequacy & suitability. PBC™ STIP will ensure compliance to all the regulatory and legal requirements and shall strive to go beyond the statutory compliance. Policy shall be made available to public, if required. Environment Management Policy Paharpur Business Centre is committed to perform its business and related activities in a responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement in Environmental performance. In doing so, we strive towards: ♦ Encourage recycling or reuse of office waste. ♦ Conserving energy and water through better management. ♦ Minimizing use of non-biodegradable in Food and Beverage department. ♦ Providing indoor air quality conforming to specify ASHRAE standards. ♦ Efficient use of resources by addressing the embodied energy criteria In keeping with our commitment to prevent pollution, PBC has recognized the Four ‘R’ Refuse, Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. We are committed to comply with applicable environmental legislation, regulations, rules and all the norms of the ISO 14001: 2004 standard and the requirements of USGBC LEED EB (O&M) certification. We will implement the environmental policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically without sacrificing quality of life. We will strive to create awareness among our customers, employees, sub-contractors and other important stakeholders, for better and improved environmental performance. This policy will be documented and training imparted to employees for effective implementation. This policy will be made available to public. Occupational Health & Safety Policy Paharpur Business Centre & Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC™-STIP) a service provider of office and conference facilities & a suite of 28 support services, is committed to provide a safe & healthy environment, to prevent injury & ill health to its employees, occupants, visitors, guest, subcontractors & other interested parties. In doing so we will strive towards: ♦ Commitment to compliance with applicable legislation, regulations and other applicable requirements that relate to our Occupational Health & Safety Hazards. ♦ We will implement the health and safety policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically to control and minimize risks due to OH&S hazards. ♦ We will ensure continual improvement in OH&S management and its performance. ♦ This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational OH&S objectives & goals. Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organization for effective implementation. ♦ We will strive to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, guests & other interested parties for better performance & to make them aware of their individual OH&S obligations. Policy shall be made available to public, if required. Social Accountability Policy We, at Paharpur Business Centre & Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC™-STIP), are committed to performing our business and related activities in a socially and environmentally responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement, responsive to the needs of the organization. We believe in the triple bottom line evaluation method in delivering performance ♦ Profit ♦ Care for the environment ♦ Social accountability We believe that “it can be good business” to care for one of our stakeholders viz. the society and people around us. It enables us to employ and retain great employees. We recognize that people are the core of the organization and we are committed to pursuing practices that ensure welfare and growth of our people. We shall strive to create safe & fair workplace for all our employees. We shall endeavor to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, & other important stakeholders on social issues related to our business area. In doing so we shall comply with the applicable national legislation and regulations and respect international conventions. We will implement this policy by setting and reviewing the procedures, standing instructions and related programs. We shall strive to integrate the relevant principles of UN Global Compact that relate to Human Rights and Labor Standards with PBC™ STIP's worker policies, code of Conduct, procedures and SA Standard requirements, in order to mainstream the principles in our day to day operations. This policy will be effectively documented, implemented, maintained, communicated, and accessible in a comprehensible form to all personnel, including directors, executives, management, supervisor, and staff, whether directly employed by, contracted with, or otherwise representing the Company. The policy will be publicly available in an effective form and manner to interested parties, upon request. Management shall review this policy periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational SA objectives & goals. Corporate Responsibility Policy Paharpur Business Centre and Software Technology Incubator Park (PBC™ STIP) a provider of serviced offices along with a suite of twenty-eight support services, is committed to perform its business in a responsible manner to produce an overall positive impact on society and environment. In doing so, we shall strive towards: Marketplace Leadership – We aim to run our business in a way that singles us out as a great provider of high quality services and preferred partner of choice to do business with. Our aim is to work with our stakeholders to develop long –term sustainable relationships. Environment – We are an environment driven company and are aware of the scale of impact our operation has on the environment. As such, we are committed to exploring ways to reduce the impact of what we do. We shall take a responsible attitude and lead the way in developing initiatives to further improve our environmental footprint. We shall be fully accountable to our clients, employees and the society that we operate in. We will strive to create business opportunities for our stakeholders and follow the core values, norms and ethics that are in-built in the way we conduct our business. Workplace – We are committed to offering our employees a rewarding and challenging workplace. We aim to become the Best Employer and Employer of Choice, demonstrated amongst other things, by current and past employees recommending the company as a great place to work. We are channeling our efforts towards making PBC a fun place to work for. We do believe that people are core to any business and are one’s most important asset and therefore we focus our energies in taking good care of them as we believe that it makes good business sense to hire and retain great employees. The idea is to synergize our efforts in order to create wealth for all. Inclusivity and Equal opportunities for all is at the core of our human resource policy. We are strictly against discrimination of any kind. We are committed to create awareness of HIV-AIDS at work place and have an adequate policy in place to handle it. Community – We strive to be good corporate citizens, we work to support the sustainability of both global and the local communities in which we operate and actively encourage our employees, customers, suppliers to consider the needs of others and involve themselves in public service through public private partnering. We are sensitive to the requirements of the community around us and our business strategies are closely interlinked with their aspirations. High standards of corporate governance care for environment and health & safety, override everything else that we do. Equal Employment Opportunity Policy PBC™ STIP and all its related properties and holdings support equal employment opportunities for all. We are committed to the Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) i.e. Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We Are Also Certified For SA 8000 for our Social Accountability. PBC™ STIP’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy states that every person has the same human rights and privileges without regard to his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, physically challenged, differently abled, marital status, national origin or economic status. Equal Employment Opportunity means that every applicant for a job should be considered solely on the basis of his or her qualifications. It also means that every employee should be treated equally with every other similar employee, without discrimination because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, physically challenged, differently abled, marital status, national origin or economic status. The company expects full co operation of everyone associated with it, to make sure these principles are upheld. Furthermore, the company expects that all matters related to recruiting, advertising, hiring, training, compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, recall from layoffs, educational assistance, and social and recreational programs and all treatment on the job, be free of any discriminatory practices. It is PBC™ STIP’s constant endeavour to spread the message Of ‘Equal Opportunities’ for all through various interactions and meetings with its supply chain and other stakeholders. HIV/AIDS POLICY PBC™ STIP recognizes that HIV/AIDS is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively ♦ PBC will provide a safe and healthy environment to the team members by developing nondiscriminatory policy and programmes on HIV/AIDS. ♦ PBC will provide regular HIV/AIDS prevention education to all its team members and their families at various levels through formal and informal sessions. ♦ HIV status of the team member will be kept confidential ♦ Any Team Member living with HIV/AIDS will be kept in employment as long as they are in position to work. If necessary, employee will be shifted to another appropriate position considering the health status at that point in time. ♦ PBC will not discriminate against any Team Member infected by HIV/AIDS with regard to promotion, training and any other privileges, applicable to all employees of the company. ♦ At PBC HIV/AIDS test will not be a part of recruitment process or any health check-ups. ♦ PBC will educate its Team Members and encourage them to participate in Voluntary Counseling and Testing for seeking advice related to HIV/AIDS. The committee set up for HIV/AIDS will ensure wide dissemination of the policy, review it from time to time and also monitor the implementation of the policy. It is hoped that this policy will help build positive and supportive attitude towards those infected and promote health and safety amongst the employees. Stakeholder Mapping at PBCTM-STIP During the year 2010 11, PBC™-STIP’s commitment to UNGC’s ten principles was addressed as: A. Human Rights I. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights PBC™-STIP ensures strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. We follow Shop & Established Act for compensation to workers. SA 8000:2008 certification cements PBC’s commitment on social accountability. Through this PBC reinforces its commitment to basic rights, freedom to all, fair wages, no discrimination, and leave. A fair and open channel of communication is maintained for all personnel at the work place. In our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Code of Conduct expresses our support for the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and during our various engagements with our stakeholders, we use the opportunity to encourage them to become part of the UNGC pact, as it will lend more credibility to them and their business. Inclusivity is our primary concern. Our workforce is competitive; we provide our employees an enabling environment that encourages them to be competitive & innovative. Employees are encouraged to communicate their ideas freely at the workplace. We strive to create supportive ambience at workplace. Employees are also empowered to be decisive. We encourage diverse work force in our organization, equal rights, and equal opportunity to all irrespective of gender / caste / creed / physical challenge etc. We further encourage positive discrimination. Some of our Innovative policies and practices followed are mentioned below which have been benefited to the employees and organization simultaneously. At PBC™-STIP, we maintain a very free and open work environment, where each individual is encouraged to excel in their respective areas, take onus and responsibility for their activities and stand up in a crisis situation to take decisions to the best of their abilities. The environment is an enabling one that encourages team members to display their talent and full potential. Our leadership believes in an “Open Door Policy” and welcomes each & every suggestion that comes, irrespective of the level / hierarchy anyone can approach the CEO from the Crew / House boy to the highest ranking official – we encourage our people to be fearless and urge them to be team members rather than individual performers for the overall growth and development of the company. There is a system of not only giving suggestions during appraisal but any time anyone can drop one in the suggestion box that is opened every month and the report is discussed with the top management and the feedback given to team members on what has been implemented and what has not been and why it has not been implemented. Apart from this we leverage technology to ensure our team members are truly enabled and have all tools and tackles that are required for doing a particular job. For instance how does one behave when one is employed in PBC – what are the rules and regulations, policies, core values & ethics, etc – All this is in our manual that is called – Management Standing Instructions (MSI). Thus everything is laid out at the outset for one to devote time and energies in promoting and meeting the departmental business objectives. At PBC everyone gets a chance to grow – there are several examples where people have risen from the ranks and are currently holding important management positions – our houseboys / peons etc have been promoted as Sr. Supervisors and HODS as well – based on their committed performance and eagerness to learn and acquire new skills for self development. PBC™-STIP has formulated a scheme of providing monthly incentives on good performance to motivate the employees for their better performance. The performance of each individual employee is appraised by its own HOD on monthly basis & based on that each employee is rewarded and recognised on a monthly basis. HRD consistently measures the performance and provides ongoing feedback to employees and work groups on their progress toward reaching their goals. Benefits Some of the benefits provided to full time employees of PBC™-STIP are as follows: o Mountain Fresh Air inside the business center through the indoor air quality o Safety systems such as fire alarms, extinguishers, fire exits, etc. o Privilege leave of 15 days & Sick/casual leave of 12 days in a year o Provide financial assistance to employees for travel expenses for themselves and their family while on vacation in India. o Minimum wages as per the government norms o Opening of bank account to all its employees o Bonus facility o Provident fund o Gratuity & Superannuation to employees o Pension scheme for retired employees o Provide retirement benefits to employees applicable to permanent employees as per rules and regulations of the LIC Gratuity Trust. o Employer’s State Insurance o Maternity Benefits o Internal & External Trainings o Medical room for the sick o Medical Benefits for employee and their dependents o Encourage employees to undergo annual medical checkups at any Company pre approved medical center. o Availability of First Aid Box o Diwali / New Year / Christmas Parties o Café-Einstein – A Dining restaurant o Terrace cafeteria o Green Grocer – selling fruits and vegetables o Telephone / Cell-phone facility o Internet connectivity o Celebrations during Earth Day, Environment Day, etc. Picnics, movies, etc. Health Camp On the occasion of World Environment Day, a special health check up camp was organized by PBC™-STIP for our 500 employees. A team of specialized doctors from ESI had come to screen and diagnose the employees and gave them intrinsic sessions on Yoga and Ayurveda. Nobel Laureate, and former Vice President of United States, Al Gore’s documentary on Climate Change was also shown to the employees to reiterate our organization’s commitment to care for environment. Delhi Medical Director, ESI, Dr. Harish Kumar Gupta visited Paharpur Business Centre, with his team of 10 doctors. Physician, Eye specialist, ENT specialist, Skin specialist, Homeopathy doctor, Ayurvedic doctor, Yoga specialist, checked and gave prescription to employees for full day. ESI Doctors diagnosing PBC employees at Paharpur Business Centre II. Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses PBC™-STIP ensures strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. In our Management Standing Instruction Code of Conduct expresses our support for the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and we also encourage our suppliers to sign up to the UN Global Compact. There has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Our organization realizes that the prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers is of paramount importance in upholding of human rights and accordingly, we have framed procedures to address any such grievances. PBC™ STIP is certified for SA 8000:2008 where in we have a separate procedure on Grievance Handling Procedure No. SA3. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective method for handling grievances of personnel deputed at PBC™ STIP which covers all personnel deputed at PBC™ STIP including workers provided by the sub contractors. Procedure is as follows: a. The procedure is designed to supplement, not to replace, routine and informal methods of responding to employee problems and complaints. This is in addition to our existing procedure on the same as mentioned in our MSI b. HOD & Manager / Head HRD shall receive complaints & grievances of PBC™ STIP employees and sub contractors staff. c. All the Complaints and grievances received by Manager / Head HRD shall be entered in Grievance Handling Register (SA/3/F1). d. Manager / Head HRD shall do the informal (direct) discussion with complainant & employees involved along with the relevant HOD, shall examine the problem and resolve at his / her level. The complaint / grievance that cannot be resolved by HOD & Manager / Head HRD shall be forwarded to Committee constituted for resolving such issues. e. This committee shall investigate employee complaints / grievances. The committee shall include Manager / Head – HRD, Management Representative, General Managers, Workers Representative, and Chief Warden Health & Safety. f. The Committee shall review complaints / grievances and shall take appropriate action. Wherever required, approval shall be taken from Director / CEO before implementing the committee’s recommendation. Action taken shall be communicated to the concerned employee by HRD and records of the same shall be maintained by Manager / Head HRD in Grievance Handling Register. g. In case any suggestion / grievance requires immediate action; committee shall meet, address the issue & take necessary steps to resolve it. No adverse action shall be taken against any employee for filing grievance or use of the grievance procedure. No records of an employee’s use of the grievance procedure shall be kept in his/her personnel file. As stated earlier, there has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. B. Labour Standards III. Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to Collective Bargaining PBC ™-STIP realizes that the collective strength of employees is an effective partner towards the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth and hence no objection is raised on employees to join any trade unions thereby ensuring freedom of association to all its employees. This is communicated through training programmes and implemented through the Social Accountability certification for SA 8000. Till date, no instances of strikes have happened at PBC™-STIP. A noteworthy point here is that a large part of our crew members have been with us for more than five years, this shows the trust and faith that they repose in the management of PBC and also proves the management’s commitment to their personal development and welfare. Also we have appointed a “Workers Representative” (WR) to engage with our crewmembers and understand their queries, requirements & grievances. These are then discussed with the Management Committee and HR & actions are taken to resolve all shortcoming if any. The WR acts as a bridge between the Management & Workers. He is also a key player in the scheme of things at PBC – STIP for staff welfare. He is also an invitee to all Management Review Meetings in order to present the workers prospective to the management. Apart from this we also encourage our employees to express their views, raise issues, give suggestions, seek clarifications, etc through our “SUGGESTION BOX” & “INTERNAL MAILING SYSTEM” (I-mail). IV. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PBC™-STIP believes in voluntary labour and no instances of forced / compulsory labours have come to light during the year. Audit from external agencies for compliance with SA 8000:2008 is also conducted at six monthly intervals to ensure adherence to the standard and compliance to the principle. V. The organization supports effective abolition of child labour. We prefer business partners, who treat their employees similarly as PBC™-STIP follows the Delhi Shops and Establishment Act, according to which, the age limit prescribed for child labour is below 15. However, PBC has prescribed the minimum age limit as 18 years for employment. No person below this age can be employed in PBC, whether directly or indirectly, thereby ensuring that child labour is not practiced. By setting the minimum pay scale as per the government norms we ensure that our employees get decent wages and working conditions encouraging them to send their children’s to schools rather than to work. All our contractors & vendors are also required to scrupulously follow the laws/ rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed through our contract agreement & training programmes with our Vendors and suppliers. In our SA 8000:2008 systems, we have a separate procedure on Child Labour – Remediation Plan Procedure No. SA2. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective process for detection & prevention of child labour & its remediation, which covers all personnel deputed to include workers provided by subcontractor. For the year 2011 12 one of our primary objectives is to annually train 20% of our vendors and sub-contractors on different issues relating to Social Accountability Principles, Health & Safety, Environment, Good Labour Practices, HIV AIDS and Quality Standards. Stakeholders’ engagement in progress at PBC VI. Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Yes in PBC™ STIP we ensure that no discrimination at workplace & at the time of recruitment is done, on any basis. We have adequate policies in place to firmly deal with these and apart from this it also is detailed in our MSI – Management Standing Instructions and processes under ISO. We ensure 100% compliance to these. The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, colour, gender, religion or region. We firmly believe in inclusivity and strongly oppose discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion etc at work place. It is evident from the chart given below that Schedule caste & tribes constitute almost 11% & we hire people based on competencies & not caste, creed, nationality, religion, gender etc. However as part of Affirmative Action, we do practice “Positive Discrimination” i.e. if all qualifications and hiring guidelines are met, preference is given to candidate from the marginalized / economically weaker sections of the society – after all the benefits of progress are for one and all. Employment without any caste discrimination is carried out resulting in more than 43% employment for backward classes at PBC. No favoritism on basis of caste & creed. We have equal employment opportunities policy. The below table clearly indicates that there is no caste discrimination within PBC™-STIP employees. Our HRD Process is based on Affirmative Action and Inclusivity giving opportunities to the marginalized sections of our society including Differently abled, Dalits, Tribals, SCs / STs etc. Emphasis is also given on employing / hiring locally and at this moment we can safely state that most of our management team is hired from the local community / location of operation. Women Empowerment Meet Women Empowerment Meet was held in May 2011, to apprise women staff about the growing challenges in professional life. Tips were given on how one can strive for growth in professional life and at the same time strike a balance in personal life. Promoting Gender Equality and Celebrating Birth of a Girl Child at PBC – ‘Nanhi Chhaan’ At PBC we recognize the power of a woman and immediately felt that the initiative to promote the girl child and club it with tree plantation was in line with our core business values. PBC™ STIP is actively supporting the ‘NANHI CHHAAN’ betiyan aur jungle; jeevan karein mangal, a gender equality and ecological conservation program as part of CII Northern Region's proactive engagement programme for the corporate sector to promote girl child and environment conservation. As, we are very much focused on the environmental front and therefore have tried to merge this social cause with the planting of trees and creating microclimates in order to increase the forest cover and save our planet – Earth. From next year onwards, PBC is planning to organize similar activity for baby boy to be born to employees. PBC Team Members Planting Trees to Celebrate the Birth of their girl child C. Environment VII. The organization adopts a precautionary approach to Environmental Challenges With regard to our environmental initiatives – relating to energy management, water conservation, reduction of our carbon footprint, use of sustainable resources, waste management, local procurement etc all these things are tangible and the system addresses it very substantially. It is our absolute belief that care for environment can alone help us in addressing the Climate Change issues and take us out of through this. In December 2010, we received the coveted USGBC LEED Platinum certification from USGBC under the category of Existing Buildings (EB) (Operations & Maintenance) & five star rating from Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Ministry of Power, Government of India, for past annual average electricity consumption of 28 WH/hr/m2 It is the first building in the country to have achieved this unique international distinction of both the higher ratings – of USA and India for a retrofit building in Nehru Place, built to government design, 25 years ago. Energy Management Practices We have benefited from the practices implemented in PBC and the results show almost a 30% reduction in our electricity bills and our MDI has come down from 735 to 400 KVA. PBC is also a Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Ministry of Power, Govt. of India, 5-star rated building, with average annual hourly energy performance index of 28 W hr /hr /m2. Water Management Practices At PBC™-STIP, water has always been considered as a precious resource, which is monitored at all inlet and outlet points on daily basis. As water demands and environmental needs grow, recycling & reusing of water plays a major role at PBC™STIP, helping us to conserve and sustainably manage our vital water resources. We save a total of about half million litres of water/year through the various measures undertaken by us. Our CEO Mr. Kamal Meattle is very actively engaging with the CEO of Delhi Jal Board to get a STP / ETP installed in Nehru Place Greens Park, this will not only save potable water consumption but will also set an example for others to replicate it all over. Indoor Air Quality PBC™STIP is set up in a pollution free & green environment with Indoor Air Quality confirming to ASHRAE Standards. Care for the Environment has been an intrinsic part of our business. Parameters of Indoor Air Quality that are monitored on daily basis in PBC arePM10, Co2, Relative Humidity and Temperature. Innovative ways to minimize Heat Ingress At Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), besides the major Energy Conservation Projects we also encourage & follow certain best practices that further contribute to reduction in our energy bills: o We have used Green mesh & heat reflective films on the southwest side windows of the building to block the direct sun heat into the building. o The heat gain into the building from the rooftop is minimum because of green house that houses around 300 plants / hydroponics. o High Albedo paint has been put on the building envelope to reduce the indirect heat gain into the building. o We believe that the “Color of Green is White” – therefore building façade and roof has been painted white, so that it reflects the heat back in summers to keep the building cool, reducing the heat ingress and hence reducing the cooling load – this directly impacts our financial bottom line. White is a color that reflects light and thus has a cooling effect. o Each degree centigrade decrease in temperature means a saving of 3-5% in air-conditioning costs. White Mesh The total area of west side facing glasses in PBC is 3,360 sq ft. We have placed Mesh in the balconies in order to reduce the heat gained from sunrays. This is a very versatile material, which is locally available and has a low cost maintenance. We change it every year to maximize its effectiveness. It also does not cost that much approx Rs. 45 meter. White mesh also in turn reduces the load on the chiller / HVAC system. Similarly, we remove the mesh during the winter season in order to allow direct sunlight inside the rooms to reduce the heating load. Metalised Films We cover our building with waste packaging metalised film, that we borrow from our sister concern Paharpur Plastics. This reflects the sunlight and helps in bringing down temperature of the building by 1 2 degree Celsius. Resulting once again in lowering the temperatures during summer months, thereby a reduction in energy for Air Conditioning System Metalised films used on the façade of PBC In order to monitor the effectiveness of putting the metalised films over the green mesh, we conducted a temperature test by monitoring the temperature inside a room with metalised film strips with another room without metalised film. The strips were placed in such a way that it does not block natural light coming inside the room. The temperature test did show that the temperature of the room with the metal strips was lower than the other room by about 1 -2 degree Celsius. Heat Reflecting Paints o We use Heat Reflecting Paints in outer areas that reflects Sun Light and shuts off high temperature, in order to keep room temperature at a comfortable level. This paint gives 84% reflectivity and 92% emissivity, resulting in downsized AC equipments with cost and energy savings. Some of the advantages of using these paints are: o Fire Resistant and Noise Absorbent o Water Proofing o Lowered surrounding air temperature. o Decreased pollution in urban areas o UV protection & Non-toxic Mist Fans & Khas Coolers Mist Fans are installed at PBC entrance and on the rooftop to cool down air coming inside the PBC. We have also installed Khas coolers at the roof – Terrace Cafeteria Lattice. This is a non-air-conditioned area and by installation of the mist fans & Khas Coolers, including covering the roof helps in bringing down the temperature by 3-4 degrees Celsius and saves energy consumed for cooling. Mist Fan installed at PBC Heat Recovery Wheel (HRW) Paharpur Business Centre follows the ASHRAE Standards. At PBC, we suck fresh air from the optimum height where the pollution level is comparatively lesser than the air at the lower level. As the fresh air during the summer season is very warm e.g.If the ambient temperature is 42 degrees and if the same is pumped into the building as per the number of occupants then the pressure on the chiller would be very high to maintain the temperature in the building. Therefore, to reduce the pressure on the chillers we have installed a Heat Recovery Wheel, which is designed as per the specifications fixed by ISHRAE The Indian Chapter of ASHRAE. HRW is basically, used for exchanging the heat from the incoming air sucked from the ambient to the outgoing air from the building, while the coolness of the outgoing air is transferred to the incoming fresh air. Heat Recovery Wheel Air Washer We have installed an air washer on the top of the building at the air suction point. The main function of the air washer is to remove the Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM) from the fresh air by washing of the air with UV treated water. The incoming air temperature also comes down by evaporation cooling. Due to this technology, the load on the chillers is reduced. Motion Sensor We have installed motion sensor lights in the bathrooms and lobbies throughout the building in order to control the misuse of electricity. These sensor lights automatically gets switched on as soon as it senses the human presence, rest of the time it remains off. Motion Sensors Replacement of Halogen Lamps with LED We have a not for profit art gallery at PBC. The paintings in this art gallery are illuminated with 50W halogen lamps. There are 200 such lights fitted in tracks. Features of New light: o 3w LED Based warm color light o Easy retrofit solution, track & luminaries remain same o 400 LED lamps will replace 200 Halogen lamps Harnessing Solar Energy Skylights are used in the Green House and each such light make 4 tube lights redundant plus other benefits like: Zero operating cost, Zero replacement cost of choke & Tube light, Natural spectrum of light available, very good for plants, 100% power saving, It harvests sunlight without heat. Above all the plants get the full spectrum natural sunlight required for them to grow. Sky Lights installed in PBC. Water Conservation Initiatives o Installation of Conductivity Meters o Installation of Dual Flush Water Closets 4/2 o Up gradation of Cooling Towers o Installation of Waterless Urinals. o Installation of Dish Washer o Rainwater Harvesting o Water Sensors Installed at Toilets o Use of effluent water for gardening. o Installation of Drip Irrigation o Using of Soap Free Water for Gardening WC Replacement Project Replacement of 27 flush valve based water closets (WC) in the building by cistern based 4/2 Liter WC. Total 14 no. Of New Urinals replacing sensor based Urinals: spread over seven levels. In all washrooms 29 sensors taps are installed for optimum use of water and ensuring zero wastage Dish Washer (GE make) It helps in optimal use of water while dish washing. Now we use average 240L of water per day as against 360L used earlier Drip Irrigation In order to further conserve potable water and ensure that we do not use it for other than drinking purposes we at PBC had taken this decision at the outset to use new technologies available locally for the conservation of this important nonrenewable & finite resource. By using drip irrigation, water is absorbed slowly into the soil, directly into the root zone, and no water is wasted on non-growth areas. By placing water just at the root zone of the plant you need not water often. This method causes the water to be pushed deeper into the soil and helps to promote the plants' roots to grow downward and not just laterally. Approximately 150 liters of soap free wastewater is generated from Kitchen and Dish washing area. The wastewater is reused by channeling the flow for irrigation purpose and for the vermicompost pit (as shown in picture) This system is also extremely cost effective and above all useful in ensuring reduced run off & evaporation loss. Drip Irrigation System in PBC. Rain Water Harvesting At PBCTM – STIP o PBCTM-STIP collects the rainwater from the roof with a total catchments area of 2,165 sq.ft. o The average water recharged to ground is 101,900 Liters / year during 2008-09 o It has been calculated with 2008-09 annual rain fall of 611mm in Delhi and run off coefficient of 0.90. o This has been possible with the help of inputs from Centre for Science & Environment (CSE) & TERI. HYDROPONICS CULTURE We at Paharpur business center had started the hydrophone culture with one drum of money plant and four drums of Sansevaria in August 2009. Subsequently, as a result of further research, it was found that these plant and many others plants can grow in hydrophone culture with a little different set up. Hydroponics is a proven method of growing plants. It increases the productivity of plants because all of the nutrients are instantly available to the plant’s roots, as it does not have to waste any energy in spreading out and searching for nutrients as it would in case of soil. In this set up, we have used the PVC drums for plantation, which consist of pumps that regularly circulate water on bricks to moisten them as they further provide required water to plants and nutrients dissolved in it (after every 15 days and is consist of 10 months of clean water with I mug of synthetic urine). Apart from that we have now introduced “misting technique” which helps us to clean the plant’s surface faster and is less labour intensive, for this we have installed highpressure water mists and covered the whole plant pot (except top) with transparent sheet, so that without affecting light factor, the plant get cleaned efficiently and also results in reduced water wastage. Growing plants hydroponically is far more earth friendly than conventional gardening could ever be. Hydroponics usage of water is 70 to 90 percent less than that used in conventional gardening, and no fertilizer is lost to rain run-offs. Hydroponics plants grown at Paharpur Business Centre Waste Management Practices & Waste Stream Audits Solid waste management is a global environmental challenge specially faced by urban and semi-urban populations. A significant proportion of solid wastes, even in large and medium cities/towns of India, are disposed by land filling/dumping. Most dumping sites are a serious health hazard to people living in the neighborhood and are liable to contaminate ground water. For Waste Minimization to be effective & self-sustaining, it is essential to adopt structured approach applicable to the targeted sector. An organized approach means assigning responsibility, fixing targets, reviewing progress and timely implementation of techno-economically feasible selected and agreed solutions. Waste recycling provides solutions for saving natural resources. It also reduces costs and environmental pollution. Recycling also prevents wastes reaching landfills. 100% Recycling of Food Waste Food waste is recycled and converted into organic manure through vermi composting. The Manure produced is natural, rich in nutrients & humus and is used for all our horticulture purposes / requirements. In the year 2010, 2450 kg (input) of Food waste was put into the vermin-compost pit as two cycles and was converted into 1084.96kg (output) of organic natural manure through the harvesting as two cycles (Jan 2010 to Jan 2011). Vermi Manure being harvested by our Gardener Other Waste Management strategies At PBC™ STIP we try and re-use every single used sheet after weighing it. This helps in reducing the consumption of fresh paper and this is our EMS objective 269 reams of fresh paper were consumed by PBC office staff in the year 2010, which are 27 reams lesser than the consumption of 296 reams in the year 2009, showing a decrease in consumption by 9.1%. Also 9kgs of more used paper had been collected in the year 2010 than the previous year. Similarly, used envelopes are reused for internal mailing system. Envelopes are reused until totally destroyed (1 envelop is used approx 5 – 6 times). The visiting cards printed on normal paper have been replaced with recycled paper as a result of the observation made during the waste stream audit. Use of electronic mail for correspondence is encouraged – we are working towards a paperless office. Broken & damaged furniture is recycled & reconstructed into new. As per the Solid Waste Management Policy of PBC™ STIP we segregate waste resulting from building renovation or modification for recycling or reuse whenever conditions permit and sort and recycle the waste with an aim to reduce the quantity of waste sent for landfill or incineration. Use of Carpet waste cuttings: The cut pieces generated from carpets laid in the rooms are used for Coasters, Telephone mats, Laptop mats etc. Broken & damaged wooden furniture recycled & reconstruct into new. Few examples are as explained below: Case 1: ♦ Broken & damaged tables reconstructed into new round table ♦ New Table will cost: Rs. 30,000/(each)(Approx. USD 660) ♦ No of tables made: 02 ♦ Total cost incurred: Rs. 9,000/(Approx. USD 200) ♦ Total amount saved: Rs. 21,000/(Approx. USD 470) Case 2: ♦ All the wooden chairs of conference room and Cafe Einstein were broken which were repaired and only upholstery was changed. ♦ Cost of New chair (01no): Rs1, 500/(Approx. USD 33) ♦ Amount spent: Rs. 250/on each chair (USD 6) Case 3: ♦ There was a broken showcase lying in our warehouse it was repaired and polished and glass affixed to convert it into a bookshelf cum curio unit for our 5th floor lobby. ♦ Waste wood cuttings / pieces are re-used by making AC pipe line covers, Beadings for room decoration, new photo frames, Visiting Card and Menu Card holders, Name Tag holders etc out of them. Our policy of segregation at source in designated areas ensures that no waste generated during alterations is uncontrolled or unmonitored. Earth Day Celebrations at PBCTM – STIP Around 100 employees of Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) and team of The Climate Project India (TCPI), in partnership with Delhi Development Authority (DDA) cleaned the NPG Park, which has around 2000 trees, on the occasion of Earth Day. The park being the only green lung at the commercial hub, Nehru Place, is of utmost significance for the clean and fresh air in the area. Employees cleaned the park and planted saplings too. Mr Robert Donkers, Minister Counselor Environment, European Union To India; Mr Aditya Pundir, Country Manager, The Climate Project-India; Ms Sushma Berlia, President Apeejay Education Society, and Mr Kamal Meattle, CEO of Paharpur Business Centre planted saplings on the occasion. PBC employees cleaning park and guests planting sapling at Nehru Place Greens Park VIII. The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility Environmental awareness among PBC Team Members & Stakeholders Our values encourage and motivate us to have a partnership with our customers, employees & other important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work for. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our Environmental responsibility towards Community & stakeholder: o Awareness Program for School Children, Employees, Clients, Community around us o Celebration of Earth Day, Environment Day etc as official events of the organization o Regular Interaction with School children to sensitize them to the various issues relating to Environment & Water Management o In-house Employee Awareness Programmes. o Information Dissemination to in-house clients through TFT/Display Monitors installed at Strategic locations including washrooms o Creating Awareness through our annual Communication on Progress (COP) & CSR/CR reports. o Till a couple of years back there were no 4/2 L cisterns available in India. We engaged companies like Cera, Hindware & Orient ceramics and urged them for solution. o Our CEO has been actively interacting with chairman of Delhi Jal Board for getting a STP in a public park near our office for irrigation of plants. o The initiative of water conservation at PBC™-STIP runs across all verticals. o We are constantly talking to our supply chain and sensitizing them on the water issues. o In our new project-GreenSpacesTM we have been able to reduce our potable water demand from 45 L to 20 L with the help of learning from this building. Students of British council champs learn sustainable ways of living – Creating Awareness by spreading the message of Environment Stewardship Students of British Council International Climate Champions visited Paharpur Business Centre to learn about energy conservation practices adopted by PBC. Around 10 students were apprised of our water, energy conservation practices and waste management practices. International Climate Change Champions is a youth oriented programme run by the British Council in partnership with The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). Students understanding the know-how of IAQ system at PBC IX. Encourages the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies PBC™-STIP encourages the use Green & Clean Technologies. We strive to create awareness amongst our stakeholders, especially our supply chain with whom we partner to create superior / green products and services. Last year, PBC had launched GreenSpacesTM Ideas, an online platform to post green ideas (for energy & water conservation and reducing & recycling waste) www.greenspaces.in/ideas along with a website: www.greenspaces.in/challenge to enable greentech & cleantech ideas applied to building to become a reality and to create an opportunity for people to make a difference and help preserve the Earth for a safe and healthy living. D. Anti – Corruption X. Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery PBC™-STIP has kept its policies transparent to encourage ethical work culture & prevent corruption in business. It is accountable & responsible to its stakeholders in ensuring that it conducts itself in an open & transparent manner. It is our endeavour to promote this, especially in our supply chain management and we have come out with a specific process as part of a management System, which is as under: No PBC employee or any member of his immediate family will accept any form of gifts or favors from contractors, suppliers, clients/customers, or any other party having business dealings with the company. However, in such circumstances where it is customary to do so, employees are permitted to accept such gifts of nominal value or favors provided that such gifts or favors are not extended and/or accepted for the purpose or with intention of: o Influencing any present or future act decision by that employee. o Inducing such employee to perform or omit any act in violation of his proper duties and responsibilities. o Inducing such employee to use or direct any other person to use his influence with a government, or any of its representatives, divisions or agencies to affect or influence any act or decision of any such government, representative, division or agency and in any or all of the above cases, for the purposes of expediting, benefiting, prejudicing or affecting in any way whatsoever whether directly or indirectly the business dealings or relationship of the gift giver with the company. o For the purpose of this section, “Nominal Value’ of a gift is defined as the sum of the gift(s) having the aggregate monetary value of not more than Rupees Three Hundred only (Rs 300). Employees are required to report to their respective Head of Department on all gifts or favors received which exceed the above nominal value. o Any employees in doubt as to the nature or purpose of the gift or favor must consult the HR Manager who will decide, either in consultation with or through his own accord, the course of action in respect of such gift or favor. o Gifts cannot be accepted by the employee & will be returned to the donor; or if such return is not possible, the company will retain the same for distribution to recognized charitable organizations. ANTI-CORRUPTION & ETHICAL POLICY AT PBC™ STIP As employees in PBC we o Will ensure to behave in an honest & ethical manner. o Will set a good example by being trustworthy. o We will make sure that our behavior complies with the policies and rules of the organization / PBC o We will use the resources of our company in the best interest of the company, and not for personal & gainful reasons. We will not misuse these resources. o We will not pay or accept bribes / anything of value / cash/ gift / gratuities, offer of employment etc, for the purpose of influencing placement of contracts, obtaining a business advantage or any other reason. o We will make a clear distinction between the interests of our company and our personal interests, and avoid possible conflicts of interest; we do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages, which could contradict this principle or influence our business decisions that are against the norms of our company. o Ensure that we comply with law of the land, including National legislations & statutory compliances. o All commissions and fee contracts shall have prior approval of our CEO. o Report incidents, risks and issues which deviates from our policy, to your immediate reporting authority, or HeadHRD or CEO o Are continuously conscious about and aim to maintain our integrity, thereby maintaining the integrity of the organization. o All employees must adhere to this policy and any violation to the above may result in termination / legal action, as deemed fit by the management. o The CEO must approve any exceptions to this policy. As owners of PBC we: o Commit ourselves to this policy, and to an ongoing effort to maintain our integrity o Make sure that PBC complies with national regulation and commit PBC to an open and transparent management approach o Expect our partners and other business associates to respect this policy and wherever possible we will influence them to also adopt this policy. PBC’s commitment to Quality OUR CERTIFICATIONS PBC™-STIP has been certified to five international standards: ♦ ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System ♦ ISO 14001:2004 Environment Management System ♦ OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health & Safety ♦ SA 8000:2008 for Social Accountability ♦ ISO 22000:2005 for Food Safety Management System ♦ Commitment to UN Global Compact Awards & Accolades in the Year 2010: ♦ Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) has been awarded a Platinum Green Building rating by USGBC LEED (United States Green Building Council Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) under Existing Buildings (Operations and Maintenance) on 21st December 2010. ♦ Received Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Ministry of Power, Govt. of India, 5 star building rating, with certified annual average electricity consumption 2.6 Wh /hr /ft2 in October 2010. ♦ Received National Award for Excellence in Energy Management from CII in September 2010. PBCTM STIP in NEWS The Road Ahead………. o We are working towards getting certified for recently launched ISO 5001Energy Management System. o Our GreenVilla™ Project will be IGBC Platinum Certified under IGBC’s Green Homes category. We hope to accomplish this by December 2011. o As part of our commitment to “Affirmative Policy” we will continue to give / reserve employment for SCs / STs & OBCs up to 3-4% and try to maximize it as much as possible o In Pursuant of our policy of making PBC one of the healthiest buildings in the country, we propose to get 100% of our team and as much as possible for our clients (Occupants) tested for Tuberculosis (TB) o To carry out more R&D in IAQ by experimenting with Green vertical walls & optimizing Hydropone system of growing plants. o More R&D to get ambient and inside CO2 at same levels and reduce VOC’s , bacteria and fungus in the Indoor air. o Last but not the least; we plan to changeover from CFLS to 100% LED lighting in the building by March 2012. For queries or clarification, kindly Contact: Ms. Roopali Shahaney E: roopali@pbcnet.com; qualitylife@pbcnet.com M: +91-(0)981 104 6032 T: +91(0)-11-4120 7804
