Sustainability Report 2010 Extracted from Lindab’s Annual Report 2010 lindab | case Think Less. – About simplifying construction and about why less is more We believe it is entirely possible to simplify construction for our customers while also working towards a better environment. In 2011, we are launching a new communication concept to inform about steel from a sustainability perspective. The theme of the campaign is Think Less – because less is more. The arguments for using steel products from Lindab: The environmental benefits of steel are: — Less material used — Less waste — Less energy consumed — Less CO2 emitted Our smart solutions give customers the following advantages: — Less effort when planning and optimising — Less time on the building site — Less energy to run the building — Less maintenance work In other words, Think Less is a concept that goes hand-in-hand with our business concept to simplify construction. With our smart, well-conceived and recyclable systems and solutions, we offer a range of valuable benefits to customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. Lindab – We simplify construction 42 l i nda b | case 43 lindab | lindab l i fe Social responsibility (SR) is fundamental to Lindab’s entire business. The current priorities for this work are based on a dialogue with the company’s stakeholders. Guidelines regarding Lindab’s responsibility for daily conduct within the field are combined under the concept Lindab Life. Lindab Life The work to create sustainable development Lindab’s Code of Ethics is implemented in Lindab Life consists of four areas – Business, has always been a part of Lindab’s values. The several languages throughout the Group and Environment, Employees and Society, which basis for Lindab’s work with social responsiis monitored continuously. The Code is based also act as a framework for the reporting of bility is to achieve positive outcomes for the on the UN Convention on Human Rights and the company’s sustainability work. business and its employees as well as for the describes the principles regarding how every environment and society. Lindab sees its susemployee should behave in their relations with The CEO and senior management are respontainability efforts as a value-creating cycle, in other employees, shareholders, business partsible for Lindab’s work regarding SR, which is which the initiatives that favour the external ners and other stakeholders. The Code is also implemented by Group Staff Legal. The work environment and stakeholders also benefit used to ensure that the company’s suppliers opis executed by a group of employees reprethe company. erate in a way that is consistent with the Code. senting the Legal, Finance, Purchasing and HR functions. Lindab’s Code of Ethics and core values play The Lindab Life concept summarises how a central role in the governance of Lindab’s Lindab should act on a daily basis, and how The data presented refers to the calendar year organisation and its operations. Together the company should behave towards its cusfor 2010 and, unless otherwise specified, inwith the UN’s Global Compact, the sustaintomers, suppliers and other partners. Lindab cludes all Lindab Group operating subsidiability reporting in accordance with GRI and Life also governs its behaviour towards emaries that were included from the start of the ISO 26000 comprise the cornerstones necployees and the communities in which the year. Those companies that were divested essary for building confidence and the basis company is present. Furthermore, it covers or ceased operations report the data for the for a strong brand. every significant environmental issue, both time that they were active. The previous susfrom a process and a product perspective. tainability report was published in April 2010. LINDAB’S SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND LINDAB LIFE ARE BASED ON THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES AND CONTROL INSTRUMENTS: • ISO 26000 – guidelines for social responsibility. • Greenhouse Gas Protocol – guidelines • Global Compact – Guidelines on human for calculating greenhouse gas emissions. rights, environment etc. • Lindab Code of Ethics – comprehensive • Global Reporting Initiative, GRI – Sustaiinternal policy document dictating approaches nability reporting guidelines. Lindab reports towards the outside world in matters relating under GRI level C. to social responsibility within each relevant area, based upon for example the UN’s Declaration on Human Rights. 44 l i nda b | l i n d ab life Lindab’s work with The Board social responsibility of Directors (SR) Goals Control instruments Reports Control President and CEO Group management SR manager SR group Priority issues for Lindab within social Finance Purchasing Legal Environment HR responsibility: −− Energy efficient products Materiality and −− The effect of steel on the risk analysis environment. Stakeholder dialogue −− Business ethics, such as anti-corruption and free competition. −− Lindab’s environmental Stakeholders objectives. −− Vision: Zero workplace Suppliers Customers Employees Investors Society injuries. WHISTLEBLOWER It is vitally important that all employees respond and act when deviations occur from the principles of Lindab Life. A key point in Lindab’s Code of Ethics therefore describes the “whistleblower” function, i.e. the opportunity for all employees to anonymously to report abuses that are contrary to Lindab Life. Notifications have been received in 2010 resulting in investigations and disciplinary action in some cases. STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE S up plier s Lindab’s stakeholders primarily consist of customers, suppliers, investors, employees and society. During the year, dialogues have been held with representatives for these groups aimed at discussing the issues ty Cu deemed most important for the company. Based upon the exchanges in s to S ocie mer s these stakeholder dialogues, a materiality analysis has been completed in which Lindab’s priorities have been decided. Issues that emerged as most important relate to, for example, ethical matters such as anti-corLindab ruption and free competition and environmental aspects such as the effect of steel on the environment, energy-efficient products, as well as the or s Em Group’s energy consumption and climate impact. t p es lo I nv ye es 45 lindab | lindab l i fe Lindab’s business is based on energy-efficient products and services that simplify construction. Together with sound business ethics, this contributes to healthy and long-term relationships with the company’s customers and to social responsibility. Business Simplifying construction for the company’s less material. Since steel is a very strong maconstruction in all phases of the construction customers is fundamental to the developterial, a smaller amount of steel is required process: in the design phase, of the product ment of new products and services. This is to perform the same function as concrete or itself, its installation and delivery. This forms being reinforced in 2011 with the launch of wood. This also contributes to fewer shipthe basis for the company’s product develthe new “Think Less” concept, which puts an ments when steel is used for construction. opment. The goal is to continue to develop even greater focus on developing solutions sustainable and energy-efficient products. that require fewer resources to achieve the The properties of steel do not change during same outcome. the building’s life span. Steel possesses a Since people spend a large proportion of their long service life, reducing the need for maintime indoors, it is important that the indoor Energy efficient products tenance and repair, and the energy consumpenvironment is healthy and that the compoSteel – the benefits and tion during the building’s life cycle. nents used in the building present no health environmental issues risks. Lindab works actively to identify and reSteel and sheet metal are the common denomSteel does not require pesticides or other place anything that can be considered to be inator for the majority of Lindab’s products. chemicals to protect against pests, mould or a hazard to the environment or to health. MaThe global steel industry is investing billions rot since steel is an inorganic material that does terial research and development projects are to improve treatment and other measures to not absorb liquids. For that reason, buildings also conducted together with suppliers, noreduce the environmental impact. incorporating a steel frame do not provide a tably into surface treatment, corrosion probbreeding ground for mould or other allergens. lems, strength as well as health and environApart from emissions during the production Steel gives off no emissions that can give rise mental aspects. process, steel has a relatively small environto hypersensitivity or allergies. mental impact. Steel’s most important propResources are also being dedicated to the erties that help to conserve natural resources Virtually all steel can be recycled and steel development of products in order to optimise are its light weight, high strength and good is today one of the most recycled materials the manufacturing process, and to reduce recyclability. in the world. costs and the environmental impact. Lindab tests and documents the products that are The high strength of steel and constant deProduct development and quality developed to ensure quality and functionvelopment allow for lighter buildings that use Lindab’s strives to contribute to simplifying ality. Quality management systems are apDISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE BY STAKEHOLDER Lindab’s revenue in 2010 amounted to SEK 6,527 m, comprising the sale of the company’s products and services. Most of this is distributed among the company’s stakeholders. Suppliers, 65% Employees, salaries inc. social sec. contributions and pensions, 26% Banks etc., interest income and expenses, 3% Investors, profit for the year, 1% Society, tax, 1% Other1), 4% 1) Other consists of items that cannot be attributed to individual stakeholders. This item mainly comprises depreciation, the write-down of goodwill, exchange rate differences and capital gains on the sale of assets. 46 l i nda b | l i n d ab life plied throughout the business. Almost all of Lindab is working to develop Carbon Footconstruction industry and in the various geLindab’s larger production units have qualprint studies for a large proportion of the ographical markets where Lindab operates, ity systems certified to ISO 9001. The prodGroup’s products. The studies, which incertain operators behave in a manner that is ucts are supplied with the documentation reclude the products’ impact on the environnot acceptable. Lindab has long had a comquested by the various markets such as user ment, are presented notably in environmenpetition policy that is continuously reviewed manuals, certificates and environmental prodtal product declarations and other product and updated. Conduct that breaches comuct declarations. information. The calculations are performed petition rules is unacceptable. Company emby an external party, WSP, and are made ployees are informed and trained about the The high quality and functionality of Lindab’s from “cradle to grave”, i.e. from the extraccontent of Lindab’s policy in order to avoid products help to lower the risk of adverse eftion of raw materials until the product leaves violation of these rules. fects on health and safety. No breaches have Lindab’s factories. In 2011, all of Lindab’s been identified during the year in the Group’s product groups will be covered by Carbon Lindab has zero tolerance towards corrupprovision of products or in the health and safeFootprint studies. tion, and the anti-corruption policy is dety impacts of the products. signed to ensure that conduct that might be So far, outcomes from the studies have shown considered as corruption does not take place Carbon Footprint studies positive results for Lindab’s products and in the company. for Lindab’s products the materials used. The material accounts The construction industry is increasingly defor much of the Carbon Footprint, i.e. the During the year, disciplinary action has been manding access to information about prodproduction of steel. Manufacturing, transtaken against employees for acting in breach ucts’ carbon emissions during their lifetime, portation and packaging materials comprise of ethical principles. referred to as the Carbon Footprint. Buildless than 10 percent of the products’ total ings account for 36 percent of the EU’s total Carbon Footprint. greenhouse gas emissions. Building materials constitute a part of this. To reduce a Business ethics building’s impact on the climate, it is imporAnti-corruption and free competition tant to be able to manage and to know the Good business ethics are pursued throughmaterial’s carbon footprint. out Lindab’s business. Unfortunately, in the CARBON FOOTPRINT STUDIES Based on calculations according to Carbon Footprint studies, the GWP (Global Warming Potential) for a standard home is 6.36 tonnes. This value is based on the approximate consumption of materials for steel ˜ components in a detached house measuring 130 m2 with a ventilation system, frame, roof and roof drainage from Lindab. This can be compared with a return flight between Sweden and Thailand, resulting in emissions of 1.5 tonnes per person. A house built using Lindab’s prod6 6 ucts therefore roughlycorresponds to a vacation for a family of four. GWP GWP Tonnes/130 m2 Tonnes/4 passengers detached house using return journey to Thailand Source: SAS Carbon Dioxide calculator, WSP’s Lindab’s products Carbon Footprint studies for Lindab’s products. 47 lindab | lindab l i fe The construction industry is seeing an increased interest in ­environment­ally friendly products and production processes, particularly with regard to ­energy consumption and the chemical content of products. Environment Lindab’s continuous environmental work is • 20 percent of energy will come from reoperations normally relate to ordinary busigoverned by the environmental policy and newable sources ness permits for the industry, and in certain agreed environmental objectives. • greenhouse gas emissions will decrease places permits regarding the size of the facby 20 percent. tory site and the handling of oils. Reports are The direct responsibility for environmental issubmitted to regulatory bodies in each counsues within Lindab lies with the local compaThe long-term objectives are complementtry. No violations of permit conditions or local nies, each of which has one person responsied by shorter, more locally based objectives environmental laws have occurred in 2010 ble for local environmental work. The Group and activities. In particular, this means better or previously. has a central environmental function with reprocesses and reduced energy consumption. sponsibility for the development, coordination These have not been fully achieved in 2010, Climate change and monitoring of the environmental work. A primarily because of production cutbacks. Climate change affects Lindab’s operations Group-wide environmental council has been to an ever greater extent. These changes are appointed with a representative from each Environmental treated as risks, and assessments are conbusiness area. Each business unit is continmanagement system tinuously being made to identify and preuously monitored and compared with other Most of Lindab’s major production units vent further risks. Identified risks include units within the Group. are certified according to ISO 140001, with extreme weather with increased precipimore to be certified in future. Non-certified tation and flooding, as well as longer and Lindab’s energy and climate companies are primarily sales companies. colder winters with the increase in energy objectives costs this entails. Lindab has set three long-term objectives Localisation aimed at reducing the Group’s impact on the Lindab’s production units are generally situLindab’s impact on the environment arises environment and climate. The objectives are ated within areas designated for industrial acfrom energy consumption as well as from the based on the EU’s objectives for 2020 and mean tivities, where operations have no direct imconsumption of raw materials. Several prothat taking 2008 values as a starting point: pact on biodiversity. jects focusing on energy efficiency and reduced volumes of scrap are being conduct• energy consumption will decrease by Permits ed within the Group. The Group reports to the 20 percent The permits that are required for Lindab’s Carbon Disclosure Project, which measures CONSUMPTION OF RAW MATERIALS WASTE & SCRAP METAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Steel, tonnes 182,000 180,000 Steel scrap, tonnes 11,000 36,000* Total, tonnes 52,366 83,629 Other metals, tonnes 20,200 Other scrap metals, tonnes 2,590 Direct emissions, tonnes 10,392 10,400 Oils, m3 210 100 Hazardous waste, tonnes 490 700 Indirect emissions, tonnes 19,798 18,800 Total other waste, tonnes 6,340 8,600 Other sources*, tonnes 22,176 51,215 Paint, tonnes 640 750 Solvents, m3 20 30 Recycling rate, % 90 93 *) Climate calculations now also include travel and scrap, 2009 has been adjusted to include these. Rubber, tonnes 1,280 1,400 *) A large amount of material was scrapped in connection with the closure of a production unit. ENERGY CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION OF TJ SEK m 408 7,100 PACKAGING MATERIALS ENERGY 407 7,000 406 6,900 2010 2009 2010 2009 405 6,800 404 6,700 Cardboard, tonnes 2,130 2,000 Total, TJ 403 407 403 6,600 402 6,500 Plastic, tonnes 730 1,700 Direct energy, TJ 170 166 401 6,400 Wood, tonnes 11,580 6,900 Indirect energy, TJ 232 241 400 6,300 0 0 2009 2010 48 Energy consumption Sales revenue l i nda b | l i n d ab life greenhouse gases and awards points based that transport accounts for a small part of pleting substances from leaking out. No emison emissions. Lindab’s measured results have the product’s overall climate impact. sions have been recorded to date. improved every year. Production Independent inspections of the business have Resource use Lindab’s operations, with the manufacture been made showing that no pollution has ocLindab’s main raw material is steel, of which of steel products, have a relatively small curred that may require the decontamination 20 percent is estimated to come from recyenvironmental impact. This can be small of soil or water. cled sources. Additive materials are also used emissions of dust, solvents from paint and such as paint, rubber seals, plus lubricants metals into waste water. The processes Waste and oils for metal processing. Furthermore, that can result in emissions into water use Lindab’s products are recyclable since they the production requires certain chemicals and closed systems, and air containing dust is are easy to separate in the event of reconfuels for the operation of furnaces, vehicles, filtered continually prior to being emitted. struction or demolition. trucks and heating. No unintended emissions have occurred during the year. The waste products generated during proWater is used in production primarily for duction comprise mainly scrap metal, but cooling and cleaning. In 2010, 193,000 m3 In connection with a major environmental reother types of waste are also generated. The (187,000) of water was used, mainly from view conducted in 2006, traces of the derecovery rate is high. Scrap metal is recythe company’s own wells. Measures to regreaser trichloroethylene were discovered cled completely along with about 92 percent duce water consumption include the instalin groundwater at the factories in Grevie and of other waste. Some incoming and surplus lation of water saving taps, as well as recyFörslöv. The product was used during the pepackaging materials are reused on site. Ancling process water. riod 1969–76 for degreasing metal. In order ything not used is sorted and dealt with acto monitor the pollution, Lindab has taken cording to existing laws. Energy conservation is an important area for regular samples over a three year period. Lindab. In 2010, the Group consumed apThe samples have shown that the levels fall Hazardous waste that is produced includes proximately 403 TJ (407 TJ) of energy, of well below the limit for drinking water and paint and solvent waste, absorbent materials which 15 (15) percent came from renewable discussions are being held with the country and other oily waste. The waste is collected sources. Several projects are under way to administrative board regarding how inspecby local waste management companies, and reduce overall energy consumption. tions should continue. there is no information as to whether any has been exported. Emissions Most of the Group’s production facilities are Transport connected to municipal drainage. Water that Chemicals Environmental demands are made in the cenis discharged over land surfaces is runoff and Lindab uses chemicals in production and is tral procurement of transportation. Consolcoolant water. This is usually clean but small therefore affected by the EU’s chemical legidation and logistical planning also reduce traces of metal deposits may be present. To islation, REACH. The business is classed as the environmental impact of transport. The protect against accidental discharges there a downstream user, since Lindab neither promajority of packaging consists of renewable are degreasers and sediment traps. duces nor imports chemical products to the materials, which are recycled. European market. Lindab’s work in this area is Leakage checks on cooling/heating pump mainly focused on communication with suppliLindab’s Carbon Footprint studies show equipment are carried out to avoid ozone-deers and customers about REACH related issues. REDUCED CLIMATE IMPACT THROUGH LESS SCRAP More efficient use of raw materials in production has economic as well as environmental benefits. Within Lindab, a Group-wide project is taking place to reduce the proportion of scrap and waste during production of the company’s products. The goal is to use material more effectively, thereby achieving a saving in raw materials of at least SEK 6 m. Reduced waste in the manufacturing process also decreases the Lindab’s total CO2 emissions. According to Lindab’s Carbon Footprint studies, 1 kg of galvanized scrap equates to about 1.32 kg in CO2 emissions. The project is cutting approximately 615 tonnes of scrap, equivalent to around 810 tonnes of greenhouse gas (CO2). 49 lindab | lindab l i fe AVERAGE NO. OF EMPLOYEES GENDER DISTRIBUTION, % GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES, % 6,000 5,389 Men, 79 (79) Sweden, 22 (21) 5,013 5,000 4,689 4,586 4,454 Women, 21 (21) Czech Republic, 17 (16) 4,000 Denmark, 11 (13) UK, 6 (7) 3,000 Russia, 6 (5) 2,000 Luxembourg, 6 (6) 1,000 Other, 32 (32) 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 50 l i nda b | l i n d ab life The HR department strives to support Lindab’s vision, strategy, core values and organisation by attracting, developing and retaining competent employees.­ The goal is that Lindab will continue to develop as an attractive employer. Employees The cornerstones of this work are the efforts Preventative health care union affiliation, social or ethnic origin. Many already being made regarding the corporate Lindab is actively working with preventive units submit positive reports regarding diculture, employee and organisational develhealth care in most of its markets. The goal of versity. No cases of discrimination were reopment, and preventive health care. improving health and safety rather than curported in 2010. ing illness can be seen to good effect in SweCentral initiatives den and Denmark, for example. A number of Human rights At Group level, a couple of joint initiatives have proactive initiatives are being undertaken at All activities within the Group must respect been developed in 2010 that will gradually be individual and team level, as well as at corhuman rights. Every employee has the right launched in 2011. The first relates to the Perporate level. To support a healthy and safe to form, join or refrain from participation in formance and Development Talk, which is an working environment, employees are for extrade unions or other organisations that enimportant tool for the meaningful development ample offered health profiles, ergonomic aids gage in collective bargaining. Lindab makes of employees and the organisation. To some and health checks. Great emphasis is placed risk assessments of its geographic markets extent, these are based on the harmonisation on encouraging employees to lead an active concerning factors such as oppression, child of previously central and local initiatives. The and healthy lifestyle. This is supported with labour and forced labour. The risk of such viaim is to coordinate individual targets, to decoaching and small financial contributions and olations is considered to be low within the velop and monitor the organisation’s overall includes physical activity, balanced diet and Lindab Group and during the year no violagoals, and to increase employee motivation. balance between work and leisure. tions were recorded. The work is being introduced with a focus on senior executives and will then be applied to Vision: zero workplace injuries further employees. Lindab is working to minimise the number of workplace injuries. Each business unit is reRelated to this initiative is the Talent Review sponsible ensuring that laws and regulations and Succession Planning process, which supare followed and that all staff undergo trainports the identification and development of poing for the tasks that they are to perform. All tential employees and the remuneration of key employees must also be informed about and employees in both the short and long-term. trained in the legislation and regulations that apply to the workplace. Local initiatives There are a large number of local initiatives Some incidents have still occurred despite a concerning everything from training to team long-term effort to minimise workplace injuactivities at Lindab’s various units. Many units ries. Therefore, in 2010 efforts to prevent ochave a Lindab Academy with training resourccupational injuries were intensified. An interes and premises, where sales and production nal group has been appointed to establish a staff, as well as customers, are given training structure regarding how to work towards imabout Lindab’s products, technologies and plementing the agreed vision of zero worksystems. Longer-term initiatives to further place injuries. strengthen leadership skills can be found at several units. Strong team-building activities Diversity are available at most of the company’s plants, Lindab encourages diversity and treats emincluding joint activities outside the workplace, ployees without discrimination with regard family days, employee awards plus the official to gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexrecognition of achievement and celebrations. ual orientation, nationality, political opinion, 51 lindab | lindab l i fe 52 l i nda b | l i n d ab life Lindab recognises the importance of assuming the social responsibility ­expected of a large company and aims to contribute towards local development. Society Lindab has operations in 31 countries. In sevthe Group is present, cooperation also takes that provide students with work experience, eral of these regions, Lindab is among the place with various organisations and authorby offering internships and assistance with leading companies and employers, especially ities in order to strengthen the business clithesis work. In 2010 for example, two stuin those locations where the Group’s largest mate and the local community development. dents from Chalmers University of Technolproduction units are situated. It is important Through such collaborations, Lindab endeavogy were offered internships with Lindab, Inc. for Lindab to have good and close relations ours to contribute to a generally positive dein Portsmouth, USA. with local authorities and organisations, as velopment and to the long-term strengthenwell as local initiatives that support and coning of the region’s attractiveness and comLindab is involved in a number of activities tribute towards positive development in the petitiveness, something that benefits both in support of local communities. In 2010, local community. the society and Lindab. the Lindab Group has contributed around SEK 7 m in the form of sponsorship and Dedicated employees and entrepreneurial An important factor for Lindab’s commitdonations. Lindab also lends its support to thinking have always been of central imporment is that the majority of the recruitment smaller local sports clubs in areas where tance for Lindab. There is also a willingness of new employees, both managers and other the company is established. The company to adapt the entrepreneurial culture to local employees, occurs largely in the communialso sponsors events such as the Swedish conditions since the company is active in ties where the Group’s units are located and Open tennis tournament in Båstad, and the many different markets. where Lindab is, in many cases, a large and Lindab Arena which is home to the Rögle important employer. ice hockey team. Communicating fundamental values Community involvement Government Assistance Lindab’s social responsibility work includes Support for schools, universities and other Received contributions amounted to approxiencouraging its suppliers and other busieducational institutions and students is widemately SEK 27 m in 2010. The majority, 85 perness partners to strengthen their own enspread throughout Lindab. For instance, emcent, was national support for reduced workdeavours regarding these issues. All major ployees from Lindab participate as guest lecing hours, primarily in Luxembourg. The supsuppliers must adopt Lindab’s Code of Ethturers at various university conferences and port payments were intended to reduce the ics and thereby commit to meeting the assoresearch is sponsored relating to developimpact of the recession and to secure jobs in ciated requirements. Local suppliers are choments within building systems and ventilathe country. The remainder consisted mostsen whenever possible. In most places where tion. Lindab also participates in programmes ly of training and freight support. PARTNERSHIP PROJECT REGARDING PASSIVE HOUSING In the past year, an EU-sponsored two-year partnership project got under way for high school students in France, Germany, Ireland and Sweden. Three students from each land are participating in the project, with the aim of learning how passive housing is built. In May of 2011, all of the participants are gathering at Lindab in Förslöv outside Båstad, for practical work regarding the construction of passive houses. The idea behind the project is to learn about energy efficient and environmentally friendly construction. Participants learned for example how property owners can utilise rainwater through functional gutters and quality metal roofing. Frame using Lindab’s energy beams, ideal for passive houses. 53 lindab | lindab l i fe GRI Index Lindab follows GRI guidelines for sustainability reporting, and reports through self-assessment in accordance with GRI level C. Indicator Status Page 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 CEO statement on Social Responsibility F 9 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation F Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services F 4 2.3 Operational structure F Note 31 2.4 Location of headquarters F Note 1 2.5 Countries where the Group operates F Note 31 2.6 Nature of ownership F 38–39 2.7 Markets served F 18–19 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation F 69ff 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period F 69ff 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period F n/a 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period F 44 3.2 Date of most recent report F 44 3.3 Reporting cycle F 44 3.4 Contact persons F Back cover 3.5 Process for defining report content F 44 3.6 Boundary of the report F 44 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report F 44 3.8 Reporting of entities that can affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations F 44 3.10 Explanation of the reasons for and effect of any restatements of information F 44 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary or measurement methods F 44 3.12 GRI-index F 54–55 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation F 57–63 4.2 Chairman’s position F 57–63 4.3 Number of independent, non-executive Board members F 57–63 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or directions to the Board F 57–63 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Group F 40–41, 45–46, 60, note 26 4.15 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders F 45 5. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic performance indicators EC1 Economic value generated and distributed F 46 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined-benefit plan obligations F Note 6, note 24 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government F 53 Environmental performance indicators EN1 Materials used F 48 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials F 49 EN3 Direct energy consumption F 48 EN4 Indirect energy consumption F 48 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements P 48–49 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P 49 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse-gas emissions F 48 EN18 Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and results F 47, 48–49 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P 48–49 EN28 Fines and sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and legislation F 48 54 l i nda b | l i n d ab life Performance indicators for labor practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce P 60, note 6 LA2 Employee turnover P 60, note 6 LA7 Work-related accidents and diseases P Note 6 LA13 Composition of the Board, management and employees by category F Note 6 Performance indicators for human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken F 51 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and actions taken F 51 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced labor and actions taken F 51 Performance indicators for society SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption F 47 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption F 47 Performance indicators for products PR1 Products and services impact on health and safety throughout the life-cycle F 46–47 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of F 47 products and services, by type of outcomes PR9 Monetary value of fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning products and services F 47 F = Full P = Partial 55
