CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Sustainable business development CONTENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY – PART OF OUR CORE BUSINESS 3 LABOUR STANDARDS 4 HUMAN RIGHTS 7 THE ENVIRONMENT 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION 9 BECH-BRUUN IN FIGURES 11 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY – PART OF OUR CORE BUSINESS During the past year, we have been busy following up on last join the international pro bono network TrustLaw Connect, year’s initiatives and have strived to integrate our corporate which offers legal cross-border assistance to NGOs. responsibility (CR) programme into our organisation. CR forms an integral part of our core business and business As part of our environmental commitment, we have strategy and creates a stable foundation for sustainable instituted a green procurement policy aimed to source, business development. whenever possible, environmentally sustainable products and services. As part of our environmental approach, Our primary focus, during the past year, has been on offering we are also looking at the possibility of obtaining an advice to, and entering into dialogue with, other companies eco-friendly certification of our photocopying machines. on CR. New measures include more visible CR consulting Our new office building in Aarhus will be as environmentally and knowledge sharing, as well as think tank meetings and friendly as possible. seminars for our employees and clients on the legal aspects of CR. We have, in addition, prepared a business case for At Bech-Bruun, we are in the process of streamlining the Confederation of Danish Industry’s CSR Compass our case handling and invoicing systems for the purposes (CSR Kompasset) on CR work in a service company. of enhancing the quality of our conflict search and money laundering procedures. Well-being, health and education are paramount to Bech-Bruun. In the past year, we have had a distinct focus Welcome to our second annual CR report. on talent and education, which resulted in the launch of a special talent and retention programme, which initially involves identifying women’s priorities with respect to their careers. Our efforts in this specific field are consolidated by our participation in the ambassador corps network, Ambassadørkorpset, which aims to ensure that more women occupy leadership positions. At Bech-Bruun, we have also successfully organised our pro Randi Bach Poulsen bono work and are proud to be the first Danish law firm to Managing partner CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2011 3 LABOUR STANDARDS Strong focus on education Last but not least, our CR partners, Monica Reib and Mette and development Klingsten, have made a concerted effort to incorporate the CR principles into a corporate context. Education is a top priority at Bech-Bruun. Being a ” knowledge-based firm, supplementary training and talent development are essential attributes. As a consequence, Corporate responsibility is attracting our comprehensive in-house training programme for increased attention from senior management employees and clients, Bech-Bruun Academy, continues in the corporate sector, and today, many companies to offer a wide range of courses. In 2010, 216 courses are obliged to issue a CR report. Among other were held under the programme. things, we assist our clients in reviewing business In recent years, we have made strenuous efforts procedures, contract terms and conditions as well ” to spread the CR message. Efforts include organising as employee conditions for the purposes of intenumerous CR seminars and giving lectures at large CR grating CR into their day-to-day business and Cleantech conferences. Monica Reib ” CR partner It was interesting to learn how to manage CR. At the course, I received answers to all the questions I had before the course, and In recognition of our efforts with respect to corporate, ” we addressed issues that I had not even thought social and environmental responsibility, the Confederation of Danish Industry has elected Bech-Bruun as a case of beforehand company in their highly esteemed online tool, CSR Compass. Companies can be inspired by the CSR Compass, when Client evaluation after participation in a CR course drawing up strategies in this area. 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2011 Closer to students – and the corporate sector Key focus on talent development Based on our desire to contribute to enhancing talent For many years, lawyers at Bech-Bruun have had the opporamong future Danish lawyers, we have taken additional tunity to participate in a supplementary training programme initiatives in the area of education. Under the mentor established as part of our focus on talent and competence scheme established by the University of Copenhagen, our development. lawyers offer guidance to selected students. Through the mentor scheme, we can obtain insight into the working We are currently testing a career development programme methods utilised by students and assist them to define designed especially for women. A team of our young female their future career opportunities and facilitate their entry lawyers are participating in a so-called test programme, into the labour market. which aims to explore the priorities that women need to take a position on, if they want to pursue a career. We also collaborate with the University of Copenhagen ” on an industrial PhD programme designed to bridge the gap between theory and practice. The industrial PhD Today, we are seeing an increasing number programme offers junior associates an integrated work/ of extremely talented female candidates, study programme, bringing the student in closer contact and we would like to mirror the gender breakdown with the corporate world. of our clients’ employees consisting of an ever ” ” increasing number of talented women in senior Being able to combine legal research and management positions work as a junior associate offers great advantages. You stay in contact with the corporate Randi Bach Poulsen ” Managing partner sector and can apply input from your job as junior associate to your PhD work – and vice-versa The programme will be evaluated in the course of 2011 with Mathias Krarup a view to determining its final form. The future aim is for Industrial PhD student and junior associate the programme to be targeted at both men and women. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2011 5 Ambassador for women in management positions Health and well-being In February 2011, Randi Bach Poulsen, managing partner, At Bech-Bruun, we offer our employees free health checks. was appointed ambassador of the ambassador corps netThe health checks allow our employees to obtain regular work, Ambassadørkorpset, for more women in leadership health status updates. In 2010, our employees’ general health positions, which is a collaboration between the Danish was well above the national average for peer companies, Minister of Gender Equality and the Confederation of and we are proud to observe that our efforts in the area Danish Industry. The network’s key objective is to motivate of health and well-being are worthwhile. more women to strive for a career in leadership. As we are currently in the midst of introducing a range As a member of the ambassador corps network, Bech-Bruun of new survey parameters, such as talent development, is participating in the Confederation of Danish Industry’s we have decided not to conduct an employee satisfaction strategic initiative called LederDepeche 2011, launched survey in 2010/2011. by the ambassador corps network to boost the number of women in leadership. Companies participating in the H E A LT H C H E C K network are matched two by two with a junior manager and a manager joining forces in a mentor arrangement, 10 which enables the junior manager to get an insight into the manager’s day-to-day work. 8 6 As part of its efforts in this area, Bech-Bruun has also signed the Charter for More Women in Leadership and 4 Operation Chain Reaction (Operation Kædereaktion), both aiming to attract more women into leadership 2 positions. With these initiatives, we hope to support 0 Bech-Bruun’s talent development and to incentivise Very low Raised Very high BMI Raised more women to choose the path to law firm partnership physical blood blood above 30 blood – and to leadership positions in general. fitness rating pressure pressure sugar Bech-Bruun Industry average Source: Healthy Company 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2011 HUMAN RIGHTS 2010 saw our first report on CR, which was presented in Below is a selection of some of our many pro bono activities: connection with our participation at the UN Global Compact Leaders' Summit in New York. The main item on the agenda ORGANISATION ACTIVITY was following up on the UN 2015 Development Goals, while at the same time motivating companies to assume a higher degree of responsibility for the work involved. Drafting of wills and testaments We continue to support the achievement of these goals, among other things, by taking an active part in the World’s Best News campaign, which aims to spread the message that efforts against poverty make a difference. Contractual In the course of the past year, we have developed our pro matters bono work internationally, and as the first Danish law firm, we have joined the international pro bono network TrustLaw Connect. TrustLaw Connect facilitates contact between us and international organisations in need of legal assistance. We are currently assisting a Chinese NGO from Directorship the Environmental and Resource Law Institute in China with preparing a handbook on environmental law. ” The project serves a higher purpose, namely Advice to ” that of expanding knowledge of the environentrepreneurs ment and the rules serving to protect it Anne Sophie K. Vilsbøll Senior associate Corporate law matters Furthermore, we still provide extensive advice to organisations such as Save the Children Denmark and WWF and have, for a number of years, collaborated with the entrepreneurs’ organisation and network CONNECT Denmark. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2011 7 THE ENVIRONMENT ”” Consumption, recycling and energy The location is perfect for us and our clients. And it is important that it is not We have made purposive efforts at reducing the amount only an amazing, but also an energy-friendly, of waste we generate, while at the same time increasing our building share of recycling materials. Since 2008, we have reduced the volume of waste by more than 11 tonnes. Our employees have, for example, printed less and have remembered to Jesper Bøge Pedersen dispose of paper in our recycling containers. Partner Our consumption of electricity is continually decreasing and has been reduced by an impressive 9% since 2008. Transportation Our consumption of water and heat has, however, increased. The former may be explained, in part, by our transition from We continue to encourage our employees to use their bottled water to tap water and by the fact that more of our bicycles for transportation and support initiatives, such employees cycle to work, which places an increased burden as the campaign “We cycle to work”. In this manner, on our shower facilities. The increased consumption of heat we can make a difference which benefits the environment is due, in particular, to the very cold winter. and the health of our employees. In support of our transportation theme, we have also entered into an agreement with the company Baisikeli, CONSUMPTION AND which visits us once a month to repair our employees’ RECYCLING (TONNES) 2008 2009 2010 bicycles during office hours. Cardboard and paper for recycling 9.1 11.7 12.6 Our collaboration with Baisikeli also includes the leasing of a particularly sturdy cycle, which will be sent to Africa Other recycling 5.4 4.2 1.5 after having been used for three years by our employees. Total volume of waste 106.1 97.6 95.0 ENERGY 2008 2009 2010 Water consumption (m3) 3,165 3,573 4,050 Electricity consumption (kWh) 1,044,548 984,918 950,096 Heating (m3) 16,698 19,906 24,440 Green initiatives We are currently working on a number of green initiatives. One of them is implementing a green supplier policy and looking into the possibilities of making our internal printworks greener. In the autumn of 2013, our Aarhus offices will relocate to new premises at the planned 23-storey energy-friendly office building, which will become a landmark in the City of Aarhus. The building will be Aarhus’s first commercial building with a first class energy rating. 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2011 ANTI-CORRUPTION ” Globalisation Our clients will experience that our knowledge about them and their activities As part of a broad Asia strategy, we launched Bech-Bruun’s will improve with this professional tool, greatly ” Chinese Desk in January 2011, aimed at assisting Danish facilitating cross-organisational knowledge companies in China and Chinese companies planning to set up in Denmark. With our increased international activities, sharing we have become increasingly aware of the way in which we operate our business and the guidelines we want to follow. Janie C. Nielsen Business development and communications director Efficiency enhancement and As part of the development of both the professional and data management operational aspects of our business, we are in the process of making our case handling and invoicing process more Since the autumn of 2010, we have worked intensively efficient. The goal is to increase the quality of our conflict on implementing our new Client Relationship Management search and money laundering procedures and to streamline system (CRM system). case handling. This will improve both our job satisfaction and the quality of our case handling to the benefit of our clients. The CRM system provides us with a better overview and more centralised knowledge of our clients and other relations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2011 9 We have set the following goals for the period to come and have decided how these goals are to be achieved: GOAL MEANS We want to maintain high In the spring of 2012, we will conduct an employee satisfaction employee satisfaction survey using a number of new parameters. The survey will tell us how we, as a company, can support the development and well-being of our employees. We want to ensure talent This year, we have tested a special talent development development for all programme for women. The programme will be expanded and will apply to both men and women. We want to conduct at least two We are currently in the process of conducting our first cases through TrustLaw per year pro bono case through TrustLaw. All cases we conduct must be in line with our business strategy and our areas of expertise. We want to reduce our We intend to launch initiatives such as campaigns directed consumption of energy at our employees in order to reduce our consumption of water and heat. We want to increase the Before the end of the year, we will have implemented our quality of our case handling CRM system and made our case handling more efficient. 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2011 BECH-BRUUN IN FIGURES EMPLOYEES 2008 2009 2010 2011* Total number of employees 443 459 458 463 Number of fee-earners 220 229 210 218 Number of partners 61 64 62 61 Percentage of women 60.3 % 60.1 % 59.6 % 58.7 % Percentage of female fee-earners 40.5 % 41.9 % 39.0 % 39.0 % Percentage of female partners 9.8 % 9.4 % 12.9 % 13.1 % Average age 38.7 36.1 36.4 36.1 Average length of service (years) 6.6 6.4 6.3 6.4 FLEXIBILITY Women working reduced hours 90 77 44 43 Men working reduced hours 3 2 0 3 Employees with a mobile workplace 144 147 138 138 HEALTH Absence due to illness per employee working flexible hours (per cent) 5.1 % 4.1 % 3.6 % 4.6 % Absence due to illness per fee-earner 1.4 % 1.8 % 1.6 % 1.2 % SUPPLEMENTARY TRAINING Number of internal courses** 170 202 216 90 Participant satisfaction (on a scale from 1 to 5 with 5 being the highest) 4.0 4.1 4.4 4.3 Number of courses offered to clients – – 31 14 Participant satisfaction (on a scale from 1 to 5 with 5 being the highest) – – 4.6 4.5 * Measured as per 1 May ** All client courses are also open to employees and are therefore included in the number of internal courses CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2011 11 OUR OFFICES Copenhagen Langelinie Allé 35 2100 Copenhagen Denmark Aarhus Frue Kirkeplads 4 8100 Aarhus Denmark T +45 72 27 00 00 F +45 72 27 00 27 E info@bechbruun.com www.bechbruun.com
