Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals M ja P Nurst is respecting internationally proclaimed human rights in our everyday work. Our policy is requiring our partners to adhere to the Global Compact principles on Human Rights. Implementation We declare openly our commitment to UN Global Compact Principles and inform our partners about it. Measurement of outcomes Annually evaluation of suppliers includes the Human Rights principles as one check-point. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals M Ja P Nurst confirms that we follow national laws about labour rights and also International labour regulation. Also we expect that our partners commit to follow similar principles. Wellbeing of our workers is important issue for us. Implementation M ja P Nurst has a continuously ongoing process to improve the working environment. The internal health and safety issues are handled by a local committee with representation from employees and Management. Employees have possibility to leave (anonymous) complaints about work environment and labour rights corrupting. Measurement of outcomes Working environment evaluation is part of our external Annual Quality and Environment System audit. Also we provide annual anonymous worker’s questionnaire which includes questions about working environment, training, labour rights etc. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals M ja P Nurst is certified by ISO 14001:2004. We prefer to use energy from renewable sources and minimize waste water amount from production. Implementation M ja P Nurst sets for every year environmental targets which are continuously monitored. Environmental risk analysis is fulfilled once a year. Measurement of outcomes External audit evaluates our environmental policy and targets once a year. Also we report about our waste and possible pollution to local authorities. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Clear and spread policy regarding the necessity to follow the anti-corruption rules. We keep our business model clear and transparent. Implementation All employees are informed to increase awareness of possible corruption actions. Measurement of outcomes Internal audits ensure anti-corruption commitment.
