WHIRLPOOL LATIN AMERICA REPORT 2011 Message from the president Innovate and evolve to transform In 2010, the company once again exceeded its goals in the economic, environmental and social pillars Solid in the position of leader in the home appliance market of Latin America, in 2010, the company presented a good performance in the economic angle (with an increase of 16% in the volume of sales) as well as in its social and environmental indicators, published in this report and that meet the principles of the Global Compact, of which we are signatories. Note the significant investment in occupational health and safety of R$ 23 million, 41% more than last year. The volume of training, in turn, grew by 32%. Attitudes like these made us the best company to work in of Brazil, according to a survey conducted by Você S.A./Exame magazine, and also of Argentina, in a ranking by Apertura magazine. We also highlight the work of Consulado da Mulher Institute, a social action by Consul that creates opportunities for generating income for women. More than R$ 3.4 million was invested in programs that generated a turnover for the advised business groups of R$ 4.3 million in the year. Completing the tripod (é esta palavra mesmo? Tripod?) of sustainability, last year, we published our first greenhouse gas (GHG) emission inventory, an essential study on which to base more effective future actions in the management of carbon emitted by our operations. In these and many other initiatives, we want to work to make the difference in the lives of people. For this, we know that we must create even more innovative solutions and products, accessible and equipped with sustainable attributes. Each year, the products of our brands consume less energy, use less quantities of water and inputs and more recyclable materials in their composition. We are proud of the results already obtained in this trajectory. We know, however, that when it comes to sustainability, there are still many opportunities to innovate, evolve and transform. José A. Drummond Jr. President of Whirlpool Latin America Values and ethical principles Vision In every home... In every place, with pride, passion and performance. Mission All of us, passionately, creating loyal consumers for life. Values Respect Integrity Diversity and inclusion Teamwork Winning spirit Corporate governance In the same direction Whirlpool Latin America has a solid corporate governance structure, whose mission is to assure excellence in the conduction of business. Whirlpool Latin America is part of the Whirlpool Corporation, the world’s leading manufacturer and marketer of home appliances. The executive José Drummond Jr. has occupied the company’s presidential seat since 2008. Since 2007, LAR International, responsible for sales in Latin American countries and in the Caribbean, except for Mexico, is under the management of the president of Whirlpool Latin America. The maximum corporate governance body of Whirlpool Latin America is its Management Board, made up of three executives with term of office of three years, one of them being independent. The list of attributions of the board includes approval of the annual budget and of the financial statements, in addition to plans related to the social responsibility of Whirlpool. The area of Sustainability, in turn, is under coordination of a board, with the aim of discussing the theme with the same importance as other subjects discussed in the company. Whirlpool Latin America constantly evaluates the internal controls of its processes in order to adapt to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Law, which is subjected to the Whirlpool Corporation. This law determines that companies with shares listed in the New York Stock Exchange like Whirlpool Corporation must assure the transparency and credibility of their administration through internal rules and audit mechanisms. Sustainability vision For a permanent evolution The sustainability management has six strategic themes as directives: residue reduction, social equality, sustainable use of water, carbon emission reduction, harmful substances reduction and search for energy efficiency. The company has had, since 2004, a vision of sustainability that formalizes its commitment to the environment and society. The directives of this vision, improved over the years, include principles like attendance of excellence and unrestricted respect for the consumer. The offer of products and services of reduced environmental impact, both in production and utilization, are also absolutely relevant. The company also seeks to have a positive influence on the communities where it operates and, in the condition of market leader of the home appliances market in Latin America, it also seeks to influence other companies to adopt good policies and practices. In order for its sustainability vision to always be in line with the needs of society, the company adopted 'The Natural Step ' as external reference and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which provides the directives for elaboration of the annual sustainability report, as methodology for management and follow-up of goals. It also assumed the following public commitments: Global Compact, initiative of the United Nations (UN) directed toward the business sector, Pact Against Corruption, of Instituto Ethos; pact against child prostitution on highways, of the Na Mão Certa Program, and the Clinton Global Initiative, through Consulado da Mulher Institute. The four systemic conditions of The Natural Step form a solid conceptual foundation for construction of the sustainability vision of Whirlpool Latin America. Strategic themes Residues reduction – Use recyclable materials in the manufacturing of products, collect postconsumption packaging, reduce and give proper destination to the residues produced by its operations. It is through initiatives like this that Whirlpool Latin America contributes toward one of today's greatest challenges: reduction of residues generation. The company also counts on programs like Brastemp Viva!, which promotes the collection of post-consumption packaging and also reverse logistic processes. Through the National Association of Electro-Electronic Product Manufacturers (Eletros), Whirlpool participates actively in discussions related to the National Solid Residues Policy. Reduction of carbon emissions – The impacts caused by climatic changes is one of the main dilemmas of humanity. Whirlpool is signatory of the Companies for the Climate (EPC) platform, movement coordinated by the Sustainability Study Center of Getúlio Vargas Foundation (GVCes). The company publishes annually its greenhouse gas (GHG) emission report, document that follows the directives of the Brazilian GHG Protocol program. The company has also promoted the substitution of HFC gases (R134a used in the refrigeration cycle of refrigerators) and HCFC gases (R141b used in the expansion of polyurethane foam) by hydrocarbons (HCs), which in addition to not harming the ozone layer also has low global warming potential. The HCs refer to isobutane used in the refrigeration circuit of refrigerators and to cycloisopentane, used in the expansion of polyurethane foam. Energy efficiency – Whirlpool prioritizes the development of energy-efficient products, in the use of gas by stoves as well as electric power consumed by all the products. The company supports public initiatives that promote replacement of old equipment by newer and more economic ones, and has the goal of including 100% of its products in the categories Labeling Program, of Inmetro, and of Procel (National Energy Conservation Program) and Conpet (National Program for Rational Use of Oil Byproducts and Natural Gas). In addition, the company also seeks continuous reduction in the consumption of energy resources in its operations. Social equality The full development of a society includes the offer of equal conditions for its population. Through Consulado da Mulher Institute, a social action of the Consul brand, Whirlpool attends to women in socially vulnerable situation in more than 50 cities of Brazil. The company also values diversity. Within a typically male business environment, Whirlpool has obtained equilibrium in issues of gender and also provides an environment of inclusion for handicapped people. Reduction of harmful substances – Control and reduction of harmful substances in products and during the production process are essential items of Whirlpool Latin America's sustainability policy. The Joinville Unit meets the strictest requirements of European Directive RoHS 2002/95/EC, which establishes high safety standards in relation to the use of harmful substances in products. Sustainable use of water – The company's operations obey the strictest environmental standards, which determine continuous reduction of water consumption, especially from sources subject to greater environmental impact. At the same time as the internal improvements, Whirlpool Corporation’s process of product innovation and development endeavors to place in the market products like clothes-washing and dish-washing machines, that reutilize water and, with each generation, need a lesser quantity of this resource for their operation. External references The Natural Step (TNS) The Natural Step is a nongovernmental organization headquartered in Sweden, dedicated to helping companies outline strategies for sustainable development. The base of its work is made up of four principles that guide Whirlpool Latin America’s sustainability policy. These principles state that, in a sustainable society, nature is not subject to the systematic increase of: Concentrations of substances extracted from the earth's crust; Concentrations of substances produced by the society; Degradation by physical means. The fourth principle establishes that: People are not subjected to conditions that systematically undermine their capacity to meet their needs. Global Compact Initiative of the United Nations (UN) directed toward the business sector. It is also structured in principles derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of the Declaration of the International Labor Organization (ILO) on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, of the Rio Declaration on the Environment & Development and of the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. There are ten principles related to labor and human rights, protection of the environment and anticorruption measures. Principles of Human Rights 1. Respect and protect human rights; 2. Prevent human right violations; Principles of Labor Rights 3. Support freedom of association at work; 4. Ban slave labor; 5. Ban child labor; 6. Eliminate discrimination in the work environment; Principles of Environmental Protection 7. Support a preventive approach to environmental challenges; 8. Promote environmental responsibility; 9. Encourage technologies that do not harm the environment; Principle against Corruption 10. Fight corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sustainability management All areas of Whirlpool have sustainability goals. In 2010, 96% of the goals stipulated for the year were met. Whirlpool Latin America's sustainability management formalized an agenda of goals for the 2010-2011 biennium, updated annually for elaboration and implementation of the planning of the year in effect. The agenda is divided according to the six strategic themes of the Company and the goals are defined collaboratively between the sustainability area and other areas of the company. Since 2008, fulfillment of the sustainability goals is considered in the evaluation and remuneration of the company's executives. Although it considers the measure relevant, Whirlpool believes that this is not the only way of promoting the incorporation and commitment of the employees with the sustainability values. This movement must be accompanied by internal awareness activities, including all the hierarchical levels. The Sustainability Multiplier Group, made up of 34 employees from various areas, has the attribution of following up on fulfillment of the company's sustainability goals. Qualified in sustainability issues, they elaborate performance reports for their areas and subject them to analysis of the Sustainability area and, consequently, of the Presidency. Sustainability Multiplier Group Area Focal point Environment, Health and Safety Carlos Prestes Communication Luana Suzina Sustainability Milton Mondardo Filho Consulado da Mulher Leda A S Böger Institutional Relations Maria F Curcio Information Technology Flavio Santos Jr LAR International Pablo D Borghi Supply Base Rodrigo B Calleff Legal Mariana V Silva Laundry technology Hepaminondas Rigo Cooking technology Henrique Gaspari Refrigeration technology Geraldo Thomaz Air-conditioner and microwave Rodrigues Stahelin technology Industrial design and Guilherme Nehring Innovation CCOPEX Sulivan S Silva Marketing Drivers Debora Anger LAR Water Business Sabrina S Zanker Paulino T Hashimoto/ Human Resources Elisandra F Dugnani Services Alessandra R Kredensir Spare Parts Patricia S Oliveira Luciana Aguiar MA Manufacture Joinville Wagner L. Oliveira SS Manufacture Rio Claro Jose S Almeida MA/SSO Juvino S Rodrigues MA Manufacture Manaus Evelyn S Montarroyos SSO Manufacture São Paulo Sheila C Amaral Sales Ana V Cardoso Logistics Marta N Cerqueira Finances Torquato L Santos Also, to eliminate harmful substances in the production process and in products, the company has the Joinville unit certified according to the international standard IECQ HSPM QC 080000, integrated with the management system with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and 18001 certificates. Currently, 85% of components and materials used in the Joinville unit meet the requirements of European Directive RoHS 2002/95/EC, which establishes the maximum standards in relation to harmful substances. (EN 6) (EN 26) (EN18) (EN26) Commitment to ethics Whirlpool Corporation’s Code of Ethics helps emphasize among all employees the importance of being in line with the company's values The operations of Whirlpool Latin America and the manner of conducting its business and partnerships obey determinations of the Code of Ethics, elaborated by the Whirlpool Corporation, which applies to all the company's subsidiaries around the globe. The document guides the personal, commercial and legal conduct of employees, providing clear directives on the conduction of business, promotion and respect of diversity, elaboration of dissemination materials, relationship with clients and suppliers, involvement with political activities and the treatment to be given to privileged information, among other themes. On being admitted into the company, all new employees receive a copy of the Code of Ethics and take part in a training on the theme during the integration meetings, conducted in the units. In 2010, 4,557 people were trained, including new employees and the Company's leadership. These qualifications conducted both through attendance and online, through the Whirlpool Virtual University. Also this year, the Whirlpool Corporation simultaneously published worldwide the Code of Ethics Compliance Policies, documents that complement and detail each one of the code's items. The primer containing the Code of Ethics of Whirlpool Latin America also has a chapter that orients the employee on how to support compliance with the ethical principles. If the employee becomes aware of any violation of this code, he or she must notify the occurrence to his or her superiors or through the Hotline, a free phone line and with attendance in Portuguese, English and Spanish. Denouncements sent by employees to this channel are anonymous and determined secretly. In 2010, the Hotline received a total of 35 denouncements that were analyzed by the Ethics Committee made up of the president, members of the board and by the corporate safety and internal control managements, and treated with measures that range from warning to dismissal. The company has some ways of identifying deviations in the practice of its values, like an annual survey, through which each leader with at least three subordinates is evaluated by his or her team in his or her management skills. Supplier Code of Conduct Whirlpool also has a Supplier Code of Conduct, which was reviewed and relaunched in 2008. Adhesion to the code by partners is regarded as one of the conditions for the signing of supply contracts. On agreeing with the terms of the Code of Conduct, companies assume the responsibility of conducting their business and operations without ethical deviations. (Read more about suppliers in Our performance, page XX) In 2010, Whirlpool Latin America maintained an adhesion of 100% by suppliers of direct material, and increased adhesion from 91% to 98% among indirect suppliers. For 2011, the company intends to extend signing of the code to suppliers from China. To assure fulfillment of the document's determinations, Whirlpool has measures like announced and unannounced inspections. In case of nonfulfillment, depending on the gravity of the violation, Whirlpool reserves the right to suspend the commercial partnership. Denouncements related to this theme are received through the Hotline, a free attendance line. (HR2) Training on Ethics in 2010 (SO3)* Location No. of People trained %** Chile 9 Argentina 60 Brazil 4,423 100 Colombia 25 Peru 14 Miami/Porto Rico 14 Guatemala 12 * The ethics training is conducted only for new employees, as part of the integration process. All other employees have already received the training in previous years. ** The percentage is related to the goal pertaining to the number of employees who must undergo training, and not to the total number of employees from the unit. Note: training on money laundering was not conducted in 2010. Innovation The path to innovation Innovation is viewed by the company as a strategic competency. To innovate and offer to consumers increasingly differentiated products having sustainable attributes is a constant search of Whirlpool. In addition to employees from the areas of design, technology, innovation and market intelligence dedicated to the innovation process, the company has instances like the I-Board and the Innovation Committee, responsible for analysis and definition of the differentiated concepts applied to new products and business. At Whirlpool, a solution can only be regarded as innovative if it has unique attributes, encourages consumers and has the ability of creating value for shareholders. Whirlpool also takes part in the Finep (Study & Project Financing agency, linked to the Ministry of Science & Technology) program, aimed at promoting innovation and creating, directly and indirectly, new jobs. The development of partnerships with universities and the creation of new methodologies and technological solutions is part of the project. Whirlpool Latin America’s participation is concretized through economic subvention and cooperation with universities, in addition to tax incentives to research and development through law 11.196/2005. Whirlpool is the fourth biggest patent applicant of Brazil, according to data from the National Institute of Industrial Property (Inpi). (EC4) Consistent results In 2010, Whirlpool Latin America launched about 200 models of products in the market, being once again one of the biggest patent applicants of Brazil, with a total of 68 applications. It is the only company of Brazil to figure in the ranking of patent registrations of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), which lists the 500 most innovative institutions worldwide. Patent registration is regarded as an indicator of technological development and research of countries. In the last five years, Whirlpool multiplied by eleven its income obtained through solutions classified as innovative. In 2010, 25% of the company’s turnover came from products classified as innovative, an increase of two percentage points in relation to the 23% o 2009. Solutions adopted in the home appliances themselves as well as differentiated ways of doing business enter this category. Due to its commitment, strategy and results obtained with innovation, Whirlpool Latin America was elected the most innovative country of Brazil in 2010, by Época Negócios magazine. Impact of products During the entire development process of new products and services, Whirlpool Latin America seeks new opportunities to reduce as much as possible environmental impacts caused by its home appliances. The impacts, even if reduced, occur during the production process, whose results are monitored by the Company's Environmental Management System, certified by ISO 14001 standard, and during use by the consumer, this second phase being more significant, mainly from the point of view of carbon emissions, which represent up to 80% of the product’s carbon footprint. For the result of the environmental impact reduction actions to be more significant, Whirlpool seeks to extend this dialogue beyond its borders, taking part in the construction of public policies alongside the government, trade associations and initiatives led by civil society. In 2010, Whirlpool Latin America took the first steps toward implementing the Design for Environment (DFE) methodology as an additional tool to the product development process. This tool outlines the environmental profile of each solution through an analysis of the entire lifecycle, taking as base minimization of CO2 emission, elimination of harmful substances, sustainable use of water and preservation of resources, generating indicators for the monitoring and improvement of products. With application of the methodology, the company is able to find the strong and weak points of each line of product, compare it to the market, with other lines and propose more spot action plans. The tool used by Whirlpool was DFE Metrics and the pilot project was conducted in partnership with Universidade de São Paulo. Among the main releases of the year, we highlight, for their environmental attributes, the Brastemp Clean refrigerators, which use isobutane gas (R600a). These gases do not damage the ozone layer and have reduced greenhouse impact. This change contributed toward reducing the potential emission of carbon dioxide (CO2) by approximately 130 kilos of CO2 equivalent per product. These refrigerators reached the market also promoting a reduction in energy consumption of about 6% in relation to previous models. While in the Consul Facilite model, the application of cyclo-isopentane expansion gas for thermal insulation contributed toward reduction of 465 more kilos of CO2 equivalent per product. All split air-conditioners from Brastemp have the Class A seal through the Brazilian Labeling Program and the models of the Consul brand have classification A and B. In the window type models, more than 90% of the portfolio has energy classification A. In 2010, a new line of split airconditioners was released, of the Consul brand, which promoted a reduction in energy consumption of about 6.5%. This reduction in energy consumption of products contributed toward reducing the potential emission of CO2 by 131 tons of CO2 equivalent per annum. The improvement in air conditioners also targets the reutilization of materials. About 70% of the materials used in window type air conditioners are recyclable. The methodology used to evaluate the recyclability index is standardized by Whirlpool Europe, based on methodology of the Fraunhofer Institute (see greater details regarding the institute at: www.fraunhofer.de). In the development of stoves, the company invests in new technologies in the search for greater energy efficiency of gas burners. In addition, in 2010, it started a diagnosis of materials used in stoves with the aim of knowing the current percentage of compliance with RoHS directives. The study will continue in 2011 to evaluate all impacts in the adoption of new substitutive materials. The year 2010 also saw the launching of the thermochromic label that changes color as the oven heats, allowing the consumer to identify the exact moment in which the desired temperature is reached. In the case of the Brastemp Gourmand stove, the innovation came with the steam oven, which reduces the time of food preparation and consequently gas consumption. Water purifier Whirlpool offers its clients a differentiated model for purification and treatment of water that, in addition to being efficient in rationed consumption of water resources, also contributes toward reduction in the use of plastic packaging used in the water bottling process. The Brastemp water purifier is sold by the leasing system. The consumer pays a monthly usage fee and Brastemp installs the product and conducts the due maintenance. At the end of the device's service life, the company collects the material and gives the residues the correct destination, except for the filter that can be recycled. In 2010, 146 tons of materials from purifiers were sent for recycling. Brastemp closed, in the same year, a partnership with the NGO Água na Jarra, whose aim is to encourage bars and restaurants to replace water consumption in plastic bottles by treated and purified water served in reusable recipients. An effective way of reducing the volume of residues generated by disposable packaging. Number of patent applications made at the National Institute of Industrial Property (INPI) 2008 – 43 2009 – 50 2010 – 68 Innovation for all According to Whirlpool, the innovation process is not limited to just the search and development of advanced technologies. The company also promotes a humanistic approach in innovation, which can be rendered by the decision to invest more and more significantly in the development of products that can be used by people of various profiles and needs. Over the years, the company has increased its experience and knowledge over the theme of accessibility. Considering that, according to Ibope, 12% of the Brazilian population has some type of physical restriction or handicap, Whirlpool Latin America took a second important step in 2009 on designing the Freedom Project, aimed at promoting and applying the universal design. The aim of this project is to develop theories, principles and solutions to allow everyone to use, up to the point that they are able, the same physical solutions for a certain product or environment. Universal design ideologically and politically opposes all specialized and stigmatizing solutions, whether they are meant for people with special needs or other groups of the population. Equal status, treatment and merit are key concepts of this view. For this, employees from the areas of design and innovation started to follow up on the routine of people who use wheelchairs, who are blind and who are dumb in the use of home appliances. Thus, they can better understand the difficulties and use limits. The initiative, which was made possible through a partnership with Finep (Study & Project Financier, public agency linked to the Ministry of Science & Technology), allowed evolution of Freedom and the creation of a more updated version of the concept products, called Brastemp Liberty. This set is a complete kitchen, that has a series of solutions that allow suitable use, including differentiated safety attributes, by people with physical and visual handicaps, among other limitations. The concept product was exposed internally in 2010 and will be presented to the society in 2011. (GRI-EC4) To create a concept, generate knowledge and apply these learning to new lines of products is part of the working model of Whirlpool Corporation’s innovation area. An example of this learning already available in products is the differentiated technological commands (touch screen) that are part of the Brastemp Vantage washing and drying machines. Another important pillar of innovation at Whirlpool is the concern in offering solutions with low environmental impact, both in the production process and during use by the consumer. With each ten-year cycle, Whirlpool has developed products that save 40% to 50% of energy including gas and electricity, in relation to the previous generation of devices. Other work fronts are in the reduction of water, use of recyclable and recycled materials and also reduction of harmful substances in the production process. (Read more in Our Performance XX). The relationship with the consumer is also part of the innovation process. The Brastemp You line, for example, offers personalizable home appliances that are sold through the site www.brastemp.com.br/brastempyou/brastemp_you.aspx. The accumulation of knowledge on the preferences of consumes (who can choose the internal arrangement, structure and colors of their product) is considered for the development of new products. Our relationships Partnerships for sustainability The sustainable work of Whirlpool Latin America undergoes the building of quality relationships with all stakeholders. Whirlpool seeks to share its values with its stakeholders and to establish with these publics a transparent and beneficial relationship for all the parties directly or indirectly involved in the company's operations. In addition, it operates in such a way as to influence employees, partners, clients and other public profiles to work according to the principles of ethics and sustainability. Employees Whirlpool was elected the best company to work in in Brazil in 2010. The Climate Survey conducted by the company pointed to an increase in favorability in the year. Whirlpool seeks to provide its professionals with a motivating work environment, guided by diversity and rich with opportunities. Whirlpool Latin America’s employees, of all levels, have access to training programs, among which we highlight the Leadership School, which entered into operation in 2010, the Manufacturing School, the Hourly Employee Career Plan, among several other corporate education initiatives. (Read more in Our Performance, page XX). (LA 11) Monitoring of the satisfaction of the professionals is systematized through the Climate Survey, conducted every two years, which covers all employees of the company in Latin America, this being the only survey by Whirlpool worldwide that analyzes hourly employees, professionals that correspond to more than 70% of the company’s employees in the region. The last edition of the study was applied in 2010 and recorded the favorability of 82.7%, an evolution of 7.2 percentage points in relation to the study of 2008. The adhesion reached 97.6%, 6.2 points more than that of the previous survey. On being compared with other companies of the market, in relation to the average favorability presented by the companies, Whirlpool appears 14 points ahead. While in relation to companies classified as TOP 10 by the consulting firm Towers Watson, Whirlpool shows similar results. Among the strong points pointed out by the Climate Survey, we highlight: strategy, business, image, customer-oriented, conduction of the company's business, occupational safety and work conditions. The items that appear as opportunities for improvement, priority issues for 2011, are: personnel management and remuneration & benefits. Another study applied in 2010 was the Engagement Survey, which evaluates annually the level of commitment of registered monthly employees of Whirlpool worldwide. Favorability in Latin America was 82%, a growth of 2 percentage points in relation to the previous study and adhesion was 92.4%, maintaining the average participation of previous years. With complementary focus, both studies guaranteed the anonymity of all employees. (Read more about employees in Our performance, page XX) In 2010, Whirlpool Latin America was also elected the Best Company to Work In , by the publication Guia Você S/A Exame. The company has figured in this ranking for 14 consecutive years, since the first edition of the study. Number of employees per Region BRAZIL 2010 South Region Joinville 7,733 Southeast Region São Paulo 665 Southeast Region Administrative Center 552 Southeast Region Rio Claro 4,084 Southeast Region Compra Certa 84 North Region Manaus 1,995 Latin America Region (Except for Brazil) 393 Total 15,506 Number of employees per 2010 functional level – BRAZIL Board of Directors 16 Management 197 Administrative 2,489 Production 12,128 Trainees 36 Interns 212 Apprentices 35 Total 15,113 Number of employees per 2010 contract type – BRAZIL Determined time 247 Indefinite time 14,866 Total 15,113 Number of employees per job 2010 type – BRAZIL Fulltime 14,866 Half-period – Interns and Trainees 247 Total 15,113 Climate Survey (% favorability) 2006 – 66.9% 2008 – 75.5% 2010 – 82.7% Engagement Survey (% favorability) 2008 – 75% 2009 – 80% 2010 – 82% Turnover rate (LA2) Lar International Year Brazil Argentina Chile Colombia Peru Miami Guatemala 2008 2.64 not available 2009 2.31 4.7 not available 2010 1.9* 1.6 1.08 5.5 7.14 0.78 1.1 * Average of the monthly turnover rates for 2010, based on the number of dismissed employees and on the average number of employees between the month of dismissals and the previous month. Consumers Whirlpool is constantly seeking the improvement of attributes like energy efficiency, reduction of environmental impacts and increase in accessibility in the use of its products. Whirlpool has the aim of developing solutions for the most varied consumer profiles, investing in the development of home appliances equipped with state-of-the-art technology (like the Brastemp Gourmand stove, the first gas stove with option of steam oven in Brazil) as well as in the launching of products that are accessible to all layers of the population. One of the main examples in this wise is the line of Facilite refrigerators, of the Consul brand, which innovated on inaugurating the one-door frost free category: the initiative allowed significant reduction in the price of a product with this technology, making it more accessible. Whirlpool has a Global Product Safety Policy, applicable to all regions and operations, that describes the responsibilities of each organizational unit with regard to fulfillment of the policy and requirements prescribed in the Corporate Product Safety Norms. The directives of this policy assure, for example, that all the products developed, manufactured and sold meet or exceed the product safety norms applicable in the markets in which the company operates, in addition to the conduction of audits and failure simulation tests before the products are introduced in the market. The company also continuously monitors the performance and safety of products in the field and informs consumers appropriately of their correct use. (PR1) Search for satisfaction (PR5) Consumer satisfaction is a priority for Whirlpool and, therefore, the company invests in the constant improvement of its attendance services. For such, it has the Service, Quality & Parts Management, which encompasses the main areas of interface with the consumer. This board manages all activities of the Services area of Whirlpool Latin America, which unites a team of more than 4,500 (direct and indirect) professionals, including technicians from the Service network, attendants, quality and field engineers, among others. The company also has 600 other professionals dedicated to consumers of the Brastemp Water Purifier and to the Compra Certa sales site. Whirlpool believes that the quality of this relationship and consumer satisfaction are vital to the company's sustainability and credibility of the brands, reason why it is done by various and different channels: by phone, through Authorized Services, by email, among others. The company also works through the internet to identify demands of consumers and how to meet them. In addition to having created, in 2009, an account in the Twitter microblog, in order to approach the using public, Whirlpool conducts daily monitoring in other blogs and sites, seeking to guide its clients and others interested in its products and services. In order to be closer to its consumers, the Brastemp, Consul and KitchenAid brands have strong presence in the social networks and in the internet, using this channel as an important form of two-way communication. Satisfaction survey The monitoring of consumer satisfaction in relation to the services provided by Whirlpool is done through the Customer Value Added (CVA) indicator. This annual survey contemplates evaluations related to the experience with the company’s chain of services. These evaluations are classified within the scale of Low , Moderate , High and World Class . As in recent years, in 2010, the index obtained by Whirlpool Brazil was World Class and approximately 2,600 consumers were interviewed. To increase the information evaluated and make it more suitable for conduction of improvement plans, a new evaluation model is being studied and should enter into effect in 2011. It is important to note that this closeness to the client allows Whirlpool to identify new opportunities, since the teams that interact directly with consumers were also trained to extract valuable information from this contact, allowing feedback of the process of conception and innovation of products and services. Whirlpool also invests in online communication as another form of relating and attending to consumers. The brands count on sites, blogs and are present in the main social networks (Facebook, Twitter, Youtube). In addition, Whirlpool conducts a monitoring in the social networks and blogs in search for information related to the company. The company also receives suggestions, criticisms and praises through these channels. In 2010, the new sites of Whirlpool (institutional) and of the Consul brand were relaunched. One of the highlights of the online communication in 2010 was the campaign “Inspiration changes everything and life becomes thus... a Brastemp”, disseminated exclusively in YouTube. The video has two million views. (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Hc1kFvUTT4&feature=player_embedded) Lack of satisfaction episode In October 2010, the consumer Oswaldo Borelli faced technical problems with a refrigerator of the Brastemp brand. Unsatisfied with the quality of the service provided to him, he used the e-channels Twitter and YouTube to protest and the case won repercussion in the internet. The client's refrigerator, with three years of use, was no longer in the warranty and the problem presented demanded an expensive repair. Whirlpool freely offered the client a new product at a subsidized price. Whirlpool recognizes the right of expression of its consumers and that there was also a delay in solving the client's problem, which generated the lack of satisfaction, both in the negotiation stage and in delivery of the new product. The problem was solved in January 2011, before the video won repercussion. However, despite the company deeply lamenting the inconveniences caused to the client, it sees the episode as an opportunity for learning. Closeness Seeking continuous improvement in attendance, in 2010, Whirlpool promoted the restructuring of the Service Network Administration area, considering continuous improvement of the services offered to consumers. The number of employees dedicated to the area grew by 80% in 2010. In this restructuring, the area was divided into two work fronts. The first is the Front Office, made up of field consultants who work externally and directly with the network. The second is the Process Management area, with internal operation. Whirlpool is concerned with assuring that the procedures adopted by the outsourced teams are in line with the quality thresholds stipulated by the company. Expanding the team means to better attend to and be closed to consumers, since this team is able to bring to Whirlpool the views of not only the authorized dealers, but also of the clients. In addition, the company started implementing a new technological platform to support more advanced and modern systems of attendance. In view of all the investments, Whirlpool reached, in 2010, high levels of quality of its products and after-sales attendance. Suppliers There are about 3 thousand suppliers, 500 being for direct materials and 2,500 for indirect materials and services. Whirlpool seeks to maintain a relationship of quality with its suppliers. For this, it uses tools like the Integrated Management System for Suppliers (SGIF), created in 2004, which allows systematizing and evaluating the evolution of suppliers during their entire partnership with Whirlpool. Originally, the system included only direct suppliers, but in 2010, the company gave rise to a pilot project to include indirect suppliers. The pilot contemplated three main partnerships of materials and services (supply, residues and logistics) and the result of this experience gave rise to construction of the Integrated Management System for Indirect Suppliers (SGIFI), with own processes and indicators. The SGIFI will be launched in 2011 and the foremost and most representative groups of these categories will be contemplated. Whirlpool Latin America’s partners are also audited annually through the Supplier Qualification Assessment Audits. A total of 67 audits were conducted in 2010. The aim of the process is to analyze technological requirements, quality, safety and environment management system, harmful substance management and supplier social responsibility. The audit verifies mandatory requirements and, if any irregularity is found, the company reserves the right to breach the commercial relationship. In 2010, 87% of the companies audited in Brazil obtained the Excellent or Special classifications, the highest for this audit model. HR6, HR7 & HR 9 Value shared in the chain of production Sharing values with partners and encouraging them to adopt sustainable practices is another important directive of Whirlpool Latin America’s relationship with suppliers. In addition to the mandatory items that are evaluated through the audits, the company has metrics and indicators of quality and supply that allow it to identify the partner companies that stand out the most for their ability to add differentials and innovations to the company's products and projects. Within a continuous improvement process, these indicators are added to other metrics already used by Whirlpool that evaluate items like investment cost and capacity. The indicators are also duly aligned with the company’s sustainability goals and are applied to direct material suppliers. As an evolution of the performance of its partners, in 2010 Whirlpool created a new tool that centralizes all the information related to each one of the suppliers in a great electronic repository, facilitating localization of data and analysis of the quality history, supply and audit, contributing toward improvement of the relationship between the supplier and the company. To keep suppliers well informed in relation to all these criteria, the company makes use of its various communication channels. It is thus able to share with partners its expectations, in addition to making clear the potential to create partnerships and new business. The information related to the goals and strategies are disseminated annually in the Supplier's Day event and all relevant information is communicated through an electronic portal created for this public. The suppliers were also able to make contributions through projects and events like the five Innovation Prospecting Workshops conducted in 2010 to which they were invited. They were also able to inform Whirlpool of their innovative solutions through the Solution Shelf , an online communication channel available to partners. Supplier’s Day With the aim of straitening the ties with suppliers, Whirlpool Latin America promotes each year the Supplier's Day, the annual meeting with direct material suppliers. The event promotes the exchanging of experiences, sharing of results and clarifies even more for partners the priorities and challenges of Whirlpool in relation to supplies manufacturing, quality, environment, sustainability and social responsibility. In 2010, the event was held in the cities of São Paulo, Manaus and Joinville. Verification of the Steel Chain About 80% of Whirlpool Latin America’s steel input subsuppliers were audited in 2010 Whirlpool currently conducts audits in its steel suppliers with the aim of verifying compliance with its social responsibility, health & safety and environmental management requirements. Seeking to improve this process even more, the company created the assessment program of the Steel Chain, one of the main inputs used in the production of home appliances. The aim of the program was to extend the verification to subsuppliers, ensuring that not only the direct supplier but also their suppliers are aligned with the company's values and practices. The criteria for the project's construction were discussed and defined by the company together with the main steel supplying plants. The Vanzolini Foundation, independent partner of the project, was responsible for elaborating, applying the program and certifying those approved. The audit verified the meeting of issues like child labor, slave labor or labor analogous to slave labor, rights of indigenous peoples and forest management and no irregularities were found. At the same time with this assurance of compliance with issues deemed essential by Whirlpool, the process generated the identification of improvement opportunities in other work fronts, like management, and action plans are being developed with the aim of promoting a qualitative leap by some of these subsuppliers. The audit of the Steel Chain will continue in 2011 and the process will be extended to other supply chains like aluminum and paper. Suppliers approved are certified by the Vanzolini Foundation and those that are eventually noncompliant must execute an action plan with deadline to correct the irregularities. (HR2) (HR6) (HR7) (HR9) Society Consulado da Mulher Institute Promoting income generation is the main activity of Consulado da Mulher, which benefited more than five thousand people in 2010 Consulado da Mulher Institute is the main social responsibility action of Consul, brand of Whirlpool Latin America. Created in 2002, the Consulado was idealized with the mission of straitening the ties with the surrounding community and promoting improvements in the quality of life of the population. Having women and their families as the main focus, Consulado da Mulher acts directly in the cities where Whirlpool has operations: Joinville, Manaus, São Paulo and Rio Claro and, indirectly, in 51 other cities of Brazil. (SO1) Consul made in 2010 an investment of R$ 3,4 million in the Institute, which returned in total turnover for the undertakings an estimated amount of R$ 4.32 million, benefiting 1,399 people directly and 3,883 others indirectly. Since 2005, the brand has invested more than R$ 20 million in the Consulado. Based on solid methodological principles, a strategic restructuring was proposed and the generation of income, despite already figuring as one of the main activities of the Consulado, became the priority focus of the Institute. In 2009, the methodology for income generation developed by the Institute was certified by Fundação Banco do Brasil and UNESCO, as social, effective, replicable technology and that delivers the results it proposes. The Consulado believes that the women who lack an income and who are in a context of social vulnerability do not have access to favorable conditions of health, culture, leisure, proper feeding, among other basic conditions needed to obtain quality of life. Thus, the restructuring, which in 2010 completed its first year of implementation, proposed a more active stance: now, the Institute will go to the community and address business women. Their activities are now performed in the workplace itself of the advised women, which is often times their own homes. To monitor evolution of the work, 31 indicators were defined that include issues like innovation, organization and work conditions, self-management, structure, emancipation, gender relations and environmental management. The results of this survey makes clear to the Consulado and mainly to the undertaking the weak and strong points and the opportunities for improvement, which will aid in the strategic planning of the undertaking. The main action of the Consulado is to take knowledge and encourage the development of competencies for entrepreneurs. In some spot cases, financial contributions are also made, contributing directly toward assuring adequate work and safety conditions, as well as to increase the production capacity of the business women. The issues that proved to be more complex in this first year of monitoring were: work conditions and environmental management, fronts that must be worked as priority in 2011. Among the activities foreseen is the creation of a safety certificate for undertakings. Even though simplified, the certificate will be developed based on the criteria used by Whirlpool in its operations and will have the contribution of professionals specialized in these areas. The same reasoning is applied in environmental issues: the Consulado enforces for the advised undertakings, from a language that is easily assimilated, the environmental directives valid to the company. One of the main highlights in this theme is application of the principle of 3 Rs (Reutilization, Recycling and Residue Reduction). Each advisory cycle last an average of two years, enough time to identify the points of improvement, planning and implementation of actions and assimilation of knowledge. This deadline can be extended, according to the level of development obtained by the undertaking advised. Cities where Consulado da Mulher operates Amazonas Ceará Paraná São Paulo Fortaleza Manaus Icapui Campina Grande do Sul Bahia Espírito Santo Colombo Guaratuba Serra Branca Marataizes Manoel Ribas Conceição do Coite Minas Gerais Morumbi Araçoiaba Pinhais Cordeirópolis Feira de Santana Aiuroca Rio Branco do Sul Diadema Heliópolis Mirabela Guarujá Ichu Montes Claros Iguape Nova Fátima Pará Rio de Janeiro Itirapina Osasco Quijingue Santa Luzia Rio de Janeiro Rio Claro Retirolândia Paraíba Rio Grande do Sul Santo André Salvador Canoas São Paulo Alagoanova Sorocaba Santa Barbara Porto alegre Natuba Santa Luz Viamão São Domingos Pernambuco Santa Catarina Serrinha Afogados da Ingazira Joinville Teofilandia Flores São Francisco do Sul Valente Main indicators monitored by Consulado da Mulher Institute People made aware of the importance of sustainability monitors the quantity and duration of the sustainability awareness activities. Social Security Contribution (INSS) – the Consulado seeks to encourage business women who are not in the formal market to contribute to the social security. They can thus guarantee access to income when they are no longer in their working capacity, whether due to illness or retirement. Social Certification orientation given to undertakings for the search of existing social certifications (Example Certificate of Fair Trade) Working Hours the advisory has the aim of alerting against income becoming the only end of the undertaking. Working hours must respect the physical and health conditions, the time for personal needs and family. Occupational Safety, Ergonomics and Health with the partnership and voluntary work of the Whirlpool Safety & Health professionals, the Consulado offers qualified technical support to undertakings. When situations are detected that can place at risk the physical integrity of people, financial contributions are made to correct the problem like, for example, the purchase of protection equipment. Innovation the groups are guided to create differentials for their products. The Consulado works in partnership with universities, companies specialized in design and voluntary support of patent registration office that attends to Whirlpool. Gender relations and power within the undertaking the indicator monitors the relations of cooperation and power among members of the undertakings and also the effect of their work on the family environment. In addition, the 2010 group of trainees also worked alongside the Consulado in elaborating a business plan for the solidary laundry that will be built in 2011 in the city of Guarujá (SP). Consulado da Mulher and Whirlpool also worked in partnership with other social and government institutions and organized volunteer actions, like the construction of homes for families, also in Guarujá. Governance – The governance structure of Consulado da Mulher is made up of a Management Board and an Audit Board made up of seven representatives from various areas of Whirlpool Latin America, and by managers from the institute itself. These two groups meet periodically to evaluate the result of the initiative and strategic decisions. The leadership of Consulado da Mulher is made up of an executive board and by the local managers and coordinators of social programs, assigned to the four physical units of the entity (Joinville, Manaus, Rio Claro and São Paulo). There is also a specific coordination and team for the Work Factory Programs, which monitors undertakings throughout Brazil, in places where there is no direct operation of the Consulado. This team is responsible for managing the practices of the Consulado da Mulher. Subordinate to the management team, we have the technical team, the social educators, who are the professionals responsible for direct contact with the communities and people benefited by the initiative. In addition to the team responsible for the practical activities, Consulado da Mulher also has an administrative center, located in São Paulo (SP) and made up of professionals from the areas of Social Program Development, Financial Administration, Communication, Institutional Relations and Human Resources. The function of the administrative center is to provide support for the conduction and management of Consulado da Mulher's activities in all localities. Work factories In addition to the activities conducted in the cities in which Whirlpool has manufacturing plants, Consulado da Mulher reaches 12 other states and 51 other cities of Brazil through the Work Factory program. This fronts advises popular undertakings made up of at least 80% of women in social vulnerability situations who perform business activities with the aim of generating income. Likewise in projects advised locally, the Consulado offers its methodology and indicators to nongovernmental institutions or organizations that support these initiatives, thus, the Work Factories contributes toward strengthening the social network throughout the country. Through this program, home appliances of the Consul brand are also provided to favor business development and increase production capacity. The Work Factory program started the year 2010 with 29 undertakings being advised, and at the end of the year, this number jumped to 65 undertakings. Results and goals In 2010, Consulado da Mulher directly advised and created income-generating opportunities for 1,399 people, a growth of 54% compared to the previous year, exceeding the goal that had been set for the year (1,138). While the number of indirect beneficiaries went from 2,858 in 2009 to 3,883 in 2010, an increase of 35% (read more in the table on page XX). For 2011, the objective of Consulado da Mulher is to advise and promote generation of income for 1,800 people (total that includes part of the 1,399 already attended to and foresees the inclusion of new participants), an increase of 28% in its advisory capacity in relation to 2010. In addition to the numerical goals, the Consulado also intends to increase its operations through the use of other sources of resources and obtainment of social investments, reducing Whirlpool Latin America’s dependence as the only source of funds. For this, in 2010, a strategy started being defined for the obtainment of foreign resources, to be led by the trainees in 2011. Stories of people who benefited from the Consulado's actions can be read in the site: www.consuladodamulher.org.br People generating income (SO1) 2007 2008 2009 Indirect 2010 Indirect 2011 beneficiaries in beneficiaries Goal 2009 in 2010 Total Attendance 174 563 557 1,824 526 1,206 600 Work 112 328 351 1,034 873 2,677 1,200 Factories Total 286 891 908 2,858 1,399 3,883 1,800 Dealers An engagement initiative promoted by the company with this public is Brastemp Viva!, which promotes the collection of packs of products sold through the door-to-door system in regions of São Paulo state. The methodology is multiplied with our retail partners, sharing instructions so that they can also develop the action. We support ourselves on our partnerships in the environmental awareness of our consumers in the point of sale, providing support in the registration of new recyclers and in the training of drivers and employees from partner resale outlets that take part in the program. The process has already been shared with Walmart Sul, Cybelar, Lojas Colombo and Lojas Salfer. (Read more about Brastemp Vida on page XX) (EN27) (SO5) Shareholders Whirlpool Latin America renders accounts with maximum transparency to investors who own shares of Whirlpool S.A., listed in the BM&FBovespa [São Paulo Stock Exchange & Mercantile and Futures Exchange], (Consult Organization of the company in the chapter Profile). Government Among the main matters that Whirlpool discusses with the government are the programs directed at energy savings, like the Brazilian Labeling Program, from Inmetro, and the Procel and Conpet programs. In addition, through the National Association of Electro-Electronic Product Manufacturers (Eletros), it promotes relevant dialogues related to implementation of the National Solid Residue Policy (PNRS) and other public policies. (Read more about public policies on page XX). (EN6) (EN26) Whirlpool Inova Award Held every two years, the award distributed in 2010 more than R$ 135 thousand in prizes, ranging from cash, scholarships to products to winners of its third edition. The Whirlpool Inova award was created to encourage the development of innovative projects that facilitate the life of the consumer in the home environment. Geared toward faculties of design and engineering throughout Brazil, it received in this edition 218 enrollments by students, from 35 higher education institutions and 108 projects. The first place in design went to the team from the third year of design, from Universidade do Estado de Minas Gerais (UEMG), which proposed the development of the 'Twilight , a ceiling air conditioner with odorizing function and image projection. While the winner in the engineering category was the group of students from the second year of engineering at Faculdade de Engenharia Industrial (FEI), which presented the concept of 'LEV – Lavadora Eco-Vortex [Eco-Vortex Washing Machine]', with differentiated attributes in the manner of preserving clothes, saving water, preventing wastage and assuring practicality to the consumer. The works were evaluated by a technical committee, made up of professionals from the areas of Innovation, Design, Engineering and Marketing of Whirlpool, and by an external panel of judges, made up of professionals renowned in the market and by representatives of public entities and bodies that support the initiative. The partner institutions of this third edition of the Whirlpool Inova Award were the Ministry of Development, Industry & Foreign Trade (MDIC), the São Paulo State Research Support Foundation (FAPESP); the Study & Project Financier (FINEP), belonging to the Ministry of Science & Technology, the National Association of Research & Development of Innovative Companies (ANPEI), and the Minas Gerais State Research Support Foundation (FAPEMIG), in addition to Instituto Europeo di Design IED. (EC4) Climatic changes The company has published its greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory since 2009 The climatic changes are regarded as a priority theme in Whirlpool Latin America’s sustainability agenda. Therefore, since 2008, the company has been part of the Companies for the Climate (EPC) platform, launched by the Sustainability Study Center of Getulio Vargas Foundation (GVCes). The initiative foresees the definition of a regulatory mark for issues of economy based on low carbon. The scope of the EPC also includes providing participant companies with directions for the development of a GHG emission management system. Whirlpool Latin America has published its emission inventory since 2009, according to directives of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. In 2010, the volume of absolute emissions of the company totaled 92,707 tons of CO2 equivalent. In 2009, the volume recorded was 66,125 CO2eq. The company attributed this increase to growth of the business as well as improvement of the inventory process, which as of 2010 included, besides the units of Joinville, Manaus, Rio Claro and São Paulo (USP), the activities of the Administrative Center in São Paulo and the Distribution Center of Jaboatão dos Guararapes, in Recife. Whirlpool Latin America’s inventory contemplates the emissions within scopes 1 (from fixed source emissions), 2 (energy purchase) and 3 (nonmandatory, generated indirectly as a result of the company’s activities). The 2010 inventory reveals that the greater volume of emissions comes from the product distribution process, with 39% share. Although it is still drafting its formal reduction plan, the company is already implementing improvements in the logistic process that contributes toward emissions reduction. One of the initiatives is the Dynamic Scripter tool, which optimizes occupancy of product spaces in pickup trucks, reducing the number of trips and consequently emissions. For 2011, in addition to seeking new improvements in the inventory, Whirlpool will start the process of carbon footprint accounting of its products. (EN29) Inventory of emissions/tons of CO2 equivalent 2009 (1) 2010 (2) Stationary combustion (fuels used to generate heat in the production 16,514 20,324 process) Combustion own fleet 5 1,208 RAC – fugitive emissions R 134a 21,538 20,454 Electricity purchased 4,002 8,942 Aerial transport of employees 1,928 2,787 Product distribution (3) 19,067 35,762 Mobile source biomass emissions 1 408 Outside Kyoto R141b 3,069 2,822 Total 66,125 92,907 1 Emissions accounted in the operations of Joinville, Manaus, Rio Claro and São Paulo (does not include Administrative Center) 2 Emissions accounted in the operations of Joinville, Manaus, Rio Claro, São Paulo, Administrative Center and Distribution Center of Jaboatão dos Guararapes 3 Contemplates only the first section (from the plants up to the first distribution section). The methodology of the Brazilian GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Protocol Program was used for the calculations of Scope 1 and 2 and emissions from air travels. While for emissions referring to product distribution, the methodology of “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol International – version 2.0” was used. NOx, SOx, and other emissions (EN20) PPM (parts per million) 2008 TOTAL 2009 TOTAL 2010 TOTAL NOx emission 4,747.17 5.868.80 Sox emission 336.32 Monitoring is 190.40 conducted every Particulate 13,337.31 two years. 136.80 Materials emission Environmental impacts referring to transport of products and workers (EN29) TOTAL 2008 TOTAL 2009 TOTAL 2010 Greenhouse gas emissions (tons of CO2 equivalent). 27,301 20,995 38,550 Na mão certa In 2010, Whirlpool became a signatory of the Na Mão Certa Program, a business pact proposed by Childhood Brasil (Instituto WCF) that has the purpose of getting companies engaged in actions contrary to sexual exploitation of children and teenagers in Brazilian highways. The proposal of the pact is in line with the strategic objectives of Whirlpool to promote social equality and also the company's intention to share values with its stakeholders, encouraging the adoption of socially responsible practices. Although Whirlpool Latin America does not have its own fleet to transport its products, it adhered to the pact with the commitment of promoting the engagement of its 35 transporting companies. Whirlpool Latin America’s work will be that of educating and disseminating the program's directives among its employees and main transport providers. Public policies Whirlpool Latin America’s work in relation to the development and improvement of public policies occurs mainly through the trade associations, like the National Association of Electro-Electronic Product Manufacturers (Eletros) and the Brazilian Association of Electrical & Electronic Industry (ABINEE). The company views the public policies as a fundamental vector for the promotion of sustainable development, construction of shared solutions and acceleration of transformations in the society. This work is coordinated internally by the Institutional Relations area. Among Eletros' initiatives in the area of public policies, we highlight its participation in discussions and implementation of the National Solid Residue Policy, and in the energy efficiency labeling programs. (SO5) National Solid Residue Policy With regard to the law that instituted the National Solid Residues Policy (PNRS), in August 2010, Eletros' positioning has as base the sector alignment. This policy established the measures for final disposal of residues or wastes, avoiding disposal in rivers or direct on bare ground, for instance. According to the text of the new policy, objects that, if disposed of inadequately, can cause damages to the environment, like dry cells, batteries, fluorescent lamps, tires, oils and electro-electronic products, must be removed from circulation at the end of their service lives, through reverse logistics process that takes into account the responsibility shared and chained among all links of the chain (from consumers, passing through dealers, manufacturers, importers, public sector, recycling companies and recycling associations). The concept of shared responsibility instituted in PNRS and supported by the business sector and by Whirlpool establish that, in practice, when the consumer wishes to dispose of his or her old refrigerator, he or she can do so by delivering the product in the collection station nearest to his or her home. Definition of the location of the collection stations, to meet the demand of the entire Brazilian territory, is currently under study and will be an important and constituent part of the Sector Agreement, which will regulate in details the functioning of the entire process. The Sector Agreements will be instituted under leadership of the Federal Government, which established the Guiding Committee for implementation of the PNRS and should count on the participation of all the players involved in the chain, including the final consumer, since the process will undergo public inquiries during 2011. The proposal led by Eletros, with active participation of Whirlpool and of other companies from the sector, is in order to adopt a model similar to that already implemented in Europe for the electro-electronic sector, which is strongly based on the formation of sector associations, to better manage the logistics and correct final destination of residues generated. (SO5). Energy efficiency labeling programs Whirlpool also institutionally supports national programs for energyefficiency products, like the Brazilian Labeling Program, from Inmetro, the National Program for Rational Use of Oil Byproducts and Natural Gas (Conpet) and the National Electric Power Conservation Program (Procel). In 2010, the company had 229 products certified in Procel and 87 in Conpet. (EN6) (EN 26) Procel (National Electric Power Conservation Program) and Conpet (National Program for Rational Use of Oil Byproducts and Natural Gas) Procel is a federal government program aimed at rationed use of electric power. The seal of the program linked to the Ministry of Mining & Power (MME) is granted to refrigerators, freezers and air conditioners, among others. Conpet, in turn, is also an initiative linked to the MME, in this cased to encourage rationed use of oil byproducts and natural gas. The seal is granted to stoves, ovens and water heaters with low gas consumption. Both Procel and Conpet are linked to the Brazilian Labeling Program, created by the government with the aim of providing consumers with information to enable them to evaluate and optimize the power consumption of home appliances. From this knowledge, consumers can select more efficient products that promote energy savings. Our performance Beyond profit Whirlpool Latin America seeks to place the sustainability and financial goals on the same level. In 2010, it was elected one of the 20 model companies in sustainability in Brazil. During the year, Whirlpool Latin America invested R$ 5.7 million in environmental improvement programs, applied in fronts like residue management, hiring of specialized consultancies and in training. Due to such evolutions, demonstrated during this report, Whirlpool was elected one of the 20 model companies in sustainability in the country by Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade 2010. The publication has methodology elaborated by the Sustainability Study Center of Getúlio Vargas Foundation. Also worthy of highlight are the results obtained by LAR International, which in 2010 solidified the alignment project among the socio-environmental policies of various countries. Seeking to increase the awareness of workers with regard to sustainability, LAR International also promotes training related to sustainability, social responsibility and human rights. For 2011, the goal is to increase even more the internalization of these concepts and to also define a leader to handle issues of sustainability in each one of the countries. The countries of LAR International also maintained the encouragement of volunteering among the internal public and support to local entities, like Minuto de Dios, in Colombia with child development actions, the Habitat for Humanity International, in Argentina, Chile and Guatemala. Other advised entities were Hogar de Ninos, in Argentina, who work with homeless children and Corazones con Amor, in Peru, which attend to poor families. Whirlpool also promoted improvements in its IT area, which generated environmental benefits. The project for implementation of individual printing control, for instance, prevented the printing of 42,208 pages in 2010. The area also improved the outdated electronic equipment disposal process, having as focus increase in recycling and correct destination of residues that cannot be recycled. Distributed economic value (EC1) 2008 2009 2010 Suppliers 49% 52% 46% Employees 9% 10% 12% Shareholders 10% 7% 9% Government 26% 24% 27% Reinvestment 6% 7% 6% NOTE: Wealth generated and distributed exclusively by home appliance operations in Latin America, scope of this report. Economic performance The volume of sales increased by 16% in 2010, and 1,500 new jobs were created Latin America is today the second biggest sales region of Whirlpool worldwide, representing 20% of the company's global business, second only to the North America region, comprise of Canada, Mexico and the United States. Likewise 2009, the year 2010 was positive for business, with increase of 16% in the volume of sales in relation to the previous year. As a reflection of this performance, Whirlpool contributed once again toward the creation of jobs in the countries it operates in. It increased the workforce by 10.5%, meaning the hiring of about 1,500 new professionals. Brazil stands out for the economic stability, which in recent years has favored the lower middle class especially. At the same time, the country was also consolidated due to the potential of its luxury market, which in 2010, according to the German institute GFK, grew by about 25%. For 2011, the company expects the demand for home appliances to remain high. According to a study published by Getúlio Vargas Foundation in the beginning of 2011, the Consumer Confidence Index (CCI) is high, with the intention of buying durable goods, which rose by 6.5%, being the item that most contributed toward the expectation of growth measured by the study. Also add to this other relevant indicators that move the Brazilian economy and that should remain at high levels in 2011: income, credit and job creation. The country is today the fourth biggest home appliance market worldwide, after the United States, China and Japan only. The company’s good results in the year are directly related to the fact that the company has been able to accompany the excellent pace of Brazil's economic development. In 2010, considering the entire market, the ten main product categories from the home appliance line totaled approximately 20 million products. The Brastemp and Consul brands have together in home appliances in the homes of Brazilian consumers about three times the size of the country's automobile fleet. Another country that deserves highlight in relation to the results is Whirlpool Argentina, which recorded between 2008 and 2010 an increase of 100% in the local production. In 2010, about 34% of products of the Whirlpool brands sold in Argentina were produced locally by five industrial partners. Health & safety Investments in occupational health and safety made by Whirlpool totaled R$ 23.4 million in 2010, a growth of 41% in relation to 2009 In search for ever increasing efficiency in operation safety, Whirlpool destines each year resources to activities like awareness campaigns, training, improvement of machine protections, adaptation of installations and purchase of protection equipment. In 2010, the rate of accidents with dismissal was 31% less than the goal forecasted, exceeding the goal of 25% stipulated for the year. This rate corresponds to the number of accidents with dismissal for every 200,000 man-hour of exposure to risk. For 2011, the goal is a new reduction, of 25%. The severity rate of the accidents with missal also dropped from 8.71 in 2009 to 5.25 in 2010, a fall of 39%. Despite the significant percentage reduction, the goal stipulated for the year, of 45%, was not attained, but corrective actions were implemented and the figures dropped significantly in the second semester. The reduction goal for 2011 is stipulated at 20%. In health and safety issues, Whirlpool also follows directives of the Occupational Health & Safety Management System of the OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series) and ISO 14.000 certificates, adopted by all plants of Whirlpool Latin America, allowing the company to compare its result with that of other companies worldwide. Despite the low level of outsourcing in plants, Whirlpool also has a Health, Safety and Environment Program for service-providing companies. The supplier undergoes a process of pre-qualification that evaluates the meeting of Whirlpool requirements and later receives training and has its operations monitored. In 2010, no relevant accident involving service providers was registered. Whirlpool Latin America’s preventive actions are managed by the Health, Safety and Environment Risk Prevention Program. A highlight of this work front in 2010 was the review of ergonomic issues. In 2010, the focus was the Rio Claro plant, which, in partnership with experts from Universidade de São Carlos, developed an advanced ergonomics program. In addition to having experts dedicated to the program, 50 employees are being trained as ergonomists, which will give them the ability to propose improvements and identify, in the day-to-day, the need for corrective measures in the workstations. In 2010, Whirlpool continued the process of review and improvement of the Occupational Medicine and Health Control Program’s methodology, which promotes follow-up of the mental health of employees through medical and psychological visits. These evaluations are applied periodically to all employees. The program is made up of ten protocols, some of which were already reviewed in 2010 and the process will be concluded in 2011. In addition, due to the relevance given to the theme by Whirlpool, the results of the sector are monitored by the company's top management. The continuous improvement process directed toward reduction and eradication of accidents is also supported by the Health, Safety and Environment Strategic Plan, which determines the quarterly publication, review and training of a series of ten suitable and safe procedures (out of a total of 41) in the workplaces. Seeking to better understand the causes of accidents, in 2010, Whirlpool conducted a work of stratification and analysis of the nature of the occurrences for each one of the fronts detected, addressed improvement actions. Among those that already entered into effect in 2010 are the more advanced fire prevention systems, improvement in machine protection and elimination of vulnerabilities from the work areas. Note that the greater part of accidents registered in Whirlpool Latin America’s units, 53% in 2010, were caused by behavioral issues, which are being treated through specific training on each theme related to the activities perfumed in the plants. As a way of calling safety issues to employees’ attention, Whirlpool also has the safety alert”. When an occurrence is recorded in any of the company's plants, this alert is generated and emitted to all other production units, including information on the reasons of the accident and the learning generated from the occurrence. Rate of injuries, occupational diseases, days lost, absenteeism and deaths* (LA7) 2010 2009 2008 Rate of injuries (TL). accidents with and without 1.24 1.27 1.59 dismissal Rate of occupational 0 0.26 0.33 diseases (TDO) Rate of days lost (TDP) 5.25 8.71 17.17 Rate of absenteeism (TA) (%) 3.03 2.55 2.5 Absolute number of deaths 0 1 0 *Data based on OSHA – Occupational Safety and Health Administration (200,000 man-hours of exposure to risk). Indicator (1) 2010 2011 Rate of Accidents with Dismissal -Goal: reduce by 27% in relation to Goal: reduce by 25% in relation to 2009. 2010. -Result: reduction of 31%. Severity Rate of Accidents with -Goal: reduce by 41% in relation to Goal: educe by 20% in relation to Dismissal 2009. 2010. -Result: increase of 3%. (1) according to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series is a tool that supports the systematization and control of internal occupational health and safety processes. On implementing the system, renowned internationally, the company shows the interest in improving the working conditions of its employees since OHSAS 18001 has objective goals and indicators that allow measurement and evolution in the aspect of occupational safety and health. Corporate programs on serious diseases (LA8) Programs Extension Education/training Workers Advise Workers Prevention/Risk control Workers and community Treatment Workers and family members Professional development The increase in the credit hours of training and launching of the Leadership School are some of the highlights of 2010 Whirlpool closed the year 2010 with a workforce of 15,506 employees, an increase of 10.5% in relation to 2009. In 2010, there was a significant increase in the number of hours dedicated to training and qualifications. In Brazil, there were 256,009 hours, 9% more than in 2009. While in LAR International, the volume of training went from 834 hours to 7,400 hours. The great highlight of corporate education in 2010 was the launching of the Leadership School, directed toward development of leaders and built based on the company's strategic priorities. The program contemplated approximately 750 people in all of Whirlpool Latin America and more than 22 thousand hours of training was offered. In the Manufacturing School, directed toward hourly workers, in the Rio Claro plant, the Super 100 program, which promotes qualification in management and in technical skills. Through Foundations of Whirlpool curriculum, salaried (is that what monthly means?) employees have access to e-learning training developed globally, which addressed strategic themes and is led by senior leaders within the company. (LA11) All professionals are evaluated and receive periodical feedbacks. Performance is assessed systematically by the Performance Monitoring Program (PMP) and potential is assessed by the Talent Pool tool. Assessment of employees is under charge of a committee and not just the direct superior of the professionals. (LA12) Hourly employees have the Hourly Employee Performance Assessment (ADH) tool. Created in 2009, the program presents the paths toward development of these employees, through clear criteria of movement, promotion, raise through merit and change of area, allowing growth in the sector in which they operate or in other areas of the company. In recognition of the good results of this practice, Whirlpool was ranked 1st in 2010 in the Sesi Award for Quality at Work State Stage, in the Personnel Management category, by virtue of this very program. The company's opportunities also contemplate the graduates. In 2010, Whirlpool Latin America’s trainee program had 13,571 enrollees, 28% more than in the previous year. In the current edition, 23 people participated and improvement were implemented, like the Summer Job in the United States and in Europe for the trainee who stands out most during the program. In addition, the 2010 group of trainees also worked alongside the Consulado in elaborating a business plan for the implementation of a solidary laundry that will be built in 2011 in the city of Guarujá (SP). Consulado da Mulher and Whirlpool also worked in partnership with other social and government institutions and organized volunteer actions, for the construction of dignified homes for 32 families, also in Guarujá. While the apprentice program has received 5,300 enrollments and the company ended 2010 with 212 apprentices in its staff. These young professionals also took part in development programs and it is Whirlpool Latin America’s intention to make them future analysts or trainees. Corporate Education (LA10) Brazil LAR International Year Total Hours Average Hours* Total Hours Average Hours* 2008 166,424² 13.95 2,478 6.00 2009 228,362² 16.80 834 8.70 2010 256,009¹ 16.94 7,400 9.29 (1) Calculation of the hours of training is based on estimates, considering the average credit hours estimated for training of each functional category, the average participation of those summoned and the total number of employees per functional category at the end of the period covered by the Report. (Individual results may vary) (2) There was a change in the calculation methodology for the years 2009 and 2008 for alignment with the concepts used in 2010. The only exception is that the hours of training for 2009 and 2008 were calculated based on the average number of employees for the period. * Refers to the average number of hours of training per employee, in the year. Diversity and inclusion The participation of women in the workforce is ever increasing Diversity is part of Whirlpool Corporation’s corporate values and the company assumed as one of its great challenges the proton of a workforce rich in diversity of profiles and opinions. Among the various practices of the Human Resources area is the use of diversity criteria as an item to break the tie in the choice of candidates with equivalent skills. In matters of gender, Whirlpool increased the participation of women in practically all levels in the units in Brazil. In the management, women represented 15% of the staff in 2009 and in 2010, they totaled 19%. The new editions of the trainee program were also able to change the disparity and, at the end of 2010, women were the majority among the total number of trainees in the company, with 56%, a significant increase in relation to the 20% of 2009. In the production area, a typically male environment, year after year the workforce becomes more balanced, with women ahead of 43% of the workstations. Only two years ago, this percentage was 28%. The remuneration policy is identical for men and women’s. In relation to the number of people with special needs, in Brazil, Whirlpool raised from 850 to 871 the number of people hired, which represents 4.75% of the total workforce. The recruitment of people with special needs follows a differentiated and more delayed scope, therefore, it did not evolve in the same rate as the traditional hiring. For 2011, the goal is to reach 5% and fully meet the legislation in effect in the country. (LA12) Number of people with special needs (LA13) TOTAL* 2007 490 2008 815 2009 850 2010 903 *The data from Embraco, which manufactures compressors and which is outside the scope of this report, is included in the figures sent to the Justice Department, since the company is part of the legal entity Whirlpool S.A., with the same CNPJ [corporate taxpayer's roll]. TAC da Whirlpool S.A. also includes employees from Embraco. **The figures referring to Manaus were not included in the percentage of handicapped employees of Whirlpool S.A. because it is another legal entity. *** The number of people with special needs contemplates only the units of Whirlpool do Brasil. Employees, per gender 2010 (LA13) male female board of directors 81% 19% management 75% 25% administrative 62% 38% production 57% 43% trainees 44% 56% *The percentages refer only to units of Brazil Energy With innovation and support to government initiatives, Whirlpool has contributed toward reducing energy consumption. With each generation of products it launches in the market, within a cycle of approximately ten years, Whirlpool has developed products that save up to 50% in relation to the previous generation, including both gas in stoves and electricity in other products. The search for energy efficiency in products is a solid policy of the company that contributes significantly toward sustainability and promotes more economic products to consumers of all social layers. Whirlpool takes part in the refrigerator exchange program sponsored by the National Electric Power Agency (Aneel). In this case, the electric power distributors propose the change of home appliances to low-income consumers and Whirlpool undertakes to sell new refrigerators to the distributors and collect the old ones, which are later dismounted for recycling. (SO5) The company also invests in the energy efficiency of its operations. In 2010, plants from Joinville, Rio Claro and Manaus presented a reduction in energy consumption in relation to the goals established of kWh per manufactured product in the order of 4%, 10% and 24% respectively, exceeding the goals stipulated for the year. Another goal of the company is to include, in the medium-term, 100% of products in its portfolio in the categories of greater energy efficiency of the Procel and Conpet seals (read more about these programs and Whirlpool Latin America’s labeled programs on page XX). At the end of 2010, according to criteria of the Brazilian Labeling Program, of the National Institute of Metrology, Standardization and Industrial Quality (Inmetro), 79% of the company's portfolio was included in the Class A category, those having lower power consumption rates. (EN6) (EN26) Direct energy consumption listed per primary energy source (EN3) Fuel TOTAL 2010 TOTAL 2009 TOTAL 2008 natural gas (GJ) 316,562 275,086 282,813 LPG (GJ) 65,739 53,085 60,378 diesel oil (GJ) 200 203 216 ethanol (GJ) 2,469 gasoline (GJ) 2,013 others (specify) 0 Total (GJ) 386,983 328,374 343,407 Indirect energy consumption of primary energy, in GJ (EN4) TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 2010 2009 2008 628,376 587,490 574,955 Materials The company invests continuously in the reduction of materials and elimination of harmful substances in its products. The Whirlpool plant in Joinville follows the standards of the European Directive RoHS 2002/95/EC, which establishes the strictest safety standards in relation to harmful substances. The certificate, granted by the Bureau Veritas Certification (BVC), requires that 100% of component suppliers pass through the same criterion. At the same time with the search for total absence of harmful substances, Whirlpool has invested in the constant reduction of the volume and impact of raw materials used in the production of its products and packaging. Washing machines, for instance, have a recyclability rate of 80%, due to the use of polypropylene. Nanoceramics – pre-treatment Whirlpool has worked since 2007 with nanotechnology in its painting pre-treatment processes, enabling reduction of costs and environmental impact. Nanoceramics was the most ecologically correct alternative that the company found to replace the phosphate used in the pre-treatment process of steel plates, used in the manufacture of home appliances. This technology allows cold pre-treatment of metals, which reduces energy consumption by approximately 10% and water use by 40%. The alternatives that use phosphate need high temperatures to conduct the same procedure. Another advantage of nanoceramics is not to produce sludge, residue that, in the case of phosphate, contains heavy metals. Terpene Terpene is a substance used in the cleaning of steel plates that constitute the structure of stoves manufactured by Whirlpool Latin America, within the part pre-treatment process. This substance has the advantage of being an organic compound (it is extracted from pine oil and from citric fruits) and biodegradable, which can also be used as degreasing and anti-bactericidal agent. In addition to not harming the environment and the health of professionals who use it, terpene also allows reduction in energy consumption (cut of 20%), since the plates are cleaned at room temperature. Materials used, per weight or volume (EN1) Plastics in general, polyurethane, steel, copper and cardboard (in tons) São Paulo LAR TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL Joinville Rio Claro Manaus International 2008 2009 2010 330,399 4,728 36,530 16,052 183,527 427,582 387,709 Percentage of materials used obtained from recycling (EN2) Plastics in general (in tons) São Paulo Manaus TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL Joinville Rio Claro LAR Int’l 2008 2009 2010 1,173 not applicable 1,396 0 not 1,494 3,072 2,569 applicable 6,24% not applicable 13,77% 0,00% not 6,00% 7,10% 8,88% applicable Solid residues In the reverse logistic process, the company collects used home appliances and sends them for recycling. Whirlpool Latin America seeks to reduce and give correct destination to industrial residues generated by its operations. However, in 2010, despite the company's efforts, half of the reduction in residue generation sent to landfills per product produced was not met by the operations of Joinville and Rio Claro due to the record increase in production. In Manaus, the reduction was 16%. In all, 32,977 tons of residues was generated in 2010. The units of Joinville and Manaus have Effluent Treatment Stations and in the Rio Claro operation, the disposal is done in the municipal network. The company did not register any environmental accident or significant spills in 2010. (EN 22) (EN 23) (EN 24) Total weight of residues, per type and method of disposal (in tons) (EN 22) (EN 24) Hazardous Residues (ton) Non-Hazardous Residues (ton) Destination 2010 2009 2008 2007 2010 2009 2008 2007 Residues for landfill 236 304 199 270 1,465 1,135 1,421 1,724 Residues for 520 710 955 859 co-processing Recycling of 1,134 571 617 497 191 188 160 residues Recycling of 29,319 26,648 23,614 20,372 scrap Incineration 26 13 6 22 86 41 TOTAL 1,916 1,598 1,778 1,648 31,061 28,012 25,194 22,095 Brastemp Viva – The reduction of impacts caused by residues also has the Brastemp Viva! initiative, which promotes collection of packaging that accompanies the company's products sold through the door-to-door system in regions of the state of São Paulo (in Greater São Paulo and Baixada Santista) and in Recife, where it functioned as a pilot project in 2010. The aim is to reduce the volume of residues disposed and not recycled like Styrofoam (EPS), cardboard and plastic, sending them to recycling companies or entities. In 2010, Whirlpool obtained a return of packaging from the direct sales system of 59%. In all, 75.3 tons* was collected (10.9 tons of cardboard, 51.9 of EPS and 12.4 tons of plastic), a growth of 31% compare to 2009. (EN27) Reverse logistics The home appliance reverse logistic and recycling process determines the collection and disassembly of used home appliances manufactured by Whirlpool, obtained from the exchange program conducted by electric power distributors. In 2005, the company set up a disassembly cell in the Joinville unit (SC) to prevent the risks related to improper destination and treatment of these residues. In 2010, the unit was able to recycle 80.7% (calculated according to methodology developed by the Fraunhofer Institute) of the materials that constitute the refrigerators and freezers, an index higher than the legal limit met in the European Union (75%), one of the most demanding worldwide. The rest was disposed of in an environmentally correct fashion, in duly licensed and monitored industrial landfills. In 2010, the Joinville unit was responsible for the recycling of approximately 440 tons of post-consumption residues and destination in licensed industrial landfill of 65 tons of polyurethane and glass wool. Approximately 822 kilos of CFC and HCFC gases were collected. How reverse logistics works Flowchart 1) Sale of products to the project partners (in case of reverse logistics of refrigerators, the predict is conducted through electric power distributors). 2) When the product is delivered to the consumer's home, the same truck that delivers it collects the packaging of the new product and the use home appliance. 3) The packaging cardboard is destined to a paper collector NGO and the Styrofoam is sent to a recycler. The used home appliance is sent to the Whirlpool warehouse. 4) In the disassembly cell of the Joinville unit (SC), the CFC and HFC gases are removed, stored and sent to companies that will regenerate them. 5) Also in Joinville, the fridge is dismounted and the parts are separated by material category (steel, aluminum and plastic). This material is later sold to companies that will use it as raw material. Only approximately 10% of the product resulting from the recycling is destined to certified industrial landfills. Water resources and effluents Reduction in water consumption occurs in the industrial processes and in the development of more efficient products Likewise energy consumption, Whirlpool has as a goal reduction in the use of water both in production processes and in the use of products. In 2010, there was an increase in water consumption per product produced in Joinville and Rio Claro by virtue of occasional problems like leaks. In counterpart, the Manaus unit obtained reduction. The company reutilizes the water consumed in the final tests of the laundry operation in Rio Claro, equivalent to 10,000 m³, in closed circuit. In 2010, this savings was 64,000 m3 of water, approximately 30% of the unit's total consumption. For 2011, a design is being developed for a more advanced system for reutilization of 100% of water in the Product Development & Approval Lab of the Laundry Technology Center, scheduled for implementation in 2012. (EN10) In 2010, an effluent treatment started being installed in São Paulo. The water from the internal processes is treated and reutilized in the restrooms, which contributes toward a reduction of 52% in the use of water in the unit. While in Manaus, the company promoted several changes in the infrastructure of its plant to receive the new production line of dishwashers, which entered into operation in the beginning of 2011. The new technologies incorporated to the line make possible the reutilization and significant reduction of water consumption from 75m³ foreseen to 5m³ per month. The company is the only plant installed in Brazil to manufacture dishwashers using 75% of national components. In relation to energy consumption, the dishwashers use 1.2 kW/h, while manual washing with hot water spends approximately double. Water disposal in 2010*, in m3 (EN 21) Effluents, per type Joinville Rio Claro Manaus TOTAL 2010 Treated biological 88,045 73,500 58,325 219,869 effluents Treated physicalchemical effluents 230,255 9,840 11,664 251,759 Untreated 0 124,660 0 124,660 effluents Disposal location River River Municipal Igarapé do Amazonas network Meireles Note: in the São Paulo unit (USP), all effluents are destined to the sewage network (public). Water consumption per water source, in m3 (EN8 and EN9) TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL JLLE USP RC MA LAR Int’l 2007 2008 2009 2010 Water consumption 506,891 28,387 208,653 72,906 16,892 864,916 777,312 739,338 833,729 Source: 176,245 0 0 0 0 176,245 Rivers Source: Wells 141,928 0 200,005 72,906 0 414,839 Source: Public 188,718 28,387 8,648 0 16,892 242,645
