Annual report 2010 including sustainability report 12 14 17 18 28 40 1332 sekm 1597 Operating profit excl. items affecting comparability 4 241 sekm Group investments 2010 Average number of employees in Group 2010 Reports Information For 2011 Holmen will publish the following The interim and year-end reports are presented at press and teleconferences in English. The conferences financial reports: can also be accessed live on Holmen’s website. Interim report, January–March 6 May Interim report, January–June 17 August The annual report, together with year-end and interim reports, are published in Swedish and English and Interim report, January–September 26 October they are sent automatically to the shareholders who have indicated their wish to receive them. They are also Year-end report for 2011 2 February 2012 available on the website: www.holmen.com How to order printed material: • at the website: www.holmen.com • by post: Holmen AB /Group Public Relations, P.O. Box 5407, SE-114 84 Stockholm, Sweden • by e-mail: info@holmen.com • by telephone: +46 8 666 21 00 • by fax: +46 8 666 21 30 Holmen Annual report 2010 Contents CEO’s message 2 ANNUAL report List of notes The year in brief 4 1. Accounting policies 58 Holmen in brief 6 2. Operating segment reporting 62 3. Other operating income 64 Business concept & strategy 8 4. Employees, staff costs and remuneration to Business outlook 10 senior management 64 Financial targets 11 5. Auditors’ fee and remuneration 65 6. Gains/losses from financial instruments 66 Business areas 7. Taxes 66 Holmen Paper 12 8. Earnings per share (EPS) 69 Iggesund Paperboard 14 9. Intangible non-current assets 69 Holmen Timber 16 10. Property, plant and equipment 70 Holmen Skog 18 11. Biological assets 71 Holmen Energi 20 12. Interests in associates and other shares and interests and participating interests 72 13. Financial instruments 74 Sustainability 14. Inventories 78 Principles 23 15. Operating receivables 78 Sustainable products 24 16. Equity parent company 78 Positive climate effects 26 17. Pension provisions 79 Environmental responsibility 28 18. Other provisions 80 Social responsibility 31 19. Operating liabilities 80 External assessments 34 20. Operating leases 80 Assurance report 34 21. Pledged collateral and contingent liabilities 81 22. Related parties 81 Risk management 36 23. Interests in Group companies 82 The share & shareholders 40 24. Untaxed reserves 83 Corporate governance report 44 25. Cash flow statement 83 26. Key assessments and estimates 83 Board of Directors & Group management 48 Financial statements Income statement 50 Statement of comprehensive income 51 Balance sheet 52 Changes in equity 53 Cash flow statement 54 Parent company 56 Notes 58 The Board of Directors and the CEO of Holmen Aktiebolag (publ.), corporate identity number 556001–3301, submit their annual report for the parent company and the Group for the 2010 financial year. The annual report and Appropriation of profits 84 audit report comprise pages 4–85. The results of the year’s operations and Audit report 85 the financial position of the parent company and the Group are presented in the administration report and the accompanying income statements and Annual General Meeting 86 balance sheets, together with the notes and supplementary information. The Five-year review, sustainability 87 Group’s income statement and balance sheet and the parent company’s Ten-year review, finance 90 income statement and balance sheet will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting for adoption. Definitions & glossary 92 This is a translation of the Swedish annual report of Holmen Aktiebolag (publ.). In the event of inconsistency Addresses & industrial sites between the English and the Swedish versions, the Swedish version shall prevail. 1 Holmen Annual report 2010 Dear shareholder The past year All our operations, with the exception of our printing paper business, improved their earnings in 2010. The more favourable climate for paperboard and sawn timber as well as good conditions for Holmen Skog and Holmen Energi made a positive contribution to our progress. Despite this, the year ended with a decrease in earnings due to the substantial deterioration in earnings at Holmen Paper, resulting from low newsprint prices combined with high costs of recovered fibre. In light of the weak result for 2010 and major investment commitments ahead but a stable financial situation in spite of this, the Board proposes an unchanged dividend of SEK 7 per share. Our products Demand for newsprint in Europe rose somewhat towards the end of the year, but was weak for the year as a whole. The demand was about 15 per cent lower than the peak level achieved in 2006. Through exports outside Europe, capacity utilisation in the industry stayed at a relatively high level. The very low profitability during the year is mainly a result of sales prices, which were dramatically lower for newsprint in 2010 than in 2009. Newsprint will continue to be a key product for Holmen, but we are seeing growing evidence that our focus on niche products is a step in the right direction. Demand is rising most in our MF Magazine product area, in which we increased our deliveries. The introduction of our new products was well received in the market. We consider that customers who buy magazine paper will increasingly look for alternative products in order to cut their costs in competition with other media. The past year was positive for our paperboard operation, with price rises for in deliveries of sawn timber. Price increases level of productivity in large-scale facilities is both folding boxboard and solid bleached contributed to improved earnings, while the a key strategy for Holmen. board. Greater demand and higher capacity market in Europe was hesitant towards the utilisation teamed with an improved sales end of 2010 due to the general economic Our raw materials operations mix contributed to an excellent result. Our situation and because the expected upturn in Strong demand for timber and pulpwood at concentration on more demanding products construction activities had not yet taken off. attractive prices generated high earnings from reinforces our position as a leading supplier The new sawmill at Braviken was commisour forest assets. We also harvested a great of paperboard for consumer products. This sioned at the turn of 2010/2011. The facility deal in our own forests, which is a comfocus is important for the continued developcomplements our other operations well and pletely natural strategy when prices are high. ment of the business. makes Holmen a complete supplier of sawn Substantial purchases of wood were made, The harsh winters of recent years have timber products. The aim is to increase partly to meet the future needs for spruce entailed production disruptions and delays volume substantially in coming years. A high saw timber at the new sawmill, at which the 2 Holmen Annual report 2010 supply plan has proved effective. The work entirely on recovered paper, was hit hard by for the highest sustainability reporting to boost growth in our forests through new the rising prices of raw materials and a weak level, GRI A+. We also attract considerable silviculture measures progressed during the domestic market for printing paper. During positive attention in the world around us. year. We started work on producing an inventhe autumn, temporary lay-offs and long Holmen features in several international tory of our forest holdings, which will form production stoppages were implemented corporate indexes and environmental funds the basis of a new harvesting plan that will be with the aim of stabilising the situation. At that value companies from a sustainabildrawn up in 2011. the beginning of 2011 we decided to shut ity perspective, and that aim to make it The recovered paper market gradually down PM 61, which had been running at a easier for investors and other stakeholders grew stronger during the year and prices rose loss for a long time. The modern newsprint to identify companies that run ambitious continually. This had a very adverse impact machine still in operation has good potential sustainability activities. Our commitment to on costs, particularly in Spain. The underlyof being profitable. and membership of the UN Global Compact ing variation in one of our most significant The change that took place at Iggesund is an important starting point. This means cost components is the reason why we are Paperboard at the end of 2009, when one of that Holmen takes a clear stance on issues aiming to secure shorter pricing periods in the board machines at Workington Mill was concerning human rights, social and environcontracts with newsprint customers. shut down, proved successful. The objecmental responsibility and the right to form Holmen Energi achieved its tives of greater competitiveness trade unions. best earnings of all time, through lower fixed costs and My ambition is naturally also for Holmen which is largely attributa switch to a higher quality to be known as a company that has a good able to high electricThe segment in which we also HR policy and that offers its employees ity prices, but also to increased production. conditions for increased capacity, were achieved. stimu­lating tasks. We therefore attach substantial importance to improving leadership. Our peat production operation is ongoing – growth in profit Investment and Outlook albeit still on a modest scale – alongside hydro are favourable development One of the most imporThe conditions for growth in profit are favourable in 2011. Ongoing price negopower, our largest in 2011.” tant decisions made durtiations for newsprint in Europe indicate source of income. Wind ing the year was to invest significant increases, although the demand surveys for wind power in a new recovery boiler trend is difficult to estimate. on our own land took place and turbine at Iggesund The market for paperboard remains good, throughout the year and are Mill. This bolsters Holmen’s and implemented price rises should have an now being followed by applicasustainability focus and constitutes impact on profit during 2011. For sawn timtions for permits. Holmen benefits from the major step in our plan to modernise ber, supply currently exceeds demand, which electricity generated by wind power by being the mill’s pulp and energy supplies, putting risks putting pressure on prices. The commisone of the owners of the company VindIn the plant in a position to become selfsioning of the new sawmill at Braviken will AB. The wind farm inaugurated at Skutskär sufficient in electricity without the use of any initially have an adverse impact on earnings. in 2009 has produced positive results. fossil fuels. The installation is under way and Wood prices remain high, which may mean Sweden was hit by another cold winter, is one of Sweden’s largest current industrial another good year for Holmen Skog, while and electricity prices climbed to levels that investments. The equipment is due to be Holmen’s industrial operations continue to rendered paper production impossible durcommissioned in June 2012. feel the burden of the high cost of wood. The ing the hours when the price peaked. This Apart from the major sawmill and recovery level in the water reservoirs is lower than cannot be completely counteracted using the boiler projects, investments were kept at a usual, which will negatively affect the comlong-term contracts we have as a basis for our limited level – particularly at Holmen Paper. pany’s production of hydro power during the operations. Intermittent production as a result Via the Holmen Biorefinery Development first few months of the year. of variations in electricity prices also affected Centre, a unit set up in 2009, we are workFor several years, Holmen has taken tough total productivity, mainly for Holmen Paper. ing on identifying new profitable business measures to arrive at its current position as based on forest raw material, as well as a strong, highly competitive company that Lower costs and improved residual and by-products. Several promishas good potential to develop its business. ­operations ing projects are being conducted, meaning I would like to highlight all employees at Further reductions of the workforce at that we will be seeing other products from Holmen who have contributed in various ­Hallsta Paper Mill were announced durthe forest besides paper and paperboard in ways to the future-focused, yet also difficult, ing the year; about 150 employees were the not too distant future. Biogas produced changes that have characterised the past year. given their notice, the aim being to lower through anaerobic digestion of our waste­ Thanks to their efforts, we are now stronger fixed costs. By adapting one of the paper water is an interesting possibility. as we enter a new phase in our development. machines, PM 11, we increased potential for further development of our MF Magazine Sustainability – part of everyday Stockholm, 18 February 2011 products. operations The number of employees at the mill in This is the first annual report in which we Madrid was reduced during the autumn. have included an extensive section on our A survey of PM 61, the smaller of the two sustainability activities. Such activities are paper machines, was conducted in paralregarded as a natural part of our everyday Magnus Hall lel. The mill, at which production is based work, and Holmen meets the requirements President and CEO 3 Holmen Annual report 2010 The year in brief The Group’s operating profit for 2010, excluding items affecting comparability, was Facts 2010 2009 SEK 1 332 million (1 620), corresponding to a return on capital employed of 5.9 per cent. Net sales, SEKm 17 581 18 071 The result for printing paper operations fell considerably, while profitability in the other parts of the Group improved. The year’s investments amounted to SEK 1 597 million and mainly comOperating profit, SEKm 1 596 1 620 prised the new sawmill at Braviken and a new recovery boiler and turbine at Iggesund Mill. Operating profit excl. items Net financial debt increased by SEK 89 million, to SEK 5 772 million. At year-end, the debt/ affecting comparability, equity ratio was 0.34 (0.34). The Board proposes an unchanged dividend of SEK 7 per share. SEKm 1 332 1 620 Profit for the year, SEKm 704 1 006 Tough year for printing paper Earnings per share, SEK 8.4 12.0 Falling prices and high recovered fibre costs entailed a loss in Holmen’s printing paper Dividend per share, SEK 7* 7 ­operation. Return on capital Strong growth for paperboard employed, %** 5.9 7.2 Return on equity, % 4.2 6.4 Demand for paperboard was robust and it was possible to introduce several price rises. Profit doubled. Debt/equity ratio, times 0.34 0.34 Investments, SEKm 1 597 818 High prices for wood and electricity Average number of Strong demand for pulpwood and timber boosted prices to historically high levels, and earn­employees 4 241 4 577 ings from the company’s own forests were very high. Electricity prices were periodically also *Proposal of the Board. very high, leading to good results for Holmen’s own hydro power. **Excl. items affecting comparability. Investment in recovery boiler Net sales and operating margin In the spring, Holmen decided to invest in a new recovery boiler and turbine at Iggesund Mill. This doubles the mill’s production of electricity, and the production of pulp can gradually be SEKm % increased. This SEK 2.3 billion investment is one of the largest current industrial investments 20 000 20 17 581 in Sweden and makes it possible to run the operation without using fossil fuels and purchased electrical energy. 15 000 15 New sawmill 10 000 7.6 10 The construction of Braviken Sawmill kept to schedule and production started at the turn 5 000 5 of 2010/2011. Construction using wood has a positive climate impact. The new sawmill, a billion-kronor investment largely made of wood, will be the largest and most modern sawmill 0 0 in Scandinavia. 05 06 07 08 09 10 Net sales Operating margin Measures at Holmen Paper Excl. items affecting comparability Holmen Paper is implementing further efficiency improvements and measures to maintain a high level of competitiveness and improve profitability. Holmen VIEW, a new grade of paper for magazines and catalogues, was launched. Negotiations were started about cutting staff Operating profit and return by 150 people at Hallsta Paper Mill. At the beginning of 2011, Holmen decided to shut down SEKm % PM 61, the smaller of the two paper machines at the mill in Madrid. This machine accounts 3 000 15.00 for just under 10 per cent of the business area’s production capacity. About 170 people are affected. 2 250 11.25 1 332 Wind power investment 1 500 5.9 7.50 Wind power surveys are under way on Holmen’s land in Hallstavik and Örnsköldsvik. The 4.2 process is continuing with applications for permits. Expansion via the partly owned wind 750 3.75 power company VindIn is progressing. 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 0.00 GRI A+ Operating profit All of Holmen’s information on sustainability was audited by an external party for the first time. Excl. items affecting comparability Holmen’s reporting achieved A+ according to the guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Return on capital employed Excl. items affecting comparability Initiative (GRI) for sustainability reporting. Return on equity 4 Holmen Annual report 2010 Holmen in brief Holmen, head office Production sites Sales offices, forest regions and purchasing company Sheeting units Holmen Paper Iggesund Paperboard Holmen Timber Holmen Skog Holmen Energi Operations outside Europe Holmen Paper: sales office in the US. Iggesund Paperboard: sales offices in Hongkong, Singapore and the US. Holmen Timber: sales in North Africa and the Middle East via Uni4 Marketing AB. Holmen is a forest industry group that manufactures printing paper, paperboard and sawn timber and runs forestry and energy production operations. The company’s e ­ xtensive forest holdings and its high proportion of energy production are strategically important resources that reinforce Holmen’s position and future growth. Holmen’s operations consist of three product-­ Holmen Skog is responsible for managing the product-oriented business areas. Forest oriented and two raw-material-oriented and developing the Group’s land holdings, raw materials and the energy area also have business areas, which are to be developed which comprise around 1.3 million hectares immense development potential. The Group through organic growth. – of which 1 million are used for forestry. is about 60 per cent self-sufficient in wood, Holmen’s manufacturing operations in the The normal annual volume of wood harand self-sufficiency in electricity is around product-oriented areas are based on renewvested in company forests is some 30 per cent. A significant proportion of the able raw materials from sustainably managed 2.5 million cubic metres. thermal energy required is covered by bioenforests. The Holmen Paper business area Holmen Energi is in charge of the Group’s ergy produced at the company’s own facilities. manu­factures printing paper for daily newspahydro power production and of developing The Group has five production plants in pers, magazines, catalogues, directories/manuenergy-related operations. During a normal Sweden and one each in the UK and Spain. als, advertising print and books. The paper year, hydro power production amounts to The forests and hydro power facilities are is manufactured at two mills in Sweden and around 1 100 GWh. located in Sweden. Around 90 per cent of one in Spain. Iggesund Paperboard produces Holmen’s forest and energy assets are sales take place in Europe via Holmen’s own board for consumer packaging and graphics highly valuable to the company, helping to sales companies. printing at one mill in Sweden and one in the give it a stable foundation. In addition to Holmen’s two classes of shares are listed UK. Holmen Timber produces sawn timber at generating even and high earnings, they crein the Large Cap segment on the Nasdaq two Swedish sawmills. ate advantages in supplying raw materials to OMX Nordic Exchange. 6 Holmen Annual report 2010 Raw-material-oriented Product-oriented Products and markets Net sales/market, % business areas business areas Total: SEK 17 581 m 11 Holmen Skog Holmen Paper The paper 24 Operations: Products: White and coloured newsprint as well as paper for is used for newspapers, 19 Responsible for managing directories, manuals, catalogues, books and magazines. magazines, manuals, Holmen’s forests, for wood Customers: Daily newspapers, retailers, book and magazine catalogues, directories, 14 supply to the Group’s Swedish publishers, catalogue, directory and manual publishers and advertising print and 4 units and for trade in wood. books. 4 printers. 4 10 Land holding: Main market: Europe. 8 Mills: Hallsta Paper Mill, Braviken Paper Mill and Holmen Paper 1 264 000 hectares. Madrid. Volume of wood: Sweden* Germany UK Production capacity/year: 1 750 000 tonnes.* Spain Italy The Netherlands 120 million m3 standing volume. Number of paper machines: 7.* *) After shut-down of PM 61. The board France Rest of Europe is used in packaging for Rest of the world Iggesund Paperboard consumer products and for graphics *Of which forest and power 23% Net sales/business area, % Products: Solid bleached board and folding boxboard for printing. Holmen Energi consumer packaging and graphics printing. Main market: Europe. Total: SEK 17 581 m 4 Operations: Responsible Customers: Converters of paperboard for packaging as well as for the Group’s hydro power printers and wholesalers. 19 28 stations, coordination of its energy matters, and Mills: Iggesund Mill and Workington Mill. 3 electricity supply to its Swedish units. Production capacity/year: 530 000 tonnes. Sawn timber Number of board machines: 3. Number of wholly and is used for window frames, flooring, doors, joists, roof 46 partly owned hydro power stations: 21. Holmen Timber trusses, glue-laminated wood and buildings. Number of partly owned Product: Pine joinery timber and spruce construction timber. Customers: Joinery and furniture industries, manufacturers of Main markets: Iggesund Paperboard wind farms: 1. solid-wood flooring, planing mills, builders’ merchants, house Scandinavia, Western Holmen Paper Holmen Skog Production capacity/year construction firms, the packaging industry and manufacturers of Europe, North Africa and Holmen Timber Holmen Energi (hydro power): 1 112 GWh. roof trusses and glue-laminated wood. the Middle East. Operating profit/business area, % Sawmills: Braviken Sawmill and Iggesund Sawmill. Total: SEK 28 385 m Production capacity/year: 860 000 cubic metres. 11 15 45 25 Holmen has a total capacity to manufacture boxboard, Holmen is the third largest producer about 2.3 million tonnes* of printing paper in Europe. The company’s production capacity 4 and paperboard each year. The company is for sawn timber is 860 000 cubic metres a Europe’s fifth largest manufacturer of printing year. The annual volume of wood harvested in Iggesund Paperboard paper, with production capacity of 1 750 000 company forests is 2.5 million cubic metres. Holmen Paper Holmen Skog tonnes* per year. With capacity of 530 000 Production of hydro power totals 1.1 TWh. Holmen Timber Holmen Energi tonnes of solid bleached board and folding *) Following the shut-down of paper machine PM 61. Average no. of employees/ business area, % 0.3 Total: 4 241 3 11 36 The production process 50 This highly simplified diagram illustrates the production process web in the machine – firstly through a wet section, then a press in a paper and board machine. In reality, the machines differ section and finally the paper/board is dried on the web, which quite significantly. The raw materials consist mainly of wood at that stage runs between numerous cylinders. It is finally rolled Iggesund Paperboard and/or recovered paper, electricity and chemicals. The pulp, on reels and cut to the reel or sheet sizes that the customers Holmen Paper Holmen Skog produced by chemical or mechanical means, passes along a have ordered. Holmen Timber Holmen Energi Average no. of employees/country % 2 0.4 3 Total: 4 241 Pulp Paper/board Press section 10 Wet section RAW MATERIALS 14 71 Drier Sweden Spain UK The Netherlands Rest of Europe Rest of the world 7 Holmen Annual report 2010 Business concept & strategy Strategy: Grow and develop our five business areas Sustainable and proﬁtable business activities • Strong ﬁnancial position • Key market is Europe • Quality, productivity and cost focus • Committed in leadership and skilled workforce. RAW-MATERIAL-ORIENTED PRODUCT-ORIENTED Forests Electric Printing power & Paperboard Sawn timber & wood paper energy 25 per cent Holmen’s business concept is to grow and develop and to run profitable and sustainable business within three product-oriented business areas for printing paper, paperboard and sawn timber, as well higher growth rate in Holmen’s forests in 30 years’ as within two raw-material-oriented business areas for forest and time. energy. Europe is the main market. BUSINESS CONCEPT is 15 per cent. The largest customer segment amounts to 120 million m3 standing volume. consists of converters who make consumer Sales take place to sawmills and paper and Product-oriented business areas packaging. Wholesalers and printers who pulp producers in Sweden. Holmen Skog is Holmen Paper manufactures printing paper buy board for graphics products are also key also responsible for supplying wood to the for daily newspapers, magazines, catalogues, customers. Group’s Swedish industrial facilities. directories/manuals, advertising print and Holmen Timber produces sawn timber Holmen Energi manages the Group’s books at two mills in Sweden and one in at two Swedish sawmills that are integrated hydro power assets and develops the Group’s Spain. Just under half of sales comprise niche with the Group’s paperboard and printing energy operations. Hydro power producproducts in the areas of improved newsprint, paper production, respectively. Braviken tion during a normal year amounts to 1.1 directory paper and book paper, where the Sawmill was commissioned at the turn of TWh and the power is sold in the Swedish market share in Europe is 27 per cent. The 2010/2011 and produces spruce construction electricity market. Holmen Energi is also regreater part of other sales is made up of timber for the building sector. The sawmill sponsible for supplying the Group’s Swedish standard newsprint, with a market share of at Iggesund uses pine as its raw material industrial operations with electricity. 8 per cent in Europe. Holmen Paper has a and focuses on joinery products for exposed strong position among European newspaapplications. The main markets are Europe, STRATEGY per publishers, who account for more than North Africa and the Middle East. Holmen half its sales. Retailers, printers and book, Timber is a relatively small operator in EuDevelopment and quality catalogue and directory/manual publishers rope and has a market share of less than one Holmen operates on large, well-established are examples of other significant customer per cent for sawn timber. markets, namely its product markets for segments. paper, paperboard and sawn timber, and its Iggesund Paperboard produces paperRaw-material-oriented raw materials markets for wood and energy. board for consumer packaging and graphics business areas The Group’s strategic focus is to expand, to printing at one Swedish and one UK mill. IgHolmen Skog has responsibility for managdevelop and to remain a strong supplier with gesund Paperboard is a market leader in the ing and developing the Group’s forest assets. efficient production. Most of the growth is top quality segments in Europe. The market The company’s forest holdings amount to organic and takes place by improving prodshare in Europe for paperboard based on one million hectares of productive forest ucts and/or increasing production volumes in solid bleached board and folding box board land in Sweden and the volume of wood existing product areas. 8 Holmen Annual report 2010 Development also necessitates reorproducing printing paper, paperboard and Productivity, production/employee and year ganisation and the closure of unprofitable sawn timber are fibre in the form of wood, 822 Tonnes ’000 m3 production facilities – measures that have recovered paper and pulp, and energy in 800 8 characterised Holmen Paper in recent years. the form of electricity and heat. Holmen Production of standard newsprint has produces more than 95 per cent of the pulp 600 6 decreased. Instead, more advanced grades of and thermal energy that it requires at its paper have been developed. Iggesund Paperown mills using a highly integrated process. 400 303 board has adapted production to prioritise The procurement of other raw materials is 2.05 top-quality paperboard. Sawn timber is conunderpinned through backward integration 200 2 tinually developed in close cooperation with along the production chain by owning forests, customers and specialised subcontractors. hydro power plants and recovered-paper 0 0 The new Braviken Sawmill is an efficient procurement units. The Group is around 05 06 07 08 09 10 and technologically advanced sawmill for 60 per cent self-sufficient in wood. The Group Holmen Paper construction timber. produces around 30 per cent of the electrical Iggesund Paperboard Holmen’s own wood and energy producenergy that it requires. Moreover, the prices Holmen Timber tion is continually developing and expandof 50 per cent of the electricity supplies are ing. The silviculture measures taken are hedged through long-term supply contracts. expected to result in gradual increases in Significant volumes of recovered paper are Self-sufficiency raw materials – wood, % annual wood production (harvesting) to purchased via wholly and partly owned achieve a rise of 20 per cent in 40 years’ paper collection companies. time. Good potential is also expected for increasing the growth rate in the Group’s forSustainability 60 Company forest ests by roughly 25 per cent in 30 years’ time Aspects of sustainability are an integral part through improved silviculture. This will lead of all decisions made at Holmen. This brings to higher harvesting levels in the future. In the company closer to its set goals every day. production of energy, the company believes Holmen is essentially already part of the that there is real potential for developing sustainable society through its operations, by new, profitable production of wind power being a successful and profitable company and biofuel. The aim is to be able to produce that manufactures products from natural 1 TWh of electricity from wind power per raw materials. The raw materials – wood Self-sufficiency raw materials – electricity, % year. and recovered paper – and the products are recyclable and adapted to the ecocycle. Productivity and profitability Healthy profitability and a strong financial 20 Electricity, price hedges for The overall ambition of the Group’s operaposition are key factors that create conditions the years 2011–2015 Wholly and partly owned tions is to provide a customer offering that for development that is sustainable in the 30 50 hydro and back pressure contains attractive, high-quality products as long term. This in turn creates employment power Not price hedged well as good service. This is to be done costopportunities and makes it possible to buy effectively to maintain Holmen’s position as input goods, pay taxes and pay a return to a competitive supplier. Large-scale, efficient Holmen’s owners and financiers. Profitability production facilities and skilled employees is also a prerequisite for investments that create high productivity and efficient use of allow the company to evolve in line with input goods and capital. Effective interacgradual changes in market conditions. In this Volume of wood in Holmen’s forests tion between marketing, product developway, Holmen’s financial targets support longis increasing ment and production increases is essential term and sustainable financial growth. m3 standing volume per hectar 118 to achieve successful long-term investments, The Group is a participant in the UN’s 120 economies of scale and development. Basic Global Compact and thus supports internavolumes of certain products are combined tional guidelines relating to human rights, 90 with selective ventures involving improved social conditions, the environment and or more advanced products for both existing labour rights. Holmen is to respect ethical 60 and new categories of customers. and social standards, be a good business Alongside efficient production processes, partner and community player, and motivate 30 the cost of raw materials and transport has and develop its employees through commitan important impact on competitiveness. ted leadership. 0 The main raw materials in the processes for The company’s Human Resources, HR, 1948 1955 1965 1975 1985 1995 2010 9 Holmen Annual report 2010 activities are governed by guidelines, laws employee survey that the Group conducts extraction of biofuels. and agreements. The main emphasis is on every two years. The results provide a founGoal-oriented work is required to atskills supply, leadership and organisation. dation for strategic HR activities and local tain these targets. While the Group-wide The goals for the HR work focus on develaction plans. environmental targets are long-term, there oping leadership, the organisation and emEnvironmental activities are organised and are short-term environmental targets at local ployees. To reach these goals, various types managed based on Holmen’s environmental level in the Group’s units. These are moniof measures are implemented, and the develpolicy. The policy clarifies the significance of tored within the framework of the certified opment programme Manager at ­Holmen was energy and climate issues to the business. management systems applied. one such measure implemented in 2010. A The overall goal of the Group’s environHolmen’s work on sustainable develfurther reduction in the number of industrial mental activities is to make efficient use of opment is described in more detail on accidents is important – not only for current electrical energy and heat, reduce emissions pages 22–34 and in the separate publication employees, but also for future recruitment of fossil carbon dioxide and increase energy ­Holmen and sustainability. possibilities. As a minimum, the proportion self-sufficiency. A number of long-term of women managers is to correspond to the targets have been set for these areas. In proportion of all women employed in the ­addition, the Group’s ambition is to increase Group. Most goals are followed up via the the rate of growth in its own forests and the Business outlook 2010 was a difficult year in the printing paremains good, and implemented price rises first few months of the year. per operations due to a large drop in prices should have an impact on profit during The currency situation is important to at the start of the year, at the same time 2011. For sawn timber, supply currently the Group. The krona is now considerably that the costs of recovered paper, a key raw exceeds demand, which risks putting presstronger against the euro and the dollar, material, rose substantially. Profitability in sure on prices. The commissioning of the which is negative. Thanks to currency hedges the Group’s other operations rose, however, new sawmill at Braviken will initially have at sound levels, the stronger krona is not which partly compensated for the decrease an adverse impact on profit. Wood prices expected to have a major impact on the in profit from printing paper. remain high, which may mean another good Group’s profit for 2011. Investments are The situation for 2011 has changed, and year for Holmen Skog, while Holmen’s estimated to remain high in 2011 as a result the conditions for healthy profit growth own industrial operations continue to feel of final payments for the construction of are favourable. Ongoing price negotiations the burden of high costs of wood. The level Braviken Sawmill and the ongoing investfor newsprint in Europe indicate significant in the water reservoir is lower than usual, ment in a new recovery boiler and turbine at increases, although the demand trend is difwhich will negatively affect the company’s Iggesund Mill. ficult to estimate. The market for paperboard own production of hydro power during the 10 Holmen Annual report 2010 Financial targets Profitability, return on capital employed, % Financial targets 20 Holmen’s profitability shall The financial position shall Decisions on dividends shall consistently exceed the market cost be strong with a debt/equity ratio be based on an appraisal of the 15 of capital. within the interval of 0.3–0.8. Group’s profitability, future investment plans and financial position. 10 6 5.5 5 0 Profitability. Holmen’s profitability tarCAPITAL STRUCTURE. Holmen is to 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 get is a return that is consistently higher than have a strong financial position that provides Return on capital employed the market cost of capital, and this target is financial stability and enables the company Excl. items affecting comparability used to govern the business. At Group level, to make correct, long-term business deciRequired return (before tax) the key figure used to calculate profitability sions that are not solely dependent on the is Value Added; this is defined as operating state of the economy and external financing profit/loss less the cost of capital and tax. It possibilities. The debt/equity ratio is to be Capital structure, debt/equity ratio, times provides a simple and sufficiently fair yardin the interval of 0.3–0.8, and adjustment to stick that is continuously followed up for the this target is one aspect of Holmen’s strategic 0.8 Group, business areas and production units. planning. For a long time, profitability has exceeded 0.6 the cost of capital, but as a result of the diffiDIVIDEND. Decisions on ordinary divi0.34 cult situation for printing paper, profitability dends are based on a total appraisal of the 0.4 has been unsatisfactory in recent years. Group’s profitability, future investment plans Holmen’s business is capital intensive and and financial position. 0.2 much expansion is the result of investing in The Board has proposed that the 2011 additional capacity, improved production Annual General Meeting (AGM) resolves in 0.0 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 and more efficient use of energy. Investments favour of dividend of SEK 7 per share, corare often combined with cost rationalisaresponding to 3.5 per cent of equity. During tion measures. To assess the profitability of the past decade, the ordinary dividend has Dividend, per share investments, a model is used to calculate the averaged 5.3 per cent of equity. As a result, present value of cash flows; that is, estimated around 67 per cent of earnings per share SEK % future cash flows are discounted by the have been paid out in ordinary dividends 40 8 weighted cost of capital, which totals about each year. Extra dividend SEK 30 11 per cent (before tax) for investments in In addition to ordinary dividends, Holmen 30 6 the product-oriented business areas. paid extra dividends for the 1998, 2000 and 3.5 Computing the cost of capital involves 2003 financial years. 20 4 weighting the cost of borrowed capital and In recent years, the AGM has authorised Proposal, 10 SEK 7 2 equity and multiplying the result by the the Board to buy back up to 10 per cent capital invested in the business. The cost of all the shares in the company. During 0 0 of ­equity is computed as interest plus a 2008, Holmen bought back 760 000 class 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 premium based on the level of risk for the B shares. These share buy-backs were linked Ordinary dividend Extra dividend operation, with capital invested in productto the Group’s incentive scheme. There is no Ordinary dividend as % of equity oriented business areas being assigned a specific target for share buy-backs. Holmen higher risk premium (5 per cent) than capital has used them as a complement to dividends invested in raw-material oriented business as a means of adjusting the capital structure areas (2 per cent). when conditions were deemed favourable. In evaluating operating activities, the cost Share buy-backs took place in 2000 and of capital is determined annually based on 2008. short-term market interest rates; in 2010 it was a 5.5 per cent (before tax), on average. 11 Holmen Annual report 2010 Holmen Paper Facts 2010 2009 Net sales, SEKm 8 142 9 303 Operating profit/loss, SEKm -1 404 340 Operating profit excl. items affecting comparability,* SEKm -618 340 Investments, SEKm 211 287 Operating capital, SEKm 6 954 8 789 Average number of employees 2 084 2 301 Share of sales in Europe, % 88 84 Deliveries, ’000 tonnes 1 732 1 745 * Impairment losses and provisions, SEK 786 milion 14 per cent higher deliveries of MF Magazine in Europe. Holmen Paper is the fifth-largest manufacturer of wood-containing printing paper in Europe. Its share of the European market is 8 per cent for standard newsprint and 27 per cent for MF Special paper. Operations in 2010 options for the smaller of the two paper printing paper has not returned to previous The year was characterised by very poor machines, PM 61, at the mill in Madrid, levels. The European market for wood-­ profitability due to the substantial drop in including adapting the machine for different containing printing paper amounted to prices for printing paper at the start of the products. In conjunction with preparation 22 million tonnes in 2010, a recovery of just year that coincided with the large increase in of the annual accounts, the Board decided under 1 million tonnes, or 4 per cent, after the cost of recovered paper, a key raw mateto shut down PM 61, which represents just falling by 15 per cent in 2009. On the whole, rial. Holmen Paper’s operations continued to under 10 per cent of the business area’s the price level in 2010 was much lower than focus on quality enhancement and product production capacity. in the previous year. development, in parallel with cost cuts and About 170 employees are affected. After efficiency improvements. the shutdown, the mill will have a capacNEWSPRINT . About 9 million tonnes of The proportion of standard newsprint ity of 330 000 tonnes of newsprint on one the European market for wood-containing continued to decline, replaced by niche prodmachine. printing paper consist of newsprint. Paid-for ucts within MF Special. The new product, Excluding items affecting comparability, daily newspapers account for the main part Holmen VIEW, produced at Hallsta Paper an operating loss of SEK 618 million was of consumption, while free newspapers Mill, was launched during the year. generated for 2010, compared to an operatrepresent just under 5 per cent. The 100 redundancies at Braviken Paper ing profit of SEK 340 million for 2009. Newsprint demand is increasingly affected Mill, which were announced in 2009, were The deterioration was mainly due to lower by the widened range of electronic media carried out. sales prices. High prices of recovered paper and the change in media habits of consumers In June, negotiations began on further and pulp also made a negative contribution. and advertisers. This has led to a structural reducing the workforce at Hallsta Paper In conjunction with the annual accounts, decline in the western world, while demand Mill by about 150 employees. Temporary impairment loss of SEK 555 million was is increasing in countries with vigorously lay-offs were made in Madrid in the autumn, ­recognised on non-current assets in Spain growing economies, principally in Asia. and in October it was decided that 29 jobs and a SEK 231 million provision for restrucGlobal demand for newsprint rose by 1 per would be cut permanently. The shortage of turing costs was made. cent during 2010. European demand grew by recovered paper entailed extensive produc2 per cent, but the North American market tion limitations in Madrid. Market displayed a further decline of 6 per cent. During the year, Holmen assessed various Despite a stronger economy, demand for Imports to Europe from North America 12 Holmen Annual report 2010 fell, while European exports to Asia rose. MAGAZINE PAPER . In 2010, demand for Operating profit Holmen Paper’s newsprint deliveries magazine paper recovered, although not to SEKm % decreased by 8 per cent, largely due to the historic levels. The European market for 800 8 reorganisation to focus on more improved SC paper was down 1 per cent to 4 million products at Swedish mills and due to protonnes, while coated paper rose by 11 per 400 4 duction limitations at the mill in Spain. cent to 7 million tonnes. A historically low The prices for 2010 were cut substantially price for coated products has led to a clear 0 0 at the start of the year. Subsequently, the shift from other grades to coated paper. prices for new contracts – mainly outside Holmen Paper has relatively small volumes –400 Europe – were gradually increased. in SC and coated paper. Deliveries of SC –7.7 –618 paper decreased marginally, but deliver–800 –8 MF SPECIAL . This contains the product ies of coated paper from Madrid increased 05 06 07 08 09 10 groups MF Magazine, book paper and somewhat. Operating profit Return on operating capital Excl. items affecting Excl. items affecting comparability telephone directory paper. comparability Holmen Paper’s deliveries within MF Change and development Magazine rose substantially during the year, At Hallsta and Braviken, Holmen Paper’s Net sales especially in the brighter segments. Holmen Swedish units, production is gradually being SEKm Paper’s strength lies mainly in the segments changed to comprise a higher proportion 12 000 with low grammages and products with high of niche products, at the same time that 8 142 brightness. standard newsprint is being reduced to a 9 000 Holmen VIEW was launched during the volume that corresponds to what can be sold year and is a new cost-effective alternative in nearby markets. Further steps are being 6 000 to coated paper for magazines and product taken towards increasing the proportion of catalogues. virgin fibre in the pulp base to support this 3 000 Wood-containing book paper, which is production change. Holmen Paper enjoys a mainly aimed at the market for paperback strong position in MF Special with products 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 books, is a niche product that has become such as Holmen Book, Holmen XLNT and more important to Holmen Paper. Sales Holmen VIEW. Products in tonnes, % climbed 23 per cent in 2010. The European Since 2008, capacity corresponding to market for wood-containing book paper 300 000 tonnes has been transferred from 5 8 totals about 450 000 tonnes per year. newsprint to these improved products. MF Special The market for telephone directory paper Following the closure of PM 61, the mill in 44 Standard newsprint SC is dominated by a small number of buyers Madrid focuses on newsprint produced for Coated and suppliers. In total, Holmen Paper’s nearby markets. 43 deliveries decreased by just under 5 per cent, while its deliveries to Europe rose somewhat – in a market that is estimated to have Customer segments, % declined by about 20 per cent. Daily press Directories/manuals/ 41 50 catalogues European printing Advertising print, magazines and books paper market 9 LWC/MWC 7 2010 Leading producers 2010 Printing paper, capacity in Europe LWC/MWC (coated paper) UPM Magazines • Catalogues 4 Price SC Advertising print Stora Enso Norske SC paper MF 2 Magazines • Catalogues • Advertising print Myllykoski HOLMEN MF Special SCA Magazines • Supplements • Catalogues/directories Standard 9 Manuals • Advertising print • Books Burgo newsprint ’000 tonnes 0 2 000 4 000 6 000 Newsprint Standard newsprint MF Special Million tonnes Newspapers • Advertising print SC Coated 13 Holmen Annual report 2010 Iggesund Paperboard Facts 2010 2009 Net sales, SEKm 4 849 5 023 Operating profit, SEKm 817 419 Investments, SEKm 521 260 Operating capital, SEKm 4 313 4 114 Average number of employees 1 528 1 669 Share of sales in Europe, % 83 85 Deliveries, ’000 tonnes 464 477 2.3 sek billion is being invested in a new recovery boiler at Iggesund Paperboard has a leading market position in solid bleached board in Europe, but is also a significant operator in folding boxboard. Taken together, Iggesund is the third-largest manufacturer Iggesund Mill. in Europe in these product areas. The market share is 15 per cent. Operations in 2010 putting the plant in a position to become share of the European virgin fibre board The solid bleached board and folding boxself-sufficient in electricity without the use of market is just under 15 per cent, and the board market was robust in 2010. Deliveries any fossil fuels. The new recovery boiler will company is the clear market leader in the from European producers to Europe rose by be commissioned in June 2012. solid bleached board segment in Europe. 8 per cent and to non-European markets by Operating profit amounted to SEK 817 Iggesund Paperboard concentrates its 13 per cent. Prices were increased during the million, compared to SEK 419 million for sales on two product segments: paperboard year for both solid bleached board and fold2009. An improved sales mix, higher prices for packaging and paperboard for graphics ing boxboard. and high productivity boosted the result. printing. The main customer categories are Iggesund Paperboard’s orderbook was Staff and maintenance costs were reduced converters, who make packaging, and wholevery good, and capacity utilisation has been after the board machine was shut down at salers and printers, who buy paperboard for high at the mills in Iggesund and WorkingWorkington Mill at the start of 2010. use in graphics printing. ton. The upgrade of board machine BM 2 Iggesund Paperboard’s Invercote and at Workington Mill was a success and led Market Incada brands lead the European paperboard to further refinement of the product mix Global consumption of paperboard amounts market. Invercote solid bleached board (proand higher productivity. The Swedish Paper to roughly 34 million tonnes per year. The duced at Iggesund Mill) is the number-one Workers Union at Iggesund Mill went on European market for the grades produced brand, and Incada folding boxboard (prostrike in April, which involved a two-week by Iggesund Paperboard is approximately duced at Workington Mill) is ranked fourth. stop to production. Financial compensation 2.7 million tonnes. Demand, which fell in for this was obtained from the Confedera2009 due to a combination of the economic PACKAGING BOARD. The type of board tion of Swedish Enterprise, but the conseslowdown and financial unease, recovered manufactured by Iggesund Paperboard has quences for Iggesund Paperboard’s customers in 2010. The largest European markets for a variety of uses, including packaging for were significant. ­solid bleached board and folding boxboard confectionery, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, In the first half of the year, a decision was are Germany and the UK, with 22 per cent perfume and tobacco. The trend in private taken to invest SEK 2.3 billion in a new and 14 per cent of consumption respectively. consumption therefore has a major impact recovery boiler and turbine at Iggesund Mill. Asia has overtaken North America as the on demand. This investment is an important step in modlargest market for solid bleached board and The requirements set on packaging, ernising the mill’s pulp and energy s­ upply, folding boxboard. Iggesund Paperboard’s and thus also on packaging materials, are 14 Holmen Annual report 2010 constantly growing. Convenience, quality ating packaging with new and more advanced Operating profit requirements and the need for brand-name designs, using less material, yet maintaining SEKm % profiling are giving rise to customised functhe same protective properties. 1 000 40 tions in packaging solutions. The appearance In May 2010, Holmen’s Board agreed 817 of packages in stores is an important factor to invest SEK 2.3 billion in a new recovery 750 30 that affects the choice of material and design. boiler and turbine at Iggesund Mill. The new 19.7 In the chocolate and confectionery segfacility will provide greater energy efficiency, 500 20 ment, Iggesund Paperboard benefits from increased pulp production and improved the demands for packaging to be neutral in environmental performance. 250 10 terms of odour and taste. A recovery boiler is an important comWith its two grades of paperboard, Inverponent of a pulp mill. It produces thermal 0 0 cote and Incada, teamed with the finishing energy in the form of steam and is also part of 05 06 07 08 09 10 options created by the company’s lamination the system that recovers chemicals during the Operating profit Return on operating capital facilities in Strömsbruk, Iggesund Paperpulp process. This makes an efficient recovery board offers the market’s most comprehenboiler crucial for the production capacity Net sales and operating margin sive product portfolio suited to the needs of of a pulp mill. It will be possible to increase SEKm % the packaging industry. pulp production gradually from 355 000 to 6 000 16.9 20 420 000 tonnes per year. A larger supply of 4 849 GRAPHICS BOARD. The graphics market pulp means that in the long run the mill will 4 500 15 uses paperboard for covers of publications, also be able to raise its production of papercards, advertising materials and other appliboard. Furthermore, the new recovery boiler 3 000 10 cations. The large number of end customers will make it possible to increase the capacity in the market means that the greater part of for the mill to generate its own electricity 1 500 5 the volume is sold through a wide network from 210 GWh to 520 GWh. The mill is curof wholesalers. rently 50 per cent self-sufficient in electricity. 0 0 The high and consistent quality of Invercote The new facility will raise this figure to 100 05 06 07 08 09 10 and Incada make them very versatile. They are per cent and will also create the conditions Net sales Operating margin particularly in demand for graphics printing for eliminating fossil fuels entirely from the thanks to their good colour reproduction. mill’s production operations. The investProducts, % ment also includes equipment for capturing Development and incinerating weak gases, which will cut Productivity at Iggesund Paperboard’s facilithe emission to air of malodorous sulphur Solid bleached board ties has steadily increased. Marketing has compounds. The plan is that the new recovery 39 Folding boxboard intensified and the product mix has gradually boiler will be taken into use in June 2012. become more advanced. Iggesund Paperboard At the mill in Workington, an investment 61 has a tradition of continuously developing project for more efficient production and ­Invercote and Incada. Improvements have improved product quality began in autumn been achieved through several major rebuild2010. Around SEK 40 million will be invested End-products, % ing projects and a series of smaller investin a refit of the mill’s pulp line, which will inments to enhance efficiency, as well as an clude modernising the line’s main refiner. The extensive product development programme. refit will boost production capacity as well 21 Consumer One of the key prerequisites for the developas pulp and board quality. At the same time, packaging Graphics printing ment in recent and coming years was the ­energy consumption and maintenance costs adaption of board machine BM 2 that took will drop, paving the way for greater profitplace at Iggesund Mill in autumn 2007. This ability. The refit is scheduled to be complete 79 aims to give customers the possibilities of crein March 2011. SBB 500 Leading producers 2010 European paperboard FBB & SBB, capacity in Europe FBB FBB 2 200 market 2010 Stora Enso M-Real SBB (solid bleached board) Price Prestigious products • Graphics products HOLMEN 2 300 Confectionery • Cigarettes SUB & LPB FBB (folding boxboard) Mayr-Melnhof Confectionery • Pharmaceuticals • Cigarettes • Frozen goods • Skin care and hygiene articles Careo SUB & LPB (solid unbleached board & liquid Int. Paper WLC 3 650 packaging board) Beverages • Dairy products • Dried goods ’000 tonnes 0 200 400 600 800 WLC (white lined chipboard) Folding boxboard Solid bleached board ’000 tonnes Dried goods • Household products (FBB) (SBB) 15 Holmen Annual report 2010 Holmen Timber Facts 2010 2009 Net sales, SEKm 586 553 Operating profit, SEKm 20 21 Investments, SEKm 800 110 Operating capital, SEKm 1 192 396 Average number of 139 114 ­employees Share of sales in Europe, % 55 57 Deliveries, ‘000 m 3 285 313 1.5 years or 18 months or 547 days or 13 128 hours was Holmen Timber produces pine sawn timber at Iggesund Sawmill. Production at a new sawmill, Braviken Sawmill, for spruce con­ the time it took to build Braviken Sawmill. struction timber, started at the turn of 2010/2011. Operations in 2010 cludes costs of SEK 28 million for Braviken Saudi Arabia and Egypt, and the latter three The market situation for sawn timber was Sawmill. of these markets have become increasingly hesitant at times during the year. Demand significant. Sales to North Africa and the was low in many markets, while producMarket Middle East take place via the sales company tion gradually recovered from low to more Consumption of sawn timber in Europe Uni4 Marketing, of which Holmen Timber is normal levels. Sales prices were substantially amounted to about 85 million cubic metres one of four owners. higher than in 2009, but the rise in prices in 2010 – a slight increase on The customer base for Braviken ceased towards the end of the year. the previous year, but still Sawmill’s spruce construction After a weak start to the year, partly due 25 million cubic metres timber consists of builders’ to the harsh winter, Holmen Timber’s deliveries rose to a high level in the latter part of lower than the top level achieved in 2007. ­Holmen suppliers, planing mills and manufacturers of buildings the year. Overall, however, deliveries fell by 9 per cent to 285 000 cubic metres. Holmen Timber’s share of the sawn will be a oneand roof trusses. The main markets for the products The construction of the new Braviken timber market in Europe is less than stop s­ upplier of from Braviken Sawmill are Scandinavia, the UK, Sawmill was an intensive process that spanned the whole of 2010. Piling and one per cent, and the construction Germany, France and the market is fragmented Netherlands. casting took place in February and the first buildings were erected in March. The caliwith numerous small and joinery Development bration of all machines started in October and was completed in December. Commeroperators. Iggesund Sawmill saws pine, and timber.” Braviken Sawmill, which cial production started in January 2011. its customers are primarily is the largest in Scandinavia, Operating profit for 2010 was in the joinery industry, inhas had the capacity to produce SEK 20 million, compared to SEK 21 million cluding manufacturers of window around 550 000 cubic metres of spruce for 2009, and was positively affected by frames, solid wooden floors and edge-glued construction timber a year since production higher sales prices while higher raw material panels, as well as planing mills. The key started at the mill. The number of employees prices had the opposite effect. The figure inmarkets are Scandinavia, the UK, Algeria, is about 110. During 2011, production is 16 Holmen Annual report 2010 expected to amount to around 300 000 cubic In recent years, production at Iggesund Operating profit metres, reaching 550 000 cubic metres in Sawmill has risen steadily thanks to optimal SEKm % 2013. use of drying capacity and investments in 200 80 This corresponds to consumption of more a new grading unit and a new log infeed. than 1 million cubic metres of spruce timber Iggesund already has the type of efficient 150 60 per year. Since Holmen’s own forests are integrated facility that is now being installed mostly in northern Sweden, the majority at Braviken. Woodchips and biofuel from the 100 40 of the timber will be sourced from external sawmill are delivered to the paperboard mill, suppliers, chiefly private forest owners. The where the woodchips are turned into board 50 20 2.7 sawmill is designed to be able to produce pulp and the biofuel is used for energy pro20 750 000 cubic metres, although this would duction. Heat from paperboard production 0 0 require extra investments in expanded drying is used to dry the sawn timber. 05 06 07 08 09 10 and planing capacity. Holmen Timber is working on technical Operating profit Return on operating capital Excl. items affecting comparability The combination of Holmen Paper’s sales and product renewal to increase sales existing paper mill at Braviken and the new of value-added products. These products are sawmill will result in significant synergies, classed as industrial wood and account for not only through wood sourcing but also bearound a third of Iggesund Sawmill’s total Net sales and operating margin cause the sawmill can utilise the infrastrucvolumes. Finger-jointed window components SEKm % ture already in place at the site. It will also that are free of knots have become a key 800 40 open the door to efficient energy solutions, product supplied to the window industry. 586 as the Group will gain access to substantial The new production facilities at ­Braviken 600 30 supplies of biofuels from the sawmill and will make Holmen Timber a one-stop forest fuels in connection with harvesting. ­supplier of construction and joinery timber, 400 20 Excess heat from the paper mill can also be reinforcing the business area and providing used in drying the sawn spruce. synergies in logistics and sales. 200 3.5 10 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 Net sales Operating margin Excl. items affecting comparability 17 Holmen Annual report 2010 Holmen Skog Facts 2010 2009 Operating profit, SEKm 1 868 605 Earnings from operations* 766 589 Investments, SEKm -3 69 Operating capital, SEKm 12 597 11 384 Average no. of employees 442 446 Harvesting in own forests, million m3 3,0 2,9 Productive forest land, ’000 hectares 1 032 1 032 Wood volume, million m3 120 119 * Result before change in value 1.3 million hectares of forest are owned and managed by Holmen Skog is responsible for the Group’s forests, which cover more than one million hectares of productive forest land in Sweden. Holmen, of which 1 million is productive forest land. The wood volume amounts to 120 million m3 standing volume. Operations in 2010 million (16) and includes SEK 1 050 million cluded from forestry in order to preserve the The year started with continued strong as a result of altered price assumptions in the variety of forest types in the landscape and demand for saw timber. Low stocks of valuation of Holmen’s own forests. thereby also biological diversity. The harvest­ pulpwood at the year’s start, along with an ing plan is updated every 10 years. An increased rate of production in the forest inMarket inventory of Holmen’s forests was launched dustry boosted demand for pulpwood during The Swedish forest industry consumes about in 2010. Using this as a basis, the long-term the spring. Overall, the year was charac80 million cubic metres (m3 solid volume harvesting plan will be updated in 2011. terised by strong demand for timber and under bark – m3 sub) of roundwood per year, pulpwood. The access to forest fuel – mainly the majority of which is harvested in Sweden. Wood supply branches, treetops and bark – was generally Half of this consists of saw timber, around Most of Holmen’s forests are located in good throughout Sweden. 40 per cent comprises pulpwood and apnorthern Sweden where the Group does not As a result of the robust demand, pulpwood proximately 10 per cent is forest fuel. Compehave any industrial sites. Through its own prices rose during the first six months and tition for Swedish wood as a raw material is logistical solutions and wood swap arrangewere subsequently stabilised at record levels increasing, partly because of the greater need ments with other players, Holmen can utilise equivalent to those recorded in 2008. The for biofuels used at thermal power stations. this wood in its own facilities, reducing the increase in timber prices that started in the The Baltic Sea region is now regarded as proportion of expensive imported wood. second quarter of 2009 continued until the one single market in which pricing is largely The Holmen Group’s Swedish units used fourth quarter of 2010, when prices fell somethe same. 4.2 million (4.1) cubic metres of wood in what in southern and central Sweden. The 2010. Holmen Skog acquired a total of prices of imported wood have risen over time Harvesting Holmen’s own 10.8 million (9.9) cubic metres of wood, in the same way as prices in Sweden. Exports ­forests of which 6.2 million (5.6) cubic metres of roundwood from Sweden were marginal. Annual harvesting is based on a long-term was sold to external customers. The Group Holmen Skog’s operating profit reached harvesting plan that takes account of factors harvested 3.0 million (2.9) cubic metres in SEK 1 868 million (605). Earnings from such as the age structure and growth of the its own forests. operations (before change in value) amounted forest. Calculations include future extracBraviken Sawmill, at which production to SEK 766 million (589). The improvement tions of wood that correspond to a forest started at the turn of 2010/2011, will use was due to higher prices and a high level of ­rotation period of about 100 years. About around 0.6 million cubic metres of spruce harvesting. The change in value was SEK 1 102 18 per cent of Holmen’s forest land is exsaw timber during its first year; this will 18 Holmen Annual report 2010 subsequently increase to 1 million. As a stage the future for the improvement of seedlings. Operating profit in the preparations for the new sawmill, SEKm % the purchasing concept BravikenGran was NATURE CONSERVATION METHODS UNDER 1 000 10,0 launched during the year, with the aim of DEVELOPMENT. In collaboration with 818 7.1 securing the sawmill’s wood supply. researchers at the Swedish University of 750 7,5 Marketing and purchasing activities have ­Agricultural Sciences, a project is under way been in progress throughout the year and to develop methods of nature conservation 500 5,0 have been mainly focused on the local wood in forests. Various ways of helping to inmarket. crease the biological values of forest land are 250 2,5 being tested as part of this project. The water Development environments of forests are important to 0 0,0 INCREASED HARVESTING OPTIONS. A sigbiodiversity. During the year, Holmen trained 05 06 07 08 09 10 nificant proportion of the growth in Holmen’s about 1 000 employees and contractors to Operating profit Return on operating capital Excl. item affecting Excl. item affecting comparability forests takes place in young forests that are not minimise the impact on water in daily work. comparability ready for harvesting, so Holmen only harvests around 85 per cent of annual growth. As these GREATER TRANSPORT EFFICIENCY. young forests age, the extraction of wood can Holmen expects to reduce its energy consumpGrowth and felling in Holmen’s forests be increased to the same level as growth. tion in harvesting and transporting wood by '000 m3 solid volume under bark The effects of the silviculture programme approximately 15 per cent in the next few 4 000 3 303 introduced in 2006 are also notable. It is years. This will take place through various 2 999 estimated that the programme will be able to measures, including using harwarders for har3 000 raise the growth rate in the Group’s forests vesting, a combined machine that uses less fuel by about 25 per cent in 30 years’ time. than traditional forwarders and harvesters, as 2 000 This also means that Holmen will be able well as a through transition to electric hybrid to increase harvesting by the same amount power. A project through which to increase the 1 000 in future. The most important measures in loading capacity of timber trucks is in progress the programme are greater use of lodgepole to reduce the number of transport runs. 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 pine, forest land fertilisation and improved reforestation. The investment in Friggesund MORE FOREST FUEL. Holmen Skog is Annual growth Annual harvesting nursery decided on during the year plays a helping to develop technology for harvestkey part in this work, because it will lead to ing forest fuel in response to the growing more efficient cultivation of seedlings and demand for this fuel. Holmen increased Types of tree, % open up opportunities for the technology of deliveries of forest fuel during the year. 5 13 Pine Holmens forest holdings 2010 Spruce Hardwood Land holdings Contorta pine 1 264 000 hectares 33 49 Productive forest land 1 032 100 hectares – of which areas of land set aside 68 500 hectares Volume of wood, per hectare 118 m3 standing volume Age classification, % Valuation of forest assets Holmen’s forest holdings are recognised at fair 22 0 – 30 years value according to IAS 41. They are valued by 38 31 – 60 years ­estimating the present value of expected future 61 – 90 years cash flows, which consist of future revenue from 15 91 – years wood extraction, less the costs of harvesting, reforestation and other silviculture work. The 25 harvesting plan and an estimate of future price and cost development form the basis of the calculation. Holmen has set aside large areas of productive forest land for nature conservation. The value of the growing forest on this land is not included in the carrying amount of forest assets. Similarly, revenue from hunting and other leasing is not included. Also see note 11 on page 71. • Holmen’s forest holdings • Holmen  production facilities 19 Holmen Annual report 2010 Holmen Energi Facts 2010 2009 Operating profit, SEKm 495 414 Investments, SEKm 65 88 Operating capital, SEKm 3 235 3 207 Average number of employees 11 10 Company-generated hydro power, GWh 1 145 1 090 30 per cent of the Group’s electricity needs are met through Holmen Energi is responsible for the Group’s energy assets and ­energy supply. During a normal year, hydro power production amounts to around 1 100 GWh of electricity. The business area own production. runs development projects linked to energy. Operations in 2010 month, the highest spot price was business operations in the area of energy. The production of hydro power amounted to SEK 931/MWh in February and the lowest Wind power and peat harvesting are two 1 145 GWh (1 090) during the year, which was SEK 383/MWh in May. such examples. The aim is to produce was 3 per cent higher than during a normal 1 TWh of electricity from wind farms in the year. Operating profit reached SEK 495 (414) Energy supply future, mainly located in forested areas on million; the improvement mainly stems from Holmen Energi is in charge of supplying ­Holmen’s own land. There are major advanhigher volumes and higher prices. the Group’s Swedish mills with electricity. tages of building facilities on the company’s Holmen’s total consumption amounted to land. ­Selecting the best locations for wind Market 4 625 GWh (4 680) in 2010 – mostly used increases the profitability of the projects A total of 145 TWh of electricity was by its Swedish newsprint mills. The Group’s and reduces the risk, because Holmen itself produced in Sweden during 2010, 66 TWh own production, at its 21 wholly and partly consumes a large amount of electricity. Land of which came from hydro power. The owned hydro power stations together with leased for wind power generates revenue. hydrological balance, which is the quantity the back pressure power production at Forestry operations within wind farms will of water stored in the Nordic countryside, ­Holmen’s large mills, corresponds to around be able to continue more or less as normal. was at a historically low level at the end 30 per cent of the Group’s electricity conWind power surveys have been conducted of the year. The average spot price in 2010 sumption; the remainder is purchased. on Holmen’s land in areas around Örnwas SEK 543/MWh, which was 38 per cent The Group’s exposure to fluctuations in sköldsvik and near the mill in Hallstavik higher than in the previous year. Electricity electricity prices is limited through longsince 2009. The results of the surveys are prices rose at the start of the year to excepterm, fixed-price supply agreements, complepositive and the work is now continuing tionally high levels following the combinamented with financial price hedges (see page with applications for the necessary permits. tion of extremely cold temperatures and 36). Market prices apply to Holmen’s own Energy peat has been produced on ­Holmen’s low production of nuclear power. Very high electricity production. land at Stormyran north of Örnsköldsvik electricity prices were also noted in Novemsince summer 2009. In 2010, volumes were ber/December. The highest electricity price Development more than doubled. The volume of peat recorded during the year was SEK 13 757/ NEW SOURCES OF ENERGY. Holmen produces 47 GWh of energy, which is an MWh for one hour and SEK 4 969/MWh Energi is running a series of development ­addition that corresponds to the annual for one day. Measured as an average over a projects aimed at establishing new profitable energy needs of more than 1 800 detached 20 Holmen Annual report 2010 houses. Stormyran’s annual future productotals 28 GWh, of which Holmen’s proporOperating profit tion is estimated at 70 GWh. tion comprises 4 GWh. An additional wind SEKm % 495 Peat consists of plant material that, owing farm, Trattberget, is under construction and 500 15.4 16 to a lack of oxygen, has only partly decomwill produce around 180 GWh per year, of posed into bogs and fens. The incomplete which Holmen is estimated to receive about 375 12 breakdown means that much of the energy 30 GWh. Permit applications for more wind content of the biological material is retained, farms have been submitted. 250 8 enabling peat to be used as fuel. Peat harIn collaboration with four other compavesting provides a way of utilising several of nies, Holmen has founded a company called 125 4 the value-creating resources that the Group Industrikraft i Sverige AB to secure fossil-free has at its disposal. baseload power for the future. To this end, 0 0 Holmen Biorefinery Development Centre a letter of intent was signed with the power 05 06 07 08 09 10 was established in 2009 with the task of utility Vattenfall during autumn 2009. Operating profit Return on operating capital running long-term development work. The possibility of extracting bioenergy and green ENERGY SAVINGS. Responsibility for Production vehicle fuels in biorefineries linked to the improving energy efficiency is decentralised GWh Group’s factories is being studied, as is the to the mills, but coordinated centrally. The 1 600 possibility of manufacturing chemicals and new recovery boiler being constructed at 1 145 brand new types of fibre and lignin products. ­Iggesund Mill is the key to the mill’s long1 200 A survey is already under way at Hallsta term plan to be self-sufficient in electricity Paper Mill, looking into a possible facility and to be 100 per cent run on biofuel. At 800 for production of biogas from wastewater. Braviken, co-location of the existing paper After being refined, the biogas can be sold as mill and the new sawmill will produce 400 vehicle fuel. significant benefits. Existing infrastructure can be used jointly and opportunities will 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 ENERGY COOPERATION. A number of be created for efficient energy solutions. An Company-generated hydro power electricity-intensive companies in primary old oil-fired boiler is being replaced with industries, including Holmen, set up VindIn a new electric boiler at Hallsta Paper Mill. AB in 2006, a company that develops, This will radically reduce dependency on constructs and operates wind turbines in oil and improve the efficiency of the way in Sweden. VindIn’s goal is to generate 1 TWh which energy consumption is controlled. The of electricity each year. The first wind farm pulp line at Workington Mill is being rebuilt, is located at Skutskär and has been in use which among other things will reduce energy since October 2009. Its annual production consumption. Umeälven Faxälven Gideälven Örnsköldsvik Iggesundsån Ljusnan Hallstavik Motala Ström • Hydro power stations • Wind survey sites 21 INFORMATION ABOUT WORK ON SUSTAINABILITY The description of economic development, ­social responsibility and environmental respon­ sibility in the annual report is supplemented by the publication Holmen and sustainability, which gives a more detailed account of this work. The Holmen website contains further information, including descriptions of environ­ mental work in the various business areas and a complete GRI register. Together, this constitutes Holmen’s GRI report. Holmen Annual report 2010 Principles for ­sustainability efforts Holmen’s operation is based on the natural and renewable raw Economic materials provided by the forests. The business concept is to pro­ development cess these raw materials into products and energy that fulfil important functions in society and generate added value for customers, share­ holders and other stakeholders. Sustainable development is a bed­ Social Environrock of the operation. Economic development, environmental respon­ mental responsibility responsibility sibility and social responsibility form a trinity, each part of which has a significant bearing on the future ability of the Group to develop. Sustainability work is integral to Holmen’s Active sustainability efforts strengthen EU, where the majority of the products are operation and its strategy for growth and the brand and goodwill, while contributing also sold. There are some sales to the US and creation of value. These efforts are driven by towards raising the level of expertise. Retaincountries in Africa and Asia. In all countries, a desire to improve competitiveness, reduce ing key customers and jointly enhancing Holmen complies with local laws and agreecosts and level of risk, motivate and involve commercial relations with them are good ments, and observes good business practice. staff, and make sure that production does examples of such strategic values. Holmen also endeavours to ascertain how not adversely affect people or the environthe Group’s stakeholders deal with issues ment. The Group’s forestry meets exacting Internal management processes relating to the environment and personnel. environmental requirements. The environThe Board and Group management regularly Altogether there are around 20 Group-wide mental impact of its facilities meets the address current sustainability issues. The policies and guidelines, broken down into the requirements of authorities. The products are Group CEO has ultimate responsibility. A areas of environmental responsibility, social recyclable and adapted to the ecocycle. special group led by the Director of Sustainresponsibility and economic development. Healthy profitability and a strong finanable and Environmental Affairs and consistPolicies and guidelines more than three years cial position create the necessary basis for ing of representatives of the Group staff old are reviewed and revised as necessary. development that is sustainable in the long units co-ordinates the work on sustainability, term. Holmen has a clear role to play in the which is described in detail in the publicaGlobal Compact sustainable society by being a successful and tion Holmen and sustainability. Holmen has Holmen is a member of the UN Global profitable company. published sustainability-related information Compact. As such, the Group has taken Beyond its core operation, Holmen conannually since 2004. a clear stance on issues related to human tributes to economic development through Holmen has been following the Global rights, social conditions, the environment investments, research and development and Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) recommendaand the right to establish trade unions. through co-operation with companies and tions for sustainability reporting since Holmen and sustainability comments on organisations in several of the places where 2006. Account has been taken of GRI’s 10 how the Group fulfils and works on the 10 the Group operates. reporting principles in compiling Holmen’s principles that make up the Global Compact. sustainability report. There is little risk of anything in Holmen’s The brand operations conflicting with the UN DeclaraThe expectations and demands of customPolicies tion on Human Rights, because all producers and the world at large for products Holmen’s policies and guidelines are jointly tion takes place in the EU, where such matters and manufacturing processes to be made to be regarded as a guidance tool – code of are closely regulated. A renewed analysis will environmentally sound are becoming ever conduct – focused on sustainable developbe made in 2011 of whether any of its supclearer. Active sustainability efforts are made ment. With the legislation in each country, it pliers or customers in countries where risks in all the Group’s operations to meet these provides a framework and governs Holmen’s exist are failing to comply with the Global demands. In the long term this is deemed to actions in different areas. Compact. boost the company’s profitability. Holmen’s production takes place in the 23 Holmen Annual report 2010 Sustainable products 70 per cent of the thermal energy needed in production comes Profitability in the company is based on manufacturing products for which there is demand in society. Printing paper, paperboard and sawn timber are basic materials in people’s everyday lives. The from biofuels and recovered thermal energy. ­starting point is the renewable raw material provided by the forests. Renewable raw material Sustainable production • Recovered paper is used at Braviken Paper Wood – the natural and renewable raw ­processes Mill and Holmen Paper Madrid. material – is a factor of strength for Holmen. Holmen aims to take long-term responsibil• Biofuels and recovered thermal energy Products and biofuel are made from renewity throughout the production chain: provide 70 per cent of the thermal energy able raw materials sourced from sustainably • 18 per cent of Holmen’s forested land needed in production. managed forests. Holmen’s products can is excluded from forestry in order to • Hydro power generated by the company replace other products made from materials preserve the variations of forest types and back-pressure power at the mills meet that are finite or have an impact on climate. in the landscape and consequently also around a third of electrical energy needs. Paper and paperboard can additionally be biodiversity. All wood can be traced back recovered as material and/or bioenergy. to its origin. Research, development, Sawn timber makes an excellent biofuel at • Active forestry has increased the stock of ­innovation the end of its useful life. wood in the forests by 7 per cent in the The Group conducts research and developlast 10 years. ment both in-house at business area level 24 Holmen Annual report 2010 and externally. Internal R&D is focused Prioritised development on functional products and energy and Printing paper resource-efficient processes. This has led to a steady decline in specific use of raw materials • Lower energy consumption and energy, while the characteristics of the • Reduced water use products have been refined. • Increased fibre yield Holmen has had a process in place for • Good printability handling ideas that have potential to provide Paperboard new business outside the established core op• Surface treatment erations since 2009. An innovation council is • Greater energy efficiency tasked with piloting the projects through to • Paper physics (printing/shaping) finished products. • Better fibre utilisation Alongside the R&D efforts made in the • Lower weight business areas there is a Holmen Biorefin• Biological barrier materials ery Development Centre (HBC). Focusing • Improved visual characteristics on innovations and the opportunities that exist within Holmen, based firmly on the Sawn timber forest raw material, Holmen assesses busi• Drying of sawn timber ness potential in the biorefinery area. The • Construction timber principle is that in future it will be possible to use wood to produce everything that is Energy currently based on oil. Holmen is examining • Wind power opportunities for profitable deals in the areas • Biogas of transport biofuels, biogas, new materials, • Utilisation of residual products from chemicals and biomass fuels. industrial production A Group-wide team is investigating ways Wood of identifying environmentally sound uses for the waste that arises in operations. The • Higher growth focus is on identifying product areas in • More efficient felling and transport which various materials can be regarded as a • More biofuel valuable resource and therefore lead to new • Improved seedlings business. Other products The external R&D activities are jointly run with other players – often at an industryThe feasibility of using biorefinery technol­ ogy to make other products from forest wide level, and in collaboration with raw materials besides traditional ones is universities and institutes of technology. The being investigated. The principle is that in main emphasis is on product development future it will be possible to use wood to and enhancing process efficiency, although produce everything that is currently based forest growth and improving the efficiency on oil. of forestry are also important focal areas. Co-operation is in progress, for instance, with Svenska Innventia, MoRe Research, SweTree Technologies, the Royal Institute of Technology, Umeå University, Mid Sweden University, Karlstad University, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and Skogforsk. Holmen co-operates with the University of Manchester in the UK and the Universidad Complutense de Madrid in Spain. Group investments in research and ­development in 2010 totalled around SEK 100 million, of which around a quarter consisted of external costs. 25 Holmen Annual report 2010 Positive climate effects Holmen contributes to a positive effect on climate by prioritising work on environmental goals in the following areas: • Reduced use of fossil fuels at the Swedish units. • More efficient use of energy. • Increased rate of growth in Holmen’s forests. • Increased extraction/deliveries of biofuel. • Increased production of electricity from wind power. -285 000 tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide. That’s how much lower emissions are when Holmen’s ‘‘carbon foot­ The issue of climate change highlights the need to rationalise en­ ergy use in the world and to make greater use of renewable energy sources. The forest industry has long been a pioneer in this area and print” is added up. is already a major user of bioenergy. Forest management and use of forest climate, as wood is used as a substitute for of annual growth. As these younger forests products are the most important contribuother materials. There is a dual effect: grow to a harvestable age, it will become tion of the forests in efforts to tackle global • Greenhouse gas emissions from producpossible to increase the removal of wood to warming. ing and using materials and sources of put it on a par with growth. There is twice The forests provide raw materials and energy with a harmful climate impact are as much wood on the same acreage today as bioenergy that, unlike those based on oil, avoided. there was 60 years ago. It also contains twice do not add new quantities of fossil carbon • Used forest products make excellent bio­ as much carbon. dioxide to the atmosphere. Society is therefuels, replacing fossil fuels. Holmen’s forest stewardship also contribfore increasingly turning its attention to the utes considerably to the increasing volume of forests as part of the solution to the problem wood. This means that naturally occurring of climate change. Increasing stock of wood flora and fauna are given the conditions they = carbon sink need for their long-term survival in the forest Managed forests better than Holmen’s forestry has positive effects in landscape. In the 2010 evaluation by the unmanaged forests relation to climate change. This is because analysis company EIRIS of 1 800 companies A managed forest is planted, cleaned, of a steadily increasing volume of wood that around the world, Holmen was ranked, thinned and felled at regular intervals. A binds more and more carbon dioxide in the together with eight other companies, in the stock of wood is built up over a period of trees, and the fact that wood and bioenergy biodiversity leaders group with regard to about 70 years. Most is then harvested, and are replacing products and sources of energy policy and working practices for handling a new growth cycle can begin. that have an impact on climate. In the longer risks to biodiversity. An unmanaged forest is allowed to develterm this positive climate impact can be More wood also creates opportunities op freely over 300 years. The stock of wood further strengthened. to make more products capable of replacis built up just once – and then changes There are several reasons for the increasing those that have an adverse impact on insignificantly over time. The trees act as a ing stock of wood. The most important climate. The quantity of bioenergy that can carbon sink, but in the unmanaged forest the one is that a significant portion of growth replace fossil-based energy sources is insubstitution effect goes completely unused. takes place in young forests that are not yet creasing to the same degree. There is strong It is this effect that represents the most sufficiently mature for harvesting. Holmen justification for concluding that Holmen’s important role of the forests with regard to therefore only removes around 85 per cent positive impact on climate will increase. 26 Holmen Annual report 2010 Carbon footprint have positive effects in relation to climate Six basic facts about forests and A carbon footprint reveals the quantity of change. Carbon dioxide capture and the climate greenhouse gases that a product generates effects of substitution are greater than 1) Forests capture carbon dioxide and during its entire lifecycle. The calculation Holmen’s emissions of fossil-based carbon store it as carbon in the trees and soil. begins with the raw material and ends with dioxide. 2) Just as much carbon dioxide is re­ the disposal or recycling of the product. The The positive effect on climate will graduleased whether biofuel is burnt or the carbon footprint can thus be said to be a ally be further strengthened by the environsame quantity of wood and tree parts measure of the product’s climate impact. mental goals stated above. are left to rot in the forest. The Group’s production of sawn timber 3) The carbon present in the trees forms Holmen’s carbon footprint is increasing sharply with the start-up of part of the atmosphere’s natural The combined impact of the operation on the new sawmill at Braviken. This will more carbon cycle. climate can be calculated by establishing: than double the substitution effect of the 4) By using wood and biofuel instead of • The greenhouse gas emissions caused by sawn timber and increase the quantity of materials and sources of energy with production. carbon dioxide held in temporary storage. an impact on the climate, greenhouse • The products’ capture of carbon dioxide. gases are reduced to an equivalent • The ability of the products to replace extent. materials and sources of energy that have 5) The better the forests grow, the more an impact on climate and the fossil carbon wood and biofuel they produce and dioxide that is consequently avoided. the better their benefit for the climate. Holmen makes these calculations in ac6) The same quantity of carbon dioxide cordance with the guidelines issued by the as is released when biofuel, used industry association CEPI. cellulose fibres or wood from demoli­ Calculations of Holmen’s carbon footprint tion is burnt, can build up the same clearly indicate that the Group’s operations quantity of wood in the trees again. The carbon footprint of the Holmen Group ’000 tonnes of carbon dioxide 1 250 000 tonnes 1000 The data are based on information Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from page 88 and calculations of carbon footprints for the Group’s products. The data for 500 the increasing stock of wood and Total estimated effects are the average climate effect for 2005–2010. The calculations 3 4 5 10 2859000 tonnes are based on guidelines issued by 0 the European industry organisation 1 8 9 11 12 CEPI. 2 6 7 -500 Capture and storage of carbon dioxide, and fossil carbon dioxide -1000 emissions eliminated by substitution 1 535 000 tonnes 1. 795 000 tonnes Annual increase in stock of wood = 6. 114 000 tonnes Biofuel originating in Holmen forests 10. 1 250 000 tonnes Total fossil carbon dioxide emis­ carbon sink. sold externally for energy production. Heating delivered sions caused by Holmen operations. 2. 57 000 tonnes Fertilisation increases the growth of from Holmen. The effect is calculated as the quantity 11. 1 535 000 tonnes Total positive climate effects of the trees and enables them to capture more carbon of fossil-based carbon dioxide avoided when biofuel is Holmen operations. dioxide. Estimated effect. used. 12. Total climate effect: 285 000 tonnes. Net effect, 3. 324 000 tonnes Release from forest land (estimated 7. 66 000 tonnes Waste/residual products burnt exter­ i.e. positive climate effects minus total fossil carbon effect). Production of fertilisers and emissions from nally for energy production. The effect is calculated dioxide emissions. felling on Holmen land. as the quantity of fossil carbon dioxide avoided when this waste is used. Secondary biofuel, which consists of using paper pro­ 4. 313 000 tonnes Production at Holmen sites and ducts and sawn timber that are burnt, is not included in the emissions in felling wood raw material purchased 8. 267 000 tonnes Holmen’s sawn timber often calculation above. It is not possible to establish exactly how externally. replaces other materials with an impact on climate. much is involved. Holmen has made a cautious estimate The effect is calculated as the quantity of fossil-based that 20 per cent of the Group’s paper and paperboard 5. 612 000 tonnes Production of input goods, purcha­ carbon dioxide avoided when sawn timber is used. sed electricity and heating, collection of recovered (based on 2010 production) and sawn timber (based on the paper, heating at nurseries, biofuel transport, and 9. 236 000 tonnes Holmen’s sawn timber stores carbon Group’s production during the 1960s) is finally burnt as a transporting wood and input goods to and products dioxide for as long as it is used, and thus acts as a substitute for oil. The effect is calculated as the quantity of from Holmen sites. temporary carbon sink. fossil carbon dioxide avoided, and is approximately 540 000 tonnes. The actual figure is probably significantly higher. 27 Holmen Annual report 2010 Environmental responsibility Environmental targets OUTTURN TARGET UP TO 2010 REMARKS Reduce the use of fossil fuels at 2020: decrease 55 % Reference year 2005 the Swedish units of 90 % Improve efficiency of energy use 2020: 15 % 5.2 % Reference year 2005 (MWh/product unit) Increased rate of growth in Holmen 25 % within 30 – Reference year 2007. Estimat­ forests years ed effect of growth-increasing measures in progress is just over 20 % Increase extraction/deliveries of 2020: 1.5 TWh 1.25 TWh Reference year 2006: 0.42 biofuel TWh Production of electricity from wind 2020: 1 TWh 4 GWh Reference year 2010 power 55 per cent decreased emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from the Environmental efforts are concerned with working proactively to reduce the Group’s environmental and climate impact and ensuring Swedish mills since 2005. compliance with rules and conditions in the environmental area. The environmental standards at Holmen’s saving measures and to increase its level of Forestry sites are high. This is a result of investments self-sufficiency in energy. • Together with five Swedish forest made in process and treatment equipment, companies, Holmen is taking part in an and continuous improvements implemented Environmental goals industry-wide initiative to enhance the within the framework of the environmental The Group-wide environmental goals (see sustainability efforts of forestry in line and energy management systems at the sites table above) contribute to a focus on climate with FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) and statutory supervision conducted by and energy issues. requirements. This co-operation, which authorities. The main environmental impact Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from began in 2010, focuses on combining of the sites consists of emissions to air and several of the units increased in 2010 in economics, the environment and social water and the generation of noise and waste. comparison with 2009. A severe winter at values in forestry, and on strengthening As considerable attention is currently being the start and end of the year meant that the concept internationally. focused on energy and climate change, fossil oil combustion was required to provide • In order to be able to fulfil the goal to fuel and biofuel issues are of great interest. the units with thermal energy. Very high reduce the impact of forestry on waterHolmen’s environmental impact has electricity prices, together with stoppages courses and lakes, Holmen Skog provided gradually diminished over a long period as due to market conditions in Holmen Paper, training for all its own personnel and a result of several different measures. The also contributed to increased dependence on those of its contractors who plan and trend per tonne of final product has been oil. These factors also meant that efforts to implement measures in the forests. Altofavourable for many years for several of the rationalise energy use were made more difgether nearly 1 000 people were trained. prioritised environmental aspects, such as ficult, and the outturn for 2010 remained at • A new FSC standard came into effect in emissions to water and air. This can be seen the 2009 level. June 2010. This makes greater demands in the diagrams on page 29 and the table on on offering consultation to local interests page 88. Environmental efforts in 2010 affected by rejuvenation felling and on Efforts to improve energy efficiency and Several projects, investigations and measures giving greater consideration to endanreduce the use of fossil fuels are increasing related to the environment were carried out gered species. Holmen Skog is working on for reasons related to climate change and during the past year. Here is a selection: putting the new standard into practice. resources. Holmen is therefore making active • The updated version of the PEFC standard efforts to identify and implement energyfor forest stewardship was adopted at the 28 Holmen Annual report 2010 Emissions to air, fossil carbon dioxide Environmental permits for the Group’s production facilities Kg/tonne end product Hallsta Paper Mill1) 2000 200 Braviken Paper Mill2) 2002 150 134 Iggesund Mill1,3) 2003 Iggesund Sawmill 1) 1994 100 79 Braviken Sawmill2) 2010 Workington Mill4) 2002 50 Holmen Paper Madrid4) 2006 0 1) Environmental Protection Act 05 06 07 08 09 10 2) Environmental Code Group Sweden 3) In addition to this, operations subject to notification requirements take place at the production unit in Strömsbruk, as well as port activity (at Skärnäs Terminal) alongside Iggesund Mill, which requires an environmental permit (obtained in 19992)) 4) IPPC Emissions to air, nitrogen oxides beginning of 2011. Holmen has a seat on • Action taken in the wastewater treatment Kg/tonne end product the PEFC Board and played an active part plant at Workington Mill has led to a 0.8 in this work. reduction in emissions. 0.65 0.6 Energy and climate Transport • Calibration continued on the line for • Holmen is taking part in industry-wide 0.4 energy-efficient production of thermoefforts to reduce the impact of transport mechanical pulp at Braviken Paper Mill, on climate. Joint sustainability criteria for 0.2 commissioned in 2008. The need for procuring transport services were estabelectrical energy has decreased by just lished in 2010. 0.0 under 20 per cent in comparison with the • A rail-based transport solution for finished 06 07 08 09 10 previous line. products was introduced for the Swedish • Holmen is investing in a new recovery mills during the year. As well as lowered boiler with a turbine and gas treatment at costs, this means reduced emissions to air. Iggesund Mill. This will make it possible Emissions to water, COD (organic matter) to run the entire operation without the use Waste Kg/tonne end product of fossil fuels or purchased electricity. The • Efforts to identify ways of making good 12 investment totals SEK 2.3 billion. use of the waste that arises in operations • A second cogeneration plant was commisfrom the point of view of profitability 9 7.7 sioned at Holmen Paper Madrid. Emisand the environment were stepped up in sions of nitrogen oxides have decreased as 2010. The volume of waste sent to landfill 6 a result. represents only 2 per cent of the waste • Hallsta Paper Mill is investigating the that arises in Holmen operations. 3 possibility of installing a facility for producing biogas from wastewater. After Discontinued operations 0 06 07 08 09 10 being refined, the biogas can be sold as a • Studies were conducted in consultation transport fuel. with the authorities at contaminated • At Workington Mill an investment is being discontinued industrial sites where made in refitting the mill’s pulp line. This Holmen has operated in the past. In 2010, will reduce energy consumption by 10 per studies relating to the sawmills at Stocka, Waste, sent to landfill cent. Håstaholmen and Lännaholm, the sulphite Kg/tonne end product • An environmental study was conducted mills at Strömsbruk, Domsjö and Loddby 20 at Workington Mill on the prospects of and at the former mechanical pulp mill in installing an energy boiler for biofuel. Bureå had reached various stages. 15 • A 50-year-old oil-fired boiler is being • Wargön Mill closed at the end of 2008. 10 replaced with a new electric boiler at Demolition took place in 2010. The land 10 Hallsta Paper Mill. was sold. Supervisory authorities took decisions at the end of the year on the 5 Wastewater treatment plants remedial measures required for the indus• The wastewater treatment plant at trial site. Holmen will take measures in 0 06 07 08 09 10 Iggesund Mill dating from 1977 was sup2011. plemented by a chemical flotation facility in 2009. Emissions have decreased by as Permits for operation much as 25–40 per cent for different types At the end of 2010, Holmen was running of substances in the past year. production operations at seven facilities that 29 Holmen Annual report 2010 Certifications for management systems: CERTIFICATIONS1, 2), YEAR ENVIRONMENT ENERGY QUALITY 1) Certificates can be found on the Holmen website. Hallsta Paper Mill 2001 2005 1993 2) Environment/ISO 14001, Energy/SS 627750, Quality/ Braviken Paper Mill 1999 2006 1996 ISO 9001. Holmen Paper Madrid 2002 2009/103) 2000 3) Certification to SS 627750 and UNE 216301. In 2010 certification to European standard EN 16001. Iggesund Mill4) 2001 2005 1990 4) The certifications include the production unit in Workington Mill 2003 20085) 1990 Strömsbruk and Skärnäs Terminal. 5) Energy management system introduced. Certification Iggesund Sawmill 1999 2006 1997 will take place when international standard has been Braviken Sawmill – 6) – 6) – 6) adopted. 6) Auditing for certification of the management systems Holmen Skog 1998 – – will take place in April 2011. require environmental permits. The permits The forestry operations are certified in How the work is done include conditions on permitted production accordance with environmental management The environmental aspects of Holmen’s volumes and permitted emissions to air and systems and additionally were the subject of operations are regulated by laws and water. certification under the Forest Stewardship permits in each country. The alloca­ Five of the facilities are located in Sweden, Council (FSC) and the Programme for the tion of environmental responsibility and with sales equivalent to 57 (58) per cent of Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes the organisation and management of Group net sales. The two remaining facilities (PEFC). environmental activities are based on are Workington Mill in the UK and the mill Information on chain-of-custody certificathe Group’s environmental policy. All the in Madrid in Spain, whose share of Group tion, the proportion of environmentally units at Holmen apply certified environ­ sales was 19 (21) per cent in 2010. certified forests in Sweden in 2010 and the mental management systems. Holmen’s An application for a new environmental proportion of certified wood at Holmen sites forestry is certified in accordance with permit at the paperboard mill in Iggesund can be found in Holmen and sustainability. the international PEFC and FSC forest was submitted in early 2011. Equivalent standards. At the production sites, vari­ work began in 2010 for Iggesund Sawmill. Policy instruments ous types of rules are integrated as key It is intended that the permits will provide The Group’s mills have participated in the elements in the planning of production opportunities for increased production in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme since 2005. and investments. future. No other major permits need to be The Group’s measures to reduce the use of The Group Board, the CEO and the renewed or revised in 2011. An application fossil fuels and consequently carbon dioxide heads of the business areas have overall for an environmental permit was submitted emissions have made it possible to sell responsibility. Operational responsibil­ at the end of 2010 for biogas production at emission allowances. The Swedish mills are ity is held by mill managers and forest Hallsta Paper Mill. also active in trading electricity certificates. region managers. Holmen’s Director of The production of electric power at Holmen has been producing renewable Environmental and Sustainable Affairs ­Holmen’s wholly and partly owned hydro electricity for several years. This has yielded chairs Holmen’s environmental council, power stations requires a permit for water revenue. Holmen takes part in voluntary monitors activities relating to the Group’s operations (rules under the Swedish Environprogrammes for energy efficiency and reenvironmental goals and runs joint action mental Code), which includes environmental duced climate impact in Sweden and the UK. groups. conditions. A review may be requested under These programmes give the energy-intensive the terms of the Environmental Code. Permits industries an alternative to energy taxes. THE ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY conare held for all the power plants. A review is tains general principles for the Group’s in progress for the equivalent of 2 per cent Exceedances and complaints environmental activities. It covers the of the Group’s production capacity. During the year there were a number of environmental aspects that Holmen and Permit applications were submitted in cases of exceeded threshold values, as well its stakeholders prioritise. The focus is 2010 for wind turbines at Blodrotberget and as complaints and incidents in the induson the significance to the business of Blackfjället in the Municipality of trial and forestry operations. None of these energy and climate change issues. Örnsköldsvik and at Varvsvik in the Municiwere of a material nature or had an impact HOLMEN’S GUIDELINES FOR SUSTAIN­ pality of Norrtälje. on earnings, and they were all resolved by ABLE FORESTRY indicate how the forests means of corrective measures in the operaare to be managed from the points of Certifications tions’ management systems. The incidents view of both production and the environAt the end of 2010, operations at the comwere reported to the supervisory authorities. ment. The requirements in the PEFC and pany’s facilities were certified according to FSC forestry standards are built into the quality, environmental and energy managetotal of 60 guidelines. ment systems. In addition, all the facilities at which wood raw material is used had chain-of-custody certificates for used wood raw material. 30 Holmen Annual report 2010 Social responsibility Holmen’s operations in 2010 broken down into stakeholders based on the Group income statement SEKm Customers Sales of paper, paperboard, sawn timber, 18 443 wood and electricity Suppliers Purchases of products, materials and -14 158 services, along with depreciation, etc. Employees Wages, salaries and social security costs -2 689 Lenders Interest -208 State Taxes -684 Shareholders Net profit 704 Board’s dividend proposal 588 Holmen conducts a continuous dialogue with its stakeholders, which 16 per cent raises the Group’s awareness of what the stakeholders expect from it – and vice-versa. This in turn is an important basis on which to identify strengths and weaknesses and enhance sustainability efforts. The proportion of women managers at Holmen. There are Group-wide goals in prioritised areas such as leadership, The number has doubled since 2003. the working environment and gender equality. Customers and business vironmental responsibility and social issues parties’ requirements as closely as possible. ­partners in the Group through publications, analyst The operations are of great significance Customers have expectations of Holmen meetings and the website. to employment in the places where the with regard to products and services, good At the Group’s Annual General Meeting, company is active. The Group has a total of business practice and the way in which the shareholders have an opportunity to put around 3 000 employees in Sweden. Further company deals with key sustainability issues. questions to the Board and company jobs are created at subcontractors. StudHolmen demands the same of its suppliers. management on such matters as Holmen’s ies carried out by the Group show that the The Group also continuously monitors how sustainability efforts. average Holmen employee generates another customers perceive the company by conduct3.0 jobs elsewhere in this way. A total of ing surveys. The results are converted into Society around 12 100 jobs were created in Sweden, action plans where necessary. Holmen maintains regular contact with approximately 900 more than in the previ­authorities, other land users and the rest of ous year. The rise since last year is explained Suppliers and purchasing the business community. The general public, by increased purchase of forest raw material The purchase of goods and services is the media and opinion leaders are regufrom private forest owners. Converted, this co-ordinated at Holmen with the aim of larly informed about the Group’s activities. has led to an increase in the number of fullreducing total costs. The requirements of Permits for operations are continuously time equivalent jobs among the suppliers of quality and sustainability are emphasised in reviewed, and local residents are consulted raw material. The workforce reductions the purchasing policy. in cases where Holmen’s industrial sites are Holmen has made in recent years have, located close to communities. however, had a negative impact. Shareholders, investors and The land holdings in large areas of northanalysts ern Sweden overlap Sami winter grazing land Social assets Holmen’s shareholders, investors and for reindeer. Holmen consults the Sami comThe forests also represent significant social analysts are informed about economic, enmunities to arrive at solutions that meet both assets. A large number of people enjoy them 31 Holmen Annual report 2010 The Inblick index improved HR targets1) 650 TARGET OUTTURN REMARKS 650 Inblick index 650 (2011) 623 (2009) (600=good, 700=excellent) 623 Leadership index 61 (2011) 58 (2009) (60=good, 70=excellent) 600 576 Annual performance reviews, % 80 (2011) 62 (2009) Accidents at work leading to Action absence/1 000 employees 10 (2013) 24.8 programme started 550 Proportion of women managers, % 19 (2012) 16.5 Since 2006: +9 per cent 1) For history, see the table on page 87. 500 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Swedish units Whole Group Process industry in Europe in their leisure time. All Swedish forests are (see table). The results are followed through open to the general public under the right key indicators and in Holmen Inblick, the of common access. Holmen land is used for Group’s employee survey. The most recent The Inblick index is calculated by the ­employees completing a questionnaire hunting and angling and to aid general wellsurvey was conducted in January 2011. The ­containing questions in eight areas: being. Recent research demonstrates clearly results were not available when this publica• Skills that forests and nature have a beneficial tion went to press, and certain results from • Co-operation and process effect on people’s physical and mental health. the previous survey are therefore presented. • Motivation The response rate was 76 per cent • Organisational efficiency Present and future employees (2009: 78 per cent). • Responsibility and initiative If a company is to be able to survive, it must The Inblick index, leadership index • Learning satisfy the demands of its staff with regard and proportion of women managers have • Authority to the working environment and opportunicontinuously improved or increased over the • Climate of renewal ties for advancement. Holmen has an explicit past 10 years. Holmen endeavours to raise If everyone gives maximum scores to the aspiration to be an attractive and responsible both the leadership index and the proporquestions in each area, the total value of the employer by offering motivating and chaltion of performance reviews conducted. The Inblick index is 1 000. lenging work. High quality and service are target is zero managers with low leadership only brought about by knowledgeable and indexes in 2011. motivated people. The company must create Measures are being taken to reduce the conditions and a working climate that enable number of industrial accidents. This is the employees themselves to feel that they important not just for present-day employees can take responsibility for their personal but also for future recruitment opportunities. development. Leadership development Target fulfilment Leadership issues come high on the company Holmen has been setting targets for work in agenda, and there is a clearly defined stratHR (Human Resources) for several years egy for this work. All managers take part in the development programme Manager at Holmen. The overarching purpose of the programme is to clarify Holmen’s view of key leadership issues. Employees who have what it takes to be promoted to higher positions and who are interested in such advancement are regularly identified. The aspiration is to fill at least 75 per cent of all managerial vacancies through internal recruitment. More women managers The proportion of women in the annual induction programmes for graduate recruits has been just over 30 per cent for several years, creating the necessary basis for an increase in the proportion of women in senior positions. The proportion of women managers has doubled to 16 per cent since 2006. The aim is to reach at least 19 per cent by 2012. The proportion of women among appointments 32 Holmen Annual report 2010 to managerial positions has increased in The business areas annually conduct training How the work is done recent years. Over the period 2008 to 2010, programmes to raise the skills levels of their HR work is governed by laws, contracts a total of 109 new managers were appointed employees. and internal policies. HR forms a natural at Holmen’s Swedish units, of whom 32 were A total of around 140 adepts have taken part of the business areas’ business women, equivalent to 29 per cent. part in the Group’s mentorship programme plans. The work is co-ordinated by a The number of women in the managesince it started in 2003; 15 adepts took part management group for Human Resourc­ ment teams of the Group, business areas in 2010, each with their own mentor from a es (HR), which comprises the personnel and mills has increased from 6 to 16 in different unit in the Group. managers of the business areas and is the past five years. The management team In addition to local induction prochaired by the Group’s Director of Hu­ at Iggesund Mill has steadily increased its grammes, there is a Group-wide programme man Resources. The employee survey number of women members, and in recent for newly recruited university graduates. Holmen Inblick is an important tool for years has had a preponderance of women, 50 new recruits from five countries took part use in identifying what initiatives need to six compared to five men. The Holmen in 2010. The aim of the programme is to be taken in the area of HR. Board includes two women, of whom one improve knowledge of the Group and offer THE PERSONNEL POLICY reflects the was elected by the AGM and the other is an participants an opportunity to network. Group’s stance on what constitutes employee representative. Workforce reductions sound human resources policy. It highHealth and safety lights the joint responsibility of manageWhen changes or closures occur at industrial ment and staff for maintaining a good The number of industrial accidents is at an sites affecting the size of the workforce, work and development climate. unsatisfactorily high level. Activity in the ­Holmen endeavours to take clear social recompany’s working environment network sponsibility in order to mitigate the problems THE POLICY FOR GENDER EQUALITY has been stepped up in order to reverse this faced by those affected. AND DIVERSITY expresses the Group’s trend. A programme has been developed to Over-staffing arises when the company’s view of the equal value of all people and improve the safety culture. This entails a organisation is larger than is required for the its endeavour to bring about a more even great commitment to behaviour-based safety long-term operation of the business in gender distribution and greater diversity. training (BBS) for all employees. accordance with the established strategy. The gender equality policy was broadNo Holmen employee has been involved When this happens, the employer negotiates ened in 2010 to also cover diversity. in a fatal accident since the start of the new with the trade union organisations and tries BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION. The policy millennium. to find consensus solutions so that redundanmakes it clear that employees must The rate of sickness absence has steadily cies are minimised. consider very carefully the meaning and fallen over the past decade and in 2010 it As a consequence of low profitability, a purpose of any favours offered in their was 3.5 (3.7) per cent. Long-term sick leave decision was taken in June 2010 to reduce contacts with customers and suppliers. (more than 60 days) remains at a low level the workforce by 150 at Hallsta Paper Mill. of 1.1 (1.4) per cent. Short-term absence in In February 2011, 55 had left at their own Collaboration with the trade unions Sweden (1–14 days) has been below 2 per request, either with redundancy settlements takes place in the Holmen European cent for several years. The rate of sickness or by accepting the offer of early retirement. Works Council and in consultation absence at Holmen is on a par with the rest The administrative processes in the Group groups at each unit. Trade union repre­ of the industry. are being reviewed with the aim of improving sentatives take part in project and work­ efficiency and reducing costs. As a conseing groups. The company’s employees An attractive employer quence, facility management services have are represented on the Group Board The ability to attract, recruit, develop and been transferred to an external consultancy. by three members and three deputy retain committed and skilled employees is The IT function is centralised in Norrköping. members. crucial to Holmen’s ability to operate its A preliminary project is under way with the business successfully, both today and in aim of improving the efficiency of accountfuture. ing and related business administration in the In 2010 the Framtidsresan [Journey into Group. the Future] theme day was held at 135 upper At the beginning of 2011, the Board decidsecondary schools together with the Swedish ed to close down the smaller paper machine Forest Industries Federation. The Group also at Holmen Paper Madrid, which results in a ran the annual continuing professional delevel of over-staffing of around 170 jobs. velopment course for some 30 social science teachers from all parts of the country. Union co-operation In association with other forest compaHolmen co-operates closely and in a spirit nies, industry evenings are arranged for of trust with the union organisations on all students at institutes of technology, as well major issues, and regards this as fundamenas forest training programmes. tal to the company’s development. The level of union membership at ­Holmen Development of skills was 85 per cent in the Swedish units in Skills development is a matter of becom2010. The equivalent figures for the UK and ing more proficient in one’s occupation and Spain were around 50 per cent and around gaining qualifications for new duties. 40 per cent. 33 Holmen Annual report 2010 External assessments Holmen has opted to base its sustainability reporting on the guidelines for sustainability reporting issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Group reports at reporting level A+. At Holmen’s request, KPMG has performed a general review of the contents of the Group’s GRI reporting and shares Holmen’s expressed reporting level regarding the GRI guidelines. A complete GRI register and the auditors’ assur­ ance report can be found on the Holmen website. Company indexes and funds Financial analysts have shown increased incompanies that operate responsibly in relaActive sustainability efforts and clear comterest in sustainability issues in recent years. tion to economic, environmental and social munication on them strengthen the brand Holmen is continuously evaluated by aspects. and goodwill. Stakeholders’ evaluations of sustainability analysts and is included in A selection of the company indexes and sustainability efforts are important so that a number of international sustainability funds in which Holmen is included follows these efforts can be developed. This also indexes and funds. The purpose of these is to below. A full list is presented in Holmen and raises the skill level in the company. make it easier for investors to identify sustainability and on the Holmen website. FTSE4Good Index Series. Companies in this Storebrand SRI. Companies that are world KEMPEN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT. Based on index are notable for their well-developed environmental leaders in the areas of environmental and social an assessment of business ethics, social and environ­ work and good relations with their stakeholders. responsibility qualify for Storebrand’s Best in Class list. mental aspects, Holmen was brought into the Kempen ­Holmen has been included since 2005. Holmen was ranked top of its sector category in the Socially Responsible Universe in 2010 and is included www.ftse.com/ftse4good 2010 evaluation. www.storebrand.com in the Kempen/SNS European Smaller SRI Index. www.kempen.nl ASN Aandelensfond. Companies in this fund Forum ETHIBEL contains companies deemed to swedbank robur. Holmen is approved for are characterised by well-developed efforts for human be above average in the areas of economic, social and inclusion in Swedbank Robur’s Ethica and Banco rights and environmental responsibility. The focus is on environmental sustainability. The evaluation is made by fund families. Holmen is placed in the Best Practice companies’ work in relation to climate. Holmen was the analyst company Vigeo. www.ethibel.org category. www.swedbank.robur.se brought into the fund in 2010. www.asnbank.nl Assurance report The information on Holmen’s work on sustainability, For a complete assurance report for sustainability re­ Based on our review procedures, nothing has come as presented on pages 23–34 of the administration porting, see the Holmen website, www.holmen.com. to our attention that causes us to believe that the report and on pages 87–89, has been the object of a It is evident there that KPMG shares Holmen’s ex­ sustainability report has not, in all material aspects, separate general review in accordance with RevR 6 pressed reporting level regarding the GRI guidelines. been prepared in accordance with the above-stated Assurance of sustainability reports, issued by Far. The report also contains the following conclusion: criteria. George Pettersson Åse Bäckström Authorised public accountant Expert member, Far 34 Holmen Annual report 2010 Risk management The business areas are responsible for the business operations and handle business risks such as credit risks in relation to the Group’s customers. They also make decisions on issues such as volume and pricing, with the goal of consistently generating a good return on invested capital. Group Finance manages the Group’s financing and financial risks, based on a financial policy that is established by the Board and is characterised by a low level of risk. The purpose is to minimise the Group’s cost of capital through suitable financing as well as efficient management and control of the Group’s financial risks. PRICE AND MARKET The Group is exposed to price flucvia wholly and partly owned recovered paper collection SEKm DELIVERIES PRICES tuations for its products and significant input goods. companies. Purchases of other input goods to Group Deliveries may be affected by fluctuations in the market. units are coordinated centrally, and the purchasing PRODUCTS work is organised in product groups with a number of Printing paper 21 79 Holmen’s income in its product-oriented business areas selected suppliers per group. Paperboard 24 48 is generated from the sale of printing paper, paperboard and sawn timber. Changes in prices and deliveries largely To reduce exposure to electricity price fluctuations, the Sawn timber 2 6 depend on the development of the European market. Group uses physical supply agreements at fixed prices, This in turn is influenced by several factors, such as as well as financial hedges. In 2010, the company’s COMPANY’S OWN RAW MATERIALS demand, production among European producers and net purchases of electricity amounted to 2 995 GWh, Wood from changes in imports into Europe, as well as the opportuniof which about 2 580 GWh in Sweden. The prices for ­company forests* 9 13 ties for exporting profitably from Europe. Holmen has the estimated net consumption of electricity in Sweden Company-generatlimited opportunities for making rapid changes to its during the 2011–2012 period are 85 per cent hedged. ed electricity* 6 6 range of products, but the company adapts its product For 2013–2015, the price of about 80 per cent has focus, steering it towards the products and markets been hedged. The hedges predominantly consist of deemed to have the best long-term potential. Three-year physical fixed price contracts. In December, Holmen SEKm COSTS business plans are used as a basis for this; they are signed a new agreement for supplies of electricity for Wood* 21 updated annually in consultation between the business the 2016–2021 period at a fixed price corresponding Recovered paper 9 areas and the Group and are thoroughly assessed by to around 30 per cent of Holmen’s net consumption in the Board. Holmen aims to have a broad customer base Sweden. Pulp 3 and an offering that spans several product areas. This Electricity* 15 OTC trade in financial contracts exists for certain paper aim, combined with long-term customer relationships, and pulp products. Holmen did not trade in such Other energy 4 reduces vulnerability to changes in the market. contracts during the year. Price-hedging opportunities Chemicals 12 Income from the raw-materials-oriented business areas for other input goods are limited. Delivery costs 14 is generated from the sale of wood and electricity in Gains/losses on financial hedges are recognised in Other variable costs 6 Sweden. Deliveries may vary from one year to the next, the income statement when they expire; for 2010 but can be forecast in the long term. The price trend Employees 25 they totalled SEK -36 million (64). The fair value of depends on market equilibrium in Sweden for wood outstanding financial hedges at 31 December 2010 Other fixed costs 13 and electricity, which – in the longer term – is expected amounted to SEK 28 million (57), which was recognised to follow the trend in Europe. Wood and electricity are * For wood and electricity, sensitivity regarding the in other comprehensive income as hedge accounting the two most costly raw materials for the productGroup’s net purchases – taking account of the is applied, of which SEK 21 million refers to 2011 and oriented business areas, which makes the Group a net company’s own production of raw materials – is SEK 7 million to 2012. With the current hedging, a one buyer of wood and electricity. SEK 8 million for wood and SEK 9 million for electripercentage-point increase in the price of electricity city. The price of the Group’s net consumption In addition to wood and electricity, recovered paper, would have a SEK 1 million impact on equity. of electricity, including facilities abroad, is around pulp and thermal energy are significant input goods Earnings sensitivity 80 per cent hedged for coming years. in the production of printing paper and paperboard. A one percentage-point change in deliveries, prices Holmen produces more than 95 per cent of the pulp Earnings during the year are relatively constant. The and costs is estimated to have the impact on operating and thermal energy that it requires at its own mills main seasonal effects are that staff and maintenance profit/loss shown below. The table is based on income using a highly integrated production process. The costs are lower during the third quarter, maintenance and expenses for 2010. procurement of raw materials is underpinned through costs are higher in the fourth quarter and that a large backward integration along the production chain by part of electricity production at the hydro power plants owning forests and hydro power production facilities. takes place during the first and fourth quarters. Significant volumes of recovered paper are purchased 36 Holmen Annual report 2010 CURRENCIES Transaction exposure (7.8) in US dollars. The hedging of estimated net flows Translation exposure A significant proportion of Holmen’s sales revenue is in is shown in the table below. The reported profit/loss is affected by changes in excurrencies that are different from its costs. change rates when the profits/losses of foreign subsidi­ Earnings sensitivity aries are translated into Swedish kronor. Equity is affected To reduce the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on Calculated on the basis of existing hedges and the by changes in exchange rates when assets and liabilities earnings, Holmen hedges its net flows, mainly using exchange rates at the turn of 2010/2011 (euro: 9.0 and of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Swedish kronor. forward foreign exchange contracts, sometimes supdollar: 6.8), exchange rate differences are expected plemented by currency options. The net flows in euro, to have a positive impact of roughly SEK 100 million Exposure that arises when the profits/losses of foreign sterling and US dollars for the coming four months on consolidated operating profit for 2011 compared subsidiaries are translated into Swedish kronor is not are always hedged. These normally correspond to to 2010. A one percentage-point weakening in the normally hedged. Hedging exposure that arises when trade receivables and outstanding orders. The Board Swedish krona compared to the level at year-end would the subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities are translated into can decide to hedge flows for a longer period if this is have a positive impact on operating profit for 2011 by a Swedish kronor (known as equity hedging) is judged deemed suitable in light of the products’ profitability, further SEK 15 million ompared to 2010. from case to case and is arranged based on the value competitiveness and the currency situation. of net assets upon consolidation. The hedges take Without considering currency hedges, a one percentthe form of foreign currency loans or forward foreign At the start of 2010, the Group had currency hedges age-point weakening of the Swedish krona in relation to exchange contracts. During the year, the hedging of the for the main part of estimated payment flows in euro the currencies below would have the following effects Group’s net assets in euro fell by SEK 1 816 million and for 2010 and 2011, as well as parts of 2012, while on operating profit: stood at SEK 1 916 million at year-end. the flows in sterling and dollars were partly hedged for 2010. Gains/losses on currency hedges are recognised SEKm NET in operating profit/loss as and when the hedged item SEK/EUR 45 is recognised, and in 2010 they amounted to a gain of Net assets and equity hedges, SEK 227 million (loss of 408). The result was primarily SEK/USD 10 31 December 2010, SEKm due to the average hedging rate for euro being SEK/GBP 5 NET ASSETS EQUITY HEDGES SEK 10.0 during the year, compared to the average SEK/other currencies 3 EUR 2 681 1 916 spot exchange rate of SEK 9.5. Taking account of Currency exposure arising when investments are paid for GBP 1 394 575 currency hedges, the average rates for the Group’s net in a foreign currency is distinguished from other transacflows in 2010 were SEK 9.7 (9.5) for euro and SEK 7.2 Other 27 tion exposure. Normally, 90–100 per cent of the currency exposure associated with major investments is hedged. Gains on equity hedges amounted to SEK 472 million (254) in 2010 and are recognised in other comprehensive income as hedge accounting is applied. In the Transaction exposure at 31 December 2010, SEKm* parent company accounts, this gain is recognised in the 12 MONTHS 2011 HEDGES 2012 HEDGES income statement. The translation of net foreign assets ESTIMATED had a negative impact of SEK 654 million (negative 255) NET FLOWS SEKm RATE** % SEKm RATE** % on consolidated equity. The fair value of outstanding EUR 4 540 3 400 10.63 75 990 10.45 20 equity hedges at 31 December 2010 was SEK 88 milUSD 1 020 240 6.96 25 lion (-159), of which SEK 35 million relates to loans and GBP 550 140 10.75 25 SEK 54 million to financial derivatives. Other 360 100 A one percentage-point weakening of the Swedish Total 6 470 3 880 990 krona would have a negative impact of SEK 33 million on equity, including the translation of foreign subsidi­ * The figures in the table have been rounded off. ** This rate equals the average hedging rate. aries and taking account of currency hedges. The fair value of outstanding transaction hedges was SEK 709 million (-93) at 31 December 2010. SEK 98 million (-48) was recognised in the income statement for 2010, and the remainder in other comprehensive income as hedge accounting is applied, of which SEK 538 million for 2011 and SEK 73 million for 2012. The fair value of hedges for investment purchases is recognised in other comprehensive income until expiry, at which point the gain/loss is added to the cost of the non-current asset that was hedged. The fair value of outstanding hedges for investment purchases amounted to SEK -43 million at 31 December 2010. During the period, SEK -35 million affected the acquisition cost of hedged items. 37 Holmen Annual report 2010 INTEREST RATES Changes in the market interest rate interest periods. A one percentage-point increase in the instruments used to manage the fixed interest periods affect the finance cost. average market interest rate from the level at year-end amounted to SEK 14 million (-60) at 31 December 2010, would have a negative impact of about SEK 19 million which was recognised in other comprehensive income The fixed interest periods for the Group’s financial on profit/loss for 2011. As loans with fixed interest rates as hedge accounting is applied. This value is expected assets and liabilities are normally short. The Board can mature, the exposure to changes in market interest to be recognised in the income statement during 2011 decide to lengthen the periods in order to limit the effect rates rises. Disregarding the fixed rate periods, the exand later. With existing interest rate hedges, a one of a rise in interest rates. Derivatives in the form of interposure to a one percentage-point change in the market percentage-point increase in market interest rates would est rate swaps and FRAs are used to manage the fixed interest rate is SEK -58 million. The fair value of the have a SEK 27 million impact on equity. interest periods without altering underlying loans. During the year, the interest for SEK 500 million was Fixed interest periods, net financial debt, 31 December 2010, SEKm fixed for 5 years and SEK 600 million for 10 years, TOTAL -1 YEAR 1–3 YEARS 3–5 YEARS >5 YEARS OTHER which increased the average fixed interest period to 28 months at the end of 2010. The net debt’s fixed SEK -4 111 -1 403 -1 533 -500 -607 -68 interest periods, the breakdown by currency and the EUR -1 655 -1 189 -145 -315 -6 average interest rate for various fixed rate periods are GBP -50 88 -138 shown in the next table, in which derivatives that affect the currency distribution and fixed rate periods of the Other currencies 43 44 -1 liabilities are taken into account. Net financial debt -5 772 -2 460 -1 677 -815 -607 -213 The Group’s average borrowing interest rate was 3.9 per cent in 2010. At the turn of 2010/2011, the Average interest 4.5 4.2 5.5 3.7 3.4 5.3 rate, % average borrowing cost was 4.5 per cent, based on applicable market interest rates and existing fixed The Other column refers to pension provisions; see note 17. FINANCING Group exposure to not being able to Net financial debt rose by SEK 89 million during the in 2017. All credit facilities remained unutilised at meet the need for future funding and refinancing of year and stood at SEK 5 772 million at 31 December year-end. They are available for use provided that the maturing loans. 2010, divided among financial liabilities and interestGroup’s debt/equity ratio is below 1.25; at year-end, bearing pension provisions of SEK 6 227 million, cash this ratio was 0.34. Standard & Poor’s long-term credit Holmen’s strategy states that the company is to and cash equivalents of SEK 193 million and financial rating for Holmen is BBB with a stable outlook. The have a strong financial position that provides financial receivables of SEK 261 million. During the year, new short-term rating is A-2/K-2. The Swedish commercial stability and gives the Group the opportunity of making long-term financing was raised amounting to paper programmes have a facility amount of correct and long-term business decisions relatively SEK 500 million and an agreement for a new sevenSEK 6 000 million. Commercial paper with a time-toindependently of the state of the economy and external year credit facility of SEK 570 million was signed. Other maturity of up to one year can be issued in both Swedfinancing possibilities. The debt/equity ratio is to be in financing during the year was managed mainly via ish kronor and euro. Holmen’s medium term note (MTN) the interval of 0.3–0.8, and strategic planning includes Holmen’s commercial paper programme and short-term programme, for issuing bonds, has a facility amount of harmonisation with this target. Holmen’s financing bank loans. At 31 December 2010, current borrowings SEK 6 000 million. Bonds with maturities of 1–15 years mainly comprises bank loans, bond loans and the issue were SEK 2 349 million, of which SEK 1 964 million can be issued in both Swedish kronor and euro. of commercial paper. Holmen reduces the risk of future in the commercial paper programme. A new five-year funding becoming difficult or expensive by using longcontractually agreed credit facility of EUR 400 million Financial liabilities term contractually agreed credit facilities and maintain(SEK 3 600 million) was signed with a 10-bank synSEKm ing a good spread of maturities for the liabilities. The dicate in January 2011. This replaces a contractually Group plans its financing by forecasting financing needs agreed credit facility of EUR 600 million, originally due 6 000 over the coming years based on the Group’s multi-year to mature in 2012. In addition, Holmen has a bilateral business plan, budget and profit forecasts that are credit facility of SEK 1 300 million that matures in 2016, 5 000 regularly updated. and a further facility of SEK 570 million that matures 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016-*) *) Including a new long-term credit facility of EUR 400 million (SEK 3 600 million), maturing in 2016, which was signed with a group of 10 banks in January 2011. This replaces the EUR 600 million (SEK 5 400 million) credit facility. Financial liabilities Credit facilities The maturity structure of financial liabilities and assets with undiscounted amounts is shown in note 13 on page 75. 38 Holmen Annual report 2010 CREDITS FACILITIES ENVIRONMENT Customers who are unable to fulfil Sudden and unforeseen incidents The main environmental impact their payment obligations give rise to credit causing damage, such as fires and machine consists of emissions to air and water and the occurrisk. breakdowns may damage facilities and goods in transit. rence of noise and waste. There is a risk of incidents occurring and conditions being breached. Landfills and The risk that the Group’s customers will not fulfil their Risks to facilities are managed pursuant to a Groupphased out operations may lead to costs for restoring payment obligations is limited by means of credit worwide policy, in which the balance between preventive the environment. thiness checks, internal credit limits per customer and, protection and insurance in each area is highly in some cases, by insuring trade receivables against significant. The organisation and management of the environmental credit losses. Credit limits are continually monitored. activities are stipulated in Holmen’s environmental polThe aim is to protect employees, the environment, icy. In disruptions, the environment takes precedence At 31 December 2010 the Group’s trade receivables assets and operations well and cost-effectively, but over production. In ongoing and concluded operations, totalled SEK 2 518 million, of which 47 per cent (50) also to constantly increase involvement in preventive the environmental impact must be acceptable to were insured against credit losses. Exposure to individual work. Risks are minimised through damage prevention humans and the environment. Forestry must be undercustomers is limited. Sales to the five largest customers measures, good maintenance, training, foresightedness taken with as much consideration for the environment accounted for 12 per cent of the Group’s total turnover in in the modernisation/renewal of facilities and good as possible. The forests are to be managed in such 2010. During the year, credit losses on trade receivables administrative procedures. a way that ensures the long-term survival of flora and in the form of provisions and impairment losses had a Holmen insures its facilities to their replacement value fauna in the forest landscape. In product development negative SEK 14 million (negative: 14) impact on earnagainst property damage and consequential loss. The and investments, the possibilities of combining efficient ings. At 31 December 2010, trade receivables of SEK 35 excess varies from one facility to another, but the maxiproduction with consideration to the environment and million (92) were past due for more than 30 days. After mum is around SEK 30 million for any one claim. energy must be utilised. individual assessment of all trade receivables, a provision of SEK 20 million has been made for expected credit The Group’s forest holdings are not insured. They are These points are examples of how Holmen continually losses. The credit quality of the financial assets that are widely dispersed over large parts of the country, and works on managing the environmental risks that may neither past due nor impaired is deemed to be good. the risk of large-scale simultaneous damage is not arise: judged to justify the cost of insuring the holdings. • Internal controls of compliance with emission regulaFinancial transactions give rise to tions issued by environmental authorities. credit risks in relation to financial counterparties. • Controls of how chemicals and waste are handled. A maximum credit risk and settlement risk are estab• Environmental risk analyses. lished for each financial counterparty and are monitored • Authority controls and inspections. continually. • Group-wide climate and energy targets. • Certified environmental and energy management At 31 December 2010, the Group had outstanding systems. derivative contracts with a notional amount of about • Environmental certification and traceability certification SEK 11 billion and a fair value of SEK 750 million, net. pursuant to the FSC and PEFC forestry standards. The credit risk of derivative transactions is calculated • All certified systems are checked regularly by exterusing risk factors based on historic volatility and the nal, certified auditors. time-to-maturity of the transaction. Calculated on the • Assessment of suppliers and transporters with regard basis of the risk factors and in accordance with the to environmental aspects. Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations • Internal controls of compliance with the power indusfor financial institutions (FFFS 2007:1), Holmen’s total try’s guidelines for dam safety. counterparty risk on derivative contracts amounted to • When industrial facilities are phased out, surveys and SEK 1 628 million at 31 December 2010. The maximum any remediation measures required are performed; credit risk for other financial assets is estimated to the work is carried out in consultation with environ­correspond to their notional amount. mental authorities. 39 Holmen Annual report 2010 The share & shareholders During 2010, the price of Holmen’s class B shares rose by SEK 38 or 21 per cent. Earnings per share equalled SEK 8.4 and a dividend of SEK 7 is proposed. Stock exchange trading Return • The final date for trading in Holmen Holmen was listed on the Stockholm Stock During the past decade, the Holmen share has shares including right to dividend: Exchange in 1936, but was called Mo och yielded a total return, including reinvested divi30 March 2011. Domsjö AB at that time. Holmen’s two series dends, of around 6 per cent per year. During • Record date for dividend: 4 April 2011. of shares are listed on Nasdaq OMX Nordic, that same period, the Affärsvärlden General • Payment date for dividend: 7 April 2011. Large Cap. During the year, the price of Index also returned some 6 per cent per year. Holmen’s class B shares rose by SEK 38.4 Share structure (21 per cent), to SEK 221.4. During the same Earnings per share (EPS) Holmen has 83 996 162 shares outstanding, period the Stockholm stock exchange rose Diluted earnings per share equalled SEK 8.4 of which 22 623 234 are class A shares and by 23 per cent. Holmen’s market capitalisa(12.0). Holmen’s diluted earnings per share 61 372 928 are class B shares. The company tion of SEK 18.5 billion (15.4) represents have averaged SEK 12.6 over the past five also has 760 000 bought-back class B shares some 0.5 per cent of the Stockholm stock years. held in treasury. Each class A share carries exchange’s total value. Holmen’s class B 10 votes, and each B share one vote. In other shares reached their highest closing price for Dividends respects, the shares carry the same rights. the year, SEK 226.3, on 22 December and Decisions on dividends are to be based on an Neither laws nor the company’s articles of the lowest closing price, SEK 172.5, was reappraisal of the Group’s profitability, future association place any restrictions on the corded on 7 May. The daily average number investment plans and financial position. The transferability of the shares. of class B shares traded was 367 000, which Board proposes that the AGM, to be held on corresponds to a value of SEK 71 million. 30 March 2011, approves a dividend of Ownership structure The daily average number of class A shares SEK 7 (7) per share. The proposed dividend Holmen had a total of 28 339 shareholdtraded was 1 500. corresponds to 3.5 per cent of equity. Over ers at year-end 2010. In absolute numbers, Some 80 per cent of the trade took place on the past 10 years the ordinary dividend has Swedish private individuals made up the Nasdaq OMX Nordic. The Holmen share has averaged 5.3 per cent of equity. This means largest category of owners: 25 732 sharealso been traded on other trading platforms, that 67 per cent of earnings per share have holders. This corresponds to 91 per cent of such as BATS, Burgundy, Chi-X and Turquoise. been paid out in ordinary dividends each year. the total number of shareholders. Sharehold40 Holmen Annual report 2010 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Data per share Diluted earnings per share, SEK1) 84 12.0 7.6 17.8 17.2 14.8 15.1 17.5 23.6 26.4 Dividend, ordinary, SEK 7 5) 7 9 12 12 12 12 11 10 10 Dividend, extra, SEK 30 Ordinary dividend as % of: Equity 3 4 5 6 6 6 6 5 6 6 Closing listed price 3 4 5 5 4 4 4 4 5 4 Profit for the year 83 58 118 67 70 74 66 55 45 37 Return, equity, %1) 4 6 4 9 9 8 8 10 14 16 Return, capital employed, %6) 6 7 6 10 10 9 10 12 16 18 Equity per share, SEK 201 196 186 200 196 189 184 192 188 176 Closing listed price, B, SEK 221.4 183 193.5 240 298 262.5 230 255.5 211.5 238.5 Average listed price, B, SEK 195 180 203 277 302 227 228 230 231 226 Highest listed price, B, SEK 226.3 205.5 242 316 335.5 266 264 271 266.5 297.5 Lowest listed price, B, SEK 172.5 135 169.5 228 255 190 210 187.5 192 171 Total closing market capitalisation, SEK ’000 million 18.5 15.4 16.2 20.6 25.3 22.6 19.5 20.4 16.9 19 P/E-ratio2) 26 15 25 13 17 18 15 14 9 9 EV/EBIT3) 6) 18 13 17 12 14 15 12 10 8 7 Closing beta value (48 months), B4) 0.8 0.7 0.5 0.9 1.0 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.7 Number of shareholders at year-end 28 339 30 425 29 745 30 499 32 189 33 320 36 899 30 902 28 544 27 279 1) See page 92: Definitions and glossary. 2) Closing listed price divided by earnings per share. 3) Market capitalisation plus net financial debt at year-end (EV) divided by operating profit (EBIT). 4) Measures the sensitivity of the yield on the B share in relation to the yield on the Affärsvärlden General Index over a period of 48 months. 5) Proposal of the Board. 6) Excl. items affecting comparability and transferred activities. ers registered in Sweden own 77 per cent Share buy-backs Incentive scheme (73) of the share capital. Among foreign The company has no specific target for share In 2008, the Group’s employees were invited shareholders, the largest proportion of buy-backs. A mandate to buy back up to to acquire call options on class B shares in shares are held in the US and the UK, 10 per cent of all the company’s shares has Holmen at market price. As a result, a third accounting for 8 per cent and 6 per cent of applied in recent years. Any buy-backs are of the employees bought a total of 758 300 the capital, respectively. regarded as a complement to dividend paycall options at a price of SEK 20 per option; The largest owner at year-end 2010/2011, ments to adjust the capital structure when their exercise price is SEK 224.50 per share. with 52 per cent of the votes and 28 per cent circumstances have been deemed favourable. Each option entitles the holder to purchase of the capital, was L E Lundbergföretagen The 2010 Annual General Meeting renewed one share during the exercise period in May/ AB, which means that a Group relationthe Board’s mandate to decide on acquisition June 2013. Holmen has secured its commitship exists between L E Lundbergföretagen of up to 10 per cent of the company’s shares. ments in the scheme by buying back shares. AB (corporate ID number 556056-8817), Shares corresponding to about 0.9 per whose registered office is in Stockholm, and cent of the total number of shares were Analysts Holmen. The Kempe Foundations’ holdings bought back in 2008 to secure the comAnalysts at 15 brokerage firms and banks of Holmen shares amounted to 16.9 per cent pany’s commitments under the terms of the moni­tor Holmen’s development. This means of the votes and 7.0 per cent of the capital at incentive scheme (see below). The Board that they publish analyses of Holmen on the same point in time. No other individual proposes that the 2011 AGM also authorises an ongoing basis. A list of these analysts is shareholder controlled as much as 10 per the Board to buy back and transfer up to available on Holmen’s website. cent of the votes. 10 per cent of all shares in the company. The employees have no holdings of ­Holmen shares via a pension fund or similar system. There is no restriction on how many votes each shareholder may cast at the AGM. 41 Holmen Annual report 2010 Ownership structure Share structure share­ Percentage QuoNo. of shares holders of shares No. of No. of tient Share Votes shares votes value SEKm 1 – 1 000 26 138 6 1 001 – 100 000 2 109 17 A 10 22 623 234 226 232 340 50 1 131.2 100 001 – 92 77 B 1 62 132 928 62 132 928 50 3 106.6 Total 28 339 100 Total number of shares 84 756 162 288 365 268 4 237.8 Holding of own B shares bought back -760 000 -760 000 Total number of shares outstanding 83 996 162 287 605 268 Issued call options B shares 758 300 Shareholder categories, percentage of capital Changes in share capital 2000–2010 Change in Total Change in share Total share 23 Swedish institutions no. of shares no. of shares capital, SEKm capital, SEKm 53 Swedish private individuals 2001 Withdrawal of shares Swedish equity funds bought back -8 885 827 79 972 451 -444.3 3 998.6 11 Foreign shareholders 2004 Conversion and subscription 4 783 711 84 756 162 239.2 4 237.8 13 Shareholder structure at 31 December 20101) % of capital % of votes L E Lundbergföretagen 28.0 52.0 Shareholders per country, percentage of capital Kempe Foundations 7.0 16.9 21 Handelsbanken incl. pension fund 3.1 9.1 6 6 Alecta 3.6 1.0 Sweden Silchester International Investors 3.5 1.0 8 US SEB funds 2.9 0.8 77 UK Norway SHB funds 1.7 0.5 Luxembourg The Norwegian Government 1.7 0.5 Other countries Second Swedish National Pension fund 1.4 0.4 Lannebo funds 1.4 0.4 Total 54.2 82.7 Other 45.8 17.3 Total* 100.0 100.0 * of which non-Swedish shareholders 23.0 6.9 1) In February 2011, LE Lundbergföretagen increased its holdings to 31 per cent of the capital and 61 per cent of the votes by acquiring Handelsbanken’s and its pension foundation’s holdings. The 10 identified shareholders with the largest holdings in terms of capital ranked by the number of votes they control. Some large shareholders may have their holdings registered under nominee names, in which case they are included among “Other”. Share price performance for Holmen class A and B and General index Total return of Holmen class B and General index Incl. reinvested dividends, no tax taken into account SEK No of shares (’000s) Index 375 20 000 225 200 325 16 000 175 275 12 000 150 Source: Macrobond 125 225 8 000 100 175 75 4 000 50 125 0 25 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Holmen class A Affärsvärlden General index Holmen class B General index (SIX Return Index) Holmen class B Number of class B shares traded (’000s) 42 Holmen Annual report 2010 Corporate governance report Holmen AB is a Swedish public limited company, listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange (Nasdaq OMX Nordic) since 1936. The stock 10 times exchange incorporated the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code) into its rules for listed companies in 2005. The preparation of a corporate governance report has been mandatory pursuant to the Ten Board meetings were held during the year. At one of them, a visit was paid to Braviken Sawmill Annual Accounts Act since 2010. This corporate governance report which was under construction at the time. complies with the rules of the Code and the directions for its application. Laws and articles of association about registering intention to attend and on the website. The entire Board, the Group First and foremost, Holmen AB is obliged entitlement to participate in and vote at the management and the company’s auditor were to comply with the Swedish Companies Act, meeting, a numbered agenda of the items to present. During the AGM, the shareholders the rules accompanying its listing on Nasdaq be addressed, information on the proposed had the opportunity to ask and obtain anOMX Nordic, Stockholm, and good stock dividend and the main content of other proswers to questions. The topics raised included market practice. The Code is an integral part posals. Shareholders or proxies are entitled integration of sustainability aspects into of the stock exchange’s regulations; it is part to vote for the full number of shares owned Holmen’s product and production strategy of self-regulation in Swedish business and is or represented and can notify the company and purchasing and supplier strategy, the based on the “comply or explain” princiof their intention to attend the AGM via the Group’s wood supply, its target for the debt/ ple. This means that a company complying company’s website and other means. equity ratio and its currency hedges. The with the Code may deviate from individual Notices convening an Extraordinary Annual General Meeting adopted the income rules but must report the reasons for each General Meeting (EGM) called to deal with statement and balance sheet, decided on the deviation. In its operations, Holmen shall the company’s articles of association shall appropriation of profits and granted the also comply with the company’s articles of be sent no earlier than six and no later than departing Board discharge from liability. association. four weeks before the meeting. Notices conMarianne Nilsson from Swedbank Robur vening other EGMs shall be sent no earlier Fonder and Leif Törnvall from Alecta Shareholders than six and no later than two weeks before Pensionsförsäkring checked and approved At year-end, Holmen AB had 28 339 sharethe meeting. Proposals for submission to the the minutes of the meeting. It was not posholders. See pages 40–42 for information on meeting should be addressed to the Board sible to follow or participate in the meeting the share and ownership structure. and submitted in good time before the notice from other locations using communication is distributed. Information about the rights technology. Similarly, no such possibility is General meetings of of shareholders to have matters discussed at planned for the 2011 meeting. ­shareholders the meeting is provided on the website. It was announced on 25 March 2010 The notice convening the Annual General The 2010 AGM was held in Swedish, and that the 2011 AGM would take place in Meeting (AGM) is sent no earlier than six the material presented was in Swedish. The Stockholm on 30 March 2011. and no later than four weeks before the notice convening the meeting, the agenda, the meeting. The notice contains information CEO’s speech and the minutes are available 44 Holmen Annual report 2010 the company’s publication of its quarterly Composition of the nomination committee reports. At one of these meetings, the Board Before AGM: Independent of the: visited Braviken Paper Mill and Braviken largest Name shareholder Sawmill, which was under construction. A (in terms of two-day meeting was devoted to strategic Representing 2010 2011 company votes) business planning. One meeting dealt with Mats Guldbrand L E Lundbergföretagen* x (Chairman) x (Chairman) Yes No the Group’s budget for 2011. The Board also Alice Kempe Kempe Foundations* x Yes Yes paid special attention to strategic, financial Johan Kempff Kempe Foundations* x Yes Yes and accounting issues, follow-up of business Fredrik Lundberg L E Lundbergföretagen* operations and major investment matters. (Chairman of the Board) x x Yes No On two occasions the company’s auditors Håkan Sandberg Handelsbanken ­reported directly to the Board, presenting incl. pension fund* x x Yes Yes their observations from their audit of the * At 31 August 2010, L E Lundbergföretagen controlled 52.0 per cent of the votes, the Kempe Foundations controland the company’s internal control. Attendled 16.9 per cent and Handelsbanken including the pension fund controlled 9.1 per cent. ance levels at the Board meetings were very high. Nomination committee mum period a Board member may serve. The Board evaluates its activities each The 2010 AGM re-elected Fredrik Lundberg, year, and the nomination committee has been The AGM decided to set up a nomination Carl Bennet, Magnus Hall, Carl Kempe, informed of the content of the 2010 evalucommittee to consist of the chairman of the Curt Källströmer, Hans Larsson, Ulf Lundahl ation. This will serve as a basis for planning Board and one representative from each of and Göran Lundin to the Board. Louise the Board’s work in the next few years. the three shareholders in the company that control the most votes at 31 August each Lindh was elected to the Board to replace ­Lillian Fossum, who declined re-election. Group management year. The composition of the nomination Fredrik Lundberg was elected chairman. At The Board has delegated operational responcommittee for the 2010 and 2011 AGMs is the statu­tory first meeting of the new Board sibility for management of the company and shown in the table. in 2010, Carl Kempe was elected deputy the Group to the CEO. The Board annuThe nomination committee’s mandate is to chairman and Lars Ericson, the company’s ally decides on instructions covering the submit proposals for election of Board memgeneral counsel, was appointed secretary of distribution of tasks between the Board and bers and the Board chairman, for the Board the Board. Over and above the nine members the CEO. fee and auditing fees and, where applicable, for election of auditors. The committee’s elected by the AGM, the local labour organi­ proposals are presented in the notice con­ sations have a statutory right to appoint vening the AGM. three members and three deputy members. ShareThe nomination committee proposes to Eight AGM-elected members are deemed holders the 2011 AGM the re-election of the board independent of the company as defined by members Fredrik Lundberg (who is also the Code. Of these, three are also deemed proposed for re-election as Chairman of independent of the company’s major the Board), Carl Bennet, Magnus Hall, shareholders. The largest shareholders, each Carl Kempe, Hans Larsson, Louise Lindh, controlling more than 10 per cent of the General votes, are L E Lundbergföretagen and the meeting of Nomination Ulf Lundahl and Göran Lundin. Kempe Foundations. The CEO is the only shareholders committee Curt Källströmer has declined re-election. The nomination committee also proposes Board member with an operational position that the AGM elects Lars G Josefsson as a in the company. new board member. Information about the members of the The proposed Board fee is SEK 2 700 000 Board is provided on pages 48–49. (previous year 2 475 000), including Board of Remuneration SEK 600 000 (550 000) for the chairman The Board’s activities Directors committee and SEK 300 000 (275 000) for each of the The activities of the Board follow a plan Auditors other members. The CEO does not receive a that, among other things, is to ensure that Board fee. the Board obtains all requisite information. Each year the Board decides on written Composition of the Board working procedures and issues written The members of the Board are elected each instructions relating to the division of Five Group CEO staffs year by the AGM for the period until the responsibilities between the Board and the end of the next AGM. According to the CEO and the information that the Board is company’s articles of association, the Board to receive continually on financial developGroup shall have 7–11 members, and they are to be ments and other key events. Employees of managethe company participate in Board meetings ment elected at the AGM. The company’s articles of association contain no other rules regardto submit reports. The secretary of the Board Five ing the appointment or dismissal of Board is the company’s general counsel. business members or regarding amendments to the The Board held 10 meetings in 2010, areas articles. There is no rule regarding the maxifour of which were in connection with 45 Holmen Annual report 2010 Holmen’s Group management consists of strat­egies into action plans and activities on remuneration in consultation with the 11 individuals: the CEO, the heads of the that can be measured and evaluated. These relevant personnel manager. five business areas and the heads of the five business plans are important to the longAt the 2010 AGM, an account was Group staffs. term strategic control of the Group. Annual given of the Board’s proposed guidelines Group management met on 13 occabudgets, forecasts and action plans are used on remun­eration to the CEO and other sions in 2010, dealing with matters such for day-to-day management of operations. members of senior management. The AGM as earnings trends and reports before and Various business processes, such as sales, adopted the guidelines in the proposal. The after Board meetings, business plans, budget, purchasing and production, are used to manBoard is proposing unchanged guidelines to investments, internal control, policies and age operational activities at business area the 2011 AGM; they are presented in note reviews of market conditions, general devellevel with a view to achieving the business 4 on page 64. opment of the economy and other external targets and implementing the agreed action The 2010 AGM approved the Board fee factors affecting the business. Projects relatplans. and payment of the auditors’ fee as invoiced. ing to business areas and Group staffs were The results are followed up through reguIn 2008, the Group’s employees were also discussed and decided on. lar financial reports, and approved measures invited to acquire call options on class B Information on the CEO and other memare reviewed through additional follow-ups. shares in ­Holmen at market price. One third bers of Group management is provided on of all employees bought a total of 758 300 page 48-49. Remuneration call options. Holmen’s commitments pursuThe Board has appointed a remuneration ant to this scheme were secured by buying Internal management processes committee consisting of Fredrik Lundberg back some of the company’s own shares. See Management at H ­ olmen is based on the and Hans Larsson. The committee held the section on the share and shareholders on business concept, strategies and goals of several meetings during the year at which it page 41 for more details. The 2010 AGM the Group and the business areas. Under prepared matters pertaining to the remunerarenewed the Board’s authorisation to decide the Board, CEO and Group management, tion and other employment conditions of the on buying back up to 10 per cent of the responsibility for operational activities has CEO and proposals for decisions. Remucompany’s total shares. No buy-backs took been decentralised to five business areas. The neration and other employment conditions place in 2010. Group staffs are in charge of coordinating of senior management who report directly to Information about remuneration is procertain matters, such as business administrathe CEO are decided by the latter in accordvided in note 4 on pages 64-65. tion and finance, human resources, legal ance with a pay policy established by the affairs, techno­logy and public relations. remuneration committee. Audit The Group uses annual, rolling, three-year The Group applies the principle that each KPMG, which has been Holmen’s auditor business plans to break down goals and manager’s manager must approve decisions since 1995, was elected by the 2008 AGM as Board members as from the 2010 AGM Independent of the: Attendance major at board Name Function Elected Committees company shareholders meetings Board members Fredrik Lundberg Chairman 1988 Remuneration committee Yes No 10/10 Carl Kempe Dep. Chairman 1983 Yes No 10/10 Carl Bennet Member 2009 Yes No 10/10 Curt Källströmer Member 2006 Yes Yes 10/10 Hans Larsson Member 1990 Remuneration committee Yes Yes 10/10 Louise Lindh Member 2010 Yes No 9/10 Ulf Lundahl Member 2004 Yes No 10/10 Göran Lundin Member 2001 Yes Yes 10/10 Magnus Hall Member, president and CEO 2004 No Yes 10/10 Total 8/9 4/9 Representatives of the employees Steewe Björklundh Member 1998 Kenneth Johansson Member 2004 Karin Norin Member 1999 Martin Nyman Dep. member 2010 Daniel Stridsman Dep. member 2010 Tommy Åsenbrygg Dep. member 2009 46 Holmen Annual report 2010 Internal management processes Business plan, Business concept, budget, Results, strategy and forecasts, Business reporting, goals and action plans processes follow-up auditor for a period of four years. KPMG has and rules that apply to companies listed on plant and equipment as well as to financial since appointed George Pettersson, author­ised the ­Stockholm stock exchange and the local transactions. public accountant, as the principal auditor rules in each country where the company Holmen has no separate internal auditing for Holmen. KPMG audits Holmen AB and operates. In addition to external rules and function. The Board does not believe that almost all of its subsidiaries. recommendations, financial reporting is also specific circumstances in the business or other The interim accounts are examined covered by internal instructions, directions conditions exist to justify having such a for the January–September period. The and systems, as well as internal distribution function. In 2008 the company introduced a examination of internal procedures and of roles and responsibilities with the object type of audit procedure in which experienced control systems begins in the second quarter of ensuring sound internal control over accountants and controllers in the Group and is thereafter ongoing to year-end. The financial reporting. Financial reports are preexamine the internal control procedures of examination and audit of the final annual pared quarterly and monthly in the Group other Group units. accounts and the annual report take place and its business areas, units and subsidiaries. in January–­February. The interim report for Resultat, Forecasts and extensive analyses, along with Investor relations Affärsidé, January–­September is subject to review by rapportering, comments, are provided in connection with Holmen’s information to shareholders and the auditors. strategi och mål uppföljning the reports to help ensure the accuracy of other stakeholders is provided in the annual Holmen allows the Board to perform duthe financial reports. Financial functions and report, the year-end and interim reports and ties that would otherwise be performed by controllers with functional responsibility for press releases. All are available on the coman audit committee. The Board’s reporting accounting, reporting and analysis of finanpany’s website. The website also contains instructions include requirements that the cial developments operate at Group level, at presentation materials for recent years and Verksamhetsmembers of the Board shall receive a report each year from the auditors on whether business area level and at major units. The audit includes the annual statutory information on corporate governance. The provision of information by the company plan, budget, the company’s organisation is structured to audit of Holmen AB’s annual report, the complies with an information policy estabprognoser och enable satisfactory supervision of accountstatutory audit of the parent company and lished by the Board. handlingsplan ing, management of funds and other aspects of the company’s financial circumstances. all subsidiaries (where so required), the audit Affärsprocesser of internal reporting packages, an audit of In 2010 the auditors reported to the entire the final accounts and a review of one inBoard at two meetings. Over and above this, terim report. Reviews of the internal control the auditors reported to the Board chairman system are used in this work. and the CEO on one occasion and to the Holmen’s internal control activities aim to CEO at another two meetings. Verksamhetsensure that the Group lives up to its objecIn addition to the audit assignment, plan, budget, tives for financial reporting (see box). These Holmen has consulted KPMG on matters pertaining to taxation, accounting and prognoser och activities are based on a common set of instructions and common checklists for key Affärsprocesser investigations, and in some countries also handlingsplan procedures and processes for the Group’s ­Holmen’s on matters of business law. The remuneration paid to KPMG for 2010 is stated in note 5 on financial reporting. The structure adheres to guidelines issued by the Committee of Goals financial ­reporting page 65. KPMG is required to assess its indeSponsoring Organizations of the Treadpendence before making decisions on whether way Commission (COSO) for small listed Holmen’s external financial reporting shall: to provide Holmen with independent advice companies in respect of internal control • be correct and complete, and comply Resultat, alongside its audit assignment. over financial reporting. COSO’s guidelines contain 20 principles in five areas: control with appli­cable laws, regulations and ­recommendations Internal controlrapportering, Affärsidé, environment, risk assessment, control activi• provide a true and fair description of the uppföljning The Board’s responsibility for internal strategi och mål ties, information and communication, and ­company’s business • support a reasoned and informed v­ aluation control is laid out in the Swedish Compafollow-up. They have been modified to suit of the business. nies Act, and internal control related to the estimated needs of Holmen’s various Internal financial reporting shall, over and financial reporting is covered by the Board’s operations. Holmen’s greatest risks regardabove these three goals, support correct reporting instructions to the CEO. Holmen’s ing financial reporting are linked to the ­business decisions at all levels in the Group. financial reporting complies with the laws valuation of biological assets and property, 47 Holmen Annual report 2010 Board of Directors Fredrik Lundberg Carl Kempe Carl Bennet Steewe Björklundh Magnus Hall Kenneth Johansson Curt Källströmer Hans Larsson Louise Lindh Ulf Lundahl Göran Lundin Karin Norin Martin Nyman Daniel Stridsman Tommy Åsenbrygg Group management Magnus Hall Ingela Carlsson Lars Ericson Thommy Haglund Anders Jernhall Sven Wird Brynolf Björn Kvick Håkan Lindh Sören Petersson Arne Wallin Alexandersson 48 Holmen Annual report 2010 Board of Directors “Shareholding” refers to shares in Holmen AB. Fredrik Lundberg Chairman. Djursholm. Born in Industrikraft i Sverige AB. Board member of the Tidningar AB. Board member: Lorentzen & Wettre 1951. Member since 1988. Master of Engineering Linköping University. Own and related parties’ AB and Fastighets AB L E Lundberg. Shareholding: and B.Sc. (Econ.). D. Econ h.c. and D. Eng. h.c. ­shareholding: 12 698 shares, 14 450 call options. 1 000 shares. President and CEO of L E Lundbergföretagen AB. Kenneth J ­ ohansson Söderköping. Born in 1958. Karin Norin Forsa. Born in 1950. Member since Other significant appointments: Chairman of the Member since 2004. Representative of the emp2009. Representative of the employees, PTK. Boards of Cardo AB and Hufvudstaden AB. Deputy loyees, LO. Section chairman of Paperbranch 53, Chairman of Unionen Gävleborg and Unionen chairman of Svenska Handelsbanken AB. Board Holmen Paper Braviken. Shareholding: 500 call opHolmen-Iggesund. Member of Unionen’s delegation member: L E Lundbergföretagen AB, AB Industions. Related parties’ shareholding: 500 call options. ‘‘Industry 1’’. Shareholding: 200 call options. Related trivärden and Sandvik AB. Shareholding: Curt Källströmer Stockholm. Born in 1941. parties’ shareholding: 200 call options. 734 724 shares. Shareholding of L E LundbergMember since 2006. Higher banking degree. Other företagen: 23 511 000 shares.* significant appointments: Chairman of the Boards of Carl Kempe Deputy chairman. Örnsköldsvik. Born Deputy members Umeå School of Business. Board member: Stock­ in 1939. Member since 1983. Licentiate in EngineerMartin Nyman Iggesund. Born 1978. Deputy holmsmässan AB, SBC AB, Wåhlin Fastigheter AB, ing. Dr. h.c. mult. Other significant appointments: member since 2010. Representative of the Royal College of Music in Stockholm and Chairman of the Boards of the Kempe Foundations, employees, LO. Chairman of Paperbranch 15, AB Skrindan. Shareholding: 600 shares. MoRe Research AB, UPSC Berzelii Centre for Forest Iggesund. Shareholding: 0 shares. Hans Larsson Stockholm. Born in 1942. Member Biotechnology, Elforest AB and the Swedish IIASA Daniel Stridsman Norrköping. Born 1979. Deputy since 1990. B.A. Other significant appointments: committee. Own and related parties’ shareholding: member since 2010. Certified forester. Production Chairman of the Boards of Svenska Handelsbanken 385 125 shares. manager Holmen Skog, region Norrköping. AB, Nobia AB, Attendo AB and Valedo Partners Carl Bennet Gothenburg. Born in 1951. Member Representative of the employees, PTK. Chairman of Fund 1 AB. Member of the board of AB Industri­ since 2009. B.Sc. (Economics). D. Tech. h.c Former Akademikerföreningen Holmen Skog. Other värden. Shareholding: 1 000 shares. President and CEO of Getinge AB. Chairman of the significant appointments: Deputy chairman of Louise Lindh Stockholm. Born 1979. Member since Boards of Getinge AB, Elanders AB and Lifco AB. Skogsakademikerna. Share­holding: 200 call options. 2010. MBA. Executive vice president Fastighets AB Other significant appointments: Chairman of the Related parties’ shareholding: 200 call options. L E Lundberg. Other significant appointments: Board Board: University of Gothenburg. Board member: Tommy Åsenbrygg Hallstavik. Born in 1968. member of Hufvudstaden AB and L E LundbergföreL E Lund­bergföretagen AB and SSAB. Shareholding: Deputy member since 2009. Representative of the tagen. Shareholding: 100 000 shares. 100 000 shares. employees, PTK. Deputy chairman in Ledarna, Ulf Lundahl Lidingö. Born in 1952. Member since Steewe Björklundh Hudiksvall. Born in 1958. Hallstavik. Shareholding: 100 shares. 2004. B.A. in Legal Science and B.Sc. (Econ). ExecuMember since 1998. Representative of the tive VP and deputy CEO of L E Lundbergföretagen employees, LO. Chairman of the GS Union at AB. Other significant appointments: Board member: Auditors Iggesund Sawmill. Shareholding: 200 call options. Brandkontoret, Indutrade AB, Cardo AB, Husqvarna KPMG AB, Principal auditor: George Pettersson Magnus Hall Stockholm. Born in 1959. Member AB and SHB ­Regional Bank Stockholm. ShareholdAuthorised public accountant since 2004. M.Sc. (Industrial Engineering). President ing: 4 000 shares. and CEO.Other significant appointments: Chairman Göran Lundin Norrköping. Born in 1940. Member of the Swedish Forest Industries Federation. Chairsince 2001. Engineer. Other significant appoint*As of 7 February 2011, the holding comprises man of the Board of BasEl i Sverige AB and ments: Chairman of the Board: Norr­köpings 26 122 000 shares. Group management “Shareholding” refers to shares in Holmen AB. Magnus Hall President and CEO. Born in 1959. Thommy Haglund Head of Group Human Björn Kvick Head of Iggesund Paperboard. Born in Joined Holmen in 1985. Own and related parties’ Resources. Born in 1950. Joined Holmen in 2001. 1950. Joined Holmen in 1983. Shareholding: shareholding: 12 698 shares, 14 450 call options. Shareholding: 500 shares, 4 000 call options. 4 000 call options. Magnus Hall has no significant shareholdings and no Anders Jernhall CFO, head of Group Finance. Håkan Lindh Head of Holmen Timber. Born in ownership in companies with whom the Group has Born in 1970. Joined Holmen in 1997. 1964. Joined Holmen in 1994. Shareholding: important business relations. For further information Shareholding: 500 shares, 2 000 call options. 2 000 call options. about the CEO, see above. Sven Wird Head of Group Technology. Born in Sören Petersson Head of Holmen Skog. Born in Ingela Carlsson Head of Group Public Relations 1951. Joined Holmen in 1995. 1969. Joined Holmen in 1994. Shareholding: Born in 1962. Joined Holmen in 2008. Shareholding : 50 shares, 4 000 call options. 2 300 shares, 2000 call options. Shareholding: 4 000 call options. Brynolf Alexandersson Head of Holmen Energi. Arne Wallin Head of Holmen Paper. Born in 1954. Lars Ericson Head of Group Legal Affairs. ComBorn in 1957. Joined Holmen in 2007. Joined Holmen in 1988. Shareholding: pany Board secretary. Born in 1959. Joined Holmen Shareholding: 4 000 call options. 4 000 call options. in 1988. Shareholding: 4 000 call options. 49 Holmen Annual report 2010 Financial statements Income statement GROUP, SEKm note 2010 2009 Net sales 2 17 581 18 071 Other operating income 3 862 600 Change in inventories 0 -381 Raw materials and consumables -9 800 -9 017 Staff costs 4 -2 689 -2 662 Other operating costs 5, 20 -3 616 -3 709 Depreciation and amortisation according to plan 9, 10 -1 251 -1 320 Impairment losses 9, 10 -555 -22 Change in value of biological assets 11 1 102 16 Interest in earnings of associates 12 -38 45 Operating profit 1 596 1 620 Finance income 6 12 12 Finance costs 6 -220 -267 Profit before tax 1 388 1 366 Tax 7 -684 -360 Profit for the year 704 1 006 Attributable to: owners of the parent company 704 1 006 Earnings per share (SEK) 8 basic 8.4 12.0 diluted 8.4 12.0 Average number of shares (million) 8 basic 84.0 84.0 diluted 84.0 84.0 Operating profit reached SEK 1 596 million (1 620). This figure Net financial items for 2010 amounted to SEK -208 million (-255). in­cludes revaluation of forests (SEK +1 050 million) as a result of During the year, interest costs of SEK 24 million (1) were capitalised ­changed price assumptions as well as impairment losses on in conjunction with major investment projects and thereby reduced property, plant and equipment in Holmen Paper’s Spanish operation the recognised interest costs. The average borrowing cost rose to (SEK 555 million) and provisions for restructuring costs at Holmen 3.9 per cent (3.5), while average net debt was lower than during the Paper (SEK 231 million). pre­ceding year. Tax recognised totalled SEK -684 million (-360) in 2010. In relation to profit before tax, recognised tax amounts to Operating profit excluding the above items decreased by 49 per cent, which is substantially higher than usual. This is due to SEK 288 million to SEK 1 332 million due to weak earnings at ­Holmen the negative result and impairment losses in the Spanish operation, Paper resulting from lower newsprint prices and higher costs for for which no tax asset was recorded. recovered fibre. Earnings for the other parts of the Group improved. 50 Holmen Annual report 2010 Statement of comprehensive income GROUP, SEKm note 2010 2009 Profit for the year 704 1 006 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Cash flow hedging Revaluation 827 567 Transferred from equity to the income statement -161 343 Transferred from equity to non-current assets 21 -1 Actuarial gains and losses in respect of pensions, incl. special employer’s contributions 97 15 Translation difference on foreign operation -631 -256 Hedging of currency risk in foreign operation 472 254 Tax attributable to other comprehensive income 7 -333 -310 Total other comprehensive income 292 613 Total comprehensive income 996 1 619 Attributable to: owners of the parent company 996 1 619 Other comprehensive income reached SEK 292 million (613). It A translation difference on foreign operations is also included, which includes a positive revaluation of transaction hedges as a result of a was above all affected by the stronger krona against the euro. This stronger Swedish krona against the euro, accompanied by the fact impact was partly counteracted by the results of hedging equity in that transaction hedges with a negative fair value expired during the foreign subsidiaries. year. 51 Holmen Annual report 2010 Balance sheet GROUP at 31 december, SEKm note 2010 2009 Non-current assets Intangible non-current assets 9 19 27 Property, plant and equipment 10 11 877 12 473 Biological assets 11 12 161 11 109 Interests in associates 12 1 748 1 770 Other shares and participating interests 12 12 10 Non-current financial receivables 13 188 151 Deferred tax assets 7 210 304 Total non-current assets 26 216 25 845 Current assets Inventories 14 3 340 2 850 Trade receivables 15 2 518 2 712 Current tax receivable 7 4 22 Other operating receivables 15 1 088 490 Current financial receivables 13 73 74 Cash and cash equivalents 13 193 182 Total current assets 7 216 6 331 Total assets 33 432 32 176 Equity 16 Share capital 4 238 4 238 Other contributed capital 281 281 Reserves 153 -70 Retained earnings incl. profit for the year 12 241 12 056 Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 16 913 16 504 Non-current liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 13 3 666 3 472 Pension provisions 17 213 320 Other provisions 7, 18 459 1 102 Deferred tax liabilities 7 5 910 5 045 Total non-current liabilities 10 247 9 939 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 13 2 349 2 298 Trade payables 19 2 453 1 911 Current tax liability 7 112 102 Provisions 18 270 274 Other operating liabilities 19 1 088 1 149 Total current liabilities 6 273 5 733 Total liabilities 16 520 15 672 Total equity and liabilities 33 432 32 176 For information on the Group’s pledged collateral and contingent liabilities see note 21. Impairment losses of SEK 555 million on non-current assets in assets in Spain was recognised. Other operating receivables and Spain were recognised during the year. The year’s investments in other operating liabilities include derivatives used to hedge foreign non-current assets mainly comprised the new sawmill at Braviken currency flows. In net terms, the fair value of these items rose, mainly and the new recovery boiler and turbine at Iggesund Mill. Biological because the Swedish krona was strengthened against the euro. The assets were revalued during the year, resulting in a SEK 1 050 million payment of tax regarding the ongoing tax case reduced other proviincrease in value. This entailed a SEK 276 million increase in deferred sions by SEK 611 million during the year. tax liability. No deferred tax asset for impairment loss on non-current 52 Holmen Annual report 2010 Changes in equity Reserves Other Retained earn­ contri­b­uted Translation Hedge ings incl. profit Total GROUP, SEKm Share capital capital reserve reserve for the year equity Opening equity 1 Jan 2009 4 238 281 94 -767 11 795 15 641 Profit for the year 1 006 1 006 Other comprehensive income -68 670 11 613 Total comprehensive income -68 670 1 017 1 619 Dividends paid -756 -756 Closing equity 31 Dec 2009 4 238 281 26 -96 12 056 16 504 Profit for the year 704 704 Other comprehensive income -283 506 69 292 Total comprehensive income -283 506 773 996 Dividends paid -588 -588 Closing equity 31 Dec 2010 4 238 281 -256 409 12 241 16 913 In 2010, the Group’s equity increased by SEK 409 million, to SEK 16 translation of assets in foreign entities as well as tax on these items. In 913 million. Profit for the year amounted to SEK 704 million, and the 2010, other comprehensive income reached SEK 292 million, which dividend paid was SEK 588 million. Other comprehensive income is is mainly attributable to the stronger Swedish krona against the euro additional and consists of items such as revaluation of pension liability, having a positive impact on the fair value of outstanding transaction currency revaluation of loans, revaluation of transaction hedges and hedges. 53 Holmen Annual report 2010 Cash flow statement GROUP, SEKm note 2010 2009 Operating activities Profit before tax 25 1 388 1 366 Adjustments for non-cash items Depreciation and amortisation according to plan 1 251 1 320 Impairment 555 22 Change in value of biological assets -1 102 -16 Change in provisions 174 15 Other * -67 -179 Paid income taxes -704 -334 Cash flow from operating activities 1 495 2 195 before changes in working capital Cash flow from changes in working capital Change in inventories -428 621 Change in trade receivables and other operating receivables -139 445 Change in trade payables and other operating liabilities 595 -389 Cash flow from operating activities 1 523 2 873 Investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -1 648 -747 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 95 28 Acquisition of intangible non-current assets 0 0 Acquisition of biological assets -8 -5 Disposal of biological assets 12 5 Increase in non-current financial receivables -14 -107 Repayment of non-current financial receivables 3 3 Acquisition of shares and participating interests -36 -6 Disposal of shares and participating interests 0 12 Cash flow from investing activities -1 597 -818 Financing activities Raised long-term loans 500 1 492 Repayments of long-term loans -959 -584 Change in current financial liabilities 25 1 141 -2 672 Change in current financial receivables -1 -1 Dividends paid to the owners of the parent company -588 -756 Cash flow from financing activities 93 -2 522 Cash flow for the year 19 -467 Opening cash and cash equivalents 182 653 Exchange difference in cash and cash equivalents -8 -4 Closing cash and cash equivalents 193 182 * Other adjustments primarily consist of currency effects and the marking to market of financial instruments, profit/loss from associates, reversals of impairment losses on non-current assets as well as gains/losses on the sale of non-current assets. The Group’s cash flow from operating activities amounted to Loans raised refer to one five-year and one seven-year bank loan. SEK 1 523 million. Income taxes paid in 2010 include SEK 611 million Amortisation payments of two MTN loans and two bank loans were regarding the ongoing tax case. made during the year. The Group also raised SEK 1 019 million, net, under the commercial paper programme; also see note 25. Dividends The year’s investments in non-current assets were largely for the of SEK 588 million were paid to shareholders during the year. new sawmill at Braviken and the new recovery boiler and turbine at Iggesund Mill. 54 Holmen Annual report 2010 2010 2009 Change in net financial debt Opening net financial debt -5 683 -7 504 Cash flow Operating activities 1 523 2 873 Investing activities (excl. non-current financial receivables) -1 585 -714 Dividends paid -588 756 Actuarial revaluation of pension liability 94 13 Foreign exchange currency effects and changes in fair value 468 405 Closing net financial debt -5 772 -5 683 The Group’s net financial debt rose by SEK 89 million during the year. effects and changes in fair value – primarily because of the stronger In addition to cash flow, net debt was affected by SEK 94 million due Swedish krona. to actuarial revaluations, and by SEK 468 million due to currency 55 Holmen Annual report 2010 Parent company INCOME STATEMENT, SEKm note 2010 2009 CASH FLOW STATEMENT, note 2010 2009 SEKm Net sales 2 13 338 13 436 Operating activities Other operating income 3 652 447 Profit after financial items 25 726 1 607 Change in inventories 35 -368 Adjustments for non-cash items Raw materials and consumables -7 515 -6 791 Depreciation and amortisation Staff costs 4 -1 999 -1 929 according to plan 30 27 Other external costs 5,20 -4 029 -3 907 Change in provisions 136 -98 Depreciation and amortisation Other * -441 31 according to plan 9,10 -30 -27 Paid income taxes -111 -323 Operating profit 453 861 Cash flow from operating Income from interests in Group ­activities before changes ​ companies 6 14 1 156 in working capital 339 1 244 Income from interests in associates 6 0 0 Cash flow from changes in working capital Interest income and similar income 6 12 18 Change in inventories -415 523 Impairment losses on financial Change in operating receivables -77 392 non-current assets 6,23 -436 Change in operating liabilities 647 -298 Interest costs and similar costs 6 246 8 Cash flow from operating Profit after financial items 725 1 607 ­activities 493 1 861 Appropriations 24 -155 388 Investing activities Profit before tax 570 1 995 Shareholders’ contribution paid -34 -329 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -40 -40 Tax 7 -198 -331 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 12 8 Profit for the year 372 1 664 Increase in external non-current financial receivables 0 -1 Repayment of external non-current financial receivables -2 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE 2010 2009 Acquisition of shares and INCOME, SEKm ­participating interests -2 Profit for the year 372 1 664 Disposal of shares and participating interests 14 Other comprehensive income Cash flow from investing activities -50 -363 Cash flow hedges Revaluation 1 086 516 Financing activities Raised external long-term loans 500 1 492 Transferred from equity to the income statement -184 403 Repayments of external long-term loans -591 -563 Transferred from equity to Change in other financial liabilities 25 1 238 -4 124 non-current assets 21 -1 Change in other financial receivables -983 1 132 Tax attributable to other compreDividends paid to the owners hensive income -243 -242 of the parent company -588 -756 Total other comprehensive Group contributions received 456 866 income 680 677 Group contributions paid -464 Total comprehensive income 1 053 2 341 Cash flow from financing The parent company includes Holmen’s Swedish operations, with the ­activities -432 -1 952 exception of Holmen Energi Elhandel AB and the majority of the nonCash flow for the year 11 -454 current assets, which are instead recognised in Holmens Bruk AB. Opening cash and cash equivalents 88 542 The item interest costs and similar costs in the income statement Closing cash and cash includes gains of SEK 472 million on hedging equity in foreign subsidi­equivalents 99 88 aries. * Other adjustments primarily consist of currency effects and the marking to market of financial instruments, impairment losses on non-current assets as well as gains/losses on the sale of non-current assets. 56 Holmen Annual report 2010 BALANCE SHEET note 2010 2009 BALANCE SHEET note 2010 2009 at 31 December, SEKm at 31 December, SEKm Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets Equity 16 Intangible non-current assets 9 12 15 Restricted equity Property, plant and equipment 10 2 601 2 590 Share capital 4 238 4 238 Financial non-current assets Statutory reserve 1 577 1 577 Shares and participations 12, 23 14 438 14 411 Revaluation reserve 100 100 Non-current financial receivables 13 2 615 2 629 Non-restricted equity Total non-current assets 19 666 19 645 Retained earnings incl. hedge reserve 4 863 3 112 Profit for the year 372 1 664 Current assets Total equity 11 149 10 691 Inventories 14 2 705 2 142 Operating receivables 15 3 019 2 371 Untaxed reserves 24 2 518 2 363 Current investments 13 73 74 Provisions Cash and cash equivalents 13 99 88 Pension provisions 17 68 43 Total current assets 5 896 4 675 Tax provisions 7,18 45 45 Total assets 25 562 24 320 Other provisions 18 695 559 Deferred tax liability 7 855 538 Total provisions 1 663 1 185 Liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 13 4 962 5 652 Current financial liabilities 13 2 343 1 916 Current tax liabilities 7 104 94 Operating liabilities 19 2 821 2 419 Total liabilities 10 231 10 081 Total equity and liabilities 25 562 24 320 Pledged collateral and contingent liabilities Pledged collateral 21 6 6 Contingent liabilities 21 177 688 Changes in equity, SEKm Restricted equity Non-restricted equity ReProfit/ Total Share Statutory valuation Hedge Retained Loss for equity ­capital ­reserve ­reserve reserve earnings the year Opening equity 1 Jan 2009 4 238 1 577 100 -826 3 815 -436 8 468 Appropriation of profits -436 436 Profit for the year 1 664 1 664 Other comprehensive income 677 677 Total comprehensive income 677 1 664 2 341 Group contributions recieved 638 638 Dividends paid -756 -756 Closing equity 31 Dec 2009 4 238 1 577 100 -149 3 261 1 664 10 691 Appropriation of profits 1 664 -1 664 Profit for the year 372 372 Other comprehensive income 680 680 Total comprehensive income 680 372 1 053 Group contributions received 336 336 Group contributions paid -342 -342 Dividends paid -588 -588 Closing equity 31 Dec 2010 4 238 1 577 100 531 4 331 372 11 149 57 Holmen Annual report 2010 Notes to the financial statements Amounts in SEKm, except where otherwise stated. Note 1. Accounting policies The accounting policies for the Group presented below have been applied consistently Segment reporting to all periods included in the Group’s financial statements except where otherwise The Group’s operations are divided into operating segments, based on which parts of stated below. The Group’s accounting policies have been applied consistently to the the operation the company’s highest executive decision-maker follows up, known as reporting by and the consolidation of the parent company, sub­sidiaries and associates. the management approach. The segmentation criterion is based on the Group’s business areas. This agrees with the Group’s operating structure and the internal reporting to the CEO and the Board. The items recognised in the profit,, assets and liabilities Compliance with standards and statutory of the operating segment are measured in accordance with the profit, assets and requirements liabilities that the company’s highest executive decision-maker follows up. See note 2 The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International for more details of the classification and presentation of operating segments. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the interpretative recommendations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), which have been approved Classification etc by the EU. The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation (RFR 1 SupSubstantially, non-current assets, non-current liabilities and provisions consist solely plementary Accounting Rules for Groups) has also been applied. of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid more than 12 months after The parent company applies the same accounting policies as the Group except in the the balance sheet date. Substantially, current assets and current ­liabilities consist of cases that are commented on separately under each section. The parent company’s amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within12 months of the balance accounts are prepared in accordance with RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. The sheet date. differences between the policies applied by the parent company and those applied by the Group are due to restrictions in the parent company’s possibilities of applying IFRS as a consequence of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Tryggandelagen (a Swedish Consolidation principles act safeguarding pension obligations), and in some cases due to tax reasons. Subsidiaries A subsidiary is a company over which the parent company, Holmen AB, exer­cises control. Control means the right, directly or indirectly, to formulate a com­pany’s Valuation principles applied in preparing the financial and operative strategies with the object of obtaining economic benefits. In the determination of whether one company has control over another, potential shares financial statements of the parent company and with an entitlement to vote and that can be exercised or converted at short notice are the Group taken into account. Assets and liabilities are stated at acquisition cost, except for biological assets and certain financial assets and liabilities, which are valued at fair value. In the parent The consolidated financial statements are prepared using the acquisition method, company, biological assets are not valued at fair value. whereby the parent company indirectly acquires the assets and assumes the liabilities of the subsidiary, valued at fair value. The difference between the acquisition cost of the shares and the fair value of the acquired identifiable net assets is treated as goodFunctional currency and reporting currency will. The subsidiary companies’ income and expenses, and their assets and liabilities, The functional currency is the currency used in the primary financial environments in are stated in the consolidated financial statements as of the date when the Group which the companies conduct their business. The parent company’s functional curgains control (acquisition date) until such time as the Group no longer has control. rency is the Swedish krona, (SEK), which is also the reporting currency of the parent Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, transactions between companies in the Group company and the Group. This means that the financial statements are presented in and therewith related unrealised gains are eliminated in their entirety. Swedish kronor. Associates Shareholdings in associates, in which the Group controls a minimum of 20 per cent and a maximum of 50 per cent of the votes, or otherwise exercises a significant influAssessments and estimates in the financial ence, are stated in accordance with the equity method. ­statements The equity method means that the carrying amount of the shares in the associates Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRSs requires the company’s stated in the consolidated accounts corresponds to the Group’s interest in the associmanagement to make assessments and estimates, as well as to make assumptions ates’ equity and any fair value adjustments arising upon consolidation. The Group’s that affect the application of the accounting policies and the recognised amounts interest in the net earnings of associates after tax attributable to parent company for assets, liabilities, income and costs. The actual outcome may deviate from these owners adjusted for any amortisation or reversal of acquired fair value adjustments, assessments and estimates. respectively is stated in the consolidated income statement as “Interest in earnings of The estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. Changes in estimates are recassociates”. Dividends received from the associates reduce the carrying amount of the ognised in the accounts for the period in which the change is made if the change only investment. Unrealised gains arising as a consequence of transactions with associates affects that period, or in the period the change is made and in later periods if the change are eliminated in relation to the owned share of capital. affects current and coming periods. See also note 26 Key ­assessments and estimates. When the Group’s interest in the recognised losses of the associates exceeds the carrying amount of the interests stated in the consolidated accounts, the value of the interests is written down to zero. Losses are also offset against unsecured long-term Changes in accounting policies financial balances that, in financial terms, consist of part of the owning company’s New or amended IFRSs effective as of 2010 had no material impact on the consolinet investment in the associates. Any further losses are not recognised unless the dated accounts. Group has provided guarantees to cover losses incurred by the associates. The equity Amendments to Recommendation RFR 2, issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting method is applied until such time as the significant influence no longer exists. Board, as a result of an amendment to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL), entailed greater demands on disclosures about fees and compensation for expenses to auditors for the Group and parent company. These disclosure requirements affect Foreign currency note 5 and comparative data have been provided. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the New and amended accounting policies applicable as of 2011 exchange rates prevailing on the transaction dates. Monetary assets and liabilities A number of new or amended IFRSs are not effective until the coming financial year, in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at closing rates. and Holmen has opted not to apply any of these standards in advance. There is simiExchange differences arising on such translations are stated in the income statement. larly no plan to apply new or amended standards effective as of financial years after Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are stated at historical acquisition cost are 2011 in advance. New or amended IFRSs effective as of 2011 are not judged to have translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the transaction date. any material impact on the financial statements. 58 Holmen Annual report 2010 Financial statements of foreign operations decided on, or to all intents and purposes have been decided on at the balance sheet The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and other fair value date. This also includes any adjustment to current tax attributable to previous periods. adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated in the consolidated financial Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet method on the basis of temporary statements, from the foreign operation’s functional currency, to the Group’s reporting differences between carrying amounts and ­values for tax purposes of assets and currency (Swedish kronor) at closing rates. The income and expenses of foreign opliabilities, applying the tax rates and rules that have been approved or announced at erations are translated into Swedish kronor at an average rate that is an approximation the balance sheet date. Temporary differ­ences are not taken into account in goodwill of the exchange rates prevailing on the date of each transaction. Differences arising arising upon consolidation, nor in tempo­rary differences attribut­able to interests in during the currency translation of foreign operations and the related effects of hedging subsidiaries and associates that are not expected to become liable to taxation in the net investments are recognised in other comprehensive income and are accumulated foreseeable future. In the ­parent company’s ­accounts, untaxed reserves are recognised in a separate component of equity called the translation reserve. In the disposal of a inclusive of deferred tax liability. foreign operation, the accumulated translation differences attributable to the business Deferred tax assets in respect of tax-deductible temporary differences and loss carryare realised, less any currency hedging, in the consolidated income statement. The forwards are recognised only to the extent that it is likely they will be utilised and entail company opted to value the accumulated translation differences attributable to foreign lower tax payments in the future. Deferred tax assets and ­deferred tax liabilities in the operations at zero at the time of the changeover to IFRSs. same country are recognised net. Companies operating on behalf of Earnings per share the parent company The calculation of earnings per share (EPS) is based on the Group’s profit for the year The parent company’s business is largely conducted through companies operating on attributable to the parent company’s owners and the weighted average number of its behalf: Holmen Paper AB, Iggesund Paperboard AB, Holmen Timber AB, Holmen shares outstanding during the year. In calculating diluted EPS, the earnings and the Skog AB and Holmen Energi AB. average number of shares are adjusted to take account of the effects of any potential The parent company is liable for all commitments entered into by these companies. ordinary shares having a diluting effect, which during reported periods stem from All income, expenses, assets and liabilities, which arise in the operations conducted call options acquired by employees within the framework of the incentive scheme. by the companies, are recognised in Holmen AB’s accounts, except for most parts The dilution effect of options affects the number of shares and only arises when the of investments made as well as some sales of forest properties, which are instead exercise price is lower than the listed price, and is larger the wider the spread between recognised in some of the Group’s subsidiaries. the exercise price and the listed price. Income Financial instruments Net sales Financial instruments are measured and recognised according to IAS 39. Net sales refers to invoiced sales (excluding value added tax) of products, wood and energy. The amount recognised is reduced by discounts, and similar reductions Recognition in and derecognition from the balance sheet in income, and also includes exchange differences r­elated to the sales. Sales are A financial asset or liability is stated in the balance sheet when the company becomes recognised after the critical risks and benefits associated with ownership of the sold a party in accordance with the contractual conditions of the instrument. A financial goods have been transferred to the buyer, and there is no remaining right or possibility asset is removed from the balance sheet when the rights referred to in the contract to retain actual control over the sold goods. have been realised or mature, or when the company no longer has control over them. Other operating income A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the undertaking in the conIncome from activities not forming part of the company’s main business is stated as tract is performed or expires in some other way. Spot transactions are stated in acother operating income. This item mainly comprises sales of by-products, rent and cordance with the trade day principle. Trade receivables are recognised in the balance land lease income, income from allotted electricity certificates, income earned from sheet when an invoice has been sent. Liabilities are recognised when the counterparty emission allowances and gains/losses on sales of non-current assets. has provided a product or service and there is a contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been received. A financial asset and a financial liability are State grants are recognised in the balance sheet as deferred income when it is only offset and recognised at a net amount where a legal right to offset the amounts reasonably certain that the grant will be received and that the Group will satisfy the exists and there is an intention to settle the items at a net amount or simultaneously conditions associated with the grant. Grants are distributed systematically in the realise the asset and settle the liability. Financial assets, excluding shares, and financial income statement in the same way and over the same periods as the costs the grants liabilities have been classified as current if the amounts are expected to be recovered are intended to cover. State grants related to assets are recognised in the balance or paid within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Shares have been classified as sheet as a reduction in the carrying amount of the asset. non-current if they are intended to be held in the operation permanently. Measurement of financial instruments Finance income and costs Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. This category consists of financial Finance income and costs consist of interest income and interest costs, dividend assets held for trading. Financial instruments in this category are measured on a curincome and revaluations of financial instruments valued at fair value, as well as unrealrent basis at fair value, with changes of value recognised in profit or loss. ised and realised currency gains and losses. Loan receivables and trade receivables. Bank balances, loan receivables and trade Interest income on receivables and interest costs on liabilities are calculated by using the receivables are measured at amortised cost. Impairment testing is performed continueffective interest method. Interest costs include transaction costs for loans, which have ally, using objective criteria for these assets. If impairment is established, the receivbeen distributed over the duration of the loan; this also applies to any difference between able is derecognised. However, a provision for doubtful trade receivables is made if the funds received and the repayment amount. Dividend income is recognised when the the impairment is anticipated. dividend is established and the right to receive payment is judged to be certain. Available-for-sale financial assets. The category of available-for-sale financial assets Interest costs normally affect profit/loss in the period to which they relate. Borrowing includes financial assets not classified in any other category or financial assets that the costs attributable to the purchase, construction or production of qualifying assets are company initially chose to classify in this category. The assets are valued on a current to be capitalised as part of the asset’s cost. A qualifying asset is an asset that takes a basis at fair value with the changes in value for the period recognised in other comsubstantial period of time to get ready for intended use. Borrowing costs for significant prehensive income, and the accumulated changes in value in a separate component investment projects are capitalised in the Group. of equity, although not such value changes that are attributable to impairment losses (see below), nor interest on debt (receivables) instruments and dividend income as Taxes well as exchange differences on monetary items, which are recognised in profit for the year. When the asset is disposed of, accumulated profit/loss – which was previIncome taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are recognised in ously recognised in other comprehensive income – is recognised in profit for the year. the income statement except when underlying transactions are recognised in other Shares and interests not related to Group companies or associates are measured at comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the associated tax effect is cost. Measurement at fair value could not be applied, because reliable market values also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Current tax is the could not be established. tax to be paid or received for the year in question, using the tax rates that have been 59 Holmen Annual report 2010 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are meastested for impairment annually. The Group does not currently recognise any goodwill. ured initially at the value of funds received after deduction of any transaction costs. Intangible non-current assets in the parent company are amortised over five years. Normally, the liabilities are measured on a current basis at amortised cost using the effective interest method. In those cases where funds received fall short of the repayment amount, the difference is allocated over the duration of the loan using the Property, plant and equipment effective interest method. Loans recognised using the fair value option are initially recProperty, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition cost after deduction of accuognised excluding any transaction costs and on a current basis at fair value. The fair mulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Property, plant and equipment that value option has been applied to one loan with the object of arriving at a fairer presenconsist of parts with different useful lives are treated as separate components of proptation of results and thereby reflecting changes in the value of the interest rate swap erty, plant and equipment. Additional expenditure is capitalised only if it is estimated to that belongs to the loan. This loan and the related swap matured during the year. In generate financial benefits for the company. The key factor determining whether or not the parent company, no loans were measured at fair value. Profit/loss from financial additional expenditure is capitalised is if it relates to the replacement of identified cominstruments is recognised in net financial items or operating profit/loss, depending on ponents or parts thereof, in which case the expenditure is capitalised. The cost is also the purpose of the holding. capitalised in cases where a new component is created. Any undepreciated carrying amounts for replaced components or parts of components are retired and expensed Other financial liabilities. These liabilities are measured at amortised cost. Amortised in connection with the replacement. cost is determined on the basis of the effective interest that was calculated at the time of acquisition. Trade payables and loan liabilities are recognised in this category The carrying amount of an item of property, plant or equipment is removed from the except for the loan measured at fair value using the fair value option within Holmen. balance sheet in connection with retirement or disposal of the asset or when no future Loans hedged against changes in value are initially recognised including any transacfinancial benefits can be expected from the use of the asset. The gain or loss arising tion costs and on a current basis at fair value. on the retirement or disposal of an asset consists of the difference between the selling price and the carrying amount of the asset, less any direct selling costs. Gains and Derivatives and hedge accounting. All derivatives are measured at fair value and are losses are recognised in the accounts as other operating income/costs. recognised in the balance sheet. Depreciation according to plan is based on original acquisition cost less any More or less all derivatives are held for hedging purposes. Where hedge accounting is ­impairment losses. Depreciation takes place on a straight-line basis over the applied, the changes in value are recognised as stated below. ­estimated useful life of the asset. Land is not depreciated. Cash flow hedges. The effective part of changes in value is recognised in other The following useful lives (years) are used: comprehensive income and accumulated in equity until the time when the hedged Machinery for hydro power production 20–40 item influences the income statement, when the accumulated changes in value are Administrative and warehouse buildings, residential properties 20–33 transferred from equity via other comprehensive income to the income statement to Production buildings, land installations, and meet and match the hedged transaction. In the hedging of investments, the acquisimachinery for pulp, paper and paperboard production 20 tion cost of the hedged item is instead adjusted when it occurs. The ineffective part of Machinery for sawmills 12 hedges is recognised directly in the income statement. Other machinery 10 Hedging fair value. Changes in value of derivatives are recognised directly in the Forest roads 10 income statement. Changes in the value of the hedged item are recognised in a corEquipment 4 responding way. If there is any indication that the carrying amount is too high, an analysis is made in Net investments. Changes in the value of hedges relating to net investments in foreign which the recoverable value of single or inherently related assets is determined at the businesses are recognised in other comprehensive income for the Group. Accumuhigher of the net selling price and the utility value. The net selling price is the estimated lated changes in value are recognised as a component in the Group’s equity until the selling price after deduction of the estimated cost of selling the asset. The utility value business is disposed of, when the accumulated changes in value are recognised in is measured as expected future discounted cash flow. An impairment loss consists the income statement. In the case of derivatives that do not fulfil the criteria for hedge of the amount by which the recoverable amount falls short of the carrying amount. accounting, the changes in value are recognised within operating profit/loss or within Impairment loss is reversed if there has been any positive change in the circumstances net financial items, depending on the purpose of the holding. In the parent company, upon which the determination of the recoverable amount is based. A reversal may be changes in value are recognised in the income statement as hedge accounting is not made up to, but not exceeding, the carrying amount that would have been recogapplied. nised, less depreciation, if there had been no impairment. Computation of fair value. The fair value of financial instruments traded on an active Borrowing costs attributable to the purchase or construction of qualifying assets are market is based on listed market prices and belongs to measurement level 1 as per to be capitalised as part of the asset’s cost. A qualifying asset is an asset that takes a IFRS 7. Where there are no listed market prices, fair value has been computed using substantial period of time to get ready for intended use. Borrowing costs for significant discounted cash flows. In calculating discounted cash flows, all variables used for investment projects are capitalised in the Group. the calculations, such as discount rates and exchange rates, are taken from market listings where possible. These valuations belong to measurement level 2. Other valuations, for which a variable is based on own assessments, belong to measurement level Leasing 3. Holmen’s transactions mainly belong to measurement level 2, with the exception of In the consolidated accounts, lease agreements are classified as finance leases or opone transaction that belongs to measurement level 3. Currency options were valued erating leases. The leasing of non-current assets for which the Group is substantially using the Black & Scholes formula. exposed to the same risks and benefits as if the asset were directly owned is classified as finance leases. The leasing of assets over which the lessor substantially retains ownership is classified as operating leases and the leasing charge is expensed. Within Intangible non-current assets the Group, all lease agreements are classified as operating leases. Goodwill represents the difference between the acquisition cost of business combinations and the fair value of the acquired assets, assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities. Goodwill is valued at acquisition cost less any accumulated impairment Biological assets losses. Goodwill arising in connection with the acquisition of associates is included in The Group divides all its forest assets for accounting purposes into growing forests, the carrying amount of the participating interest in such companies. which are recognised as biological assets at fair value, and land, which is stated at acquisition cost. Any changes in the fair value of the growing forests are recognised in Research costs are expensed when they are incurred. Development costs are only capithe income statement. Holmen’s assessment is that there are no relevant market prices talised in the case of major projects to the extent that their future financial benefits can availiable that can be used to value forest holdings as extensive as Holmen’s. They are be reliably assessed. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statetherefore valued by estimating the present value of expected future cash flows from the ment as costs when incurred. Development costs recognised in the balance sheet are growing forests. See note 11. stated at their acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. In the parent company, biological assets are valued in accordance with RFR 2. Intangible non-current assets also include patents, licences and IT systems. The This means that biological assets classified as non-current assets are recognised group’s intangible non-current assets are amortised over periods of between 5 and at acquisition cost adjusted for revaluations taking into account the need, if any, for 20 years, ­except for goodwill. Any goodwill is allotted to cash-generating units and is impairment in value. 60 Holmen Annual report 2010 Felling rights are stated as inventories. They are acquired with a view to secure Incentive scheme ­Holmen’s raw material requirements through harvesting. Any measurable biological The Holmen Group’s incentive scheme that runs from 2008 until 2013 is not subject change does not occur between the acquisition date and harvesting. to the rules in IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, because the employees were invited to acquire call options at their market price. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of acquisition cost or production cost after Equity deduction for necessary obsolescence, or net realisable value. The acquisition cost Consolidated equity comprises share capital, other contributed capital, translation and of inventories is calculated by using the First in, First out method (FIFO). The net realishedge reserves and retained earnings, including profit/loss for the year. Other contribable value is the estimated selling price in operating activities after deduction of the uted capital refers to premiums paid in conjunction with share issues. The translation estimated costs of completion and effecting the sale. The acquisition cost of finished reserve consists of all exchange differences that arise in the translation of foreign products manufactured by the company comprises direct production costs and a operations’ financial statements that are prepared in a currency other than Swedish reasonable share of indirect costs. kronor. The translation reserve also includes exchange differences arising in connection with the revaluation of liabilities and derivatives that are classified as instruments Emission allowances received are initially recognised at market price when allotted for hedging a net investment in a foreign operation, including tax. The hedge reserve among inventories and as deferred income. During the year the allocation is recognised comprises the effective proportion of the accumulated net change in the fair value of a as income at the same time as an interim liability, corresponding to emissions made, is cash flow hedging instrument attributable to underlying transactions that have not yet expensed. occurred, including tax. Retained earnings comprise all other parts of equity, including profit/loss for the year. Employee benefits Holdings of shares bought back are stated as a reduction in retained earnings. Pension costs and pension commitments Acquisitions of the company’s own shares are stated as a deduction, and proceeds Commitments to pay premiums to defined contribution plans are recognised as a cost from the disposal of the company’s own shares are stated as an increase. Transaction in the income statement as and when they are earned. costs are charged directly to retained earnings. The Group’s net commitment in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated sepaThe parent company’s equity comprises share capital, statutory reserves, re­valuation rately for each plan by estimating the future benefits the em­ployees will have earned reserves, retained earnings and profit/loss for the year. The parent company’s by virtue of their employment in current and earlier periods; these benefits are dis­statutory reserve consists of previous compulsory provisions to the statutory reserve counted to their present value and any unrecognised costs in respect of employment plus amounts added to the share premium reserve before 1 January 2006. The parent during earlier periods and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount company’s revaluation reserve contains amounts set aside in connection with the rate is the interest rate at the balance sheet date for a first class corporate bond with revaluation of property, plant and equipment or non-current financial assets. Retained a duration corresponding to the Group’s pension commitments. If there is no active earnings comprise all other parts of equity, such as hedge reserves and transactions market for such corporate bonds, the market interest rate for government bonds with as a result of share buy-backs. The parent company applies the same accounting a corresponding duration is used instead. The calculation is performed by a qualified policies as the Group for these items; see above. actuary using the projected unit credit method for the part of the pension commitments that is defined benefit. Provisions When the present value of the commitments and the fair value of plan assets are A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or informal being determined, actuarial gains and losses may arise, either as a result of the actual commitment as a consequence of a past event and it is likely there will be an outflow outcome deviating from earlier assumptions or because the assumptions are changed. of financial resources to settle the commitment and a reliable estimate of the amount Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. can be made. A provision to cover restructuring is recognised once the Group has When the benefits provided by a plan are improved, the proportion of the improvement established a detailed and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring process has in the benefit that is attributable to the employees’ employment during earlier periods is either begun or been publicly announced. recognised as a cost in the income statement and is distributed on a straight-line basis Provisions are made for environmental measures that relate to earlier activities when over the average period until the benefits have been fully earned. If the ­benefit has been contamination arises or is discovered, it is likely that a payment obligation will arise, earned in full, a cost is recognised directly in the income statement. and the amount can be estimated reliably. In the parent company’s accounts, different grounds are used for computation of Reserves to cover future silvicultural fees are calculated on the basis of interpretations defined benefit pension plans than those referred to in IAS 19. The parent company of the applicable forestry laws and regulations whenever it is likely that a payment complies with the provisions of the Swedish pension security act (Tryggandelagen) obligation will arise and once the amount can be assessed to a reasonable extent. and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations, because this is a condition for the right to make deductions for tax purposes. The main differences in relation to the rules in IAS 19 relate to how the discount rate of interest is established, the Contingent liabilities computation of the defined benefit commitment on the basis of the current pay level A contingent liability is recognised when there is a potential commitment that origiwithout any assumption regarding pay increments in the future, and the recognition of nates in past events, the existence of which will be confirmed only by one or more all actuarial gains and losses in the income statement when they arise. uncertain future events, or when there is a commitment that is not recognised as a liWhen there is a difference between how the pension cost is arrived at in the legal ability or provision because it is not likely that an out-flow of re­sources will be required. entity and in the Group, a provision or a receivable is recognised in the consolidated accounts in respect of special employer’s contribution tax based on this difference. The present value of the provision or receivable is not calculated. Group contributions and shareholder Termination benefits ­contributions for legal entities Termination benefits in connection with the termination of employment contracts are Group contributions and shareholder contributions are recognised in the parent comrecognised in the accounts if it is shown that the Group has an obligation, without pany in accordance with statement UFR 2 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. any reasonable possibility of withdrawing it, as a result of a formal, detailed plan to Shareholder contributions are recognised directly in the equity of the recipient and are terminate an employment contract before the normal date. When benefits are paid in capitalised under the shares and participating interests of the donor to the extent that the form of an offer to encourage voluntary departure, a cost is recognised if it is likely no impairment in value applies. Group contributions are recognised on the basis of that the offer will be accepted and the number of employees who will accept the offer their financial implications. For example, this means that Group contributions paid or can be reliably estimated. received in order to minimise the Group’s total tax are recognised directly in retained earnings after deduction of their current tax effect. Short-term benefits Short-term benefits to employees are calculated without being discounted and are recognised as a cost when the related services are provided. Miscellaneous The figures presented are rounded off to the nearest integer or equivalent. The absence of a value is indicated by a dash (-). 61 Holmen Annual report 2010 Note 2. Operating segment reporting GroupHolmen Iggesund Holmen Holmen Holmen wide Elimina­Total 2010 Paper Paperboard Timber Skog Energi and other tions Group Net sales External 8 142 4 849 586 3 310 695 17 581 Internal 0 0 0 2 276 1 237 -3 513 0 Other operating income 259 464 135 142 14 31 -184 862 Operating costs -8 372 -4 172 -675 -4 933 -1 421 -221 3 690 -16 104 Depreciation and amortisation according to plan -847 -324 -29 -28 -21 -3 0 -1 251 Impairment losses -555 -555 Change in value of biological assets 1 102 1 102 Interest in earnings of associates -32 2 -9 -38 Operating profit/loss -1 404 817 20 1 868 495 -193 -7 1 596 Operating profit/loss excluding items affecting -618 817 20 818 495 -193 -7 1 332 comparability Operating margin excluding items affecting -8 17 4 15 26 8 comparability,% Return on operating capital excluding items -8 20 3 7 15 5 affecting comparability, % Operating assets 8 514 4 995 1 486 14 056 3 403 779 -465 32 768 Operating liabilities 1 560 681 294 1 459 169 686 -465 4 383 Operating capital 6 954 4 313 1 192 12 597 3 235 93 0 28 385 Investments 211 521 800 -3 65 4 0 1 597 *Items affecting comparability refer to impairment losses on non-current assets totalling SEK 555 million, restructuring costs of SEK 231 million and the revaluation of forests which comprises an increase in value of SEK 1 050 million. Group Parent company Group Parent company 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Non-current assets Net sales by market per country Sweden 4 274 4 211 4 253 3 749 Sweden 23 113 21 415 17 046 17 006 UK 1 811 2 083 1 241 1 328 UK 461 550 Germany 2 541 2 676 2 180 2 296 Spain 2 147 3 364 Spain 1 461 1 427 288 288 Other 84 52 Italy 763 848 565 555 Total 25 805 25 380 17 046 17 006 France 724 728 528 449 Group Parent company The Netherlands 655 771 554 675 Rest of Europe 3 357 3 011 2 099 2 313 2010 2009 2010 2009 Rest of the world 1 993 2 316 1 630 1 784 Net sales by product area Total 17 581 18 071 13 338 13 436 Newsprint and magazine 7 862 9 144 6 225 7 043 paper Paperboard 4 742 4 865 3 089 2 879 Pulp 76 137 200 240 Sawn timber 581 548 581 548 Wood 3 310 2 745 3 238 2 695 Power 695 447 5 1 Other 315 185 0 32 Total 17 581 18 071 13 338 13 436 62 Holmen Annual report 2010 Iggesund GroupHolmen PaperHolmen Holmen Holmen wide Elimina­Total 2009 Paper board Timber Skog Energi and other tions Group Net sales External 9 303 5 023 553 2 745 447 18 071 Internal 0 0 0 2 054 1 182 -3 236 Other operating income 238 262 127 119 14 37 -197 600 Operating costs -8 363 -4 484 -632 -4 303 -1 208 -225 3 446 -15 769 Depreciation and amortisation according to plan -878 -361 -31 -27 -21 -3 0 -1 320 Impairment losses -22 -22 Change in value of biological assets 16 16 Interest in earnings of associates 41 4 45 Operating profit/loss 340 419 21 605 414 -191 13 1 620 Operating profit/loss excluding items affecting comparability 340 419 21 605 414 -191 13 1 620 Operating margin excluding items affecting ­comparability,% 4 8 4 13 25 9 Return on operating capital excluding items affecting comparability, % 4 10 6 5 13 6 Operating assets 10 186 4 781 483 12 646 3 342 419 -392 31 465 Operating liabilities 1 397 666 87 1 262 135 1 382 -392 4 536 Operating capital 8 789 4 114 396 11 384 3 207 -963 0 26 929 Investments 287 260 110 69 88 2 0 818 The business area Holmen Paper manufactures printing paper for daily news­papers, In the Holmen Group, the business areas are responsible for management of magazines, directories/manuals, catalogues, advertising material and books at two ­operational assets and liabilities. Operating capital in each segment includes all assets Swedish mills and one Spanish mill. Iggesund Paperboard produces paperboard for and liabilities used by the business area, such as non-current assets, ­inventories, consumer packaging and graphics printing at one Swedish and one UK mill. Holmen operating receivables and operating liabilities. Financing and tax ­issues are managed Timber produces sawn timber at one Swedish sawmill. Production at another sawmill at Group level, so financial assets and liabilities – including pension liabilities – and curin Sweden started at the turn of 2010/2011. Annual production capacity in 2010 was rent and deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are not allocated to the business areas. 1 915 000 tonnes of printing paper, 530 000 tonnes of paperboard and 310 000 cubic Intra-Group sales between segments are founded on an internal market-based price. metres of sawn timber. Holmen Skog manages the Group’s forests, which cover just The “Group-wide and other” segment comprises Group staff units and Group-wide over one million hectares. The normal annual volume of wood harvested in company functions that are not allocated to other segments. No profit items after operating forests is about 2.5 million cubic metres. Holmen Energi is responsible for the Group’s profit are allotted to the business areas. hydro power assets and for developing the Group’s operations in the energy sector. Normal yearly production amounts to some 1 100 GWh of electricity at wholly and Income from external customers is allocated to individual countries according to the partly owned hydro power stations in Sweden. Holmen Skog and Holmen Energi are country in which the customer is based. also responsible for supplying the Group with wood and electricity in Sweden, which are important raw materials for the industrial operations. 63 Holmen Annual report 2010 Notice and severance pay Note 3. Other operating income Notice of employment termination should normally be one year if it is given by the company, and six months if it is given by the employee. In the event of notice being Group Parent company given by the company, severance pay can be paid corresponding to no more than 24 months’ salary. For new contracts, salary during the period of notice and severance pay shall not exceed a total amount equivalent to two years’ salary. 2010 2009 2010 2009 Incentive scheme Sales of by-products 291 186 240 111 Any decision on a share-based and share-price-based incentive scheme for senior Emission allowances 26 24 26 25 company management shall be made by the AGM. Electricity certificates 56 71 48 63 Remuneration committee Sales of non-current assets 84 31 10 8 A remuneration committee appointed from among the members of the Board shall prepare business pertaining to the CEO’s salary and other conditions of employment Rental and tenancy income 21 22 19 19 and submit proposals on such issues to the Board for decision. Detailed principles for Silviculture contracts 55 52 55 52 determining the salaries, pension rights and other remuneration to senior management shall be laid down in a pay policy adopted by the remuneration committee. Other 329 215 255 169 Total Departures in individual cases 862 600 652 447 The Board shall be entitled to depart from these guidelines in individual cases should special reasons exist. In the event of such a departure, information thereon and the Of the sales of by-products in the Group, SEK 193 million (124) relates to rejects from reasons therefor shall be submitted to the next Annual General Meeting. production, SEK 64 million (34) to sawdust, bark, chips etc, and SEK 34 million (28) to external sales of energy. Incentive scheme The Group has been allotted emission allowances which, for the most part, have been The 2008 AGM approved the Board’s proposal to introduce an incentive scheme used for its own production. The surplus resulted in a recognised profit of for the Holmen Group’s employees; it has applied in the Group since May 2008. In SEK 26 million (24). the scheme, the employees were invited to acquire call options on class B shares in Income from electricity certificates received from the production of renewable energy Holmen at market price (calculated by an independent bank). As a result, 1 492 of the at the Group’s Swedish mills amounted to SEK 56 million (71). Group’s approximately 5 000 employees bought a total of 758 300 call ­options at a price of SEK 20 per option. The exercise price of the options is SEK 224.50 per share. The “Other” item includes compensation for industrial action from the employer Each option entitles the owner to acquire one share during the exercise period in May/ organisation the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. June 2013. Holmen’s commitment within the scheme has been secured by means of a buyback of shares in the company. IFRS 2 Share-based Payment is not applicable, because the employees acquired the Note 4. Employees, staff costs and ­ options at a market-based price. remuneration to senior management Group Parent company Remuneration of Board and senior ­management Board 2010 2009 2010 2009 A fixed Board fee shall be paid to the members of the Board elected by the AGM, except for the CEO, who does not receive any Board fee. For 2010, the fee amounted Wages, salaries and to SEK 2 475 000 (2 475 000). The chairman received a fee of SEK 550 000 social security costs (550 000), and each of the other members (except for the CEO) received Wages, salaries and other SEK 275 000 (275 000). ­remuneration 1 928 1 866 1 364 1 292 Senior management Social security costs 695 720 582 583 The CEO’s salary and other benefits for 2010 amounted to SEK 7 366 343 (6 768 603). In 2010, the total pension cost attributable to the CEO (ITP cost and the cost of benefits over and above ITP), calculated in accordance with IAS 19, amounted AGM’s guidelines for determining salaries and to SEK 3 989 060 (3 263 711). No variable remuneration was paid. other ­remuneration to senior management In 2010, the salaries and other benefits of the other senior management, i.e. the five The 2008 AGM decided on the following guidelines for determining the salaries and business area managers and the heads of the five Group staff units who report directly other remuneration of the CEO and other senior management, namely the business to the CEO, amounted to a total of SEK 17 814 918 (18 206 318). The total pension area managers and heads of Group staff functions who ­report directly to the CEO. cost (ITP cost and the cost of benefits over and above ITP), ­calculated in accordance with IAS 19, for this group amounted to SEK 9 456 367 (10 897 672) in 2010. Salary and other remuneration No variable remuneration was paid. The remuneration of the CEO and the senior management shall consist of a fixed For senior management, the company is required to give 12 months’ notice and the market-based salary. Other benefits, mainly car and accommodation, shall, insofar as employee six months. In the event of notice being given by the company, termination they are provided, represent a limited part of the remuneration. No variable remunerabenefits corresponding to between one and two years’ ­salary are paid, depending on tion shall be paid. age. For the CEO, a termination benefit of two years’ salary is paid. Pension All members of senior management are employed by the parent company. The normal retirement age shall be 65 years. The company and the employee shall be mutually entitled to request that pension be drawn from 60 years of age. Any Pension commitments in respect of the Board and senior management pension drawn before 65 years of age shall be either defined benefit or defined Holmen’s pension commitments over and above the ITP plan for the CEO amounted contribution. Pension drawn after 65 years of age shall be in accordance with the ITP to SEK 17 million (15) at 31 December 2010 and for other members of senior manplan. Over and above this, the employee may also be entitled to a supplementary old agement to SEK 53 million (63), calculated in accordance with IAS 19. The Group also age pension. In this case, there shall be a gradual transition from the former existing has a SEK 7 million (7) commitment for one Board member, Göran Lundin, former arrangement with a defined benefit pension to one in which the pension is defined CEO of Holmen. The pension commitments are secured using plan assets managed contribution. by an independent pension fund. 64 Holmen Annual report 2010 Average Average Group Parent company number of number of full-time Of whom full-time Of whom equivalents women equivalents women 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Proportion of women, % 2009 Board (excl. deputy members) 17 17 17 17 Parent company Senior management 9 9 9 9 Sweden 3 013 575 3 227 589 Group Parent company Group companies Sweden 2010 2009 2010 2009 Australia 2 2 3 2 Sickness absence in Sweden, % Belgium 1 Total sickness absence 3.5 3.8 3.7 3.8 Denmark 2 1 Long-term sick leave (>60 days) 1.0 1.7 1.2 1.7 Estonia 17 5 20 6 Sickness absence, men 3.6 3.8 3.6 3.8 France 33 8 34 8 Sickness absence, women 4.3 3.7 4.3 3.7 Germany 23 8 22 8 Employees below 29 years of age 2.3 2.4 2.3 2.4 UK 433 41 514 53 Employees between 30 and 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 49 years of age Hong Kong 5 1 5 1 Employees aged 50 years and above 4.7 4.7 4.7 4.7 Italy 7 4 8 4 The Netherlands 107 37 116 46 Poland 7 4 7 4 Note 5. Auditors’ fee and remuneration Portugal 2 1 2 1 Singapore 5 3 6 4 The audit firm KPMG was elected by the 2008 Annual General Meeting as Holmen’s auditors for a period of four years (2008–2011). KPMG audits the books of Holmen Spain 578 116 596 119 AB and almost all of its subsidiaries. Switzerland 5 1 6 2 Group Parent company USA 6 1 8 2 2010 2009 2010 2009 Total Group ­companies 1 229 231 1 350 261 Remuneration to KPMG Total Group 4 241 806 4 577 850 Audit assignments 7 8 4 4 Tax advice 2 3 2 1 The year’s decrease in the number of employees is mainly an effect of staff cuts at Other services 2 2 1 0 Hallsta Paper Mill and Braviken Paper Mill, redundancies in connection with the shutdown of board machine BM 1 at Workington, and the closure of Wargön Mill. Total 12 13 7 5 Other auditors 0 0 Total 12 13 7 5 “Audit assignments” refers to the statutory examination of the annual report and accounting records, the administration by the Board and the CEO, and auditing and other assessment performed as agreed or in accordance with contracts. This includes other duties that are incumbent on the company’s auditors and the provision of advice or other assistance resulting from observations in connection with such assessment or the performance of such other duties. Tax advice refers to all consultation in the field of taxation. “Other services” refers to advice on accounting issues, on disposals and acquisitions of operations and on processes and internal control. 65 Holmen Annual report 2010 cial items also include currency revaluation of external loans and forward contracts Note 6. Gains/losses from financial that hedge net investment in foreign operations. These items are recognised in the ­instruments Group in other comprehensive income. The fair value of the interest component in currency forward forward foreign exchange contracts as well as value changes in a ­ ccrued interest and realised interest in fixed-interest-rate swaps are recognised on an ongoing Group Parent company basis in net interest items. Changes in the value of the loan that is measured at fair value in accordance with 2010 2009 2010 2009 the fair value option had an impact of SEK 33 million (23) on earnings, of which ­changes in market interest rates accounted for a change in value of SEK 0 million Finance income (decrease of 8). The accumulated changes in value of SEK 107 million (73) were Dividend income from ­recognised in the income statement. Changes in the value of the swap that belongs Group companies 14 1 156 to the loan measured at fair value using the fair value option had a negative impact of ­ SEK 14 million (negative impact of 5) on earnings. The loan measured at fair value Gains on sales of Group companies 5 using the fair value option with the related swap matured in 2010. The change in value Net profit/loss for the loan hedged regarding fair value had a SEK 1 million (3) impact on earnings, while the related interest rate swap lowered earnings by SEK 1 million (lowered by 3). Assets and liabilities measured at This loan and the related interest rate swap also matured during the year. There were fair value through profit/loss for the no changes in value for loans in the parent company. year Held for financial risk management* -79 5 -79 5 Information on financial risks is stated in the administration report on pages 36–39. Other 66 0 66 0 The income from financial instruments included in operating profit is shown in the table Cash and cash equivalents 15 15 below: Interest income 10 7 6 13 Group Parent company Total finance income 12 12 26 1 174 2010 2009 2010 2009 Finance costs Impairment losses on value of shares Exchange gains/losses on in Group companies -436 trade receivables and trade payables -136 -26 -136 -7 Net profit/loss Net gain/loss on derivatives stated in working capital 192 -343 214 -403 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit/loss for the Interest income on trade receivables 1 1 1 1 year Held for financial risk management* -14 -38 252 114 Interest costs on trade payables -3 -3 -3 -3 Other 33 23 The derivatives included in operating profit relate to hedging of trade receiv­ables and Cash and cash equivalents 31 31 trade payables as well as financial electricity derivatives. Other financial liabilities 1 205 102 Total net profit 19 18 457 247 Note 7. Taxes Interest costs ** -240 -284 -212 -239 Finance costs -220 -267 246 -428 Group Parent company Net financial items -208 -255 272 746 2010 2009 2010 2009 * Refers to the held-for-trading category in accordance with IAS 39. Taxes stated in income ** SEK -81 million (-63) in the Group refers to interest costs on liabilities measured at statement fair value through profit/loss for the year. Those in the parent company amounted to SEK -81 million (-63). Other interest income and interest costs are related to Current tax 38 -474 -124 -307 financial items not measured at fair value. Deferred tax -722 114 -74 -24 The net gains and losses stated in net financial items mainly relate to currency revaluaTotal -684 -360 -198 -331 tions of internal loans, hedging of internal lending, currency revaluations of cash and cash equivalents, and hedging of cash and cash equivalents. They also include the revaluation of loans measured at fair value via the income statement and interest rate The year’s tax rate for the Group was 49 per cent and was mainly affected by loss swaps used to hedge loans at fixed rates of interest. The parent company’s net financarry-forwards not recorded. See the table below. 66 Holmen Annual report 2010 Group Parent company 2010 2009 2010 2009 SEKm % SEKm % SEKm % SEKm % Recognised profit before tax 1 388 1 366 570 1 995 Tax at applicable rate -365 26.3 -359 26.3 -150 26.3 -525 26.3 Difference in tax rate in foreign operations -2 0.1 2 -0.1 0 0.0 0 0.0 Non-taxable income and non-deductible costs -8 0.6 -2 0.1 3 -0.5 188 -9.4 Standard interest on tax allocation reserve -14 1.0 -15 1.1 -14 2.5 -15 0.8 Effect of not stated loss carry-forwards and temporary differences -287 20.7 -30 2.2 1 -0.1 -8 0.4 Tax attributable to previous periods 4 -0.3 31 -2.3 -37 6.5 29 -1.4 Change in tax rate on deferred tax asset/liability 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 Provision to cover uncertain tax disputes 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 Other -11 0.8 13 -1.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 Effective tax -684 49.3 -360 26.4 -198 34.7 -331 16.6 Tax attributable to other comprehensive income Group Parent company Before After Before After Before After Before After tax tax tax tax tax tax tax tax tax tax tax tax 2010 2009 2010 2009 Cash flow hedges 686 -181 506 910 -240 670 923 -243 680 919 -242 677 Translation differences on foreign operations -631 -631 -256 -256 Hedging of currency risk in foreign operations 472 -124 348 254 -66 188 Actuarial revaluations 97 -28 69 15 -4 11 Other comprehensive income 625 -333 292 923 -310 613 923 -243 680 919 -242 677 Taxes as stated in balance sheet Group Parent company Group Parent company 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Loss carry-forwards 242 307 Non-current assets Pension provisions 33 68 Biological assets* 3 241 2 922 644 644 Deferred tax liabilities stated net Property, plant and equipment 1 823 1 600 -3 -4 among deferred tax assets -66 -72 Tax allocation reserve 660 618 Other 1 1 Transactions subject to Total deferred tax assets 210 304 hedge accounting 146 -34 190 -53 Other, including deferred tax Current tax receivable 4 22 assets stated net among deferred Total tax receivables 214 326 tax liabilities 40 -61 24 -49 Total deferred tax liabilities 5 910 5 045 855 538 Provisions for taxes 46 692 45 45 Current tax liability 112 102 104 94 Total tax liabilities 6 069 5 839 1 005 678 * For parent company this relates to forest land. 67 Holmen Annual report 2010 Change in the net of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Group Parent company Stated in Stated in Stated in other comTranslation Stated in other comOpening the income prehensive differences Closing Opening the income prehensive Closing 2010 ­balance ­statement income and other ­balance ­balance ­statement income ­balance Biological assets* -2 922 -292 -27 -3 241 -644 0 -644 Property, plant and equipment -1 672 -253 35 -1 889 4 -1 3 Pension provisions 78 -8 -28 -4 38 Loss carry-forwards 307 -33 -32 242 Tax allocation reserve -618 -42 -660 Other 86 -95 -181 0 -190 102 -73 -243 -214 Deferred net tax liability -4 741 -722 -209 -28 -5 700 -538 -74 -243 -855 Group Parent company Stated in Stated in Stated in other comTranslation Stated in other comOpening the income prehensive differences Closing Opening the income prehensive Closing 2009 ­balance ­statement income and other ­balance ­balance ­statement income ­balance Biological assets* -2 914 -8 -2 922 -635 -9 -644 Property, plant and equipment -1 597 52 -126 -1 672 4 0 4 Pension provisions 80 1 -4 2 78 Loss carry-forwards 347 -31 -10 307 Tax allocation reserve -721 103 -618 Other 328 -3 -240 0 86 359 -15 -242 102 Deferred net tax liability -4 477 114 -244 -135 -4 741 -272 -24 -242 -538 * For the parent company this relates to forest land. For information on biological assets see Note 11. Deferred tax liability in respect of Of the deferred tax asset in respect of the carry-forwards of unused tax losses, property, plant and equipment is primarily attributable to depreciation in ­excess of a sum of SEK 56 million relates to loss carry-forwards with no time limitations plan. ­regarding when they may be utilised. Other loss carry-forwards expire if they are not utilised 2015–2022. The carry-forwards of unused tax losses and temporary For information concerning provisions for taxes see Note 26. differences for which deferred tax assets have not been recognised in the income The deferred tax expense recognised in the Group’s income statement relates pristatement or balance sheet amount to SEK 3 220 million, of which SEK 200 million marily to a change in temporary differences and utilisation of loss carry-forwards. The expire in 2011 and SEK 1 380 million expire 2022–2025. Whether a deferred tax asset amount recognised in Other comprehensive income includes deferred tax related to is recognised or not depends on an assessment of how likely it is that the Group will negative changes of SEK 181 million in hedging reserves (239) and negative impact of be able to utilise it by offsetting it against future taxable profits. SEK 28 million from actuarial revaluations (4). 68 Holmen Annual report 2010 Note 8. Earnings per share (EPS) Note 9. Intangible non-current assets Group Group Parent company 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Accumulated Total number of shares outstanding, 1 January 83 996 162 83 996 162 acquisition cost Buy-back of company’s own shares Opening balance 98 170 19 77 during the year Investments 0 0 Total number of shares Re-classification -69 -58 outstanding, 31 December 83 996 162 83 996 162 Disposal and retirement of assets 0 Average number of shares, before dilution 83 996 162 83 996 162 Translation differences -6 -3 Effect of options Total 93 98 19 19 Average number of shares, after dilution 83 996 162 83 996 162 Accumulated amortisation according to plan Shareholders’ share of profit for the year, SEKm 704 1 006 Opening balance 71 64 4 1 Average number of shares before dilution 83 996 162 83 996 162 Amortisation for the year 7 9 3 3 Basic EPS for the year, SEK 8.4 12.0 Translation differences -5 -2 Total 73 71 6 4 Shareholders’ share of profit for the year, Closing residual value SEKm 704 1 006 according to plan 19 27 12 15 Average number of shares after dilution 83 996 162 83 996 162 Intangible non-current assets mostly consist of IT systems of SEK 14 million (17). Diluted EPS for the year, SEK 8.4 12.0 These assets were largely acquired from external sources. They have determinable useful lives and are amortised over 5–20 years. No goodwill applies. Shares in the company were bought back in 2008 to secure the company’s commitments as part of the incentive scheme for the Holmen Group’s employees as decided by the 2008 AGM. A total of 760 000 class B shares were bought back, which corresponds to approximately 0.9 per cent of the total number of shares outstanding, and to approximately 0.3 per cent of the total number of votes. The average price paid for these shares was SEK 201.70 per share. In all, 758 300 call options were issued at a price of SEK 20 per option. The ­exercise price of the options is SEK 224.50 per share. Each option entitles the owner to acquire one share during the exercise period, May/June 2013. The exercise price of SEK 224.50 exceeds the average share price for 2010 (SEK 195 per share). The options will therefore have no dilution effect as defined in IAS 33, and were excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS. If the average listed price in the future exceeds the exercise price, these options will give rise to an estimated dilution effect, which is calculated in accordance with IAS 33. 69 Holmen Annual report 2010 Note 10. Property, plant and equipment Buildings, other Work in progress land and land Machinery and and advance payForest land installations equipment ments to suppliers Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Group Accumulated acquisition cost Opening balance 100 100 6 071 5 906 26 763 27 092 199 221 33 134 33 319 Investments 6 95 1 170 546 659 107 1 836 748 Re-classifications -82 181 -99 72 -37 -128 -219 126 Disposal and retirement of assets -63 -19 -419 -708 -482 -726 Translation differences 0 0 -221 -93 -755 -239 -3 -1 -978 -333 Total 100 100 5 711 6 071 26 660 26 763 819 199 33 290 33 134 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Opening balance 2 849 2 775 17 812 17 401 20 661 20 176 Depreciation for the year according to plan 131 141 1 112 1 170 1 243 1 311 Impairment losses for the year 137 418 22 555 22 Re-classifications 5 -31 -52 31 -48 Disposal and retirement of assets -60 -15 -401 -701 -460 -716 Translation differences -76 -22 -462 -112 -538 -133 Total 2 985 2 849 18 427 17 812 21 413 20 661 Closing residual value according to plan 100 100 2 726 3 222 8 233 8 952 819 199 11 877 12 473 Buildings, other land and land Machinery and Forest land installations equipment Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Parent company Accumulated acquisition cost Opening balance 79 79 143 137 231 222 454 438 Investments 0 0 6 40 33 40 40 Re-classifications 1 Disposal and retirement of assets 0 0 -4 0 -18 -24 -22 -24 Total 80 79 139 143 253 231 472 454 Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance 126 125 155 155 281 280 Depreciation for the year 1 1 25 23 27 24 according to plan Disposal and retirement of assets -2 0 -18 -24 -20 -24 Total 126 126 162 155 288 281 Accumulated revaluations Opening balance 2 416 2 416 1 1 2 417 2 417 Disposal and retirement of assets 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 2 416 2 416 1 1 2 417 2 417 Closing residual value according to plan 2 496 2 496 14 18 91 77 2 601 2 590 70 Holmen Annual report 2010 Snittpris Kassaflöde Group och prognos Historik Parent company Average price Cash flow Historik och prognos Index 2004 = 100 Index 2004 = 100 SEKm Mkr 2010 140 2009 2010 2009 140 700 700 130 600 120 Assessed tax values 600 120 500 100 Not 11 Biologiska tillgångar 500 400 Assessed tax values relate to assets 110 300 80 in Sweden 400 100 200 60 90 100 Forest and agricultural properties 14 552 14 517 6 790 6 795 300 40 80 0 200 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 Buildings, other land and land 20 Historical Forecast Historical Forecast installations 3 042 3 056 26 28 100 0 Total 17 594-04 17 -06 -08 573 -10 816-14 6-16823 6 -12 The0 cash -04 -06flows -08are discounted -10 -12 -14 -16using an interest rate of 5.5 per cent (2009: 5.5) after tax. The discount rate was calculated on the basis of the Group’s target for its debt/equity ratio (on average 0.55), an assumed long-term, nominal risk-free interest The Group’s impairment losses on property, plant and equipment are stated in the rate of 4.5 per cent, a risk premium 8 of 1 per cent for borrowed capital and of 2 per income statement in the line item Impairment losses. In 2010, impairment losses of cent for equity. Tax is taken into account at a rate of 26.3 per cent. SEK 555 million were recognised in the Holmen Paper business area following the 4 decision to shut down one of the paper machines at the mill in Madrid. For 2009, Deferred tax, i.e. the tax that is expected to be charged against the earnings from impairment losses of SEK 22 million on property, plant and equipment were attributable harvesting in the future, has been 0 calculated on the total value of growing forests. to the shut-down of a board machine at Workington Mill that belongs to the Iggesund The value of the forest assets–4was estimated at the end of 2010 at Paperboard business area. SEK 12 161 million, i.e. the value –8 of the estimated cash flows before tax. The attribut­ The year’s investments were reduced by SEK 2 million (2) as a result of the support able deferred tax liability was estimated at SEK 3 241 million. The net ­carrying amount received from the Swedish Energy Agency of SEK 40 million in total for the construction after tax of the growing forests was SEK 8 920 million. of a new pulp line at Braviken Paper Mill. The change in the value of the growing forests can be divided into: The Group’s investment commitments for approved and ongoing projects amounted to SEK 2 130 million (1 581) at 31 December 2010. The company’s capitalised borrowing 2010 2009 costs were SEK 24 million (1) in 2010 and are recognised as Work in progress and Group advance payments to suppliers. An interest rate of 4 per cent (3) was used to determine the amount. Opening balance 11 109 11 080 The assessed tax values are determined by the Swedish Tax Agency by means of a Acquisition of growing forest 8 5 property assessment and are then used for determining the property tax charge. Sales of growing forest 0 0 No property tax is charged on forest land. Change due to harvesting -673 -552 Change in fair value 1 775 568 Note 11. Biological assets Other changes -57 8 Closing carrying amount 12 161 11 109 Forest assets are recognised in the Group as growing forest, which is stated as a biological asset at fair value, and land, which is stated at acquisition cost. Holmen’s The net effect of the change in fair value and the change as a result of harvesting is assessment is that no relevant market prices are available that can be used to value stated in the income statement as change in value of biological assets. In 2010, this forest holdings as extensive as Holmen’s. The valuation is therefore made by calculatamounted to SEK 1 102 million (16). Of this amount, SEK 1 050 million is due to the ing the present value of future expected cash flows from the growing forests. This assumption about future wood prices in the valuation being raised by just under 4 calculation of cash flows is made for the coming 100 years, which is regarded as the per cent. Following this, the long-term price level in the valuation is about 10 per cent harvesting cycle of the forests. The cash flows are calculated on the basis of harvestlower than the current market prices for wood. ing volumes according to Holmen’s current harvesting plan and assessments of future The table below shows how the value of forest assets would be affected by changes price and cost changes. The cost of re-planting has been taken into account, because in the most significant valuation assumptions: re-planting after harvesting is a statutory obligation. In total, Holmen owns 1 032 100 hectares of productive forest land, with a volume of Change in value (SEKm) 120 million cubic metres of standing volume, of which 68 500 hectares with 13 million cubic metres of standing volume have been set aside as nature reserves. The current Group Before tax After tax harvesting plan, which came into effect in 2000, is based on harvesting during the Annual change, + 0.1% per year 2000–2009 period of on average 2.5 million m3 of timber and pulpwood per year. The same plan states that the annual harvesting for the 2010–2019 period will be more than Harvesting rate 470 350 1 per cent higher. The harvesting volume is then planned to increase gradually and then Price inflation 430 320 stabilise at about 3.0 million m3 per year in about 40 years’ time. This corresponds to an average increase in harvesting of 0.4 per cent per year. Just over 50 per cent of the Cost inflation -250 -180 wood harvested consists of timber that is sold to sawmills, and the remainder mainly consists of pulpwood, which is sold to the pulp and paper industry. A new harvesting Change in level, +1% plan is estimated to be complete in 2011 and may entail different harvesting rates. Harvesting 170 120 In 2010, cash flow from the growing forests rose to SEK 673 million (552), mainly as a Prices 310 230 result of higher prices and more harvesting. On average, the cash flows in 2001–2009 amounted to approximately SEK 510 million per year. Holmen based its valuation of Costs -160 -120 31 December 2010 on the prices prevailing at the end of the year. An assumption has been made that prices will fall somewhat in 2012, see the following graph. From Discount rate, +0.1% -280 -200 2012 and thereafter, long-term price assumptions have been used, with an annual increase of 1 per cent until 2035 and thereafter a rise of 2 per cent a year. The cash Annual change refers to the annual rate of change used in the valuation of each flow forecast for 2011–2016 is shown in the following figure. Costs are estimated to ­parameter. For example, an increase of 0.1 per cent means that the annual price increase from present-day levels by about 2 per cent per year. The price and cash ­inflation will be increased from 1.0 per cent to 1.1 per cent in the calculations. Change flows for the period 2017–2035 are estimated to increase by 0.5 per cent per year, in level means that the level for each parameter and year changes. For ­example, a after which they are expected to increase broadly in line with the assumed level of 1 per cent price increase means that the wood prices in the calculations are raised by inflation of 2 per cent. 1 per cent for all years (change of level). 71 Holmen Annual report 2010 Note 12. Interests in associates and other shares and participating interests Group Parent company Group Parent company 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Associates Other shares and participating interests Carrying amount at start of year 1 770 1 824 84 77 Carrying amount at start of year 10 11 9 11 Investments 34 4 34 4 Investments 2 3 2 2 Disposals -15 0 Disposals -6 Re-classifications 3 3 Re-classifications -3 -3 Interest in associates’ earnings -38 45 Translation difference 0 0 Dividends received -80 Impairment losses 0 0 Translation difference -18 -12 Carrying amount at 31 December 12 10 5 9 Impairment losses Carrying amount at 31 December 1 748 1 770 118 84 During the year, the parent company sold its shares in SweeTree Technologies AB to the subsidiary Holmen Ventures KB, which is reported in the line item Disposals The parent company’s opening balance includes accumulated impairment losses of (SEK -6 million). There were no impairment losses on other shares and interests during SEK 34 million. No impairment losses were recognised during the year. the in 2010. Parent company and Group holdings of shares and interests in associates Carrying Carrying Value of amount at Value of holdamount at holding in Interparent comp. ing in Group Interparent comp. Group acCorporate Registered No. of est SEK accounts, SEK est SEK counts, SEK ID No. office shares %* thousands thousands %* thousands thousands 2010 2009 Brännälvens Kraft AB 556017-6678 Arbrå 5 556 13.9 36 400 13.9 36 400 Gidekraft AB 556016-0953 Örnsköldsvik 990 9.9 99 99 9.9 99 99 Harrsele AB 556036-9398 Vännäs 9 886 49.4 1 472 396 49.4 1 481 898 Uni4 Marketing AB 556594-6984 Stockholm 1 800 36.0 1 856 13 880 36.0 1 856 11 596 Industriskog AB 556193-9470 Falun 25 000 33.3 37 37 33.3 37 37 Pressretur AB 556188-2712 Stockholm 334 33.4 33.4 PÅAB, Pappersåtervinning AB 556142-5116 Norrköping 500 50.0 109 109 50.0 109 109 Vattenfall Tuggen AB 556504-2826 Lycksele 683 6.83 74 755 74 755 6.83 74 755 74 755 VindIn AB 556713-5172 Stockholm 200 17.2 38 910 39 766 14.28 6 910 7 224 ScandFibre Logistics AB 556253-1474 Stockholm 2 000 20.0 2 000 2 000 Baluarte Sociedade de Recolha e Recuperação de Desperdicios, Lda, Portugal Alcochete 2 50.0 39 707 50.0 41 736 Ets Emilie Llau S.A., France Lorp-Sentaraille 678 24.0 22 876 24.0 24 257 Peninsular Cogeneración S.A., Spain Madrid 4 500 50.0 45 789 50.0 92 031 Total 117 767 1 747 815 83 767 1 770 143 * Percentage of shares and percentage of votes for the total number of shares are the same. 72 Holmen Annual report 2010 Parent company and Group holdings of shares and participating interests in other companies Carrying Carrying Value of amount at Value of holdamount at holding in Interparent comp. ing in Group Interparent comp. Group acCorporate Registered No. of est SEK accounts, SEK est SEK counts, SEK ID No. office shares %* thousands thousands %* thousands thousands 2010 2009 Parent company Industrikraft i Sverige AB 556761-5371 Stockholm 100 000 20.0 4 500 4 500 20.0 2 800 2 800 SweTree Technologies AB 556573-9587 Umeå 2.7 6 280 6 280 Miscellaneous shares owned by 389 389 389 389 the parent company Total 4 889 4 889 9 469 9 469 Group SweTree Technologies AB 556573-9587 Umeå 73 500 2.6 6 920 Miscellaneous shares 631 348 Total 4 889 12 439 9 469 9 816 * Percentage of shares and percentage of votes for the total number of shares are the same. The holdings in Brännälvens Kraft AB, Gidekraft AB, Harrsele AB and Vattenfall TugGroup Parent company gen AB refer to h ­ ydro power assets, and the holdings in VindIn AB refer to wind power assets. The holdings entitle the Group to buy some of the electricity produced at cost 2010 2009 2010 2009 price, so the associates only earn a limited profit. Purchased electricity is sold to external customers at m ­ arket price, and the earnings are stated in the Group accounts in the Holmen Energi business area. Income 1 165 814 655 378 Brännälvens Kraft AB, Gidekraft AB, Vattenfall Tuggen AB and VindIn AB are classified Profit/loss 37 40 -1 -2 as associates even though the holdings are less than 20 per cent, since shareholder Assets 775 763 246 209 agreements provide significant influence over each company’s activities. Liabilities 452 447 161 156 Summarised financial information on associates owned by the Group and parent company ­respectively is s­ pecified on the right. The table shows the owned interest in Equity 324 315 84 53 each associate. 73 Holmen Annual report 2010 Note 13. Financial instruments Items recognised at fair value through profit or loss Trade receiv­ Derivatives ables and AvailableTotal Loans valued at Deriva­ with hedge loan re­ for-sale Other carrying Group 2010 fair value tives accounting ceivables ­assets ­liabilities amount Fair value Financial instruments included in net financial debt Non-current financial receivables Deposits with credit institutions 16 16 16 Derivatives 41 41 41 Other financial receivables 132 132 132 41 148 188 188 Current financial receivables Accrued interest 1 1 1 Derivatives 0 56 56 56 Other financial receivables 17 17 17 0 56 17 73 73 Cash and cash equivalents Current deposit of cash and cash equivalents 10 10 10 Bank balances 182 182 182 193 193 193 Non-current liabilities MTN loans 2 098 2 098 2 161 Loans from banks and other credit institutions 1 554 1 554 1 556 Derivatives 14 14 14 14 3 652 3 666 3 730 Current liabilities Commercial paper programme 1 964 1 964 1 964 Bank account liabilities 202 202 202 Current portion of long-term loans 97 97 102 Derivatives 13 16 29 29 Accrued interest 46 46 46 Other current liabilities 12 12 12 13 16 2 320 2 349 2 354 Financial instruments not included in net financial debt Other shares and participating interests 12 12 Trade receivables 2 518 2 518 2 518 Derivatives (recognised among operating receivables) 100 642 742 742 Trade payables 2 453 2 453 2 453 Derivatives (recognised among operating liabilities) -2 45 46 46 Total Financial instruments 86 664 2 876 12 8 425 4 785 4 867 Non-current financial receivables consist of long-term interest-bearing deposits Cash and cash equivalents refers to bank balances and investments that can be with credit institutions, financial receivables from other companies, which, substan­ readily converted into cash for a known amount and with a duration of no more than tially, are interest-bearing as well as prepayments relating to committed credit facilities. three months from the date of acquisition, which also means that the interest rate risk The fair values of long-term derivatives are also included. The parent company’s re­ is negligible. Cash and cash equivalents are placed in bank accounts or as current ceivables from Group companies include a significant share of interest-free receivables deposits at banks. The average rate of interest on the Group’s financial assets, exclud­ between Swedish, wholly-owned Group companies. ing pension assets, in 2010 was around 1.9 per cent (1.5). Current financial receivables consist of fixed income investments and lending for Loan liabilities, accrued interest costs, unrealised exchange losses and fair ­values of durations of up to one year, accrued interest income and unrealised exchange gains. derivatives are stated as financial liabilities. Current financial receivables substantially have fixed interest periods of under three Substantially, financial liabilities are interest bearing. The parent company’s liabilities months, and thus involve a very limited interest rate risk. to Group companies include a significant amount of interest-free liabilities between Swedish wholly-owned Group companies. 74 Holmen Annual report 2010 Items recognised at fair value through profit or loss Trade receiv­ Derivatives ables and AvailableTotal Loans valued at Deriva­ with hedge loan re­ for-sale Other carrying Group 2009 fair value tives accounting ceivables ­assets ­liabilities amount Fair value Financial instruments included in net financial debt Non-current financial receivables Deposits with credit institutions 21 21 21 Derivatives Other financial receivables 131 131 131 151 151 151 Current financial receivables Accrued interest 6 6 6 Derivatives 17 34 51 51 Other financial receivables 17 17 17 17 34 23 74 74 Cash and cash equivalents Current deposit of cash and cash equivalents 17 17 17 Bank balances 165 165 165 182 182 182 Non-current liabilities MTN loans 2 183 2 183 2 205 Loans from banks and other credit institutions 1 252 1 252 1 252 Derivatives 37 37 37 37 3 435 3 472 3 495 Current liabilities Commercial paper programme 945 945 945 Bank account liabilities 251 251 251 Current portion of long-term loans 371 623 994 994 Derivatives 19 22 41 41 Accrued interest 54 54 54 Other current liabilities 12 12 12 371 19 22 1 886 2 298 2 298 Financial instruments not included in net financial debt Other shares and participating interests 10 10 Trade receivables 2 712 2 712 2 712 Derivatives (recognised among operating receivables) 2 223 225 225 Trade payables 1 911 1 911 1 911 Derivatives (recognised among operating liabilities) 50 208 258 258 Total Financial instruments 371 50 64 3 068 10 -7 232 4 586 -4 619 The maturity structure and average interest for the Group’s liabilities are stated in the administration report on page 38. SEK 2 343 million of the parent company’s liabilities MATURITY STRCUTURE, UNDISCOUNTED AMOUNTS* are due for payment within one year. In addition to the financial assets and liabilities identified above, pension liability (see note 17) is also included in net financial debt. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015Items measured at fair value belong to measurement level 2 pursuant to IFRS 7. finaNCIAL LIABILITIES Fair value in the tables was obtained either directly from listed market prices or by calculating the discounted cash flows. In cases where calculations of discounted cash Derivatives 37 27 flows were made, all variables used for the calculations, such as discount rates and Other financial liabilities 2 413 502 -2 559 30 857 exchange rates, were taken from market listings. The difference between fair value and carrying amount arises because certain liabilities are not measured at fair (market) FINANCIAL RECEIVABLES value in the balance sheet, but are stated at their amortised cost. In the case of trade Derivatives 59 41 receivables and trade payables, the carrying amount is stated as the fair value, as Other financial receivables 211 12 1 1 134 this is judged to be a good reflection of the fair value. Since it has not been possible to determine a reliable fair (market) value for shares and interests, they have been *Refers to financial instruments included in net financial debt above, excluding provi­ excluded from the tables. sions for pensions. 75 Holmen Annual report 2010 Items recognised at fair value through profit or loss Trade receiv­ Derivatives ables and AvailableTotal Loans valued at Deriva­ with hedge loan re­ for-sale Other carrying Parent company 2010 fair value tives accounting ceivables ­assets ­liabilities amount Fair value Financial instruments included in net financial debt Non-current financial receivables Deposits with credit institutions Derivatives 41 41 41 Receivables from Group companies 2 546 2 546 2 546 Other financial receivables 28 28 28 41 2 574 2 615 2 615 Current financial receivables Accrued interest 1 1 1 Derivatives 0 56 56 56 Receivables from Group companies Other financial receivables 16 17 17 0 56 17 73 73 Cash and cash equivalents Current deposit of cash and cash equivalents Bank balances 99 99 99 99 99 99 Non-current liabilities MTN loans 2 098 2 098 2 161 Loans from banks and other credit institutions 1 550 1 550 1 552 Liabilities to Group companies 1 300 1 300 1 300 Derivatives 14 14 14 14 4 949 4 962 5 027 Current liabilities Commercial paper programme 1 964 1 964 1 964 Bank account liabilities 202 202 202 Current portion of long-term loans 97 97 102 Derivatives 13 16 29 29 Accrued interest 46 46 46 Liabilities to Group companies Other current liabilities -7 -7 -7 13 16 2 314 2 343 2 348 Financial instruments not included in net financial debt Other shares and participating interests 5 5 Trade receivables 1 836 1 836 1 836 Derivatives (recognised among operating receivables) 101 808 909 909 Trade payables 2 048 2 048 2 048 Derivatives (recognised among operating liabilities) -4 46 50 50 Total financial instruments 85 828 4 527 5 9 311 3 866 -3 941 76 Holmen Annual report 2010 Items recognised at fair value through profit or loss Trade receiv­ Derivatives ables and AvailableTotal Loans valued at Deriva­ with hedge loan re­ for-sale Other carrying Parent company 2009 fair value tives accounting ceivables ­assets ­liabilities amount Fair value Financial instruments included in net financial debt Non-current financial receivables Deposits with credit institutions Derivatives Receivables from Group companies 2 602 2 602 2 602 Other financial receivables 27 27 27 2 629 2 629 2 629 Current financial receivables Accrued interest 6 6 6 Derivatives 51 51 51 Receivables from Group companies Other financial receivables 17 17 17 51 23 74 74 Cash and cash equivalents Current deposit of cash and cash equivalents Bank balances 88 88 88 88 88 88 Non-current liabilities MTN loans 2 183 2 183 2 205 Loans from banks and other credit institutions 1 240 1 240 1 240 Liabilities to Group companies 2 193 2 193 2 193 Derivatives 37 37 37 37 5 615 5 652 5 675 Current liabilities Commercial paper programme 945 945 945 Bank account liabilities 249 249 249 Current portion of long-term loans 619 619 619 Derivatives 19 22 41 41 Accrued interest 54 54 54 Liabilities to Group companies Other current liabilities -7 -7 -7 19 22 1 875 1 916 1 916 Financial instruments not included in net financial debt Other shares and participating interests 9 9 Trade receivables 1 988 1 988 1 988 Derivatives (recognised among operating receivables) 2 190 192 192 Trade payables 1 489 1 489 1 489 Derivatives (recognised among operating liabilities) 50 248 298 298 total financial instruments 16 116 4 729 9 -8 979 4 373 4 405 77 Holmen Annual report 2010 Note 14. Inventories Note 16. Equity parent company Group Parent company 31 Dec 2010 2010 2009 2010 2009 Quotient Share capital Number value SEKm Raw materials and consumables 943 830 651 534 Registrered share capital Timber and pulpwood 305 211 286 182 Class A 22 623 234 50 1 131.2 Finished products and work in 1 053 1 081 795 756 progress Class B 62 132 928 50 3 106.6 Felling rights 848 577 816 541 Total number of shares 84 756 162 4 237.8 Electricity certificates and 190 152 158 129 Bought back class B shares -760 000 emission allowances Total number of shares Total 3 340 2 850 2 705 2 142 outstanding 83 996 162 During the year, impairment losses on inventories had a positive impact on earnings Issued call options, B shares 758 300 as a result of reversal of previous years’ impairment losses and amounted to SEK +50 million (-70) for the Group and SEK +69 million (-40) for the parent company. 31 Dec 2009 Quotient Note 15. Operating receivables Share capital Number value SEKm Registrered share capital Group Parent company Class A 22 623 234 50 1 131.2 2010 2009 2010 2009 Class B 62 132 928 50 3 106.6 Total number of shares 84 756 162 4 237.8 Trade receivables Bought back class B shares -760 000 Group companies 93 114 Total number of shares Associates 43 46 43 46 outstanding 83 996 162 Other 2 475 2 666 1 700 1 828 Issued call options, B shares 758 300 Total trade receivables 2 518 2 712 1 835 1 988 Current receivables The company’s share capital consists of shares issued in two classes: class A, each of which carries ten votes, and class B, each of which carries one vote, but there are no Group companies 0 0 other differences in rights between the two share classes. Associates 14 9 3 5 At 31 December 2010 the Group’s own shareholding was 760 000 shares Other 208 160 188 113 (760 000). None of the Group’s own shares were sold during the year. Derivatives 742 225 909 192 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value according to Chapter 4 Section 14a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act had an impact of SEK 913 million (-132) on parent Prepayments and accrued income 124 96 84 72 company equity. In the Group, valuation of derivatives and other financial instruments Total other operating receivables 1 088 490 1 184 383 had an impact of SEK 750 million (-96) on equity. Holmen’s profitability target is a return that is consistently above the marketTotal operating receivables 3 606 3 202 3 019 2 371 based cost of capital. Decisions on ordinary dividend are based on an appraisal of the The fair values of derivatives relate to hedges of future cash flows. Group’s profitability, future investment plans and financial position. The aim is to have a robust financial position with a debt/equity ratio in the interval of 0.3–0.8. Trade receivables are recognised at the amount expected to be received, based on an The Board proposes that the AGM, to be held on 30 March 2011, approves a divi­ individual assessment of each customer. The Group’s trade receivables mainly relate dend of SEK 7 per share. The proposed dividend totals SEK 588 million. The preced­ to European customers. Trade receivables denominated in foreign currencies were ing year, the dividend paid was SEK 7 per share (SEK 588 million). valued at closing rates. The provision for anticipated credit losses on trade receivables The debt/equity ratio was 0.34 (0.34). stood at SEK 20 million (21) at 31 December 2010 and it has been recognised, net, together with trade receivables. During the year, the provision was changed by Neither the parent company nor the subsidiaries are subject to external capital require­ SEK 2 million (0) as a result of actual credit losses, and by SEK 1 million (8) as a result ments, except for Holmen Försäkring AB, the Group’s insurance company, which of changes in the provision for anticipated credit losses. complies with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations on the ratio between equity and risk. For more details about the Group’s capital management and Customer credit risks related to the Group’s customers are managed by the relevant risk management, see the administration report on pages 36-39. business areas and are described in the administration report on page 39. 78 Holmen Annual report 2010 Group Parent company Note 17. Pension provisions 2010 2009 2010 2009 Holmen has defined benefit occupational pension plans for its salaried employees in Plan assets Sweden (ITP plan) and for most of its employees in the UK. These plans provide benefits based on final salary and period of employment. The scheme in the UK has been Fair value of assets at 1 January 1 385 1 199 137 125 closed for new entrants since the end of June 2004. Since then, new employees have Expected return 70 59 been offered a defined contribution pension scheme. Occupational pension plans for Actuarial gains/losses 118 131 “blue-collar” employees in Sweden are defined contribution plans. Real return (parent company) 9 19 The commitments arising out of the pension schemes in the UK are placed in trusts. The defined benefit commitments over and above the ITP plan for Group manageAmounts paid in by employer 56 53 ment in Sweden are secured by means of a pension fund. These commitments are Amounts paid in by employees 5 7 recognised in the consolidated accounts as defined benefit plans in accordance Pensions paid -86 -74 -8 -8 with IAS 19. Most of the defined benefit pension commitments on behalf of salaried employees in Sweden are secured by means of insurance policies with Alecta. As Exchange differences -112 11 Alecta cannot provide sufficient information to permit the ITP plan to be stated in the Fair value of assets at accounts as a defined benefit plan it is stated in accordance with statement UFR 6 31 December 1 438 1 385 138 137 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board as a de­fined contribution plan. The year’s Pension provisions, net -213 -320 -68 -43 premiums for pension insurance policies taken out with Alecta amounted to SEK 36 million (37), of which SEK 34 million (35) ­relates to old age and family pensions. Of the Group’s total commitments, SEK 71 million (53) refers to those that are not These are included among staff costs in the income statement. Alecta’s surplus can funded, while the rest are wholly or partially funded commitments. Of the parent combe allocated to policyholders and/or the persons insured. At the end of 2010, Alecta’s pany’s commitments, SEK 68 million (43) are secured under the act on safeguarding collective consolidation level was 146 per cent (141). pension obligations, Tryggandelagen. Group Parent company Plan assets by type are as shown below: Group Parent company 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Pension costs Plan assets Defined benefit plans Equity 696 611 54 52 Staff cost -20 -17 -8 7 Bonds 724 691 83 85 Finance income 3 0 2 0 Current fixed income investments 18 84 1 0 Finance costs -19 -28 -3 1 438 1 385 138 137 Total defined benefit plans stated in income statement -36 -45 -6 4 The plan assets do not include any financial instruments issued by Group companies or assets used by the Group. Defined contribution plans Staff cost -150 -145 -140 -132 2010 2009 31 dec 31 dec Total recognised in Key actuarial assumptions, Group income statement -186 -190 -146 -128 (weighted average), % The year’s actuarial adjustment for the Group was SEK 97 million (15), in­cluding the Discount rate 5.3 5.5 cost of associated special employer’s contribution of SEK 3 million (2), which was Expected return on plan assets 5.4 5.5 recognised in other comprehensive income. The accumulated a ­ ctuarial revaluation amounts to SEK -16 million (-113). Pay increases in the future 4.0 4.2 The change in the defined benefit commitments and the change in plan assets are Inflation in the future 3.2 3.4 specified in the table below. 86 per cent of the commitments relate to the pension The expected return on fixed income securities was estimated on the basis of plans in the UK. first-class long-term bonds; in the case of shares, an addition was made for a risk Group Parent company premium. The discount rate for pension obligations was established on the basis of first-class 2010 2009 2010 2009 corporate bonds. A discount rate of 3.5 per cent (4.2) and salary levels at the balance Commitments sheet date were used for calculating the amount of the parent company’s pension commitment. Commitments at 1 January -1 706 -1 553 -180 -189 Cost of employment during current 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 period -20 -21 -17 -6 Five-year figures, Group Interest costs -85 -87 2 -3 Present value of commitments -1 650 -1 706 -1 553 -1 769 -1 866 Actuarial gains/losses -25 -118 Fair value of plan assets 1 438 1 385 1 199 1 521 1 510 Amount paid in by employees -5 -7 Net -213 -320 -354 -247 -356 Pensions paid 121 105 42 31 Adjustments based on experience Transferred from provisions -55 -13 -54 -13 Defined benefit commitments 29 -11 -3 4 15 Settlements 1 4 Plan assets 118 131 -237 -6 32 Exchange differences 126 -16 The Group’s payments into the funded defined benefit plans in 2011 are ­expected to Commitments at 31 December -1 650 -1 706 -206 -180 amount to SEK 54 million. 79 Holmen Annual report 2010 Note 18. Other provisions Provisions for taxes Other provisions Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Group Carrying amount at start of year 692 692 683 664 1 375 1 357 Provisions during the period 389 246 389 246 Utilised during the period -646 -218 -224 -864 -224 Re-classifications -161 -161 Translation differences -10 -3 -10 -3 Closing carrying amount 46 692 683 683 729 1 375 Of which non-current part of the provisions 46 692 412 409 459 1 102 Of which current part of the provisions 270 274 270 274 Parent company Carrying amount at start of year 45 45 559 649 604 695 Provisions during the period 387 130 387 130 Utilised during the period -251 -221 -251 -221 Closing carrying amount 45 45 695 559 740 604 Of which non-current part of the provisions 45 45 477 340 522 386 Of which current part of the provisions 218 219 218 218 Holmen has one large tax case still in progress, affecting MoDo Capital, a Holmen harvesting (SEK 161 million); the measures are normally carried out within three years subsidiary. The County Administrative Court ruled against the company in January 2010. of harvesting. Holmen has appealed against the judgment to the Administrative Court of Appeal. In 2010, new provisions made were primarily for restructuring within Holmen Paper ­Holmen previously made provision for any costs, and the judgment did not therefore and restoration of the environment. At the end of 2010, provisions of around have any impact on earnings, but entailed a tax payment of SEK 611 million in 2010. SEK 250 million had been made to cover restructuring costs regarding staff cuts. Other provisions primarily relate to obligations to restore the environment, as well These are mainly expected to be paid out in 2011. as staff costs and restructuring costs. The parent company figures also include a provision to cover coming reforestation measures to be taken after completion of final Note 19. Operating liabilities Note 20. Operating leases Group Parent company In 2010, the Group’s lease payments amounted to SEK 26 million (25), and the parent company’s to SEK 8 million (9). The Group’s lease agreements relate to forklift trucks. 2010 2009 2010 2009 No new lease agreements of any significance for the business were entered into during the 2010 financial year. No leased equipment was rented out. Trade payables The breakdown of future lease payments is as follows: Group companies 147 129 Group Parent company Associates 39 39 0 Other 2 414 1 872 1 901 1 360 2012 2012 Total trade payables 2 453 1 911 2 048 1 489 2011 –2016 2017– 2011 –2016 2017– Current liabilities Future lease ­payments 21 25 0 5 Group companies 0 0 Present value Associates 13 of future lease Other 296 253 234 203 ­payments 20 22 0 5 Derivatives 46 258 50 298 The contracts have remaining durations ranging from 1 to 7 years. The Group’s future lease payments for existing lease agreements amounted to SEK 40 million at the end Accruals and deferred income 733 637 489 429 of 2009. Those in the parent company amounted to SEK 8 million. Total other operating liabilities 1 088 1 149 773 930 Apart from lease agreements, Holmen has time charter contracts in respect of 5 ships that are used to distribute the company’s products. The contracts were entered into in Total operating liabilities 3 541 3 060 2 821 2 419 2006 and 2010 and run for a remaining 1 to 6 years. All trade payables are due for payment within one year. Accruals and deferred income in the parent company mainly consist of staff costs of SEK 202 million (207) and discounts of SEK 51 million (46). Fair values of derivatives relate substantially to hedging future cash flows; see note 13. 80 Holmen Annual report 2010 Note 21. Pledged collateral and contingent liabilities Pledged collateral value Total Total Property Other ­pledged ­pledged mortgages collateral collatcollateral eral Group Parent company 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Group Contingent liabilities For own liabilities Surety on behalf of Group companies 118 602 Financial Other contingent liabilities 135 140 59 86 ­liabilities 6 11 17 21 Total 135 140 177 688 Total 6 11 17 21 During the year the parent company’s surety on behalf of the subsidiary Holmen Parent company Energi Elhandel expired. For own liabilities On the basis of the Swedish Environmental Code, the Swedish environmental authorities may raise the issue of soil tests and site restoration at discontinued units. ReFinancial sponsibility for restoring the environment is determined from case to case, often with ­liabilities 6 6 6 the aid of a reasonability assessment. Holmen has environment-related contingent Total 6 0 6 6 liabilities that cannot at present be quantified, but that could involve costs in the future. L E Lundbergföretagen AB is a large shareholder in Holmen (see page 42). Holmen Note 22. Related parties rents office premises for SEK 7 million (7) from Fastighets AB L E Lundberg, which is a group company within L E Lundbergföretagen AB. In 2010, Fredrik Lundberg, who is CEO and principal shareholder in L E Lundbergföretagen, received a fee of Of the parent company’s net sales of SEK 13 338 million (13 436), 0.9 (0.8) per cent SEK 550 000 as Board chairman of Holmen. relates to deliveries to Group companies. The parent company’s purchases from Group companies amounted to SEK 141 million (143). Transactions with related parties are priced at market-based conditions. The equity holdings in associates that produce hydro and wind power entitle the Group to buy There are significant financial receivables and liabilities between the parent company the electricity produced at cost price in relation to the shareholding, which means and its Swedish subsidiaries, which do not carry interest. that the associate only earns a limited profit. Purchased electricity is sold to external The parent company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see note 23). customers at market price, and the earnings are stated in the consolidated ­accounts within the Holmen Energi business area. In Spain, energy and recovered paper are purchased from associates. Transactions with related parties Purchase of prodSale of products ucts from related Other (e.g. Liability to Receivable from to related parties parties interest, dividend) related parties related parties 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Group Associates 232 220 230 273 1 1 53 39 196 194 Parent company Subsidiaries 124 103 141 143 11 1 146 1 451 2 363 2 835 2 743 Associates 232 220 4 0 1 1 0 81 87 For fees and remuneration paid to members of the Board see note 4. 81 Holmen Annual report 2010 A number of mergers and liquidations took place in the Group during the year with the Note 23. Interests in Group companies aim of simplifying the company structure. In Sweden, AB Iggesunds Bruk, Fiskeby AB and Skärnäs Terminal AB were merged with Holmens Bruk AB. Abroad, mergers were Parent company implemented in France, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the US. Gains/losses from liquidations of Group companies are recognised in the line item for Sales 2010 2009 (loss of SEK 3 million). Accumulated acquisition cost Carrying amount at start of year 16 676 17 426 Contributions from owners 323 Sales -3 -1 073 Closing balance at 31 December 16 674 16 676 Accumulated revaluations Carrying amount at start of year 2 299 2 299 Closing balance at 31 December 2 299 2 299 Accumulated impairment losses Carrying amount at start of year 4 658 4 222 Impairment losses for the year 436 Closing balance at 31 December 4 658 4 658 Carrying amount at end of year 14 315 14 318 Parent company’s direct holdings of interests in subsidiaries Carrying Carrying Corporate Registered No. of amount amount ID No. office shares Interest, %* SEK thousands Interest, %* SEK thousands 2010 2009 Holmen Paper AB 556005-6383 Norrköping 100 100 100 100 100 Iggesund Paperboard AB 556088-5294 Hudiksvall 1 000 100 100 100 100 Holmen Timber AB 556099-0672 Hudiksvall 1 000 100 100 100 100 Holmen Skog AB 556220-0658 Örnsköldsvik 1 000 100 83 100 83 Holmen Energi AB 556524-8456 Örnsköldsvik 1 000 100 100 100 100 Fiskeby AB 556000-9218 Norrköping 100 646 160 Holmen Energi Elhandel AB 556537-4286 Stockholm 1 000 100 100 100 100 Holmens Bruk AB 556002-0264 Norrköping 49 514 201 100 8 867 752 100 4 286 121 Holmen Försäkring AB 516406-0062 Stockholm 10 000 100 45 304 100 45 304 AB Iggesunds Bruk 556000-8053 Hudiksvall 100 3 932 558 MoDo Capital AB 556499-1668 Stockholm 1 000 100 71 552 100 71 552 Skärnäs Terminal AB 556008-3171 Hudiksvall 100 2 913 Other Swedish Group companies 874 3 211 Total Swedish holdings 8 986 065 8 988 402 Holmen S.A.S., France Paris 40 000 100 5 192 100 5 192 Holmen UK Ltd, UK Workington 1 197 100 100 1 518 959 100 1 518 959 Holmen Paper UK Ltd ** London 100 100 Iggesund Paperboard (Workington) Ltd ** Workington 100 100 Holmen GmbH, Germany Hamburg 100 655 100 655 Holmen Suecia Holding S.L., Spain Madrid 9 448 557 100 3 577 265 100 3 577 265 Holmen Paper Madrid S.L. ** Madrid 100 100 Cartón y Papel Reciclado S.A. (Carpa), Spain ** Madrid 100 100 Iggesund Paperboard Asia Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore 800 000 100 4 273 100 4 273 Holmen B.V., the Netherlands Amsterdam 35 100 207 733 100 207 733 Iggesund (Paper & Board) Services B.V. ** Utrecht 100 100 AS Holmen Mets, Estonia Tallinn 500 100 100 Other non-Swedish Group companies 14 842 15 029 Total non-Swedish holdings 5 328 919 5 329 106 Total 14 314 983 14 317 508 * Percentage of shares and percentage of votes for the total number of shares are the same. ** Indirect holdings. 82 Holmen Annual report 2010 The most material estimates made relate to how much harvesting can be increased Note 24. Untaxed reserves in the future, what changes there will be in pulpwood and timber prices, how high inflation will be, and what discount rate is used. Note 11 ­provides a sensitivity analysis for the valuation of changes in these estimates. In 2010, estimates of future wood Parent company prices were changed, which increased the carrying amount of biological assets by SEK 1 050 million in excess of a normal change in value. The attributable deferred tax 31 Dec Appro31 Dec liability increased by SEK 276 million. The carrying amount of biological assets at 2010 priations 2009 31 December 2010 was SEK 12 161 million and the attributable deferred tax liability was SEK 3 241 million, giving a net value of SEK 8 920 million. Accumulated depreciation and amortisation in excess of plan Tax Intangible non-current Holmen has one large tax case still in progress, affecting MoDo Capital, a Holmen assets 3 -1 4 subsidiary. In January 2010, the County Administrative Court ruled against the company, resulting in a tax payment of SEK 611 million. Holmen previously made provision Property, plant and for any costs and the judgment did not therefore have any impact on earnings. ­equipment 5 -4 9 Holmen has appealed against the judgment to the Administrative Court of Appeal. Total 8 -5 13 See notes 7, 18 and 21. Tax allocation Net deferred tax assets of SEK 210 million are recgonised in the consolidated reserve accounts on the basis of the assessment that it will probably be possible to utilise them to reduce tax payments in the future. Over and above this, at year-end the Assessment of tax 2006 520 520 Group had loss carry-forwards and tax-related temporary differences corresponding to Assessment of tax 2007 490 490 tax of some SEK 950 million not stated in the consolidated accounts on the grounds for assessment that utilisation must be likely. See note 7. Assessment of tax 2008 570 570 Assessment of tax 2009 53 -2 55 Pensions Assessment of tax 2010 707 -8 715 The Group’s provision for pensions amounts to SEK 213 million on the basis of defined Assessment of tax 2011 170 170 benefit pension commitments valued at SEK 1 650 million and plan assets of SEK 1 438 million provided to cover them. The value of pension commitments is 2 510 160 2 350 estimated on the basis of assumptions regarding discount rates, inflation, future pay increases, and demographic factors. These assumptions are normally updated each year, Total 2 518 155 2 363 which has an effect on the size of the recognised pension liability and equity. Together with assumptions regarding the expected return on plan assets, these assumptions will have an influence on the coming year’s recognised pension cost. See note 17. Note 25. Cash flow statement Environment Group Parent company Provisions to cover environment-related measures associ­ated with former activities have been made based on estimated future site-restoration costs. Moreover it is 2010 2009 2010 2009 judged that the company has a responsbility for environ­mental measures that cannot at present be quantified but that could involve costs in the future. See note 21. Interest paid and dividends received Dividends received 14 1 156 Restructuring Major staff cuts at Hallsta Paper Mill and at the paper mill in Madrid are in progress Interest received 10 7 6 19 and one of the paper machines in Madrid will be shut down in spring 2011. At the end Interest paid -218 -287 -166 -272 of 2010, provisions of about SEK 250 million had been made to cover the restructuring costs. No additional major changes have been announced, but, should the situaTotal -208 -280 -146 903 tion alter, further provisions may become necessary. Change in current liabilities The change in current liabilities mostly relates to borrowing within the Group’s comImpairment testing mercial paper programme. In 2010, a number of different short-term loans amounting Holmen has an obligation to carry out regular impairment testing to determine the in total to SEK 5 425 million (8 760) were raised within the Group’s commercial paper need to state new impairment losses and/or reversals. In 2007 impairment losses of programme, and SEK 4 405 million (9 295) was repaid. For a specification of cash and SEK 1 603 million were recognised on goodwill and property, plant and equipment cash equivalents, see Note 13. within the Holmen Paper business area. This impairment was based on estimates of recoverable amounts using assumptions regarding future ­changes in prices, volumes and costs, as well as the estimated market cost of capital. In 2010, further impairment Note 26. Key assessments and estimates losses of SEK 555 million on property, plant and equipment were recognised in the Spanish operation of the Holmen Paper business area as a result of the approaching shut-down of one of the paper machines in Madrid. Changes in conditions may When preparing financial reports the company’s management is required to make have an effect on the estimated recoverable amount applied in connection with future assessments and estimates that have an effect on the stated amounts. The asimpairment tests. sessments and estimates that, in the view of the company’s management, are of importance for the amounts stated in the annual report, and that are at significant risk of being altered by future events and new information, mainly include: Biological assets Holmen’s assessment is that no relevant market prices are available that can be used to value forest holdings as extensive as Holmen’s. The valuation is therefore made by calculating the present value of future expected cash flows from the growing forests. 83 Holmen Annual report 2010 Appropriation of profits SEK The following unappropriated earnings of the parent company are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting: Net profit for the 2010 financial year 372 190 814 Retained earnings brought forward 4 862 581 359 5 234 772 173 The Board of Directors propose that an ordinary dividend of SEK 7 per share (83 996 162 shares) be paid to shareholders 587 973 134 and that the remaining amount be carried forward 4 646 799 039 5 234 772 173 The Board of Holmen AB has proposed that the 2011 Annual General Meeting resolves risks associated with the business in terms of the amount of equity required, and taking in favour of paying a dividend of SEK 7 per share, a total of SEK 588 million, which is into account the need for consolidation, liquidity and financial position in other respects. unchanged compared to the preceding year. The proposal complies with the Board’s The financial position will remain strong after payment of the proposed dividend and is policy, in that decisions on dividend are to be based on an appraisal of the Group’s considered to be fully adequate to ­enable the company to fulfil its obligations in both the profitability, future investment plans and financial position. short and the long term, as well as to finance such investments as may be necessary. The Board and CEO declare that the annual report was prepared in accordance with geThe proposed dividend corresponds to 84 per cent of net profit for 2010 and means nerally accepted accounting principles in Sweden and the Group’s financial statements that 3.5 per cent of equity in the Group at 31 December 2010 will be paid out by way of were prepared in accordance with the international accounting standards referred to in dividend. the European Parliament’s and Council’s regulation (EG) No. 1606/2002 of 19 July 2002 The Board has established that the Group shall have a strong financial position with concerning the application of international accounting standards. The annual report and a debt/equity ratio – defined as net financial debt in relation to equity – in the interval the Group’s financial statements provide a true and fair picture of the performance and between 0.3 and 0.8. The debt/equity ratio at 31 December 2010 was 0.34. Payment of financial position of the parent company and the Group. The administration report for the proposed dividend would raise the debt/equity ratio by around 0.05. the parent company and the Group provides a true and fair picture of the development of the operations, financial position and performance of the Group and the parent comHolmen AB’s equity at 31 December 2010 amounted to SEK 11 149 million, of which pany and also describes material risks and uncertainties to which the parent company non-restricted equity was SEK 5 235 million. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value and the other companies in the Group are exposed. according to Chapter 4 Section 14a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act had an impact The annual report and the Group’s financial statements were approved for publication of SEK 913 million on equity. The Group’s equity at 31 December 2010 amounted to by the Board in its decision of 23 February 2011. The Group’s income statement and SEK 16 913 million. Complying with IFRS, no distinction is made at Group level between balance sheet and the parent company’s income statement and balance sheet will be restricted and non-restricted equity. presented for adoption at the Annual General Meeting that will be held on 30 March The Board considers that payment of a dividend of the amount proposed is justifiable in 2011. view of the demands made on the company and the Group by the nature, extent and Stockholm, 23 February 2011 Fredrik Lundberg Carl Kempe Ulf Lundahl Chairman Deputy chairman Board member Carl Bennet Curt Källströmer Göran Lundin Board member Board member Board member Steewe Björklundh Hans Larsson Karin Norin Board member Board member Board member Kenneth Johansson Louise Lindh Magnus Hall Board member Board member Board member and Chief Executive Officer Our audit report was submitted on 24 February 2011. KPMG AB George Pettersson Authorised public accountant 84 Holmen Annual report 2010 Audit report To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders in Holmen Aktiebolag. Corporate identity No. 556001-3301 We have audited the annual report, the Group’s financial statements, the accounting records and the administration of the Board of Directors and the CEO of Holmen AB for the year 2010. The annual report and the Group’s financial statements are included in the printed version of this document on pages 4–84. The Board of Directors and the CEO have responsibility for these accounts and the administration of the company as well as for the application of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act when preparing the annual report and the application of international financial reporting standards, IFRSs, as adopted by the EU and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act when preparing the Group’s financial statements. Our responsibility is to express our opinion on the annual report, the Group’s financial statements and the administration on the basis of our audit. We carried out our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we plan and perform the ­audit to obtain reasonable but not absolute assurance that the annual report and the Group’s financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the accounts. An audit also includes assessing the ­accounting principles used and their application by the Board of Directors and the CEO and significant estimates made by the Board of Directors and the CEO when preparing the annual report and the Group’s financial statements as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the information in the annual report and the Group’s financial statements. As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, we examined significant decisions, ­actions taken and circumstances of the company in order to be able to determine the liability, if any, to the company of any Board member or the CEO. We also examined whether any board member or the CEO in any other way acted in contravention of the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. We b ­ elieve that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion set out below. The annual report was prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and gives a true and fair view of the company’s financial position and the ­result of its operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Sweden. The Group’s financial statements were prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards, IFRSs, as adopted by the EU and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and the result of its operations. A corporate governance report has been drawn up. The administration report and corporate governance report are consistent with the other parts of the annual report and the consolidated financial statements. We recommend to the Annual General Meeting of shareholders that the income statements and balance sheets of the parent company and the Group be adopted, that the profit of the parent company be dealt with in accordance with the proposal in the administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the CEO be discharged from liability for the financial year. Our audit report was submitted on 24 February 2011. KPMG AB George Pettersson Authorised public accountant 85 Holmen Annual report 2010 Annual General Meeting 7SEK is the Board’s proposal for dividend The 2011 Annual General Meeting of Holmen AB will be held at ­“Vinterträdgården”, Grand Hôtel (the Royal entrance), Stockholm, per share payable to shareholders; to be decided on at the AGM at 4.00 p.m. CET on Wednesday 30 March. Participation in the AGM Notification of participation can be made in Dividend Shareholders who wish to participate in the the following ways: The Board has proposed that a dividend of Annual General Meeting shall • letter to Holmen AB, Group Legal Affairs, SEK 7 (7) per share be paid to shareholders. • be entered in the register of shareholders Box 5407, 114 84 Stockholm, Sweden The Board has proposed Monday 4 April maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB no • email to info@holmen.com 2011 as the record date for entitlement to later than Thursday 24 March 2011 dividend. Provided that the Annual General • Holmen’s website www.holmen.com • notify the company of their participation Meeting resolves in favour of the proposal, • telephone +46-8-666 21 11 the dividend is expected to be distributed by by no later than Thursday 24 March 2011. • fax +46-8-666 21 80. Euroclear Sweden on Thursday 7 April 2011. Shareholders are requested to inform their Shareholders whose shares are registered account operator of any change of name in a nominee name should temporarily reand/or address. register their shares in their own name with Euroclear Sweden so that this takes effect no later than Thursday 24 March 2011 to be entitled to ­participate in the Annual General Meeting. 86 Holmen Annual report 2010 Five-year review, sustainability Data from all parts of the Group are collected in the same way, colOne of the board machines at Workington Mill was closed down lated and quality-assured. The key indicators for HR data are those in December 2009. Workforce reductions were made at Braviken in common use in the industry. Most of the indicators are collected Paper Mill in 2010. This has affected the reporting for 2010. Figures monthly through the pay systems. reported for previous years have not been corrected. No material changes have been made to the principles of reporting The licensing authorities’ conditions relating to emissions to air in comparison with the previous year, except that the accident rate is and water stipulate regular sampling in accordance with specific now reported in the same way as is done in the rest of the industry. rules. Holmen reports its environmental data to the supervisory The figures for 2006–2009 have been corrected. authorities monthly and annually. All reporting to Swedish authoriAs some of the information provided in this report had already ties is available to the public under the principle of public access to been collected by the end of the year it refers to, it might differ documents. Data from all the mills are reported to the EU annually. slightly from the information finally reported to the authorities. Some Holmen reports its expenditure on environmental protection in of the HR and environmental data now reported for 2009 may thereaccordance with guidelines from Statistics Sweden (SCB). fore have been revised. Personnel 20101) 2009 20082) 20072) 2006 EMPLOYEES Average number 4 241 4 577 4 829 4 931 4 958 of whom women, % 19.0 18.6 17.9 16.4 17.2 of whom temporary employees, %3) 6.7 6.6 7.0 7.2 – Average age 45.8 46.3 45.0 45.5 45.7 Sickness absence, % Total 3.5 3.7 4.3 4.5 4.4 of which longer than 60 days 1.1 1.4 2.7 2.7 2.8 Good health index (share of employees with no sick leave during the year) 47 47 44 – – GENDER EQUALITY, % Women managers out of total number of managers 16.5 15.8 12.9 8.9 7.6 Women joining the company out of total new employees 18 27 31 23 23 EDUCATION, % Compulsory education 19 19 21 21 23 Upper secondary school 60 61 61 61 60 Higher education, at least 2 years 21 20 18 18 17 Graduates, proportion of new employees 45 45 – 34 37 Women joining the company with higher education qualifications 55 57 – – – STAFF TURNOVER, % Staff turnover 9.3 10.7 9.2 6.0 5.8 of which given notice 3.7 6.5 1.3 – 0.6 of which retiring 3.9 2.5 3.7 – 3.1 of which leaving at own request 1.7 1.6 4.2 – 2.2 New employees 3.3 3.5 6.5 5.9 5.6 Number of INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS/1 000 EMPLOYEES Industrial accidents, more than 8 hours of absence 24.8 24.9 31.5 22.7 21.2 UNION CO-OPERATION, % Units with independent trade unions 97 97 97 97 97 Rate of union membership 70 75 76 83 87 EMPLOYEE SURVEY4) Inblick index – 623 – 601 – Leadership index – 58 – 56 – 1) Data and calculations are based on 4 209 employees. Some small offices with a total of 32 employees are not included. 2) Some data are lacking for 2007 and 2008 due to introduction of a new HR system. 3) The proportion of employees employed on a part-time basis is low, fewer than 5 per cent. 4) The employee survey is conducted every second year. The next one will be in 2011. 87 Holmen Annual report 2010 Production and environment 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 INTERNAL SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS Harvesting in company forests Timber, ’000 m3 solid volume under bark 1 353 1 406 1383 1214 1161 Pulpwood, ’000 m3 solid volume under bark 1 646 1 491 1 266 1 361 1 457 Biofuel, GWh 462 540 190 73 13 Electricity production, hydro power GWh 1 145 1 090 1 128 1 193 934 PRODUCTION, ’000 TONNES Newsprint, standard 731 823 957 1 038 1 011 MF Special 767 679 714 690 744 SC paper 135 137 149 131 127 Coated printing paper 80 75 212 175 162 Paperboard 474 471 494 514 542 Market pulp 40 48 62 50 60 Sawn timber, ’000 m3 285 291 279 272 247 RAW MATERIALS, ’000 TONNES Wood, million m3 solid volume under bark1) 4.44 4.49 4.79 4.66 4.75 Recycled fibre 790 813 999 1040 1025 Purchased pulp 118 128 166 174 214 Thermal energy, GWh 5 839 5 634 6 181 6 148 6 547 Electrical energy, GWh 4 625 4 681 5 156 5 122 5 168 Water consumption, million m3 82 84 93 92 95 Process wastewater, million m3 55 57 64 63 63 Plastic granules/foiling material 2.3 2.4 2.4 2.5 3.1 Chemicals2) 153 125 155 178 175 Filler, pigment 204 195 265 268 268 THERMAL ENERGY, GWh Production at mills from recovered liquors, bark and wood residues 2 942 2 916 2 959 2 829 2 955 Recovered in the TMP process3) 1 152 1 093 952 955 952 Purchased, natural gas and oil4,5) 1 744 1 625 2 270 2 364 2 640 ELECTRICAL ENERGY, GWh Company hydro power 1 145 1 090 1 128 1 193 934 Company wind power 4 1 – – – Production at mills 481 384 485 472 597 Purchased4,5) 2 995 3 207 3 543 3 457 3 637 EMISSIONS TO AIR, TONNES Sulphur dioxide (counted as sulphur, S) 176 199 235 230 250 Nitrogen oxides 1 465 1 608 1 697 1 670 2 065 Particulates 98 91 131 118 133 Carbon dioxide, ’000 tonnes -Fossil 303 252 399 419 482 -Biogenic 1 082 988 1 062 1 096 1 150 EMISSIONS TO WATER, TONNES COD (organic matter), ’000 tonnes 17.3 19.9 25.2 24.5 24.5 Suspended solids 3 123 3 726 5 358 4 672 4 080 AOX (chlorinated organic matter) 53.6 54.3 66.3 66.1 66.4 Nitrogen 243 269 374 318 366 Phosphorus 14.7 19.4 27.3 20.4 24.3 WASTE, ’000 TONNES Hazardous6) 0.7 1.47) 1.6 0.8 1.6 Sent to landfill (wet) 24 23 35 43 55 Utilised or recycled8) 432 435 496 468 433 Energy production, internally/externally 553 5137) 763 745 758 DELIVERIES Thermal energy, GWh 123 115 107 106 99 Tall oil, ’000 tonnes9) 4.4 4.0 5.5 10.0 10.5 88 Holmen Annual report 2010 Electric energy 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Energy supply at Holmen 2010 SHARE OF HOLMEN’S TOTAL Electrical energy ­CONSUMPTION, % % of Holmen’s total consumption Company hydro power 25 23 22 23 18 10 Company back-pressure power 10 8 9 8 12 Purchased Purchased electricity 65 69 69 69 70 Company hydro power 25 Company back-pressure power Thermal energy 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 65 SHARE OF HOLMEN’S TOTAL CONSUMPTION, % Biofuel 50 52 48 46 45 Holmen owns, wholly or partly, 21 hydro power staRecovered thermal energy 20 19 15 14 14 tions. Back-pressure power is produced at the mills. The electricity that is purchased in Sweden is mainly Natural gas 15 13 15 14 15 produced at hydro or nuclear power stations. Oil, LPG 8 6 12 16 16 Purchased thermal energy 7 10 10 10 10 Thermal energy Environmental protection 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 % of Holmen’s total consumption COSTS/INCOME, SEKm 7 8 Direct investments (for treatment of emissions) 511) 127 92 6 16 Biofuel Recovered Power and heat-saving investments 522) 34 396 189 15 50 thermal energy Environmental taxes and charges 353) 35 60 62 78 Natural gas Internal and external environmental costs4) 182 197 224 198 177 Oil, LPG 20 Purchased Environmental cost of forestry5) 70 60 60 60 50 thermal energy Emission allowances – income 26 24 18 1 5 At Iggesund Mill large amounts of thermal energy Electricity certificates – income 56 71 72 49 41 are produced by burning wood-containing liquors. 1) Most of the amount stated comprises installation of treatment equipment for weak gases in conjunction with the Significant quantities are also generated by burning recovery boiler project at Iggesund Mill. Costs of the installation for treatment of wastewater at the same mill also bark. At Hallsta and Braviken Paper Mills surplus heat account for a significant share of the sum stated. is recovered from the TMP production process. Natural 2) Most of the stated sum comprises environmentally related parts of the recovery boiler project at Iggesund Mill. Engas is used at the mills in Workington and Madrid. vironmentally related costs to improve the efficiency of energy use at Workington Mill also account for a significant portion. 3) About 40 per cent of the costs consist of carbon dioxide tax paid. Costs of bought-in water for and waste mana gement at Holmen Paper Madrid also account for significant portions of the amount stated. 4) This includes costs of environmental personnel, operation of cleaning equipment, waste management, supervision, applications for permits and various types of environmental consultants. 5) The environmental cost of forestry is estimated as the value of the wood that is not harvested for environmental reasons. Holmen sets aside around 10 per cent of its productive forest acreage and thus refrains from harvesting around 10 per cent of the potential volume. The annual loss of income is estimated at around SEK 70 million. Holmen forests in 2010 Total land acreage 1 264 400 ha Productive forest land 1 032 100 ha -of which nature areas set aside 68 500 ha -productive land excl. nature areas 963 600 ha Barren land 232 300 ha Volume of wood, per hectare 118 m3 standing volume Volume of wood incl. nature areas 120 million m3 standing volume Volume of wood excl. nature areas 108 million m3 standing volume Comments on the table on page 88 1) At Group level, wood consumption is computed net, taking into account internal deliveries of chips from the Iggesund Sawmill to Iggesund Mill. 2) 100 per cent active substance. 3) Thermal energy is produced from the electricity used in the production of thermo-mechanical pulp at Braviken Paper Mill and Hallsta Paper Mill; this is recovered and used in production. 4) The reporting includes data for gas consumption and associated emissions linked to Holmen’s share of electricity production at the half-owned cogeneration (COGEN) plant at Holmen Paper Madrid. The supply of heating from the facility is also included. 5) In 2010, emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from production of purchased thermal energy and electricity totalled approximately 245 000 tonnes. 6) Hazardous waste is dealt with by an authorised collection and recovery contractor. Oil-containing waste from docking ships is dealt with at port facilities at three Holmen mills. The volume of this waste in 2010 totalled 1 360 tonnes. 7) The figure has been corrected. 8) Waste used, for example, as filling material, construction material or for the production of soil products. 9) For delivery to the chemical industry. 89 Holmen Annual report 2010 Ten-year review, finance SEKm 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 INCOME STATEMENT Net sales 17 581 18 071 19 334 19 159 18 592 16 319 15 653 15 816 16 081 16 655 Operating costs -15 026 -15 175 -16 630 -15 548 -14 954 -13 205 -12 570 -12 306 -12 205 -12 460 Depreciation and amortisation according to plan -1 251 -1 320 -1 343 -1 337 -1 346 -1 167 -1 156 -1 166 -1 153 -1 126 Interest in earnings of associates 28 45 50 12 11 20 25 -6 -10 -3 Items affecting comparability* 264 -361 557 -620 Operating profit 1 596 1 620 1 051 2 843 2 303 1 967 1 952 2 338 2 713 2 446 Net financial items -208 -255 -311 -261 -247 -233 -206 -212 -149 -152 Profit before tax 1 388 1 366 740 2 582 2 056 1 734 1 746 2 126 2 564 2 294 Tax -684 -360 -98 -1 077 -597 -478 -471 -675 -605 -108 Profit for the year 704 1 006 642 1 505 1 459 1 256 1 275 1 451 1 959 2 186 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 8.4 12.0 7.6 17.8 17.2 14.8 15.1 17.5 23.6 26.4 Net sales Holmen Paper 8 142 9 303 10 443 10 345 10 140 8 442 7 814 7 788 8 164 8 757 Iggesund Paperboard 4 849 5 023 4 860 5 100 5 240 4 860 4 877 4 920 4 850 4 467 Holmen Timber 586 553 499 589 465 460 492 510 572 712 Holmen Skog 5 585 4 799 5 443 4 775 4 042 3 858 3 780 3 613 3 538 3 982 Holmen Energi 1 932 1 628 1 834 1 590 1 691 1 480 1 258 1 337 1 120 1 108 Elimination of intra-group net sales -3 513 -3 236 -3 745 -3 239 -2 986 -2 781 -2 568 -2 352 -2 163 -2 371 Group 17 581 18 071 19 334 19 159 18 592 16 319 15 653 15 816 16 081 16 655 Operating profit/loss Holmen Paper -618 340 280 623 754 631 487 747 1 664 2 410 Iggesund Paperboard 817 419 320 599 752 626 809 1 001 818 455 Holmen Timber 20 21 13 146 80 13 5 18 -6 -79 Holmen Skog 818 605 632 702 643 537 586 516 450 455 Holmen Energi 495 414 327 272 197 301 178 193 -26 49 Group-wide costs and eliminations -200 -178 -159 -56 -123 -141 -113 -137 -187 -224 1 332 1 620 1 412 2 286 2 303 1 967 1 952 2 338 2 713 3 066 Items affecting comparability* 264 -361 557 -620 Group 1 596 1 620 1 051 2 843 2 303 1 967 1 952 2 338 2 713 2 446 CASH FLOW Profit before tax 1 388 1 366 740 2 582 2 056 1 734 1 746 2 126 2 564 2 294 Adjustment items 811 1 163 1 797 629 1 225 914 1 031 1 169 1 050 1 679 Paid income tax -704 -334 -192 -390 -664 -516 -378 -727 -472 -248 Changes in working capital 28 678 -686 -345 -259 339 -68 -125 356 61 Cash flow from operating activities 1 523 2 873 1 660 2 476 2 358 2 471 2 331 2 443 3 498 3 786 Cash flow from investing activities -1 597 -818 -1 124 -1 315 -947 -3 029 -1 195 -726 -1 810 -1 669 Cash flow after investments -74 2 054 536 1 161 1 411 -558 1 136 1 717 1 688 2 117 Share buy-back -138 New share issue through conversion and subscription 474 Dividend paid -588 -756 -1 017 -1 017 -932 -848 -3 199 -880 -800 -5 518 * Items affecting comparability: Year 2001: Impairment losses of SEK 620 million on non-current assets. Year 2007: Impairment losses of SEK 569 million on goodwill and of SEK 1 034 million on property, plant and equipment within Holmen Paper, reversed impairment losses of SEK 60 million on non-current assets within Holmen Timber, and a positive revaluation of forests of SEK 2 100 million within Holmen Skog. Year 2008: Closure of Wargön Mill SEK accounted for 298 million and a cost of SEK 115 million was for the closure of PM 2 at Hallsta Paper Mill. Income of SEK 52 million ­corresponds to the effects on the result of the fire at Braviken Paper Mill. Year 2010: Impairment losses on fixed assets of SEK 555 million, restructing costs of SEK 231 million and revaluation of forest amounting to an increase of SEK 1 050 million. 90 Holmen Annual report 2010 For a ten-year review of data per share, see page 41. SEKm 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 BALANCE SHEET Non-current assets 24 058 23 610 24 329 24 099 23 258 23 702 21 354 18 878 19 442 18 661 Deferred tax assets 210 304 342 301 354 352 273 295 194 203 Shares and participating interests 1 760 1 780 1 836 1 753 1 742 1 739 1 754 1 767 1 721 286 Current assets 6 950 6 075 7 268 6 549 6 138 5 709 5 149 4 743 4 922 5 366 Financial receivables 262 225 175 147 165 132 92 105 54 33 Cash and cash equivalents 193 182 653 394 484 580 367 570 634 399 Total assets 33 432 32 176 34 602 33 243 32 141 32 214 28 989 26 358 26 967 24 948 Equity 16 913 16 504 15 641 16 932 16 636 16 007 15 635 15 366 15 185 14 072 Deferred tax liability 5 910 5 045 4 819 5 482 5 030 5 143 5 177 4 557 4 370 4 014 Financial liabilities and interest-bearing provisions 6 227 6 091 8 332 6 518 6 634 7 351 5 335 4 044 4 496 3 593 Operating liabilities 4 383 4 536 5 809 4 311 3 841 3 713 2 842 2 391 2 916 3 269 Total equity and liabilities 33 432 32 176 34 602 33 243 32 141 32 214 28 989 26 358 26 967 24 948 Operating capital Holmen Paper 6 954 8 789 10 237 9 971 11 541 11 452 9 659 9 461 9 884 9 584 Iggesund Paperboard 4 313 4 114 4 254 4 180 3 935 3 965 3 871 3 885 3 963 4 330 Holmen Timber 1 192 396 366 345 208 230 231 277 258 232 Holmen Skog 12 597 11 384 11 415 11 264 9 001 8 919 8 842 6 383 6 429 6 517 Holmen Energi 3 235 3 207 3 006 2 960 2 965 2 958 2 930 2 926 2 877 805 Group-wide and other 93 -963 -1 654 -630 -354 -87 -118 65 -242 -424 Operating capital 28 385 26 929 27 623 28 090 27 297 27 437 25 415 22 997 23 169 21 044 Deferred tax liability, net -5 700 -4 741 -4 477 -5 181 -4 676 -4 791 -4 904 -4 262 -4 176 -3 811 Capital employed 22 684 22 188 23 146 22 909 22 621 22 646 20 511 18 735 18 993 17 233 KEY figures Operating margin, %* Holmen Paper neg 4 3 6 7 7 6 10 21 28 Iggesund Paperboard 17 8 7 12 14 13 17 20 17 10 Holmen Timber 4 4 3 24 17 3 1 3 -1 -11 Group 8 9 7 12 12 12 12 15 17 18 Return on operating capital, %* Holmen Paper -8 4 3 5 6 6 5 8 17 26 Iggesund Paperboard 20 10 8 15 19 16 20 25 20 9 Holmen Timber 3 6 4 64 38 6 2 7 neg neg Holmen Skog 7 5 6 8 7 6 7 8 7 7 Holmen Energi 15 13 11 9 7 10 6 7 5 7 Group 5 6 5 8 8 7 8 10 13 14 Key figures Return on capital employed, %* 6 7 6 10 10 9 10 12 16 18 Return on equity, % 4 6 4 9 9 8 8 10 14 16 Debt/equity ratio 0.34 0.34 0.48 0.35 0.36 0.41 0.31 0.22 0.25 0.22 Deliveries Newsprint and magazine paper, ’000 tonnes 1 732 1 745 2 044 2 025 2 021 1 764 1 731 1 655 1 528 1 525 Paperboard, ’000 tonnes 464 477 494 516 536 492 501 481 453 410 Sawn timber, ’000 m3 285 313 266 262 248 229 195 189 220 322 Harvesting own forests, million m3 3.0 2.9 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.3 2.6 2.7 2.5 2.4 Own production of hydro power, GWh 1 145 1 090 1 128 1 193 934 1 236 1 054 867 1 048 1 362 Stated in accordance with IFRSs from 2004. As far as Holmen is concerned, the principal difference between IFRSs and previous accounting policies is that f­orest assets are valued and stated in the accounts at fair value, that goodwill is no longer amortised according to plan, and that the fair value of financial assets and liabilities where hedge accounting is applied is entered into the balance sheet. * Excl. items affecting comparability. 91 Holmen Annual report 2010 Definitions & glossary Biofuel/biofrefining FSC Particulates Renewable fuels, such as wood, black liquor, bark and The Forest Stewardship Council is an organisation that Particles of ash formed in incineration of bark or liquor, tall oil. develops international forest standards. FSC promotes for example. Capital employed management of the world’s forests in a way that is PEFC Operating capital less the net sum of deferred tax acceptable from three perspectives: environmentally, The Programme of the Endorsement of Forest Certificaassets and deferred tax liabilities. Average values are socially and economically. tion Schemes is an international forest standard. In calculated on the basis of quarterly data. GRI Sweden, the PEFC and FSC standards are largely Carbon dioxide (CO2) Global Reporting Initiative. International cooperation identical. Carbon is the building block of life and is part of all body, in which many different groups of stakeholders Phosphorus (P) living things. Biogenic carbon dioxide is released when in society have drawn up global guidelines for how An element contained in wood. Excessive phosphorus biological material decays or wood is burned. Fossil companies are to report on activities encompassed in the water may cause over-fertilisation (eutrophication) carbon dioxide is released when coal, oil or natural gas by the umbrella term of sustainable development. The and oxygen consumption. is burned. organisation’s website is at www.globalreporting.org. Return on capital employed Cash flow after investments Groundwood pulp Operating profit/loss (excl. items affecting comparability Cash flow from operating activities less cash flow from Mechanical pulp produced by grinding wood against a and transferred operations) expressed as a percentage investing activities. grindstone. of average capital employed. Certification IPPC Return on equity Assessment performed by a third party. A certificate is a Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control. EU enviProfit for the year expressed as a percentage of averdocument which shows that the conditions for certificaronmental legislation about integrated, individual testing age equity, calculated on the basis of quarterly data. tion have been met. and supervision of major industrial companies. Return on operating capital COD ISO 14001 Operating profit/loss (excl. items affecting comparability (Chemical Oxygen Demand). Chemical oxygen An international environmental management standard and transferred operations) expressed as a percentage demanding substances. A measure of the amount of drawn up by ISO. Important principles in ISO 14001 of average operating capital. oxygen needed for the complete decomposition of include regular environmental audits and a gradual increase in the requirements. RMP organic material in water. Refiner mechanical pulp. Pulp produced through refinCubic metres standing volume ISO 9001 ing wood chips, with or without chemical or thermal The volume of tree stems, incl. bark, from the stump An international standard for quality management systreatment. to the top. tems. Primarily aimed at companies and organisations that wish to improve two aspects of their operations, SC Debt/equity ratio i.e. to ensure more satisfied customers and lower costs. Super-calendered paper. Uncoated, glazed magazine Net financial debt divided by the sum of equity and any paper. non-controlling interests. LWC Light-weight coated wood-containing paper. Mainly Sulphate pulp DIP used for magazines and catalogues. Chemical pulp that is produced by cooking wood under De-inked pulp. Pulp manufactured from de-inked high pressure and at a high temperature together with recovered paper. M3SUB, cubic metres solid volume under bark white liquor (sodium hydroxide and sodium sulphide). The actual volume (no gaps between the logs) of whole Earnings per share (EPS) stems or stemwood excl. bark and treetops. Sulphur dioxide (SO2) Profit for the year divided by the weighted average A gas consisting of sulphur and oxygen that is formed number of shares outstanding, adjusted for buy-back MF paper in combustion of sulphur-containing fuels, such as oil. of shares, if any, during the year. Diluted EPS means Machine finished. Includes standard and coloured In contact with moist air, sulphur dioxide is converted that any diluting effect from outstanding call options has newsprint. into nitric acid, which creates acid rain. been taken into account. MWC Suspended solids Equity/assets ratio Medium-weight coated wood-containing paper. Used Waterborne substances consisting of fibres and partiEquity plus any non-controlling interests, expressed as for magazines, catalogues and printed advertising cles that can largely be removed using a fine mesh filter. a percentage of total assets. materials. Tall oil Fillers Net financial debt By-product of the sulphate pulp process used for makFillers, such as ground marble and kaolin clay, are used Non-current and current financial liabilities and pension ing soft soap, paints and other products. It is also an to give the paper bulk and make it more uniform in provisions, less financial assets. excellent biofuel. structure and brighter. Nitrogen (N) TMP Financial assets An element included in wood. Nitrogen emissions to Thermo-mechanical pulp. Obtained by heating spruce Non-current and current financial receivables and cash water may cause eutrophication. chips and then grinding them in refiners. and cash equivalents. Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Folding boxboard (FBB) Gases that consist of nitrogen and oxygen that are Multi-layered paperboard made from mechanical and formed in combustion. In moist air, nitrogen oxides chemical pulp. are converted into nitric acid, which creates acid rain. Nitrogen oxides also have a fertilising effect. Fossil fuels Fuels based on carbon and hydrogen compounds from Operating capital sediment or sedimentary bedrock – mainly coal, oil and Total assets, less financial receivables, cash and cash natural gas. equivalents, deferred tax assets, operating liabilities, tax provision and other provisions. Average values are calculated on the basis of quarterly data. Operating margin Operating profit/loss (excl. items affecting comparability) expressed as a percentage of net sales. 92 Addresses & industrial sites Holmen AB Holmen Timber AB Hallsta Paper Mill Head office P.O. Box 45 Holmen Paper (Strandvägen 1) SE-825 21 Iggesund Raw material: Spruce pulpwood. P.O. Box 5407 SWEDEN Process: TMP and groundwood pulp. SE-114 84 Stockholm Tel +46 650 280 00 Products: Newsprint, MF Magazine, SWEDEN Fax +46 650 203 80 Tel +46 8 666 21 00 E-mail info@holmentimber.com SC paper and book paper. Fax +46 8 666 21 30 Production capacity: 670 000 tonnes/year. E-mail info@holmen.com Iggesunds Sågverk (Sawmill) Average No. of employees: 733. www.holmen.com P.O. Box 45 SE-825 21 Iggesund Braviken Paper Mill Holmen Paper AB SWEDEN Holmen Paper (Vattengränden 2) Tel +46 650 280 00 Raw materials: Spruce pulpwood and SE-601 88 Norrköping Fax +46 650 203 80 SWEDEN E-mail info@holmentimber.com ­recovered paper. Tel +46 11 23 50 00 Process: TMP and DIP. Fax +46 11 23 63 04 Bravikens Sågverk (Sawmill) Products: Newsprint, coloured newsprint, SE-601 88 Norrköping directory paper and MF Magazine. Holmen Paper Hallsta SWEDEN Production capacity: 750 000 tonnes/year. SE-763 81 Hallstavik Tel +46 11 23 50 00 Average No. of employees: 604. SWEDEN Fax +46 11 23 62 19 Holmen Paper Madrid Tel +46 175 260 00 E-mail info@holmentimber.com Fax +46 175 264 01 Holmen Paper Holmen Skog AB Raw material: Recovered paper. Holmen Paper Braviken (Hörneborgsvägen 6) Process: DIP. SE-601 88 Norrköping SE-891 80 Örnsköldsvik Products: Newsprint, MF Magazine and SWEDEN SWEDEN LWC Recycled. Tel +46 11 23 50 00 Tel +46 660 754 00 Production capacity: 495 000 tonnes/year.* Fax +46 11 23 66 30 Fax +46 660 759 85 Average No. of employees: 369.* E-mail info@holmenskog.com *) Before the closure of PM 61. Holmen Paper Madrid Parque Industrial Iggesund Mill La Cantueña Holmen Energi AB Iggesund Paperboard C/del Papel 1 (Hörneborgsvägen 6) Raw materials: Softwood and hardwood ES-28947 Fuenlabrada SE-891 80 Örnsköldsvik pulpwood. (Madrid) SWEDEN Process: Sulphate pulp. SPAIN Tel +46 660 754 00 Products: Solid bleached board, plastic Tel +34 91 642 0603 Fax +46 660 755 10 coated paperboard and sulphate pulp. Fax +34 91 642 2470 E-mail info@holmenenergi.com Production capacity: 330 000 tonnes/year Iggesund Paperboard AB (paperboard). SE-825 80 Iggesund Average No. of employees: 890. SWEDEN Workington Mill Tel +46 650 280 00 Iggesund Paperboard Fax +46 650 288 00 Raw materials: Spruce pulpwood and E-mail info@iggesund.com purchased sulphate pulp. Iggesunds Bruk (Mill) Process: RMP. SE-825 80 Iggesund Product: Folding boxboard. SWEDEN Production capacity: 200 000 tonnes/year. Tel +46 650 280 00 Average No. of employees: 405. Fax +46 650 285 32 E-mail info@iggesund.com Iggesund Sawmill Holmen Timber Workington Mill Raw material: Pine saw logs. Workington, Cumbria CA14 1JX Process: Sawmilling. UK Products: Pine sawn timber. Tel +44 1900 601000 The complete list of addresses is Production capacity: 310 000 m3/year. Fax +44 1900 605000 available on Holmen’s website Average No. of employees: 97. E-mail info@iggesund.com www.holmen.com Braviken Sawmill The cover of the annual report is printed on Iggesund Paperboard’s Holmen Timber solid bleached board, Invercote® Creato, matt, 280 gsm. Raw material: Spruce saw logs. It is embossed and UV-varnished. Process: Sawmilling. Cover photograph: Refiner plate used in TMP production. Products: Spruce sawn timber. Photo: Gustav Lindh. Production capacity: 550 000 m ­ 3/year at full capacity in 2013. The annual report is produced by Holmen. Layout: LEON AB in ­co-operation with Holmen. Graphic production: Gylling Produktion. Average No. of employees: 31* Photos: Rolf Andersson and others. Print: Danagård LiTHO. *) Since production started at year-end 2010/2011, the sawmill has had 110 employees. Holmen AB (publ) P.O. Box 5407, SE-114 84 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 666 21 00 • Fax +46 8 666 21 30 E-mail info@holmen.com • www.holmen.com ID No. 556001-3301 • Registered office Stockholm
