Sustaining Values Social Report 2010 Sustaining Values Social Report 2010 Contents 5 Management Letter 16 Strategy & Governance 34 Environment 7 Our Values 20 Stakeholder Dialogue 43 Social Contribution 10 Nature of Our Business 23 Our People 47 On Reporting 13 Targets & Performance 28 Health & Safety 48 GRI Index Summary 14 Economic Contribution Social Report 2010 3 Management Letter 2010 has been a year of recovery for ing of information among all Group current practices within a strict 2010, we are particularly proud of the Group’s business performance. sites, which resulted in the doubling timetable. In the scope of this perhaving mobilized our local colBased on our Values, we have mainof reports compared to 2009. mit, the company has to thoroughly leagues to participate in volunteer tained our commitment to Sustainrevisit all aspects –environmental, sowork in many areas of our operaable Development and continued Sustainable development for our cial, financial – of best available techtions as we believe that social our progress on some of our key business is secured by long-term niques and methods for alternative engagement means building a twosustainability challenges. access to quality mineral and ore disposal of the perlite fine rejects reway relationship with society. Last, reserves. Developing and transsulting from processing, which are but not least, we continue to supWe conducted a thorough and forming natural resources into valuenow disposed of in the sea, respectport a number of business initiatives transparent CEO selection process creating industrial solutions requires ing a strict four-year timetable with such as the UN Global Compact, among internal and external candilong-term planning and a sequence specific and predetermined steps. the work of the SEV BCSD, partner dates. This process culminated in of well planned activities and sound As a first step to this process, a base organization of the World Business the election of Mr. Kriton Anavlavis environmental practices, which asstudy by the Hellenic Center for MaCouncil for Sustainable Developas our new CEO, a very successful sure not only compliance with the lerine Research for the ecological asment, and the Hellenic Network for 20-year S&B veteran who had last gal framework, but more imporsessment of the marine environment Corporate Social Responsibility, served as Group CFO. His selection tantly the social license to operate. has begun. Evaluation of findings will which celebrated its 10-year anvividly demonstrates that our combe carried out in cooperation with niversary in 2010. pany develops its people and fosApproval of the environmental impact public authorities to decide on the ters their talent. It also underlines studies constitutes an integral part optimal viable solution. Our Social Report provides an S&B’s commitment to follow the of this larger picture. In August 2010 overview of our Group’s sustainability path of professional management and in November 2010 S&B was Our mining activity, especially suractivities and performance against and sound corporate governance granted, after a long procedural peface mining, by its nature interferes our challenges and this is the tenth set forth over a decade ago. riod before the administration authorwith the natural environment; S&B year of publication, and the fourth ities, two very important environstrives to mitigate its environmental year of following the GRI SustainabilDuring 2010 we reviewed the govermental permits for Milos and Fokis, footprint by applying state of the art ity Reporting Guidelines. In our connance structure of Environment, respectively, enabling the smooth reclamation methods, which pretinuous quest to strengthen our acHealth & Safety (EHS) and expanded continuance of our activities. The perserve the biodiversity of local regions countability and methodological rigor, it further with the establishment of a mit covering the mining operations in and are informed by the base studwe initiated an Assurance readiness third EHS Council in North America. Fokis is a renewal and amendment of ies carried out during the last 5 check of our Social Report at the end Although the “zero accidents” target the previous environmental permit, years. 2010 marked the first year of of 2010, by a third-party auditor, in established in 2002 has not yet been which covered a large mining area achieving the target of using only loorder to identify gaps and areas for attained, we are continuously imwith multiple deposits and ensured a cal and endemic plants in all our improvement and work towards proving our procedures, the working holistic and, therefore, more efficient Greek reclamation works. We also establishing an assurance process environment and conditions while and effective management of the concluded a five-year research proover the next two years. more importantly we focus on becompany’s environmental impact. gram with the Institute of Mediterhaviors at work which enhance risk The amendment of the previous perranean Forest Ecosystems of the We look to the future with optimism recognition and mitigation. Our bemit mainly entails a shift from open National Agricultural Research Founand remain committed to our busihavior improvement practices and pits to underground mining in certain dation and the University of Athens, ness and to our sustainable develmethodology – already established deposits, in order to minimize the enwhich resulted in many positive outopment principles and practices. and practiced in our Greek operavironmental footprint. The Milos percomes and “lessons learned”. tions – have been extended further mit covers our largest processing in Germany and also initiated in Buland loading operations in Greece, in Apart from our work on environUlysses P. Kyriacopoulos garia. Within the same framework, Voudia, and constitutes a novel demental and health & safety aspects Chairman of the Board greater emphasis was placed on encision which not only incorporates of our operations, we also remain couraging near-miss reports with acthe latest legislative rules, but also close to the local communities Efthimios O. Vidalis tions to facilitate reporting and sharprovides for the re-examination of surrounding our activities. During Chief Executive Officer Social Report 2010 5 CEO succession Efthimios O. Vidalis Kriton Anavlavis On behalf of our Board, I wish to welcome Krisurance of timely and smooth leadership tranton Anavlavis, former Group CFO, in his sucsitions. cession of Efthimios Vidalis as Chief Executive Officer of the S&B Group, effective the second Last but not least, I take this opportunity quarter of 2011 and following the conclusion to congratulate and thank Mr. Vidalis for of legal and statutory procedures. Mr. his cooperation, his immense contribution Anavlavis’s selection as the right candidate to to S&B during his term of office and his skills succeed to the CEO position was the culmiin successfully confronting the challenges in nation of a pioneering and successful process our business environment, especially over the that adhered to strict and high-level Corporate last couple of years. Governance practices. It underscores the emphasis placed by our organization on the inI extend to both gentlemen and esteemed colternal development of human resources to leagues my warmest wishes for further sucassume top-ranking positions, as well as on cess and prosperity in their professional and the creation of management depth and conpersonal lives. tinuation of professional leadership. It reflects our Board’s trust in and respect for high-level Ulysses P. Kyriacopoulos knowledge of our business, loyalty, and asChairman of the Board 6 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Our Values Integrity We keep our promise. Customer Intimacy We strive to understand and satisfy our customers’ needs and to share their aspirations for the future. Respect for People We value our people and we foster their development within a safe working environment of mutual trust and respect. Social Responsibility We gain the respect of our stakeholders with our professional and responsible conduct. Social Report 2010 7 Sustaining Values 2010 has been a year of recovery for our business performance, sustained by our Values and our diligent quest for Sustainable Development. Our commitments to our customers, to our people and to the local communities where we operate, as well as the sound pursuit of occupational safety and mitigation of our environmental footprint across our operations, drive our sustainable development strategy and guide our performance objectives. Nature of our Business From extraction through processing Developing and transforming natural & manufacturing resources into value-creating industrial solutions requires long-term planning and a sequence of activities. Bentonite Market demand forms the basis for all our applications development and innovation. Market-to-Mine is our key Perlite business approach, underlining our strength in building comprehensive and efficient chains, which link the Bauxite specific market needs back to materials processing, to mine production and to the special properties of our reserves. S&B’s industrial solutions Zeolite perform an important function in the continuous and eco-friendly production of metallurgical products all over Wollastonite the world. In addition, our products serve a wide range of applications contributing in effect to all main asContinuous pects of our everyday living, e.g. Casting Fluxes food, housing and transportation. Spodumene Calcined Bauxite Brown Fused Alumina Mullite 10 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. to the markets that we serve Foundry Civil Horticulture Organic & Smoke Engineering Emissions’ Reduction in Foundries Iron Ore Pelletizing Cement Soil Improvement Heat & Sound Industry Insulation Continuous Glass & Ceramics Landfill Soil Rockwool Steel Casting Sealing Production Aluminium Oil-drilling Wastewater Asbestos Replacement Profiles Purification in many Applications & Surfaces Refractories Pet Litter Recycled Oil Spill Absorption Absorbents Paper De-inking Construction Edible Liquid Livestock Soil & Building Purification Quality of Life & Groundwater Materials Improvement Remediation for a modern and sustainable life Food Housing Transportation Main Markets & Applications Main Applications Environment & Health Social Report 2010 11 Targets & Performance Summary Target Performance trends & outlook Comments Environment 2008 2009 2010 10% reduction of the Group’s New target – Not achieved Not achieved The percentage demonstrates the divergence from the target energy consumption per ton of Achieved (by 1.8%) (by 1.9%) on the basis of equal reduction per year to achieve the target product by 2020, with 2005 as (exceeded set by 2020. Acquisitions of new entities are also included, the base year by 1.6%) maintaining the 10% energy reduction target over the period between acquisition and 2020. The overall divergence (positive or negative) relates to product mix, preparation of new mines, fuel mix (electrical energy purchase versus own electricity production) and market cycle impacting mode of operation, i.e. one shift vs. three shifts. More on explanation about the % of achievement or nonachievement on page 38. 90% use of local, autochthonous, Out-performed: Out-performed: Out-performed: Target is currently applicable to Greek operations where the or endemic species out of total 93.3% endemic 96.7% endemic 100% endemic majority of S&B mining activities occurs. Extending to Groupspecies used in all new land over total species over total species over total species wide mining activities is under review. reclamation works used used used Safety 2008 2009 2010 Zero fatalities achieved achieved achieved Zero accidents 33 accidents 30 accidents 36 accidents Zero days lost 990 days lost 868 days lost 1,099 days lost Increase “Near Miss” reporting 82 near misses 64 near misses 122 near misses Efforts have intensified in year 2010 and progress is evident. across the Group (target equals reported reported reported to 4 times the number of accidents, i.e. for 2008: 4 x 33=132) (61.7% achievement) (53.3% achievement) (84.7%achievement) Health 2008 2009 2010 Dust: Target is zero employees 10.4% 12.4% 9% exposed to dust concentration that is greater than 80% of the limit dictated by legislation Noise: Target is zero employees ex11.0% 16% 10.6% posed to noise levels above 85 decibels – averaged over 8 hours – not taking into account the benefit of wearing protective equipment People 2008 2009 2010 Integration of Corporate Human Partially in USA Achieved in USA Achieved in This system includes the Job Evaluation process, the Performance Resources Systems in the Group Partially in Bulgaria Bulgaria Appraisal and the Compensation and Benefits of employees, and prior to 2008 it was already applied in Greece, Germany, France and North America. Target is to be gradually fully or partially achieved at all important locations of our business. Enhance internal communication Printed newsletter Intensive internal Three local digital This target was set to assist in establishing a common corporate and integration among Group was redesigned communication newsletters estabidentity and culture among our international operations. employees in content to adapt through announcelished (Greece, to the international ments, the corpoGermany, North orientation of the rate newsletter, America) and InGroup continuous meettranet launched ings between heads covering signifiof Depts. and suborcant locations dinates, and CEO visits to S&B sites around the world, to inform employees on corporate developments due to the financial crisis Community 2008 2009 2010 Establish a Group-wide CorpoNew target To be achieved within 2011. rate Giving policy Accountability 2010 Gradual assurance of non-finanNew target During 2010 S&B initiated an Assurance Readiness Check by a cial information published in third-party professional auditor for identifying gaps and areas Social Report until 2013 for improvement on its internal reporting mechanisms. Social Report 2010 13 S&B had a Group turnover of € 420 million, operating profit of € 27.6 million, net profit of € 13.1 million Economic Contribution 2010 Industrial Minerals Sales 2010 Industrial Minerals Sales by Segment by Country Metallurgy Germany 23% USA 16% Greece 8% & Mineral Processing 63% Foundry 24% Continuous Steel Casting 23% Iron Ore Pelletising 6% Alumina 5% Refractories 4% Iron smelting 1% UK 3% Sweden 3% Construction 17% Spain 3% Construction & Building materials 10% Russia 3% Civil Engineering 5% Other 23% Italy 3% Cement Industry 2% Horticulture 5% Canada 4% Glass & Ceramics 4% Netherlands 5% Other 4% France 7% Drilling 4% Pet Litter Absorbents 3% Various 20% 2010 Industrial Minerals Sales by Division Continuous Our activities worldwide are major and payments to suppliers of all Bentonite 45% Casting Fluxes 22% local or regional employers, both dikinds at local level represent an imrect and indirect. We favor local emportant contribution of capital to local ployment not only for social reasons, economies. but also because local people help us operate efficiently as they are inIn addition, we contribute to local integrated in the culture and regulatory frastructure works to support our openvironment of their communities. A erations (i.e. roads) or as social considerable number of our activities contribution to local communities are situated in remote or poor re(water supplies, wastewater facility on gions, where employment opportuMilos etc.), thus improving socioecoPerlite 16% nities are scarce and unemployment nomic conditions for inhabitants of Bauxite 8% Minerals Trading 9% is high. In this respect our operations these areas. See more on how we and steady employment contribute contributed to local communities and positively to local economies. Conlocal infrastructure works during 2010 sequently, payments to employees in the relevant section on page 45. 14 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. € 71 € 274.4 € 22.7 € 4.9 million to employees million to suppliers million for taxes, million to shareholders in compensation of all kinds duties, and social and benefits contribution 26 46 26 in 20 countries sales in 76 1,983 mines plants & processing distribution & 5 continents countries employees units centers Mines 2 1 1 4 1 1 Processing plants 4 3 1 1 7 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 Warehouses 1 4 2 & Distribution Centers 2 3 1 1 1 ds la n y y ia da lgiu er an d Hu Bu rgia na A m th m Po ng lg eo Ca US UK Be Ne G er la n ar ar G ea o Ko r cc e e y l zi or Sp nc ly ec ke ia na th Br o ai Fr Ita re Tu In Ch So a M n a G r d i u Mines 1 1 1 7 3 1 1 1 Processing plants 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 3 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 Warehouses & Distribution Centers 1 1 1 1 2 1 4 • Bentonite • • • Perlite Bauxite Continuous Casting Fluxes • Minerals Trading Social Report 2010 15 Our strategic approach to Sustainable Development and consequently to Corporate Social Responsibility is anchored on our long-standing corporate Values. Strategy & Governance Customer Satisfaction t on Ec me n y om Envi r on Guided by our Purpose and Values Value to Shareholders We provide innovative industrial solutions by developing and transforming natural resources into value-creating products. Care for Human Society & Resources Integrity Environment Development We keep our promise. Customer Intimacy Society We strive to understand and satisfy our customers’needs and to share their aspirations for the future. The nature of our business Respect for People We value our people and we foster their development within a Developing and transforming natuThe entire process may last over 25 safe working environment of mutual trust and respect. ral resources into value-creating inyears for every mining site. All this dustrial solutions requires a number requires long-term commitment to Social Responsibility of important steps and long-term the resources we extract, to the We gain the respect of our stakeholders planning. Based on the results of people we employ, to the communiwith our professional and responsible conduct. monthor year-long exploration, our ties we affect and to the customers strategy focuses on the planning we serve. At the same time we need Guided by our Purpose and Values we create long-term value and implementation of long-term to produce value to our shareholdfor our shareholders, which is interlinked to our sustainable demining projects and investments, iners on a fiscal year basis, as well as velopment practices and the accountability those entail. cluding processing of the minerals. on a longer-term basis. Our key sustainability challenges Drive our strategic approach to sustainable development • Securing access to and responsible management of natural • Setting our principles and our codes on the basis of our Values resources in order to be able to meet present and future demand and our Purpose for our products and, at the same time, improve efficiency in the • Establishing policies in the areas of CSR that we and our stakeuse of natural resources holders identify as most important, and upon which we focus • Safeguarding occupational health & safety • Developing comprehensive practices in these areas • Valuing S&B’s people and fostering their development • Monitoring and measuring our performance • Minimizing the environmental footprint of our activities: pre• Communicating and reporting on all of these as a way of being vent, protect, mitigate, restore accountable to our stakeholders • Caring for local communities: promoting their balanced and sustainable development; achieving balance between the company’s activity and other economic activities, such as tourism 16 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Commitments & Policies We have committed publicly to a number of key initiatives, principles, voluntary agreements and codes that are driving best practices today. S&B has actively participated in the dialogue for the adoption of certain among these principles and codes through its participation in their governing bodies and working committees. S&B’s commitments are not just promises – they entail a recommendation or an obligation to report against them. Values, Principles & Codes Policies S&B Group S&B Group • S&B Values • Group Management Policies • United Nations Global Compact (yearly reporting obligation • Corporate Policy on Quality, Environment, Health & Safety covered with S&B Social Report) • S&B Corporate Governance Principles, 4th revision, 2010 S&B’s European activities S&B in Greece, Germany, France, Bulgaria • Industrial Minerals Association-Europe (IMA-Europe) and North America Sustainable Development Charter • Human Resources Management Systems & Policies • IMA-Europe Biodiversity Statement • Voluntary Agreement on Crystalline Silica (first reporting obligation met in 2010 through the nepSi Council, S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. (parent company) supervising body of the agreement) • Corporate Giving Policy S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. (parent company) • Greek Mining Enterprises Association (GMEA) Code of Principles for Sustainable Development (yearly reporting of Environment, Health & Safety and Social Performance Indicators through GMEA’s Annual Report) • SEV Hellenic Federation of Enterprises Charter of Rights and Obligations of Enterprises • SEV Business Council for Sustainable Development Code for Sustainable Development (yearly reporting obligation covered with S&B Social Report) • S&B Internal Operating Regulation • Externally developed principles and codes, with which S&B complies voluntarily Social Report 2010 17 Structured governance Monitoring performance A main element of the Group’s organiThe Corporate Affairs Departtions in North America, headed by an Commitment, effective operation zational structure is a joint and decenment, headed by the S&B Group S&B General Manager, was estaband reporting represent the main tralized implementation of decisions Corporate Affairs Manager reporting lished in 2010, reporting directly to the principles towards a transparent within a well set-out framework of comdirectly to the CEO, has an advisory corporate EHS Council. Under this communication of the S&B Group’s mon corporate policies deriving from role in the formulation of the Group new structure three EHSQ Regional operation and performance. But the company’s strategy. Sustainability Strategy and faciliCommittees are in operation coverthese need to be supported by extates its due implementation in a ing: a) Greece, Bulgaria, Turkey, Italy, ternal, third-party mechanisms of efAs of 2008, the Sustainable Developstructured manner. The Department Spain, Morocco and Georgia; b) Gerfective operational control. ment issues of priority and related is also responsible for planning, comany, France, Hungary; c) the USA. strategies are presented and ratified ordinating and monitoring the S&B’s Internal Audit, steered by a deby the Board of Directors of the S&B Group’s Social and Corporate GivThe Corporate Human Resources tailed regulation and reporting to the Group. In addition, four Committees ing policy and CSR activities and Department, also headed by a topAudit Committee of the Board of Dioperating at Board Level deal with represents the Group in its relations level executive reporting to the CEO, rectors, serves to safeguard compliissues relevant to various CSR poliwith external stakeholders. handles all matters related to the comance with the financial, operational cies. Detailed description of their pany’s relations with its employees and risk-management procedures mandate is included in the S&B The Department of Environment, and to the personnel’s social benefits. and carries out controls for fraud, Group Corporate Governance PrinciHealth & Safety for the entire S&B Three Reward Committees exist in our corruption, conflict of interests, comples set out in a separate publication Group is headed by a senior Manmajor areas of operation, Greece, Gerpliance etc. Audit priorities are estab(available from www.sandb.com). ager. Environment, Health & Safety many and the USA, with regional relished based on a yearly risk These committees are: and Quality (EHSQ) issues are govsponsibility that extends beyond the assessment methodology which • The Human Resources Committee erned by a Corporate EHSQ Council country at which they are based. combines multiple risk scoring crite• The Nomination Committee in operation since 2005, headed by ria covering a wide range of issues • The Audit Committee the CEO, which defines EHS and In S&B’s smaller units of operation, from financial, operational to environ• The Strategic Planning Committee Quality strategy, sets targets and such as Brazil or China, the Country or ment, health & safety, labor issues monitors performance. In 2010, the Operations Managers who report to and country corruption risk. Supply Sustainable Development issues are structure and scope of S&B’s ReDivision Management are responsible chain audits are carried out selecgoverned by committees and mangional EHSQ Committees was refor ensuring adherence to the S&B tively for major contractors as defined aged by senior executives across the viewed and extended. A third EQHS Group’s HR policies and practices and by the yearly audit planning and for S&B Group. More specifically: Committee covering all S&B operasafeguarding proper conduct. specific issues each time. S&B’s Corporate Governance System and continuously modernized policies and procedures supply all Human Nomination Strategic employees with the necessary Audit Board Board Resources Planning Committee of Directors Board framework of compliance. Moreover, Board Committee Board Committee Committee Corporate Financial Statements as well as the Group’s activities in general are controlled by external auditors, within the framework of its legal obligations. Internal and external audits are carried out regularly, as reCEO quired by the ISO 9001:2000 and 14001:2004 certification for the majority of the Group’s installations. S&B’s extractive and processing activities are supervised and licensed Corporate by the statutory Supervising AuthoriCorporate Financial Affairs Human Product Management ties, for example the Mining InspecResources Divisions Department Department Division torate in Greece, or similar authorities Corporate Council for in global operations. Likewise, comEnvironment, petent administrative authorities safeHealth & guard compliance of our corporate Safety Regional actions with applicable regulations Environment, Reward Health & Safety (e.g. Capital Markets Commission, and Quality Committees Corporate Law) in countries of activCommittees ity. Finally, major suppliers are monitored through the management & supply chain certified procedures imPolicy-making bodies at Group level Management bodies at Group level Management bodies at local level plemented by the company. 18 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Stakeholder Dialogue Focus on 2010 engagement issues Stakeholder dialogue and exchange Non-energy mineral extraction Non-energy extractive industry Council’s policy and objectives for the of views forms a basic element and a and Natura 2000 Guidance (NEEI) biodiversity indicators promotion of sustainable development prerequisite for the strategic manin Greece in a medium to long-term agement of our sustainability issues Since 2009 S&B has participated, Within the framework of the EU Busihorizon, and b) in the formulation of the within the framework of the Group’s through the Euromines Association, ness and Biodiversity Platform (B@B) Council’s strategic priorities for the risk management. We engage with in the consultation process of the Euand through its participation at Innext two years. S&B actively particiour stakeholders at Group level, at ropean Commission’s DG Environdustrial Minerals Association – Eupated in this workshop, from its incepbusiness level and at local community ment drafting of a guidance docurope (IMA-Europe), S&B actively tion to its execution, with CEO Mr. level in countries of our operations. ment on Non-Energy Extractive participates in a Biodiversity Working Efthimios Vidalis, who also chairs the Industry and Natura 2000. The conGroup formed by IMA-Europe’s SEV-BCSD. Stakeholders are identified through sultation committee that worked for member companies. During 2010, a process of informed analysis of two years ensured the participation the main objective of this Group was 2010 Leadership Conference the groups that have an interest or of all sides involved in the matter (the to understand what is really meant by an influence in our business and Directorate General-Environment, biodiversity protection and how the An internal conference – which conduct, or who might be impacted the Directorate General-Enterprise, extractive sector could contribute takes place approximately every by our activities. representatives of the Public Adminthrough development of appropriate, two years – for S&B Group’s manistration, Non-Governmental Organsimple and meaningful Key Performaging team of 63 executives from The method of engagement deizations and institutions representing ance Indicators, in line with other 10 countries of operation was orpends on the issue at hand, but is althe sector). In July 2010, the Eurostandards (GRI, CSI etc.). For that ganized in late 2010. The conferways founded on a systematic, pean Commission published a Guidpurpose a workshop was organized ence was dedicated to the Strategic transparent and equal basis. Outance entitled “Non-energy mineral in December, in which biodiversity Plan review for 2011 – 2015 with top comes of stakeholder dialogue inextraction and Natura 2000”. This experts from various research instimanagement presenting and disform our decisions on those matbooklet offers specific guidance on tutes and organizations elaborated cussing development plans and ters that are deemed material by us. how the development of mining acon the importance of biodiversity proprojects going forward. The second tivities can be compatible with EU tection and provided guidelines on part of the conference was dediThe interests and concerns of our legislation on the protection of wild focus areas. The practices followed cated to a seminar entitled “Value Inkey stakeholders and our methods of flora and fauna and their habitats. It is by the sector were also presented at novation”, delivered by Ben Benengagement have been repeatedly explicitly stated that the development the workshop, which in conclusion saou, professor at the INSEAD analyzed in past Social Reports and of mining activities within a Naturafacilitated formulation of our indusbusiness School in Fontainebleau. also presented in the Table across designated area is not prohibited ex try’s position on the B@B platform. the page with a focus on 2010. ante. Even in the case where the netEnhancement of internal work’s protected elements may be Contribution to the dialogue communications affected, the mining activities are alfor Sustainable Development lowed as long as appropriate asDuring 2010 three local digital intersessment as well as mitigation and The SEV Council for Sustainable Denal newsletters were created (in compensation measures are carried velopment (Council), partner organizaGreece, Germany and North Amerout, under the condition that all protion of the World Business Council for ica), with the objective to enhance visions of EU legislation will be obSustainable Development, organized employee integration and facilitate served. a Workshop among top management communication. Moreover, a Groupexecutives of its member-companies wide intranet was created linking the The Annex of this guidance contains entitled “Strategy Workshop for Susmajority of our locations, further imgood practices, where examples tainable Development: Mapping our proving work flow and exchange of from both our Milos and Fokis reclaown Way”. This interactive Workshop, information among colleagues. mation works are mentioned. inspired by the work of the WBCSD’s “Vision 2050” project, aimed to contribute: a) in the formulation of the 20 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Stakeholder group Key interests & concerns Engagement methods Employees A broad range of issues such as health & safety, working • Regular employee – management meetings conditions, equal treatment, equal opportunities, develop• Regular meetings with Work Councils and ment and training etc. Insofar as they are also members of Labor Union representatives to exchange local communities, they share concern for environmental feedback and recommendations protection, local development and cultural heritage. • Company-wide conferences • Intranet • Newsletters • Satisfaction surveys • Performance appraisals Customers Secured global sustainable supply, quality and reliability, • Sales team customized know-how & expertise and cost efficiency. • Technical support team • R&D team Contractors Issues related to health & safety and working conditions and • Regular meetings & interactions to job security for their employees. • Compliance processes • Health & Safety training Local Communities Remote local communities in particular seek local economic • Dedicated local affairs representatives development in depth of time, social structures (health, ed• Institutional partnerships ucation) and infrastructures, and show concern for poten• Local authority public meetings and presentatial environmental impacts. tion of company plans and studies Suppliers Our supply agreements and payment processes as well as • Purchasing department the standards required from them. • Sales team • Compliance processes Business Partners Ensuring that sound mechanisms are in place to guarantee • Participation in BoD for joint ventures good cooperation and financial returns. • Regular information flow Shareholders & Investors By definition interested in financial performance, dividend • Annual General Meeting practice and share price appreciation. • Results presentations • Roadshows • Dedicated Investor Relations service (More on page 51 of Annual Report) Public Authorities Safeguard and monitor rule of law, correct application of regEngagement directly and through industry ulations and the public interest. associations NGOs & Academia Protection of the environment, cultural heritage, advance• Two-way dialogue on issues of concern ment of scientific knowledge and increase of public aware• Scientific projects ness for issues of their concern. • Educational projects • Base studies Business Associations Communicate the business voice on business or sector issues. Participation of S&B executives to many business and industry-related associations (see more in website section Society in general). Media Provision of timely and accurate information to their audiThrough a dedicated Communication service ences. and Investor Relations using: • Press releases • Press briefings • Presentations • Interviews etc. Social Report 2010 21 The selection of our new CEO among S&B’s executives bears proof to the company’s ability to develop its people and promote leaders by creating opportunities to foster their talents. Our People Our People in numbers At the end of 2010, our workforce numbered 1,983 employees globally. Moreover, S&B used the services of 544 contractors’ workers in Greece (416), Germany (22), the USA (30), Bulgaria (55), Italy (13), South Korea (9), and the Netherlands (9). The majority (94.1%) of our total workforce in 2010 were employed with a permanent contract. The rest were em144 39 98 383 13 209 85 77 ployed in fixed term or temporary contract. Only 3% (59) of our total nd s ea Ko workforce was employed part-time. ce la er y an ary ar ia ia r th m ng lg rg h ut A an er eo US Fr Ne G Hu Bu G So South Korea and the Netherlands activities co e y are not managed by S&B. The S&B Group l zi oc n ec ke na Br or ai ly re In di has a 50% participation in their ownership and a M Sp Ita G Tu r a Ch i participates in their BoD. However, their headcount is included in our total workforce and this number is used in all calculations of labor 58 5 14 45 627 8 63 115 indices included in this section. Social Report 2010 23 Employee Distribution by Category by Number of Years of Employment Technical Staff 64% 0-5 33% 6-10 24% Diversity Adninistrative Staff 21% Executives 15% 21 and above 20% 11-20 23% Mining and processing are traditionally not a favorite employment choice for women. Nevertheless, S&B supports equal treatment and offers equal opportunities for both sexes, in by Age by Gender covering vacant positions and in planning the career development of 30-39 26% 40-49 35% Male 83% its employees. In 2010, 17% of S&B’s total workforce was female. Furthermore, two out of the eight members of S&B’s top executive team and four out of fifteen Board of Directors members are women. The employee voluntary turnover rate of the S&B Group remained rel60 and above 4% 50-59 27% Female 17% atively low, at 1.94%. 18-29 9% Group Employee Turnover Greece Germany USA China India Brazil France Turkey Rest of Total World Group Employees 627 383 144 115 63 58 39 8 546 1,983 Turnover 4 9 4 14 1 3 3 1 0 39 Turnover % employees 1% 2% 3% 12% 2% 5% 8% 13% 0% 2% by Gender Male 75% 67% 75% 86% 67% 67% 100% 74% Female 25% 33% 25% 14% 100% 33% 33% 26% 100% by Age 18-29 11% 25% 33% 8% 30-39 50% 11% 25% 50% 33% 67% 100% 38% 40-49 50% 56% 50% 43% 33% 33% 44% 50-59 22% 7% 100% 10% 60 and above 0% 100% 24 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Corporate Human Resources System Comprehensive Corporate Human fits systems, are fully applied in our gradual and judicious approach and Resources Management Policies & major hubs (Greece, Germany, Bulis based on various factors pertainSystems, including the job evaluation garia, France and the USA). Integraing to size, structure and local conprocess, the performance managetion of our HR policies & systems in ventions and norms. ment and the compensation & benethe rest of our operations follows a Attract & Retain Developing leaders The company has developed and S&B seeks to create bonds with fuThe election of the Group’s Chief Financial uses reliable selection tools, specifture professionals and to support ically designed and tailored to its young people pursuing solid acaOfficer as the new CEO is testimony to the needs. Our employee attraction & demic studies. The company reselection process is carefully deceives regular apprenticeships from company’s commitment in developing its signed to match a recruit’s compeuniversities and technical schools in tencies to job requirements and its major hubs of operation like people and in unfolding their competencies; affinity to S&B’s values. Greece and Germany. Furthermore, university student visits at our faciliit bears proof to successful promotion and For more than half of its workforce ties take place every year from minS&B is a major local employer. In ing, geology and technical universiretainment of talent. The year-long and Greece (Milos & Fokis), Bulgaria, ties. In turn, company executives Brazil, India, France, as well as in other participate in career days organized systematic selection process was conducted countries of its operation, the overby academic institutions. whelming majority of S&B’s employamong well-qualified leaders from the ees are locals. In 80% of significant For the past few years, S&B execulocations of operations the senior tives in Greece have established a Company’s executives and the international management are locals, in the sense standing cooperation with the Junior that they have been born or are citiAchievement Organization, actively business community. zens of the country where our activity participating in programs dedicated is located. to educating high school students about workforce readiness, entrepreneurship and financial literacy through experiential, hands-on programs. Develop & Train S&B perceives training and develTraining in numbers opment as an investment in its long(Greece, Germany, N. America) term sustainable growth. Every year, based on the specific competencies and behaviors that need to Training Hours Training Hours be developed for each employee, Distribution by Category areas for development are asManagement, Environment, Marketing, Quality, Health • Management, Marketing, Sales etc. 4,679 sessed and training needs are idenSales etc. 38% & Safety 36% tified within the framework of the for• Environment, Quality, Health & Safety 4,287 mal Performance Management • Special/Technical subjects 1,582 process. Based on this analysis be• Finance/Accounting/Tax 928 tween supervisor and supervisee, individual as well as group training • Information Technology 345 and development plans are de• Foreign Languages 218 signed accordingly. Training is ofSpecial/Technical fered either within the company or subjects 13% through selected educational bodFinance/Accounting/ In 2010, S&B placed special emphaforce in the aforementioned counies outside the company. Tax 8% sis on increasing training and develtries. Special emphasis was given to Information Technology 3% opment programs. About 12,000 environment, health & safety and Within the framework of its training Foreign Languages 2% hours of training were offered in technical issues training. and development policy, the comGreece, Germany and N. America, a pany also finances long-term pronotable 20% increase to 2009. This It should be noted that according to grams for professional development figure corresponds to approximately S&B’s common practice, various and specialization, such as under16.5 hours of training per trained emtrainings were held during the year and post-graduate studies in techployee, and to 10.4 hours of training for contractors’ employees, as well. nical and business-related subjects. per employee against the total workSocial Report 2010 25 Safety training Training & Development Programs Health & Safety training hours were Τraining programs focusing on var• HR Systems & Policies training In the past years special emphasis markedly increased compared to ious competencies development of realized in Greece and Bulgaria. has been placed on effective leader2009 across the Group. Training inour employees also included: • High Impact Presentation trainship and professional development cluded investigation and reporting of ing (55 employees from Greece, programs which are aligned to accidents, securing and releasing • Innovation as a Mindset, a Germany, France and Bulgaria achieving S&B’s business objectives. machinery, safety inspections, emertraining program initiated during participated). gency preparedness, protection of 2010 and still running within the • The 2010 Leadership ConferThe major development practices of hearing during work etc. Bentonite Division. The program’s ence was held at S&B headquarMentoring and Interdepartmental objective is to release a creative ters with the participation of S&B’s Project Assignment which were The Safe Drive training and awareand innovative way of thinking that managing team of 63 executives initiated by S&B in 2007 continued ness program aiming at reducing will be applied in the participant’s from 10 countries of operation. this year, as well. Fourteen partici“traffic-related” incidents was contineveryday job and create new opThe second day of the Leadership pants – seven Mentees and seven ued for the third year in Greece, and portunities and added value to the Conference was dedicated to a Mentors (Senior Managers from a included S&B and contractor trucks’, business. seminar entitled “Value Innovadifferent Division than the Mentee) – loaders’ and vehicles’ drivers on our • Finance for Non Finance Extion”, delivered by Ben Bensaou, from Greece, Germany and, for the Milos operations for the first time. ecutives, an in-house training professor at the INSEAD business first time, North America, particiwhich has received wide acceptSchool in Fontainebleau, France. pated in the 2010 Mentoring proEmphasis was also given to safety ance and demand among S&B By adopting an interactive method gram. S&B’s Mentoring program is training in underground mining oppeople, continued successfully of teaching the main points of the based on a structured and out of the erations of Fokis in Greece, targeted for the second year in Greece concept of value innovation were reporting line relationship between at raising awareness for safe behavand for the first time in Germany, communicated, based on the Blue the Mentee and the Mentor, ior practices and better application with participation of 35 execuOcean Strategy book, by W. Chan whereby the Mentor equips the of related work procedures. This tives from various functions and Kim and Renee Mauborgne. Value Mentee with knowledge, experience training was initiated in immediate hierarchical levels. innovation in essence incorpoand ideas on specific development response to a related incident in• Development and Enhancerates a group of concepts and areas, mutually agreed. crease and the structured incident ment of Leadership Skills, a tools that help corporations search investigation that followed to deterprogram designed to create a for new ideas that can create value mine the root causes. common culture of leadership for the company as well as for the skills among executives that asclient. The training in numbers charts on sume a managerial role within the previous page present Greece, S&B for the first time, and has Germany and N. America training been running since 2002 adapted hours. For more detailed informato S&B’s values set and needs. tion and data on Health & Safety The program continued in 2010 in training please refer to page 33 of Germany and North America. this report. • Leadership program for women, a program initiated at the end of 2010 for female executives in our North America operations, which involves developing communication and leadership style and strengths and training on conflict management, decision making, influencing and motivating others. 26 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Reward People and Rights S&B employee compensation & Apart from the aforementioned, S&B S&B's voluntary commitments, stanThe risk of incidents of child labor or benefits is based on a system which additionally offers a series of benefits dards and labor practices are diforced or compulsory labor is further has been developed with the folrelated to the work-life balance of rectly linked to the active protection dealt with by S&B’s thorough emlowing objectives: the employees and concerning isof Human Rights, i.e. we respect our ployee selection process, which is • Assure internal consistency and sues such as welfare management, people's personal beliefs and perpart of the S&B Group’s comprehenmeritocracy in the employees' health & fitness and family. Social sonality, their cultural diversity, we sive Human Resources System (page salaries work services are also available to peroffer equal opportunities and equal 25 ) already fully integrated in our USA • Offer competitive remuneration sonnel in Greece. Our North America treatment, we acknowledge free exoperations and also adhered to in our packages in relation to the market operations provide employees with pression of opinion, including right to Indian operation, which ensures that • Safeguard reliability and objectivthe benefit of confidential counseling exercise freedom of association and no individual under 18 years of age is ity in compensation management services for topics that include family, collective bargaining. Within this recruited and employed by the orand progression. stress, child care, financial, legal, subcontext there is no tolerance of disganization. Moreover, S&B’s work stance dependency, job-related or crimination (personal, sex, religion, procedures rule out the possibility of The compensation package of each health concerns. ethnicity etc.), forced or compulsory forced or compulsory labor and deal employee consists of a fixed and a labour or child labor. with related issues (such as forced variable part, and is determined by In its efforts to improve further the overtime, threat of firing etc.) for our the corporate policy and by local management of its Employees’ PenDuring 2010, 80% of the Group’s operations located in countries “at market trends. The variable part of sion Plan in Greece, S&B Industrial workforce was located in countries risk”. In addition, employees are periS&B’s employee compensation Minerals S.A., the parent company that have ratified all related Internaodically reminded of HR policies that consists of either a bonus scheme of the S&B Group, launched a new tional Labor Organization (ILO) promote fundamental principles & (for executives) or incentives (for Mutual Fund, the S&B Pension Conventions, which means that rerights at work. For example, during technical staff) which are based on Global Equity Fund of Funds, and quirements have been harmonized 2010, the HR team in North America the achievement of personal or the mandate for the management of with national legislation, to which toured every facility and presented team goals and pre-defined targets, this fund was awarded to a credible S&B strictly adheres. each worker with a renewed S&B Emfor example of Health & Safety or investment services company. The ployee Handbook which includes all Productivity. A detailed discussion integrated pension plan solution Countries of S&B operations which benefits & compensation policies as of the company’s remuneration polithat S&B offers to its employees, have not ratified all ILO Conventions well as S&B principles, values and cies to executives and management part of which forms the new mutual represent: policies that guide behavior at work. is held on page 49 of the Annual Refund, is aligned with the most moda) 10.5% of total workforce (USA, port 2010. ern corporate pension plans. India) for issues related to child Our risk assessment process and labor; risk ranking components of the b) 14.3% of total workforce (USA, yearly Internal Audit plan examines China, South Korea) for issues rethe risks of non-compliance on islated to elimination of forced or sues such as the ones described compulsory labor; above, that may arise either from the c) 23% of total workforce (USA, nature of an operation or from the China, India, South Korea, Brazil country in which an operation is loand Morocco) for issues related cated. This process has not identito freedom of association and fied any operations whose nature collective bargaining. creates a significant risk of non-compliance with our standards pertainIn these locations, S&B Country ing to rights to exercise freedom of Managers have operational responassociation and collective bargainsibility to implement, monitor and ing, or occurrences of child labor or ensure that facilities operate in line forced or compulsory labor. In 2010, with corporate Values, commitno incident of unfair or discriminaments, standards, policies and practory treatment was reported in any tices, which are binding for all S&B of our operations worldwide. employees, with no exceptions, and pertain to respect for fundamental human rights, as well as principles and rights at work. Social Report 2010 27 The nature of our activities, ranging from mining to industrial processing and products’ transportation, places Health & Safety at Work at the top of our priorities. Health & Safety Safety We carefully assess safety occupational hazards We systematically and methodically manage these towards associated with: our target of Zero Accidents : • Vehicles machinery traffic • Continuous improvement of working conditions • Rock falling in underground and open pit works • Promotion and application of safe working methods and practices • Worker falls from height • Occupational risk assessment • Mishandling of tools and machinery • On-going training with the objective of preventing hazardous situations • Use of explosives in underground works • Application of behavior improvement methods • Internal audits by the Corporate H&S Department and the local Safety Officers Βehavior Ιmprovement “Near Miss” incident reporting methods continued The company invests considerable Methods aiming at accident preven234 Safety Visits (a 95% target Great emphasis has been placed on resources in identifying, thoroughly tion and improvement of attitude toachievement for 2010), associated encouraging near miss reports during evaluating and managing occupawards safety have been introduced in with a high percentage of good the past years throughout S&B tional hazards towards the achieveGreek facilities since 2005 and at the practices (74%) which is slightly betGroup mining and processing faciliment of “Zero Accidents”. The effort Group’s plants in Germany since ter than last year performance, 15% ties. Reporting of incidents is a matter towards the achievement of this tar2008. These methods include Manoccurrence of risky behavior (down of particular importance for the entire get set by management in 2003 is the agement Safety Visits, Safety Baromfrom 17% in 2009) and a 11% ocGroup, whether be it an accident, an focal point of S&B’s policy for Health eters and rigorous methodology for currence of risky conditions improvincident without lost days or a “Near & Safety at Work (H&S), as stated in Incident Investigations. Their descriping on past years performance. Miss”. Specifically, “Near Misses” and the Corporate Policy of Quality, Envition can be found in past Social Re“Incidents without lost days” reportronment and Health & Safety. ports as well as in our Group website 1,814 Safety Barometers, deing at S&B is an indicator of workers’ (www.sandb.com/Corporate Resigned to quantify conformance awareness of accident prevention. Within this framework, one more fasponsibility/Health&Safety). Related with the safety requirements set by 2010 near miss and incident without cility was pre-certified as per OHSAS training was initiated as well in our each department. lost days reports were doubled com18001:2, the internationally acBulgarian facilities and systematic impared to 2009. Redesign of the inclaimed standard for Health & Safety plementation is planned for 2011, 8 Incident Investigations, resultcidents database, to enhance at Work, that of our Continuous under the supervision of the corpoing in improvement of working pracreporting and sharing of informaCasting Fluxes processing in Gerrate H&S office. tices, such as: tion with all sites of the Group in the many. Health & Safety Management English language through the comProcedures were integrated in one Application of these methods in • Review of maintenance program in mon intranet portal, is planned in common System which includes Greek facilities (Fokis & Milos) during hoisting equipment and training of 2011. Immediate and standardized also Environment and Quality Pro2010 accounted for: maintenance technicians on Milos logging of incidents facilitates excedures as per the standards ISO • New work procedure for inspectraction of useful conclusions and 14001 and ISO 9001. tion of all equipment used by conspeedy dissemination of informatractors before initiation of new tion, the ultimate target being to works in Fokis. avoid repetition of similar incidents throughout the Group. 28 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Safety Indicators 2010 The diagrams below show the hisIn the course of 2010, 5 incidents torical evolution of frequency (FR) occurred, with a total loss of 102 and severity (SR) indices at our working days, 3 concerning permaGreek operations (Milos, Fokis and nent employees of the Group and 2 Ritsona facilities). The last diagram of contractors, while the frequency aggregates Group SR and FR inand severity index was 3.78 and dices from 2004 onwards, the year 77.14 respectively. It should be when collection of Group EHS data noted that the indices cover both began. company employees and contractor employees supervised by company’s staff, while severe and fatal accidents are reported separately. S&B Greece Frequency & Severity Indices S&B Greece number of incidents Milos, Fokis & Ritsona Milos, Fokis & Ritsona 20 500 250 400 200 15 300 150 10 200 100 Frequency Rate 5 Severity Rate 100 50 0 0 0 1986 1990 1991 1995 1996 2000 2001 2005 2006 2010 1986 1990 1991 1995 1996 2000 2001 2005 2006 2010 Frequency Rate Severity Rate S&B Greece number of lost work days S&B Group Frequency & Severity Indices Milos, Fokis & Ritsona 6000 25 600 5000 500 20 4000 400 15 3000 300 10 2000 200 Frequency Rate Severity Rate 5 1000 100 0 0 0 1986 1990 1991 1995 1996 2000 2001 2005 2006 2010 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Frequency Rate Severity Rate The diagrams do not include very grave injuries and fatal accidents. These are: Basis of calculations: Grave injuries: 1 (1980), 2 (1982), 1 (1994) Frequency rate: (number of incidents with at least one day lost x 1.000.000)/Total working hours Fatal accidents: 1 (1986), 2 (2003), 1(2007) Severity rate: (lost working days x 1.000.000)/Total working hours Also, there was 1 fatality (2005) to a worker of a contractor with own supervision. Fatal accidents are only counted in the calculation of the frequency rate. 30 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Health We carefully assess potential impacts We systematically and methodically manage these towards to workers' health associated with: our target of Prevention through: • Noise • Continuous improvement of workplace conditions with investments in equipment, • Dust changes in the production process and use of personal protective equipment • Vibrations from vehicles equipment • Emphasis on improving employee behavior with continuous training and awareness raising • Air quality in underground works • Establishment of rules and exposure limits according to Greek and European norms • Systematic measurements (dust, noise, vibrations and underground works’ air quality) • On-going training Noise management Dust management Management of other physical parameters The noise intensity mapping program, 117 respirable dust measurements In February 2010, abiding by its obliVibration measurements were conimplemented during 2009 at various were carried out in Greek facilities durgation to the “Social Dialogue tinued in Fokis on heavy equipment indoor locations of our Milos faciliing 2010, showing a marked progress Agreement on Workers’ Health operators. Areas needing improveties, was followed by investments in the area of dust prevention, with just Protection through the Good ment were identified and investments during 2010 that led to decrease in 0.82% above the Occupational ExpoHandling and Use of Crystalline for improvement were successfully noise levels in the order of 3 to 11 sure Limit (OEL) of 5mg/m3. MeasSilica and Products Containing implemented. dB(A), reducing noise well below the urements were implemented accordit”, the S&B Group submitted a relimit at which corrective measures ing to the Dust Monitoring Protocol port to the supervising EmployeeThe program initiated in Fokis in should be taken. In Fokis improvedeveloped by IMA-Europe, which Employer Council including data 2009 to record the performance of ments in mobile equipment used in combines methodology set from the from 22 installations that cover 1,378 the equipment in use for ventilaunderground works were impleEuropean Standards EN 689 and workers. tion of underground mines and mented. In the Ritsona perlite exEN1232. The IMA-Europe project that their deviation from the manufacpansion plant, the new measurement led to the development of this protocol This novel voluntary agreement, turer’s standard was continued. program at certain working areas inis managed since 2006 by the Institute signed in 2006 by 15 European sec1,563 measurements (versus 1,024 dicated excess of the lower exposure for Risk Assessment of the University tors, 5 from the extraction industry in 2009) of air supply and noxious action value of 85 dB(A) during proof Utrecht and the Netherlands Ex(Aggregates, Cement, Industrial Mingases (CO, CO2, NO2) were carduction and led to new training in use pertise Centre for Occupational Reserals, Mines, Natural Stones) and 2 ried out in the underground mines, of Personal Protective Equipment piratory Disorders. It aims at collecting unions (EMCEF, EMF), represents where limits were exceeded in just (PPE), as well as to the monitoring of representative and comparable dust more than two million employees in 1% of instances, a slight deteriorathe hearing capacity of all workers exposure data across the European Europe. The Agreement is completion to the 0.6% of 2009. during the annual health check-up. industrial minerals sector and providmentary to existing legislation and ing valuable feedback about the probcomplies with European and NaMeasurements also continued in ability of exceeding OEL in future tional H&S Standards and Directives Bulgaria where a program is still measurements, as well as propose which remain applicable at all times. under development for improvethe frequency of necessary measureThe Agreement is supervised by the ment of conditions, to reduce noise ments and solutions for dust emisso-called NepSi Council with memlevels in certain areas where it exsions’ control. bers from the Employee and the Emceeds the upper exposure action ployers side. As foreseen by the value of 85 dΒ(A). Some of the respirable dust measAgreement, two reports have alurements in Bulgaria and Ritsona ready been submitted and employee during 2010 exceeded the OEL; training has taken place in all S&B management was informed to enEU facilities by the Workplace Doctor force strict rules for PPEs use and inand the Safety Officers regarding vestments are planned to reduce risks and good practices for reducworkers’ dust exposure. tion to exposure of Crystalline Silica. Social Report 2010 31 Safeguarding our Product Safety employees' health As part of the employees’ benefits, Safety in the use of our products is The CLP regulation complements S&B provides the possibility of a ensured by the strict adherence to the REACH regulation replacing medical check up under a program guidance and regulations for their older EU directives and provides for of general and specialized medical proper use. It should be noted, howthe assessment of potential implicatests by the Company’s Occupaever, that S&B’s products are natutions of products to health and the tional Doctors specific to the nature rally occurring minerals, non-toxic environment. To comply with the of our activities. This program is and not harmful to living organisms or above regulations, S&B and other based on the occupational risk asthe environment and they remain so bentonite producing companies sessment that exists at each workeven after they have been processed. commissioned in 2010, through IMAsite. Strict adherence to medical Europe, an independent laboratory confidentiality is ensured within the In 2010 the application of the study to assess and evaluate bencompany. Moreover, in compliance REACH regulation (Regulation tonite’s potential impacts. Within the with legal requirements, the serv1907/2006 of the European Parliaframework of the CLP Regulation, ices of an Occupational Doctor are ment and Council of the December as well as the recently published available to employees for any 18th, 2006 for the registration, evalRegulation 453/2010 a series of Mahealth problems they may have at uation, authorization and certificaterial Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for major Group installations. tion of chemicals) was concluded bentonite, perlite and bauxite prodfor the S&B Group. Of all the subucts were updated to incorporate Over the years, S&B facilities around stances produced or imported by the new information needed. Prodthe world have invested in initiatives the S&B Group only two fell under uct safety is treated similarly in all to promote healthy habits and bethe scope of the REACH regulation non-EU S&B manufacturing sites, inhavior ranging from anti-smoking and their registration procedure has corporating all available literature and seminars to healthy eating habits. been completed. At the same time, our Suppliers’ safety data in the a third substance imported by the MSDS of the products manufacGroup, which fell under the scope of tured by S&B. In conclusion, 100% of the CLP 1272/2008 regulation on S&B’s products, whether manufacClassification, Labeling and Packtured by S&B or provided by third aging of substances and mixtures, parties, comply with regulations. was classified accordingly. The remaining of all other substances manufactured or imported by S&B in the EU are either exempted from registration because they are natural occurring minerals, or have to be registered by our suppliers; in the latter case we ensure that substances supplied conform to the requirements of REACH regulation. 32 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Health & Safety training A total of 6,972 man-hours of safety Health & Safety Training training were conducted in Greece, by region Germany, Bulgaria, France, Italy, Man-hours Number of employees and contractors Hungary, USA, Brazil, India and Spain. 2,047 man-hours of this training were realized in Greece (MiGreece 2,047 752 los, Fokis and Ritsona facilities) and Rest of Europe 3,451 614 included: • “Safe Drive” training for the fourth N. America 714 181 year in a row in Fokis and on Milos. India 506 67 This special training and awareBrazil 254 69 ness program aims at reducing “traffic-related” incidents and inTotal 6,972 1,683 volves both company employees (drivers, foremen, engineers etc.) and contractor’s drivers 3,451 man-hours of training were re• Securing and lifting loads with In the past years, S&B’s Brazilian • Safe use of hoisting equipment alized in European facilities other than machinery Continuous Casting Fluxes processand control of their operation staGreece and 1,474 in other Group • Securing and releasing machinery ing plant has established a yearly tus – ten employees were trained sites, which mainly involved: • Safety inspections “Safety Week”. During this week, one to become certified inspectors of • Accidents’ investigation and re• Emergency preparedness hour training per day for all employsuch equipment by TUV Hellas porting • Visitors’ safety procedures ees is dedicated to prevention pro• Safety in processing and mainte• Communication in dangerous • Protection of hearing during cedures and 10 minutes before each nance works and in use of explosituations work shift are set aside for discussions sives in underground works • Safe use of forklifts around safety related issues raised • Emergency response and first aid • Entering indoor working areas by the employees themselves. • Dust in the workplace Expenditures for Health Ensuring safety in Contractors’ works & Safety A series of H&S expenditures and As reported last year, a new procefore allowing them to undertake a investments were made in Greece, dure for the management of connew project. S&B had planned to inGermany, the USA, and Italy tractual projects was completed in tegrate this to the existing Corporate amounting to €905,000. The in2010, in accordance with the comPurchasing procedure in Greece, vestment for the dried bentonite pany’s standards as well as with but due to the vast complexity of the warehouse on Milos concerns the good practices recommended by issues involved, it was decided to inEnvironment as much as H&S, but the Greek Mining Enterprises Assotroduce a separate procedure infor the sake of consistency with ciation. This procedure provides for stead, which remains subject to previous years it is mentioned in the the evaluation of contractor work changes pending from the review of Environment Section. based on standard criteria, the obligthe Mining Regulation in Greece, atory assessment of occupational currently underway. risks and training of contractors beSocial Report 2010 33 We formulate our environmental strategy on the fundamental principle of prevention. Environment Environmental issues management …is based on a sound strategy and the application of appropriate practices Rational management of mineral reserves, and management Rational planning of extraction is based on long-term planning of large quantities of raw materials excavated, as well as of matethat carefully balances today’s market needs with those of future rials used during processing of products generations Utilization of overburden material for other uses Exploitation of rejects and by-products of other activities for the production of certain S&B products Restoration of mines in order to minimize impacts to the natural Gradual land restoration that proceeds in parallel with extraction, environment associated with changes to the land morphology and wherever possible, or as early as possible disturbance to the biodiversity of local ecosystems Up-to-date Environmental Impact Assessments which are based on sound scientific data and provide for modern reclamation methods and techniques Base studies to establish or update concrete reference data for the flora and fauna of an affected area, necessary for proper planning of environmental impact mitigation, which results from a mining activity Successful establishment of viable and self-sustained ecosystems with an abundance of flora and fauna species Exclusive use of native plants from the region where the mining area under restoration is situated Continuous research and development in collaboration with academic and research organizations for improvement of restoration methods, as well as for reproduction and cultivation of rare and endemic plants Management of dust emissions during processing Continuous care for mitigating dust emissions to the environment and the nearby local communities and establishment of working environment with minimal exposure of employees to dust Application of best available techniques through the systematic investment in anti-pollution equipment, Personal Protective Equipment, and in Safety Training of employees Continuous assessment of the effectiveness of measures implemented 34 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Environmental issues management …is based on a sound strategy and the application of appropriate practices Waste management of mineral or non-mineral materials Care for reduction of mineral waste, which constitute the greater volume of S&B's waste implemented from the planning phase of a mine Use of mineral inert wastes mainly to refill excavation voids or to form the landscape in reclamation works Minimization of mineral processing wastes and conversion into saleable mineral products Recycling of other waste materials (lubricants, lead batteries, car tyres, paper, etc.) Energy management mainly during product processing Significant energy-saving efforts on a continuous basis, even though the activities of the S&B Group are not particularly energy-intensive Water management mainly during product processing Significant efforts for conserving water, which is mainly consumed for sprinkling roads in mines and plants in order to reduce dust emissions Product responsibility and prevention of possible impacts to the Continuous research in collaboration with academic and research instituenvironment, health & safety during product processing, use and tions to understand the impact that S&B's products may have throughout final disposal their entire lifecycle to human health and the natural environment Management of Raw and other Materials The S&B Group is a supplier of mistream operations, as well as for fornew products is significant in all our formulation of continuous casting fluneral raw materials extracted from mulation of products for foundries Continuous Casting Fluxes (CCF) xes are based on such materials, its mines and of intermediate proand continuous casting fluxes, inoperations around the world. Apwhich in 2010 represented the folloducts to various industrial sectors. clude soda ash, coal, graphite and proximately 10 out of the 45 ingrewing percentage of total input mateAccess to land and effective manaresins (Europe and N. America). In dients normally used in the product rials used by weight: gement of its mineral resources is of Neuss, Germany, raw materials primary concern to the company, supplied by third parties are proso as to be able to satisfy current as cessed for the formulation of proCCF % of wastes and by-products well as future demand for its products used in refractories, in the production facility used as input materials ducts, while at the same time ensuceramics industry, etc. ring rational management of these Germany 28 resources and their effective use in The utilization and exploitation of waUSA 21 the production processes. stes and by-products from other inBrazil 20 dustries – fly ash, phosphorous and India 19 Raw materials purchased by the blast furnace slag, glass waste, Si-AlS. Korea 17 S&B Group for its own use in downcatalyst etc. – for the production of China 9 Social Report 2010 35 Mine Reclamation The major part (69.6%) of S&B State, although the cost had been S&B Group Land Reclamation Group’s mining activity worldwide covered in full and the land returned Surface area in use 2010 in Greece end 2010 is located in Greece (Fokis & Milos). by the companies to the competent Moreover, the major volume of the authorities. After the introduction of a Greece 69.6% Reclaimed surface 51.3% natural resources produced by the compulsory procedure for reclamaGroup is also mined in Greece. As tion by the mining companies themshown in the figures and the releselves, S&B has reclaimed most vant table, on Milos and in Fokis alparts of its exhausted mines and ready 51.3% of the total affected quarries and reports on progress area has been reclaimed. Of the reeach year. Over and above its conmaining 48.7%, 45.5% is still in use ventional obligations, S&B to date has for mining purposes. Hence, the revoluntarily undertaken the reclamaUSA Land in use 45.5% maining affected surface area curtion of about 1/3 of the affected areas 16.9% Remaining 3.2% rently available for reclamation work in Fokis falling under the category for China Italy amounts to 3.2%. which the State was responsible, i.e. 0.8% 5.6% 1,651,000 out of 5,062,000 m2. Hungary Bulgaria S&B in Greece has often found itself 0.8% 3.3% to be the focus of criticism related to Land reclamation in the various counGermany 3.0% its alleged “failure to reclaim old opentries where the S&B Group owns or pit bauxite mining areas” in the Fokis operates mines depends on the legal area. Therefore, it is important to framework, the size of the specific make reference to the legal framemineral deposit, the status of ownerwork in Greece concerning mines ship, the previous use of land, as well reclamation. In the past, mining comas other factors of local nature that panies, including S&B, were obliged determine the reclamation process to pay for the reclamation work in the of the affected areas. 2010 marked affected areas, but the State was rereturn of 190,000 m2 of restored area sponsible for carrying it out. Neverto State Forestry Authorities in Sartheless, none of the affected areas dinia (Italy), associated with our perwas ever reclaimed by the Greek lite operations there. Land Reclamation of affected areas in the S&B Group in 1,000 m2 Milos & Fokis Aberdeen Landshut Kardjali Sardinia Egyha΄zaskeszö Panshi City Greece USA Germany Bulgaria Italy Hungary Jilin Province China* Total area “in use” end of 2010 4,682 1,134.2 199 123 67 56 52 New areas brought into use in 2010 60 39.1 15 0 0 6 0 Reclamation of affected areas in 2010 160.5 0 85 0 0 0 0 Reclamation of affected areas since the beginning of the activity 5,274 1,029.9 262 15 2 15 0 *China’s Wollastonite mining activity is reported for the first time as 2010 was the first year of extraction under the management of the S&B Group Land Reclamation of affected areas in Greece (in 1,000 m2) Mining and reclamation within or adite is extracted and it covers 87,745 Total area Reclamation Reclamation jacent to protected areas is of spem2 in total, i.e. 3.2% of the total min“in use” 2010 of affected of affected areas cial concern and carried out with exing activity (active mines). The Ghiona areas in 2010 up to 31/12/2010 tra care. In such cases, special Fauna Base Study, completed by the studies for a detailed evaluation of Thessaly University during 2005Milos 1,961 92 1,786 the possible effects on the flora and 2007 (see p. 38 of S&B’s Social ReFokis 2,721 68.5 3,488 fauna of the area are carried out at port 2008) among other findings, Total 4,682 160.5 5,274 the planning stage of the mine and concludes that 7 out of the 22 during the mining activity, in order to species in Annex Ι of the European • Affected surface area is defined as the area disturbed by mining (extraction), or disposal of ensure their effective protection. Council directive 79/409/EC “on the overburden/waste rock material, or reclamation works, whether completed or on-going. • Active, or “in use” mining area is the surface area used for either mining (extraction), or disconservation of wild birds” can be posal of overburden/waste rock material. The total surface “in use” for S&B’s found at a distance of over 500m • Reclaimed surface area is defined as the area where at least the planting stage has been mining activities within protected arfrom the circumference of the comcompleted. eas of high biodiversity value is lopany’s active mines. cated in Fokis (Greece) where baux36 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Biodiversity Management A successful reclamation is measured not just by a satisfactory aesthetic result but –mainly– by the restoration of a self-sustained ecosystem with sufficient diversity of flora and fauna species. Since the major part of the S&B • Fokis rare species Juniperus foeJuniperus foetidissima seedlings Group’s mining activity worldwide is tidissima reproduction method in Fokis is noted; all other methlocated in Greece, substantial knowby propagation through cutting ods having failed, it was made how has been developed in Fokis and was established as the most appossible only with the grafting of on Milos and important investments propriate technique and 50 new cuttings into seedlings of Cuin human resources (dedicated Land plants were produced pressus sempevirens; Reclamation departments with expe• Continuous research for use of • New materials were tested and rienced Foresters) as well as infrathree new local plants in Milos used in seeding and new techstructure (company owned plant reclamations with specific charniques were invented, all of nurseries, continuous research & deacteristics such as high resistwhich improve the chances of velopment) have been channeled to ance to salinity for use in seaside survival of the plants and lead to reclamation works. A critical success reclamation works the elimination of irrigation; factor is the use of seeds and plants • The experimental trial on 18 local appropriate for the specific climate The five-year research program and foreign species broadened conditions and resistant to diseases. (2005-2010) to study the flora at Milos the spectrum of new species Care for sustaining and developing and Fokis, carried out by S&B in coused that are resistant to the each ecosystem requires a broad, if operation with the Institute of salinity and wind of the harsh not exclusive, use of local plant Mediterranean Forest Ecosystems of Milos climate; species. the National Agricultural Research • Study of vegetation from hyFoundation and the University of droseeding demonstrated which The Fokis and Milos Land ReclamaAthens, was concluded at the end of plant seeds are appropriate to tion departments reached new mile2010. Many positive outcomes and use; the rest were excluded from stones in their quest for better “lessons learned” resulted from the the mixture, thus increasing effibiodiversity management and reclanumerous studies and projects carciency and decreasing cost. mation techniques. ried out within the scope of this proMoreover, research showed that • No foreign plant species was gram. For example: the origin of seeds and the time of used in the reclamation works of • The negative factors that restrict collection are directly related to Fokis and Milos, thus achieving or inhibit the implantation and dethe successful introduction of the target set a few years back velopment of vegetation were vegetation in reclamation works; • Successful reproduction of cliff identified; • Pilot trials showed how introducplant species in the Fokis plant • The plants that flourish in restored tion of specific wood plant species nursery to use in reclamation of areas were identified and their with seeding is possible, and that old excavations with steep slopes reproductive biology was studthe appropriate seeding season • Successful research and pilot reied, allowing for the successful may vary according to altitude, production of additional local plant reproduction of most of them in but also among different plant species in the Fokis plant nursery the nursery. The production of species. Combating Dust Emissions A significant environmental issue for Construction work for the dried benthe S&B Group is combating dust tonite silo in the company’s installaemissions generated from raw mations on Milos continued. The aim of terials handling and processing. For the silo construction is the minimizathe purpose of documentation and tion of dust emissions in the handling evaluation of the effectiveness of of dried bentonite. After a few setmeasures taken and the need for backs in the completion timeframe new ones, regular and systematic the new silo is expected to operate dust measurements are carried out within 2011. (see further details on p. 31 of Section Health & Safety). Social Report 2010 37 Waste Management Mineral and non-mineral waste is Relevant actions for compliance Type of material used and recycled Amount produced by S&B’s operations. with the Directive are in progress at in Greek activities during 2010 (in kg) S&B’s mining operations in GerMineral waste constitutes the greater many, Bulgaria, and Hungary. Pb batteries purchased 2,626 volume of the company’s waste and Pb batteries recycled 2,513 is mainly overburden from extraction Of equal importance are the coordiactivities. In 2010, the total production nated efforts of recent years to minTyres purchased 182 of mineral waste (overburden and imize wastes of mineral processing Tyres recycled 132 processing mineral wastes) and convert them into saleable minamounted to 2,725,695 m³ from eral products such as the perlite Metal scrap 22,180 Greece and to 38,152 m³ from the “fine” rejects produced during prorest of the S&B Group. For many cessing. The purpose of this effort is Volume of lubricants purchased 175,764 years already reduction and effective not only to reduce waste during proVolume of used lubricants recycled 63,480 management of overburden forms cessing, but also to find new, maran integral part of extraction and reketable uses for this material. Such Office paper purchased 2,078 habilitation planning, with a direct efforts have been successfully imOffice paper recycled 2,515 positive effect towards reducing the plemented in our perlite processing extraction activity’s environmental facilities in Bulgaria, Spain and the ance data collected from all sites of fore the consumption of packagfootprint. During 2010, 75% and 90% USA during 2010. Moreover, S&B the Group indicate that materials ing materials is relatively minor. For of overburden produced in Greek is now in its second year of coordisuch as lead batteries, car tires, example, in 2010 the bentonite extraction activities, Milos and Fokis nating the “ExPerl” project (www.exmetal scrap, used lubricants and paproducts sold packaged less than respectively, was used to refill old experl.eu) presented in last year’s Soper are effectively recycled, and for 5% of total sales across the Group. cavations and underground depleted cial Report (page 49), which among some production activities the recyFor perlite, the equivalent permines in reclamation works. other objectives is also exploring cling ratio for some of the above macentage was less than 1%. Nevways to significantly reduce the proterials surpasses 90%. This year the ertheless, for the portion of proWithin the framework of the EC Diduced perlite wastes by converting recycling of various waste materials duction sold packaged, the Group, rective 2006/21/EC for the “Manthem into saleable products. generated in our Greek operations is in compliance with the obligations agement of waste from extractive reported for the first time, although arising from the European Direcindustries”, six Extraction Waste Recycling methods are applied to data is collected since 2004. tive 94/62/EC, has signed conManagement Plans were comother waste materials, aiming at their tracts with special authorized Alpleted during 2010 and submitted efficient management and best utiThe great majority of S&B’s prodternative Packaging Materials to the relevant authorities in Greece. lization. The environmental performucts are sold in bulk and thereManagement Systems. Energy Management The S&B Group’s activities are not Significant efforts are underway, and ated for implementation at other were installed and halogen light energy intensive. The Group, howothers are on-going, to achieve enGroup Bentonite sites. During 2010 bulbs were replaced by high perever, is particularly sensitive to issues ergy savings, such as the bentonite a new initiative was introduced in our formance fluorine lamps, thus deregarding energy consumption, as natural sun-drying energy savings in Continuous Casting Fluxes produccreasing energy consumption by much in response to the problem of open fields on Milos, which is evalution site in the USA, where sun tubes 78,400 kwh / year. climate change, due to greenhouse gases emissions, and because the S&B Group progress on energy consumption target energy cost constitutes a significant portion of total production cost. For Data from base year 2005 Data from base year 2005 Data from base year 2005 this reason, in 2008, a specific ento 31/12/2008 to 31/12/2009 to 31/12/2010 ergy saving target was adopted by the Group’s Corporate EHS Council: Bentonite mines + 9.0% + 4.6% + 3.6% The aim is a 10% reduction of the Bentonite processing plants 9.0% 4.6% 5.1% Group’s energy consumption per ton Perlite mines 12.0% 14% -19.3% of product by 2020, with 2005 as the Perlite processing plants 0.5% + 0.5% 2.5% base-year. Continuous Casting Fluxes + 28% + 9.2% +12.6% Other Minerals + 45% + 39.4% +28.9% The energy sources used across the Bauxite 48% 29.5% 39.0% Group’s activities are: natural gas, liquefied natural gas, diesel oil (used TOTAL for Group + 1.6% 1.8% -1.9% in vehicles, for production purposes and for production of in-house elecBasis of calculation: With 2005 as the base year, the aim is to reduce energy consumed per ton of product by 10% by 2020. After calculating the tricity), electricity from the grid and amount of energy that should be consumed in 2020 the 10% reduction target was translated into absolute numbers and was distributed linearly per year gasoline used in vehicles. spanning the 15-year period (2005-2020). Based on this distribution, the necessary energy consumption reduction until the end of each year was calculated for each activity. The percentages presented in the table demonstrate the divergence or convergence from the desired energy consumption by 2008, 2009 and 2010, so that the 2020 target can be met. A plus sign (+) indicates achievement of the target by the equivalent percentage, while a minus sign (-) indicates the equivalent divergence from the target. 38 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Water Management Water consumption in the mining Aware of the significance for the enamounts to 40% of the total volume becomes evident how this practice and processing operations of S&B vironment of the conservation of this of water used in every aspect of our amounts to a significant saving of involves sprinkling the roads used natural resource, S&B undertakes operations on the island yearly, it water resources. for transportation of the company’s various actions towards water savraw materials and products, in order ing. On Milos for example, where cliS&B Group water use per Product Division to reduce dust emissions and for the matic and soil conditions are difficult, cooling of equipment in certain prowith scant rainfall unevenly distrib0.9 cessing stages and facilities. uted over the year, strong winds and 0.8 dry summers, the plants now used 0.7 Water consumed in Greek facilities for reclamation are carefully selected 0.6 is mainly drawn from the ground so as not to require irrigation. (drills) and from the sea. Each year 0.5 significant amounts of rainwater Total water consumption (excluding 0.4 collected in bentonite quarry beds seawater) for all purposes on Milos 0.3 on Milos (due to bentonite’s imperoperations amounted to 77,174 m3 0.2 meability), as well as on the roofs of during 2010, and 66,804 m3 was 0.1 the company buildings, are used used for road sprinkling. As all the m3 / tn 0.0 for sprinkling roads, or for other water used for road sprinkling is col2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 purposes. lected from quarry beds and this Bentonite Perlite Stollberg Bauxite S&B Group Responsibility for our Products Responsibility for our products • Low Embodied Energy AdBase study on the impact to as good at Voudia, as well as at Tsimeans understanding and efficiently vanced Insulation Materials the sea environment on Milos grado. Regarding the physical and managing the impact that their proand Insulating Masonry Comchemical qualitative data, concentraduction, use, recycling and final disponents for Energy Efficient In 2009, S&B engaged the Hellenic tions of heavy metals was found posal may have on human health Buildings and Sustainable, InCenter for Marine Research (HCMR) within the limits that usually characand the natural environment, i.e. novative and Energy-Efficient to carry out an ecological assessterize non-disturbed areas and, theretheir total “footprint” throughout their Concrete, based on the Intement of the marine environment in fore, the seawater condition was lifecycle. To this end we have cargration of All-Waste Materials, areas, where perlite rejects from the defined as excellent. Regarding the ried out a number of projects that both addressing the topic of macompany’s operations on Milos are biological qualitative data, the quality have improved our processes over terials for new energy efficient disposed of. The research work, foof seawater both at Voudia and at Tsithe years and these have been prebuilding components with recusing on the evaluation of potential grado was deemed as excellent as far sented in past Social Reports (IMAduced embodied energy. impact from the authorized disposal as the presence of phytoplankton is Europe project in 2008, Democritus • Cost-Effective Tools for Better of perlite fines in the Voudia and Tsiconcerned and good as far as the University of Thrace in 2009 etc.). Indoor Environment in Retrogrado areas, consists of: recording of macrophytes are concerned. CharMoreover, we continually promote fitted Energy Efficient Buildphytobenthos and zoobenthos, curacterization for the seawater status at knowledge during production imings addressing the topic of rents’ measurement, chemical analyTsigrado was defined as good with provement efforts, dedicated redeveloping technologies for ensursis of heavy metals in the seawater regard to benthic invertebrate fauna. search and development on existing, monitoring and/or controlling a column and of sediments, mapping At Voudia, the level of diversity and afing or new products and continuous high-quality indoor environment of perlite deposits, seawater turbidity fluence of benthic invertebrate fauna research for exploitation of wastes, particularly in relation to energy-efmeasurement and measurement of lies moderately outside the limits ususuch as those under evaluation by ficient buildings. chlorophyll, and evaluation of the imally defining the conditions of the area. the ExPerl research program which • Envelope Approach to impact of perlite fines to filtering organThe conclusions for angiosperm are began in 2009 (see more on prove Sustainability and Enisms (mytilus galloprovinciallis, i.e. similar. In the next 4 years, a plan alwww.experl.eu). Along these lines ergy efficiency in Existing mussels). This study is one of the first ready in place for updating the existthere are a number of more recent multi-story, multi-owner resiundertaken by HCMR for sea water ing results of the first phase of the EU funded research programs dential buildings addressing the classification following the guidelines study will be deployed. launched in 2010, to which S&B is topic of developing energy saving of the Water Framework Directive participating within a network of partsolutions and technologies for 2000/60/EC. The findings of the The results of this study are currently ners from universities, research inbuildings envelope retrofitting. study show that the status of seawabeing processed by an expert firm, stitutes and industry. Worth menter in Tsigrado area is defined as good as part of a project for evaluating altioning are the following: to excellent and that in Voudia area as ternative methods of perlite superfine fair to good. With regard to the morrejects disposal to land and sea phological conditions of the structure within the terms and conditions of the and the substratum of the seabed in new Environmental Permit regarding particular, the situation was defined the Voudia operations on Milos. 40 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Judicial disputes Environmental fines for Milos pany is confident that imposition of the issuance of the final decision on activities: In July 2010 the Greek these fines is not valid and a new retheir application for suspension. Ministry of Environment, Energy and course has been filed expecting the Their application was ultimately reClimate Change announced a decifines to be annulled once again. jected in June 2010, which allowed sion to re-impose fines at €392,000 the company to continue its activity in total to S&B Industrial Minerals Application for annulment and in the area. The hearing of the appliS.A., initially imposed in 2007 and ansuspension of permits in new cation for annulment of the permits nulled by the competent courts after bauxite ore deposit in Fokis: The is still pending. our company’s recourse. These fines Amfissa Mountaineering Club, along regard the permitting for part of the with three private individuals, who The above suspension of activity as company’s waste management and later on withdrew, filed their case to well as permitting administrative dein particular disposal of perlite fines the Greek Council of State asking lays seriously affected S&B’s bauxfrom processing facilities in Tsigrado for annulment of the environmental ite production. As a consequence and Voudia in Milos to the sea. Main permit and all related administrative thereof an important bauxite cusreasoning behind the fines imposed permits in a new open pit and untomer of S&B, initiated against the by the Ministry is that the company derground bauxite ore deposit in the company an arbitral process alleging ought to have applied for this permit area of Lidoriki in Fokis. In parallel, breach of contractual obligations. under a different legislation than the they applied for the suspension of one that it has been receiving authorthe above administrative acts. They ization, from the same administrative succeeded in a temporary suspenauthorities, for many years. The comsion of the company’s activities until Environmental Expenditures We invest in environmental management and infrastructure works to improve our performance continually. Environmental Expenditures 2000 – 2010 (in Greece) in million € Year Environmental Expenses Environmental Total Investment For landscape For other reclamation purposes 2000 1.20 0.50 1.00 2.70 2001 1.15 0.52 1.20 2.87 2002 1.20 0.50 1.30 3.00 2003 1.05 0.30 1.00 2.35 2004 0.98 0.52 0.96 2.46 2005 1.17 0.43 0.39 1.99 2006 1.01 0.44 0.85 2.30 2007 1.12 0.34 2.78 4.24* 2008 1.12 0.39 5.10 6.61* 2009 0.92 0.36 2.60 3.88* 2010 0.64 0.44 2.42 3.50* *2007 Milos bentonite warehouse cost amounted to €1.5 million 2008 Milos bentonite warehouse cost amounted to €4.25 million 2009 Milos bentonite warehouse cost amounted to €2.15 million 2010 Milos bentonite warehouse cost amounted to €1.81 million Social Report 2010 41 For S&B, the establishment of fruitful relations with the local communities and obtaining the “social license” to operate are significant prerequisites to the company’s sustainability. Social Contribution Social Solidarity S&B’s social policy complements S&B’s local communities’ social • We continued to provide finanSouth Korea: Good-Neighbors, the relevant policies for Human Repolicy is developed along the folcial support to charitable and soChangpo Welfare Center in Posources, the Environment, and oclowing axes: cial organizations through our hang City cupational Health & Safety. Group-wide activities. Germany: CARITAS refugees • Creating and operating works of Greece: Therapeutic Riding Asproject, Lebenshilfe Werkstätten At the same time, through its social infrastructure that promote the culsociation of Greece, the AssociOberhausen, Aktion Mensch, policy, the company aims at protural as well as the industrial heration for the Psychosocial Health Werkskapelle Donawitz in Obermoting the sustainable, balanced, itage of each area, like the Milos of Children and Adolescents, Ashausen and multifaceted development of Mining Museum (www.milosminsociation of Social Responsibility the local communities where it opingmuseum.gr), the Milos Conferfor Children and Youth, Life Line • Contribution of extra-ordinary fierates. Social contribution in ence Center (www.miloscenter.gr) Hellas, Scientific Association for nancial support to Unicef for the Greece has a bigger stake at the and the Vagonetto-Fokis Mining Regional Development and MenHaiti people hit by the devastatcompany’s social policy, given that Park (www.vagonetto.gr) tal Health of Milos ing earthquake of January 2010, S&B’s operations in Fokis and on USA: United Way, Children’s as well as for the Pakistan people Milos have a 76-year long history • Providing financial, technical and Hospital, Community Missions, hit by the deadly floods during and tradition and remain those with other support to local organizaPartners for Cancer Research, the summer of 2010. the biggest social and environmentions and initiatives of high interJP Morgan Chase Corporate tal footprint. The social work and est and acceptance, as well as Challenge • We continued our established activities in Greece and in other lolocal infrastructure works Brazil: Association of Partners practice of donating to a worthy cations of the S&B Group’s activity and Friends of the Handicapped, cause instead of offering corpoare being developed based on its • Developing initiatives and activiSociedade Betania rate gifts for the New Year seaValues and its Purpose taking into ties that promote these regions son and supported the National account the needs and particulariand contribute to their balanced Organizations for Refugees in ties of each local community. development, such as the Milos several countries of S&B activity Initiative (Greece, Germany, France, Bulgaria, USA, China, Brazil). • Supporting the local populations with educational, cultural and • Furthermore, in several locations other activities. of our activity (Milos and Fokis in Hungary: Local communities, Greece, India, South Korea etc.) foundations of social welfare for we provided educational matechildren, local football team of rial, stationery, heating fuel, buildEgyha΄zaskeszö ing maintenance etc. to local France: Humanitarian 4L Trophy schools. India: Unicef, humanitarian Ramakrishna Mission Seva Pratishthan, Organization for the Blind (Durgapur) Social Report 2010 43 Volunteerism Environment • We continued to support the • Our Stollberg & Samil colleagues • Within the framework of the Inter• We offered plants, know-how and “Anastassia Antoniadou Volunparticipated in a Pohang City (S. national Year of Biodiversity we: technical support for the reclateerism and Social Contribution Korea) initiative and participated mation of an environmentally disAward” honoring a citizen of Miin recreational activities for turbed area over the school comlos (Greece) for his/her contribuabused children. They also ofplex of the Limni Municipality in tion to the community. fered English tutorials to poor Euboea (Greece), followed by a children of the area and organpresentation to the pupils and • Within the framework of the Miized a beach and mountainous their teachers on the process and los Cultural Festival organized by region clean-up activity. a) participated in the “Geomeetsignificance of the reclamation. the Milos local authority, we orings Festival” focused on BiodiThe work was carried out followganized, in cooperation with versity with plants from S&B’s ing a request by the Forestry DeEFPALINOS an expert group of plant nurseries in Milos and partment and the directors of the pedagogues, a musical drama Fokis, as well as with a financial Limni Municipality Junior and Sengame for children entitled contribution. The festival was ior High-Schools to our Land “Wake-Up People!”. The volunorganized in December 2010 in Reclamation Department in Fokis. tary participation of Milos emAthens by the Mariolopoulioployees and local community Κanagkinio Foundation for En• We supplied financial support for people greatly contributed to the • Our USA colleagues devoted vironmental Sciences. the plant care and the reforestasuccess of the event. 1,365 hours of voluntary work to tion of the industrial park Shangvarious community services durb) supported the reforestation initianti in Xinyang (China) ing the year. tiative by the Milos Society of the Friends of Mountain and • We transformed a garbage dumpSea, a member of the Hellenic ing area next to the Stollberg India “Friends of Nature” Network, Pvt. facilities, into a park. carried out in the Triovassalos hill area of the island, by providing know-how and voluntary work. Art and Cutural Heritage Enterpreneurship • We sponsored the Milos Cultural • We continued our long-standing the Greek-Turkish Business FoFestival for the 17th consecutive cooperation with the non-profit rum organized by the SEV Helyear, organized by the Municipa“Greek Junior Achievement Orlenic Federation of Enterprises, lity of Milos in Greece ganization” through participation the Transparency International – or contribution in their programs Greece, and, finally the Hellenic • We sponsored the traditional in Greece and in the USA. Network for CSR by participatPerperikon theatrical festival in ing in its events for its 10th anKardjali, Bulgaria, for the 8th • We supported various initiatives niversary. consecutive year. of business associations, such as the SEV Business Council for • We supported financially the orSustainable Development, the ganization of the China Perlite AsFoundation for Economic and Insociation Conference in Xinyang dustrial Research, the German(China). Hellenic Business Association, 44 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Local Infrastructure Educational Activities Works • In Fokis, Greece: We funded the • We continued the “Anastassia An• We funded a scholarship for a • The Milos Mining Museum hosted renovation of the school building toniadou Scholarship Award” on high-school pupil of Pohang City 8,600 visitors, 600 of which were of Karoutes village; we supported fiMilos (Greece), financing the uniin South Korea. pupils of the local school comnancially the maintenance of the versity studies of a young female munity participating in the Munursery building of Gravia village; student graduate of the Milos • We continued our support to the seum’s educational programs, as and we undertook the blacktophigh school. “Guarda Mirim” program, under well as in the Geological Tour orping of the Apostolia local road. We the auspices of the Guaranganized for the 3rd consecutive continued financing the water sup• As member of the Association of tigueta Mayor (Brazil), aimed at year for the island’s pupils. ply project of the Karoutes village Industries & Exporting Enterprises helping young apprentices (16 to by the Mornos river artificial lake. of Milos, we continued to partici18 years old) to successfully en• On the occasion of the book The work was initiated in 2009 and pate in the scholarship and finanter the labor market. “Venus of Milos cries”, a Milos Minwill be concluded in 2011. cial support program to five firsting Museum publication, written year university and professional • We created and organized toby the well-known educator and • InMilos,Greece:Wedonatedanew schools’ students, graduates of gether with the head of Environchildren’s books author Sofia X-rays developer to the Milos Health the Milos high-school. mental Education of the direcYialouraki, an educational proCenter, so that the Center’s X-rays torate of Primary School Education gram, based on the book’s story, lab could restart its operation. • We supported financially the in the Fokis area in Greece, an enwas organized for the pupils of the American Fulbright educational vironmental program which took last three grades of the elemen• We continued to provide snow Institute’s scholarship programs place at the company’s plant nurstary schools of Milos. The proplowing of the local roads network in Athens, the Financial Departery with the title “Young Reforgram was repeated in S&B’s during winter in areas like Fokis ment of the Piraeus University, the esters in Action” aiming to educate headquarters, in Athens, for the (Greece), Egyha΄zaskeszö (HunAmerican Farm School, the young school-children about the employees’ children. gary) and Pohang City (S. Korea). Athens Laboratory of Business local flora. Administration (ALBA), as well as • 7,500 people visited the Vagonetthe Geology Dept. of the Univerto – Milos Mining Park, of which sity of Athens, participating in its 4,000 were children, within the 40th anniversary events. framework of the local schools’ educational visits. • We supported financially the Foundry Educational Foundation • 5,670 people participated in conin Niagara Falls, New York. gresses, scientific meetings and cultural events organized in 2010 at the Milos Conference Center – George Eliopoulos. Social Report 2010 45 On Reporting S&B’s Annual and Social Report Content, Scope local level, is based upon a structured We engage with our stakeholders on (henceforth referred to as the Reand Boundary approach that balances internal and the basis of an informed analysis of port), published annually, conveys a external factors. Such factors include those groups that have an interest or summary of our economic, environWe collect information and data on our Values, Vision and Purpose, our an influence in our business and conmental and social performance and 64 indicators covering Environment, Human Resources, Environment, duct, or who might be impacted by progress, and also includes signifiHealth & Safety and information on Health & Safety and Social Contribuour activities. Read more about how cant activities of the past year that Human Resources Systems and Sotion Objectives, our public commitwe respond to their concerns on contribute to our sustainable develcial Contribution from all our major ments (p. 17) and the views of our pages 20-21 of our Social Report. opment. This is our 10th Social Remining and processing facilities various stakeholders. Due to the geport and covers the calendar year around the world on a yearly basis. ographical spread and the variety of Recording of Environment, Health 2010. We include sustainability reWe do not, however, publicly report our activities (from mining and pro& Safety and Human Resources lated information in our Annual and on all the data collected because: a) cessing to providing industrial soludata and relevant key performance Social Report (hard copy and on some of the data collected is not tions and customized products for a indicators calculations are based website), in our Corporate Goverdeemed material enough to be revariety of different end markets), it is on relevant and acclaimed industry nance Principles, 4th revision (hard ported, or there may be proprietary challenging to identify material issues standards and protocols which encopy and on website) and in our webinformation concerns; b) the level of for the whole business and for all sure comparability and uniformity site (www.sandb.com). our quality check and the reliability of stakeholders. We thus inform our across the Group’s activities worlddata are not harmonious across our process through many sources of relwide. In all sections of the 2010 ReOur Report is not externally asoperations. Nevertheless, we report evant information: port, and in particular where data or sured. We declare a GRI Applicasufficient data and information for • The GRI reporting framework performance indicators are retion Level of B, which is checked by the material sustainability issues of and the Mining and Metals Secported, the scope of collection is the GRI itself. At the end of 2010 we our Group and provide a clear, comtor Supplement. Although we stated (locations of operations or initiated an Assurance Readiness plete and balanced view of our susfind the Supplement valuable in activity) and the basis of calculaCheck, by engaging a third party tainability performance. When addressing some of our performtions is mentioned, as well as any auditor, in order to identify gaps and information or data is presented in ance reporting areas, due to the major changes or revisions from areas for improvement and work toour Report, the scope is also prosize, nature and location of our previous years. No significant wards establishing an assurance vided per case. We aim to improve activities a lot of the issues adchanges from previous periods of process over the next two years. on the quality of the sustainability dressed in it are not applicable to reporting in the scope, boundary or performance data we collect over S&B’s operations. measurement techniques occurred S&B is a signatory party to the princithe coming three years by reviewing • The UN Global Compact during 2010 that have a material imples of the UN Global Compact since and improving our internal reporting • The Voluntary Agreement on pact on the collection and reporting May 2008. Description of our actions mechanisms, and thus also improve Crystalline Silica (more on p. 31) of our sustainability performance. and related outcomes that form our the scope and content of our report. • Key sustainability topics raised Communication on Progress as per by our industry’s associations the Global Compact’s principles are The information and data covered by (i.e. IMA-Europe) fully integrated in our Social Report the Report are based on an assess• The SEV BCSD’s, Greek partner and facilitated by the G3 Index. ment of those material sustainable organization of the WBCSD, 10development issues over which S&B principle Code for Sustainable has sufficient influence. Assessment Development of material issues, as well as the • The Greek Mining Enterprises AsGroup’s sustainable development sociation’s Code of Principles for challenges, across its activities or at Sustainable Development Social Report 2010 47 GRI Index SR = Social Report 2010, AR = Annual Report 2010, CGP = S&B Group Corporate Governance Principles (4th revision) Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer UN Global Compact Disclosure Element addressed 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Fully SR p. 5, AR p. 17-18 Statement of Continuing Support 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully SR p.16 on key impacts, p.18 on governance, p. 13 on targets & performance, p.47 on materiality, AR p. 47 on risks, p.62 on prospects 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully SR p.10-11, AR p.22 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, Fully AR p.77§1, p.84-85 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully Athens, Greece 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names Fully SR p.15 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully AR p.50, p.77§1 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, Fully SR p.14 and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully SR p.14-15, AR p.8-9 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, strucFully AR p.85§4.1 no significant changes in 2010 ture, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully no awards received 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information Fully Fiscal Year 2010 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 2009 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully SR p.50 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully SR p.47 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased Fully SR p.47 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully SR p.47 (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outFully SR p.47, we consolidate data from our S.Korea and Netherlands sourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comjoint ventures for labor indices to comply with financial stateparability from period to period and/or between organizations. ments' consolidation, but not for EHS indices 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, inFully SR p.47 cluding assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided Fully SR p.47 in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Fully SR p.47, no significant changes occurred during 2010 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully SR p.48-51 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurFully SR p.47 ance for the report. 48 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer UN Global Compact Disclosure Element addressed 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Fully SR p.18 and figure, AR p.40-41, 44-45 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also Fully Yes (refer to AR p.41 table). The Chairman and CEO used to be repan executive officer. resented by the same person; while establishing a modern corporate governance model, the roles were separated but the Chairman continues to be an executive officer for historical reasons. The Chairman’s executive function pertains to overview of strategy and high level company matters. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the numFully AR p.41 table ber of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recomFully SR p.18 & 21, AR p.51, CGP p.19-20 mendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest goverFully SR p.27, AR p.49 nance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conFully CGP p.12-13 flicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the memFully CGP p.10-11 Human Resources and Nomination Board bers of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's Committees strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conFully SR p.16-17, Gorporate Governance Principles (4th revision) on duct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social http://www.sandb.com/en/main_in.html?Principles_title.gif?prin performance and the status of their implementation. ciples.html 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the orFully SR p.18, CGP p.8 on Board Committees, p.15 on Control MechIncludes oversight of ganization's identification and management of economic, environanisms UNGC Principles mental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own perFully AR p.44-45, CGP p.8§2.4 formance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or prinFully SR p.34 UNGC Principle 7 ciple is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Fully SR p.17 Includes the UNGC principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes Principles or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Fully Public and industry policy contribution: Founding member of national/international advocacy organizations in which the organizahttp://www.sandb.com/en/main_in.html?title_kinwniki_prosHellenic UNGC Nettion: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects fora.gif?et_koinoniki_prosfora.html work or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully SR p.21 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Fully SR p.20 engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of enFully SR p.21 gagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Fully SR p.20-21 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Further comments UN Global Compact Element addressed DMA EC Disclosure on Management Partially AR p.17-18 management letter, p.59-63 BoD report, Actions to implement Approach EC CGP p.21 Principles 1, 4, 6 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Partially SR p.6 management letter, p.18 on monitoring, p.25 on Organizational responsibility for environmenActions to implement Approach EN training, Environment on website URL: tal management is held by the Plant or FaciPrinciples 7, 8, 9 http://www.sandb.com/en/main_in.html?title_perivallity Managers. The Group EHS Manager, lon.gif?et_periballon.html on policy & management, reporting to one of the General Managers, CPG p.21 has a policy-making, consulting and monitoring role. DMA LA Disclosure on Management Partially Human Resources on website URL: Operational responsibility is held by the Actions to implement Approach LA http://www.sandb.com/en/main_in.html?title_an8roGroup Human Resources Manager and by Principles 1,3,6 pino_dinamikoGr.gif?et_anthropino_dinam.html, CPG S&B Country Managers.The Group's Internal p.15 on control mechanisms, p.22 on management, Control System includes labor-related issues H&S on website URL: that are monitored by the Internal Audit Serhttp://www.sandb.com/en/main_in.html?title_igiini_asfal vices according to a customized Risk AssesiaGr.gif?et_igiini_asfaleia.html, SR p.18 on monitoring, sment Model. p.24 on diversity, p.25 on training DMA HR Disclosure on Management Partially SR p.18 & p.27 on monitoring and on policy and perforOperational responsibility is held by the Actions ot implement Approach HR mance, CPG p.15 on control mechanisms Group Human Resources Manager and Principles 1 6 by S&B Country Managers. DMA SO Disclosure on Management Partially SR p.17 & CPG p.18 on policies, SR p.18 on monitoring, Operational responsibility is held by the Actions to implement Approach SO social policy on website URL: Group's Corporate Affairs Manager, in close Principle 10 http://www.sandb.com/en/main_in.html?title_kinwcooperation with Local Affairs Managers or niki_prosfora.gif?et_koinoniki_prosfora.html Country Managers. DMA PR Disclosure on Management Partially SR p.32 on policy and performance, p.33 on training, Operational responsibility comes under each Actions to implement Approach PR p.18 on monitoring, R&D on website URL: Product Division's General Manager, but Principles 1 and 8 http://www.sandb.com/en/main_in.html?title_ereuna_a also under the Group's EHS Manager for naptiksaGr.gif?et_ereuna_anaptixi.html and Product certain Group-wide issues, such as the Quality on website URL: REACH and CLP regulations. http://www.sandb.com/en/main_in.html?title_diasfalisi_pioititasG.gif?et_diafalisi_poiotitas.html Social Report 2010 49 Performance Indicators Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer UN Global Compact Indicator Element addressed Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Partially SR p. 15, AR p. 70 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. Fully AR p.103, S&B has a defined contribution pension plan EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully AR p.75 line Government grants received , p.81§(y) reporting under IAS20/ Government grants received in 2010 were not significant EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at signifiPartially SR p.14 cant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the Fully SR p.25 on Attract & Retain Outcomes from implelocal community at significant locations of operation. menting Principle 6 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided priPartially SR p. 44-45 marily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Environmental EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Fully SR p.35 Table on % of wastes & by-products Outcomes from impleused as input materials menting Principles 8 and 9 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Fully SR p. 38 Outcomes from implementing Principles 8 and 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and serPartially SR p.38 describes intiatives continued or carActions to implement vices, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. ried out in 2010 Principles 8 and 9 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully SR p.40 Outcomes from implementing Principle 8 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Fully SR p.36 Outcomes from impleareas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. menting Principle 8 MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or exFully SR p. 36 table on land reclamation areas Outcomes from impletractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. menting Principle 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully SR p. 36 Outcomes from implementing Principle 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partially SR p.38 Outcomes from implementing Principle 8 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks. Fully SR p. 38 on mineral waste amounts EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully none recorded in 2010 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Partially SR p.38/ the majority of S&B's products are Outcomes from implecategory. sold in bulk menting Principles 8 and 9 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Fully SR p.41 on judicial disputes Outcomes from implenon-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. menting Principle 8 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Partially SR p. 41 reporting on Greek activities Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principles 7-9 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Fully SR p.23 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Fully SR p.24 Outcomes from implementing Principle 6 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Fully SR p.27 on Reward, AR p.49 part-time employees, by major operations. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including Partially Notice periods vary based on national laws Outcomes from implewhether it is specified in collective agreements. and regulations to which S&B strictly adheres menting Principle 6 MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's duration, by country. Fully No strikes or lockouts exceeding one week duration occurred in 2010. Two one-day strikes occurred in Greece (Milos island) where the local worker's union participated in a national strike announced by the Greek Confederation of Worker's Unions LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Fully SR p.30 Outcomes from impleof work-related fatalities by region. menting Principle 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Fully SR p.31 on voluntary crystalline Si agreement Actions taken from implementing Principle 1 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Fully SR p. 25, 33 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Fully SR p.27/ S&B Performance Management reviews. System covers more than 70% of its workforce LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category Fully SR p.24 Outcomes from impleaccording to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicamenting Principles 1 tors of diversity. and 6 Social: Human Rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fully SR p. 27 on People and Rights Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principles 1,2 and 6 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and meFully SR p. 27 on People and Rights Actions taken to imasures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. plement Principles 1,2 and 5 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulFully SR p. 27 on People and Rights Actions taken to imsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory plement Principles 1,2 labor. and 4 50 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Indicator Social: Society MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, customary Fully none in 2010 rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in Fully None of S&B's activities during 2010 involved each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. any kind of resettlements or effects on people's livelihoods SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related Partially SR p.18 on Monitoring performance / S&B's Outcomes from impleto corruption. internal audit methodology is based on a cumenting Principle 10 stomized Risk Assessment Model which factors in corruption as a risk element according to location, activity etc. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully No such incidents occurred in 2010 and no Actions taken to imsuch pending legal cases were concluded in plement Principle 10 2010 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Fully SR p.20 Actions taken to implement Principle 1-10 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Fully none in 2010 and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Fully No such claims were exercised in 2010 non-compliance with laws and regulations. against S&B at any of its operations Social: Product Responsibility MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship. Fully SR p.32, 40 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Fully SR p. 32 Actions taken and outassessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services comes from implecategories subject to such procedures. menting Principle 1 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Fully none in 2010 Outcomes from impleconcerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life menting Principle 1 cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage Fully SR p. 32 on number of products produced or Actions taken and outof significant products and services subject to such information requirements. purchased and how S&B complies to REACH comes from impleand CLP regulation across its supply chain menting Principle 8 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Fully none in 2010 Outcomes from impleconcerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. menting Principle 9 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Fully none in 2010 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer priFully none in 2010 Outcomes from implevacy and losses of customer data. menting Principle 1 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Fully none in 2010 concerning the provision and use of products and services. Social Report 2010 51 This report is a publication of S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. Corporate Affairs Department. Please send any feedback to: Myrto Kontaxi, Head of Corporate Social Responsibility 15, A. Metaxa str. 145 64 Kifissia, P.O. Box 51528 tel. +30 210 6296292, -3 fax: +30 210 6296074 e-mail: csrcomm@sandb.com Design by 3 in a box S&B’s Social Report is printed on Zanto paper, composed of 100% prime fibers (pulp and internal recycling) produced in Germany. The timber for the pulp is taken from thinnings from local forest conservation programs of PEFC certified (Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes), sustainable forest management, as well as waste wood from regional saw mills. The natural product of chalk is used as filler. The production process is controlled by a management system certified according to DIN EN ISO 9001 and DIN EN ISO 14001. This paper is fully recyclable, with no harmful residue. 52 S&B Industrial Minerals S.A.
