Publication registration no. 2011-10302-001 Hope goes to tomorrow Sustainability Report 2011 About this Report Meaning of writing a report This report is the 3rd report written by Korea Rail Network Authority (hereafter referred to as“KR” ) every year continuing from 2008 to 2010. The purpose of this report is to satisfy the demand of persons concerned on the company’ s social responsibility; and KR’s economical, social and environmental goal for sustainable development and promoting will for future are included in its contents. Report’ s range and duration KR is publishing this report annually and the reporting duration of this report is from January to December, 2010. In case of any trend analysis in the past is needed, outcomes of 3 years from 2008 to 2010 are listed and partial activities and outcomes of 2011 are also included. The range of report targeted a head office and 5 regional headquarters (metropolitan area, Yeongnam area, Honam area, Chungcheong area, and Gangwon area), Jungang technology group and 267 construction sites; and partial content of global project is also included. The Currency unit of this report is indicated in the basis of Korean won ((USD1=KRW1,106 as of 27th June, 2011) and ton, ㎡, ㎥, ㎞, TOE were used for quantitative units and units other than those were valued and given. Standard for Report writing This was written in the basis of GRI G3.1 guideline and any relevant items are specified in the Appendix’ s GRI Index. Report Verification To secure the reliability of any reporting description of this report, third-party verification was implemented through independent and subjective verification institution and its result are included in the appendix. Characteristic of report KR had received ISO 26000 implementation level from Korea Standard Association and confirmed as the highest standard of social responsibility management, IV; thus, we indicated them with logo on the top of report. Additional information Website www.kr.or.kr Address 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City, Korea rail network authority E-mail ssy0933@gmail.com Tel 042-607-3157 Fax 042-607-3169 Department in Result management group of charge of planning adjustment department Hope goes to tomorrow Sustainability Report 2011 Contents 04 Message from CEO 06 2010 Top Highlights 10 Sustainability Overview 12 KR outline 14 2020 KR Future Management Strategy 16 Main Businesses 18 Governance 20 Audit System 21 Transparent Management 50 Economy 22 Ethical Management 24 Risk Management 52 Economic Outcomes 26 Participation of persons concerned 54 Research and Development (R&D) 28 Importance of Evaluation 56 Society 30 Special Report Ⅰ 58 Customer Satisfaction Management : Construction of eco-friendly railroad 61 Secure the personnel 32 Effort to construct an eco-friendly railroad 62 Personnel Development 34 Deal with climatic change and environmental management 65 Management and Unions Cooperation 36 Promote systematic environmental management 66 Win-win growth 68 Community cooperation and Contribution to society 38 Special Report Ⅱ : Safety-first policy 70 Appendix 40 Safety Management Advancement 43 Cooperation for Safety Management 72 Details of Awards and Current State of Association Membership 73 Sustainability Management TFT 74 3rd Party Verification Written Opinion 44 Special Report Ⅲ : Global Management 76 KR’ s ISO 26000 Performance Report 46 Strategy for Overseas Market 78 GRI G3.1/ ISO26000 Index 48 Overseas Railroad business promoting outcomes 81 Customer’ s opinion SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW We will jump up to be global partner leading the sustainability management. Respectable persons concerned! KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Our Korea Railroad Network Authority is supporting the principle of UN global compacts and prompting the sustainability management since joining the UN global compacts in 2007. This report is 3rd report briefing the outcomes of our authority to any persons concerned. Since the last year, we are pleased to have you in here to review our sustainability management report with us. 4 Last year, 2010 was very meaningful year that the amicable environment for railroad Korea Rail Network Authority business was created even in the financial crisis. We were able to achieve them through our ability to manage the crisis and nation’s right decision that the answer to the lowcarbon green growth is railroad. Based on the nation’s entire confidence and support, KR opened 5 construction projects including Gyeongbu high-speed railroad in 2 phases on right time; created a base connects all nations within 90 minutes by determination for construction strategy of KTX high-speed rail network; and obtained the contract of 8 construction supervisions and technical advises at China; thus, we could achieve many economical goals including creating new business profit. In addition, KR promoted the construction project of Honam high-speed rail with CDM project and put effort to environmental issues including ecosystem restoration by using a cooperation fund. Along with this, KR promoted win-win cooperation with small business and community for realizing the fair society and created social goals including first being chosen as an excellent organization providing customer satisfaction service under its foundation by our efforts through varied methods including operation of 9 minutes meeting system and acquired the certification, Sorisaem. As well as for 2011, KR will be grown into a model organization realizing sustainability management by putting all of our strength for creating economical, environmental and social goals at the corporate level. Our public corporation already has started the construction of high-speed railroad in metropolitan area for the first half of this year and achieved many goals including being chosen as the best established construction public enterprise and received national Sinmungo award from the president. We will not be conceited on this for the last half of this year also and promote sustainability management constantly. Especially, sustainability management would be decided by core value and we plan to implement the core value education for all employees from this year to the next year. We kindly ask any persons concerned to see our corporation to be soared up to the world under your tender glance. If we have your kind support, we are confident that our KR & Sustainability Report 2011 corporation will be grown as global railroad institution in the near future. Thank you. 5 Chairman of Korea rail network authority Korea Rail Network Authority Cho, Hyun-yong Provide a base for continuous green rail network With 4 chairmen including president and green growth committee in attendance on the 1st of September, 2010, KR had decided the strategy to build a KTX high-speed rail network which combines and connects the nations to one metropolitan area within 90 minutes until 2020 and contributed to the presentation. For realization of national rail network sustainability, we expect to improve the economic feasibility by 25~40% with reforming the preliminary feasibility guideline item of railroad. In addition, we are promoting the advancement of railroad technology through the localization of core materials for rail and establishment of test track. ublic Promote the p rough the convenience th en railroad network expansion of gre 5 stations in October 28th , 2010, the open ing ceremony of Gyeongchun line Throug h ns truc tio n businesses of St at ion ed 5 co gbong KR has open rvic e be tween Sinsan -track tr ain se train se ice rv proving double n line pr ov ing duble-track ; Gyeongchu try real and Chuncheon an ; B us an New Port en as rangjin and M t railroad; incl uding between Sam th e Incheon airpor , e 2 se ction of d on tim Also e. railroad; phas ye on gb u high -speed railroa ra pid n of the G arterial railroa d phase 2 sectio ly promote the we continuous n gree n growth. th e lead in lo w-carbo Enhance th transit and take tative st atus as a represen railroad by e status of powerful c in ed ou r We also determ convenience. entering in o oving nation’s the overseauntry in itu tio n pr public inst KR achieve s business d second contracts in leap in the China 8 construc rail marke services in tion superv t by winnin China in 20 isions and g the 10. For win technical a ning overseas dvic e b u s iness USA and M rail contra ongolia, KR cts in Brazi establishe m ade a MOU l, d the overs agreemen provided th e as branches. t an d e base for Through th advanced ra growing a is, KR il not only in s power n Asia, but in ation in KR world worldwide ’s secon . Also, magnetic dly starte levitation d constru ra ilway dem c ti o n in thus, pro onstration vided an line; independe opportun nt technolo ity to se gy. c ure Impr the v ove finan alue c KR h of rai ial sound Promote a clean development mechanism business to lway n ad and p achieved asset ess by in secure the CERs rofita bility the p e s creas comp ared of as rformanc set e ob ing As the necessity for green house gas emission reduction strategy is raised in team to the p per p jectiv for er ers es worldwide, KR had decided to promote the construction project of Honam highmana finding h formance on as mu to increa geme idden in las ch as se th speed railroad with CDM project for realizing the low-carbon green growth in the s n as ty u eu ocial t by object sets and in ear by op p to 1,350 sability 2010. KR had submitted the declaration of intent for CDM project to UN and respo iv e ,000 public in nsibil es. KR al troducing rating an won subst stitution b ity manag so actualiz the asset exclusive office of the prime minister and faithfully collected any necessary documents to ruc yd emen ed s Gyeo ture in N eveloping to write up a project plan until December. Once we get an approval ngch amch the b f for CMD project of Honam high-speed railroad from UN, we will un li ridge With re ne w uncheon prov vision of ith P ungm statio n of secure the CO2 emissions of 63 billion won for 21 years with ide ra u devel s a bas il constru l marke green house gas reduction of 130,000 ton annually. opme e for ct t. we c nt Gong ion law, reate project in d K R 144,4 d vestm eock s 00,00 an oppo ent c ompa tatio n 0,000 r won f tunity to ny or 30 mak ; thus, years e pro in fut fit of ure. 2010 Top Highlights Efforts to c consideringonstruct the Eco-Rail ecosystem For KR’ s contributi through th ons to the e eco-frien low-carbon dly activitie green grow President’ s in 2010, K th s award on R received recognitio “ E nvironmental th e n for obse Day 2010” Boryeong rving eco This was -si, Chung lo gy of Dae retired Ja gheong p cheon riv nghang lin rovince w er in e, restorin h ic h was land contributin g the resid for g to comm ent facilitie of eco syste unity socie s a n m conserv ty b y using a co d awarded th ation for th rporation fu e grand pri e first time in n d by Ministry ze from na Korea. KR of Environm tural enviro had ent. KR als n m ent sponsore neglected o donated d people alo all prize fu good prece ng the railw nd dent of soc a y w ith rice and for ial respons establishe ible manag da ement. al la b o rm an ag ement relations Build the ration management efficiency and promote the ram in cooperat ion hancement prog performance en hip and KR operated the in-w in labor partners t and un ions fo r w bor in growth for with managemen the M inister of Empl oyment and La e Efforts to win-winsociety fr om ed the in vativ no realization of fair received awar d 20 10 . In ad dition, KR enforc ng th e December, including limiti under the superv ision personnel system ion with partners nking officials, sa la ry KR held a discuss ich was be fore the term of high ra iling . By m an sin ce January, 2010 wh lic y. d positio n ce of chair in growth po peak system, an e as a t w as pr omoting win-w nk for the first tim govern m en omoting gr p ou destroying the ra tu ous se t a wi nwin cooperation pr n, KR built the vir After, KR gy for the public corporatio th e w in-w in growth strate ement and establis he d ting resource manag truction and crea circle in human ement of ad va nc ement of rail cons s st em an d im pr oved the manag visions gine; thus, win-wi n grow th wa sy grow th en contin uous tructed d an effectiveness. te d sy st em atically. KR cons implem en ence by ed th e w in-w in growth confer oper at ncerns and solving out any co area and quickly setting the all business by difficulties of sm er; and also combined cent small business l skills. the ad va nced technologica Being chosen trans fe rring organization foas an excellent r customer sati KR operates cu sfaction stom er meeting sy at the very first stem within 9 as the public in minutes KR also pro stitution in Febr motes varied ua ry 2010. managemen customer sa t activities in tisfaction customer man cluding patent agement system for unified customer-man , “Sorisaem” an agement system d certified in vo first excellent (AAA); thus, K ice of customer satis R jumps up to be putting utmos faction organi the t efforts for CS zation. KR will realized. vision , “rail of custom ke ep er surprise” to be Revolution of Korea Traffic by KR Rail Network makes safe and convenient world Over 110 years of Korean railroad history, KR moves into the world to stand out as a center of Northeast Asia’s transportation, culture and distribution. Korea Rail Network Authority is in the center of global rail network for future. Rail, a hope goes to tomorrow The rail is together with customers. It opens bright future of railroad. KR is moving forward for rail’s vision and hopeful tomorrow upon the rail that was a preceding idea and cooperation. KR doesn’t seek for only infinite speeding. KR values the harmony with nature and win-win community. KR creates a future coexisting with both people and nature. The competitiveness of KR starts from people. KR cultivates capable people and builds the labor relations through communication. KR seeks for fair and rational win-win culture. KR opens successful future by gathering power from all. SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW d an law ntal n e t am (1s isio wa y y nd rity he erv ce nt ail teg t fu th o in t s u p ) of d m an side edr tra m e n A u wa y tio n n an 2 n for p re s p e nts l s r e op ork ai tru c he o a np e 3rd hem vel etw dr ns ~C int ed ni n as hig ag de law il N an) sp ee co on po tio rvisio ted m an trial ority a hina uw ap lua e in ona m s du uth R w rea -h hig gu ) Ch (S wa s eva u p pp o of H ure il in k A Ko ng bu ae t in ns e tio lin st n s sa ion fut 9 . 1 n of g, Jo 1 eong ul~D 7 ntrac an 30 e be uctio wa 2 truct KR 7. 2 d ra twor 1 4 . y o 1 1 2 . 8 sec way l 1. 1 -kw 1 . h r 8 ng 2 2 2 0 . e . o n . . l b . . t t . . . 03 im Ne 04 ati Ju 04 d G (S e . 6 co . 06 d a su 07 ng 07 ed ns . 8 yo . 5 ns . 6 20 20 ocla Rail 20 und ent, 20 ene ase 05 rst 20 ene gbu 20 e, Su ent 20 quir a co 08 n09 co 09 ed Pr rea Fo esid Op st ph 20 on fi Op eon Le esid Ac Chin 20 , Hyu 20 gan 20 clar o W J o Be D e K pr fir Gy pr of s ine t an 6 l jec nn ’s in pro Yu rea e n io vice for Ko ph as is rv l ad r io n e of ice e p ca e fo v s i l li n /h) 2nd erv n u s ni lin u p r e ra i 0km y in ains tio ch on s er 3 wa tr uc te ati on ng ((2 ail ck str nd str cti se ed dr tra er con ine; a on stru pas spe ee leeon w m n a t p b to of in l de co hin tes hs u do nc h tw in ts ac ans of ay t in of C fas hig un hu ail ntr il, N on ilw rac ons the ss) bu 1 ngch g to C r 14 co a 3 r u cti n ra nt i 1 0 or . 1 ng . 2 4 w . e r . t io .3 o t . . 9 ng xpr f e 1 o 2 o n .2 e . 9 to n . 4 th na . 8 ns tat . 9 a c sec . 1 ye n) . 1 ye bo 10 ed hi 10 co evi 10 ed u 10 ivi e 10 d G sa 10 d G ng 09 in 20 oved 20 tain ing C 20 gan etic l 20 tain uizho 20 st dr train 20 ene u~Bu 20 ene insa b O clu d e B agn b O dG e T tin g p O ae g p O m S M Til fro in m an (D Rail, and Tomorrow KR aims at high-tech rail network for safe and convenient world and makes new transportation culture for future. KR raises the quality of life and city’s future value; and makes people’s dreams come true. SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW KR outline ● Locations of head office and regional headquarters KR was established in January, 2004 according to the rail industrial development law and Korea Rail Network Authority law. The purpose of its establishment was to increase nation’s traffic Gangwon convenience and contribute to healthy development headquarter Metropolitan of national economy by implementing effective headquarter management and construction of railway. Jungang Technology Center KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Head office/ Chungcheong headquarter KR status KR had successfully completed the construction of gyeongbu high-speed railway in 1st phase since its foundation, 2004. In the Youngnam following year, KR had obtained a contract in construction Honam headquarter supervision in China and finally had taken the first step toward 12 entering into overseas market. Also, KR had chosen as excellent organization from government management evaluation for 3 years in a row; established the 2020 KR future management Korea Rail Network Authority strategy in 2009; and made a splendid achievement of entering Metropolitan area : 378 Chungpa-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul-si Youngnam : 46 Hanjin marine building, Chungjang street overseas market besides China by winning a contract in railway no.9, Jung-gu, Busan-si master plan in Cameroon. In 2010, we had the honor of being in Honam : Yukjeon 16, Soncheon-si, Jeonnam hall of fame firstly as a public organization. As the most official Chungcheong : 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon-si plant in railway, the second national rail network construction Gangwon : 2650 Bookwon-ro, Wonju-si, Ganwon-do plan is confirmed and notified in April, 2011, we established goal Jungang technology group : 384 Yunje-ro, Jeongjung, to combine major points with one metropolitan city by connecting Gangwai-myun, Chungwon-gun, Chungbuk them within 90 minutes. Also, by transferring the traffic system to center of railway, our all employees are putting efforts to strengthen low-carbon green growth. KR’s organization structure KR outlines (210. 12. 31as of 31st December, 2010) KR’s organization structure is composed of chairman of board Name of Company Korea rail network authority affiliated 4 headquarters, 2 rooms, 3 organizations, 1 lab and 5 Date of Establishment Jan 7, 2004 regional headquarters. Management, facility operation, Formation Quasi-public institution construction and overseas headquarters are involved in 4 Chief engineer Jo, Hyun-yong (2008. 8. 8~current) headquarters; planning adjustment and planning technology Rail industrial development law (article no. 9772of the law) Establishment basis rooms for 2 rooms; quality safety, electricity and high-speed Korea Rail Authority (article no. 9991of the law) Property 38.4774 trillion won railway project of construction affiliated headquarter for 3 Financial status Capital 21.7026 trillion won organizations. To manage rail network in nationwide effectively, 5 Debt 16.7748 trillion won regional headquarters are installed in Seoul, Busan, Suncheon, Number of employees 1440 Daejeon, and Wonju. Also KR installed the overseas branch in Location of head office 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon-si China to expand its business. KR’s business structure KR, as a quasi-public organization which does business for the Board of Board government and railway construction, has a limitation on the directors President Audit discretionary authority unlike the public enterprise. KR uses 50~60% of high-speed railway project fund for self-loan. We Public Audit affairs redeemed the loan debt by collecting fees of railroad from Korail; office office however, accumulated debt is annually increasing since fees of Vice President railroad are not reaching the interests amount from loan debt. To secure the financial healthiness, KR selected 6 core businesses to reorganize the business structure which is too Quality Planning and KR Seoul Planning KR Human Safety Technology much concentrated on the investment business; and diversify the Department Department Department Research Resource Department profit structure. KR expanded the area of basic business to the future business for creating profits and built the virtuous cycle system among core businesses, which made the created profit Construction KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Facility Headquarter Overseas Electronic Management Operation Business Business reinvest in the business again. Headquarter Headquarter (High-Speed Rail Technology Headquarter Center Center) Jungang Metropolitan Youngnam Honam Chungcheong Gangwon Technology Headquarter Headquarter Headquarter Headquarter Headquarter Center 13 ● Virtuous cycle system between core businesses Korea Rail Network Authority Basic business Rail construction Rail facility management National rail network building Maintenance and facility management Area of Connect two Korea’s railway and Facility remodeling Area of Business transcontinental railway Business Reinvestment Growth engine business Future Business Rail property management Distribution facility development Property management and operation Distribution railway construction Railway station sphere development business Railway Distribution facility development Knowledge capitalization Rail engineering Profit Profit Information and education business Overseas railway business Create profit Light-weighted railway business through expansion Research and development of business area SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW securing financial soundness by increasing the future value with railway; strengthening the performance capability of new KR 2020 future growing project; and realizing the customer and society value. In addition, KR held 5 corporate presentations, 3 worships for core management strategy employees and 4 commissioned educations. KR is continuously reestablishing the management strategy to achieve the purpose of its foundation and reflect the changes of condition. KR had established the Provide the turning point for sustainability 2020 future management strategy within the participation development of all employees and reestablished the 2020 future When KR established the future management strategy, we management strategy in 2010 by reviewing the major created them based on the achievement of sustainability issues according to the rapidly changing environment for management. In other words, we combined the economic, management both internally and externally. environmental and social issues drew from internal and external management environmental analysis to future management KR & Sustainability Report 2011 strategy proposal. Especially 10 sustainable development elements such as efficiency, customer, morality and environment Establish KR 2020 future were drew from 4 strategic goals and connected with 10 corporate management strategy strategies. Based on these, KR developed strategic assignment, Under the mission, “realizing the rail network makes the world practical assignment, KPI and etc. safe and convenient”, KR set ‘global partner leads the future value for railway and green growth’ as a mission and drew 4 vision goals, 14 strategic goal and 10 corporate strategies. For 4 vision goals, the KR 2010 future management strategy followings are included: achieving 5,000km for total extension execution system length of rail; creating annual profit of 400 billion won from new KR decided that along with reestablishment of strategy, the Korea Rail Network Authority projects; taking 3rd place in the international level for Korea rail implementation of strategy is important; thus, KR built and quality; and taking 1st place in the public organization proving operated the KR°Øs unique strategy execution strengthening customer satisfaction service are included. system which the strategy, innovation, evaluation and To fulfill those, KR had set up the 4 strategic goals, including compensation are fused. Also, KR transferred the management seeking for sustainable growth by building green rail network; strategy establishment and management task controlled by Mission Realization of rail network makes world safe and convenient Global partner leading the future value and green growth for railwa Vision 5,000 km for total extension length of railway/ 300 billion won for annual new project profit Vision goal / taking 3rd place in international level of Korea railway quality/ taking 1st place in customer satisfaction Core Value Sustainability management Professional mind Mutual confidence Seek for sustainable Secure the financial Strengthen the development by construction Realize the value for soundness by increasing performance capability customer and society 4 strategic goals of green rail network the future value of railway for new projects Expand construction of Strengthen and capitalize Build organizational culture green railway Expand engineering for mutual confidence the technology capability for business railway construction 10 major Realize the green Improve the sustainability of management system customer satisfaction corporate strategies Enhance the personnel Increase the value of capability for promoting Maximize the efficiency of rail railway property Achieve the management new project construction and facility management considering social responsibility green project strategy department to result management ● 3 core values and 6 practical values department and built an organization system focused on the result with enhancement of efforts to achieve the corporate management strategy; and result evaluation. Hereby, KR secured a driving force to promote the sustainability Passion management in effective way. Challenge Sustainability management Major proposals for sustainable development For sustainable development, KR decided major economic, environmental and social proposals with KPI when establishing the Mutual Devotion confiden future management strategy; and determined the quantitative goal. For economic proposal, KR set a total extension of railway, electrification of Trust KR & Sustainability Report 2011 railroad and project fund execution. For environmental proposal, KR set environmental management index, achievement of responsibility to purchase eco-friendly goods, and reuse of construction waste. For social proposal, KR set customer satisfaction, securing core personnel, Professional mileage given for contribution to society. Also, by developing relevant mind quantitative with strategic and execution proposals, KR had achieved Creativity appropriate balance between non-quantitative and quantitative parts. To Autonomy 15 induce the achievement of determined goal in the beginning of year, KR designated the administrator for each department and monitored the achievement status. In that result, KR’s strategic achievement received Korea Rail Network Authority 98.4 points; thus, KR proved the sustainable management is going well. the core member workshop based in that result. KR drew the Performance draft of core value resulted from workshop as ‘sustainability Area KPI management’, ‘professional mind’, and ‘mutual confidence’ 2008 2009 2010 Total extension of railway(km) 3,427 3,436 3,624 through the survey in participation of all employees. Percentage of railway electrification 55.53 56.45 61.08 Economy Execution of business expense(%) 97.78 98.84 98.92 ● Definition of KR’ s practical value Usability and profitabiliyt of national asset(million won) 643 802 846 After stabilizing the 3 core values, KR derived the analysis that the Environmental Management Indix(Point) 39.80 60.54 105.40 execution system to induce the voluntary participation of members Achievement of responsibliyt to purchase eco-friendly goods(%) 89.70 60.46 88.16 Environment is needed to be supplemented. CEO also commanded to draw Reuse of construction waste(%) 86.29 85.20 92.57 measures for core values to be internalized when reporting the The number of regulation violation(Cases) 0 0 0 duty by department in 2010. Thus, KR analyzed the management Customer satisfaction(Point) 88.20 89.30 93.20 outcome for last 1 year and finally defined the 6 practical values of, National Integrity(Point) 8.12 8.55 8.35 Society ‘challenge and passion’, ‘autonomy and creativity’ and ‘devotion Securing core personnel(%) 20.94 26.54 30.77 Mileage for contribution to society 190 240 238 and trust’ which are able to supplement the execution system of core value after core membership workshop and executives interview. Also, after reflecting the detail execution assignment on Core value of KR activation of organizational culture, KR monitored those For realization of vision and strategic goal, KR expressed the performances by quarter and awarded at the corporate level; value which KR members are seeking for; thus, KR established 3 thus, KR completed the strategic system as core value in a core values of cultural value, which can be settled down as an center and secured a driving force to achieve the future internalized universal value for organization. KR investigated the management strategy. realization of core values for all employees and KR implemented SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Fourth, for improving accessibility of express railway and general rail station, KR will expand the amenities and develop multi Major projects transferring center combined with industry, culture and work in earnest. Total 88 trillion won of KR’s investment amount includes: 16 trillion won for express railway, 46 trillion won for general Low-carbon green growth policy according to the railway, 26 trillion won for metropolis railway; and will be supplied climatic change, energy management and for government expenditure (59 trillion won), local government (3 development policy for alternative energy are trillion won) and private investment (26 trillion won). If we promote promoted throughout the social and industrial as this plan, sharing ratio of rail passenger transportation will be aspects. As importance of energy and environment increased from 15.9% in 2008 to 27.3% in 2020; and sharing ratio of efficiency is emphasized, the preference of railway cargo transportation will be 8%in 2008 to 18.5% in 2020. with higher energy efficiency is tended to increase. ■ Second national rail network KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Railway construction project ● Connect the whole country within 90 minutes until 2020 The government provides base for low-carbon green growth by transferring the traffic and distribution system with rail-oriented; and 16 promotes community balanced development and national competitiveness through the KTX high-speed rail network construction strategy as a ‘construction plan for national rail network’. Especially, the ‘second national rail network construction plan’ Korea Rail Network Authority which was confirmed and notified on April, 2011 connected the major points in the country within 90 minutes for normal rush hours and set a goal to unify them by one metropolitan city. This Current line Rapid-transit railway General railway (Implementing) Undertake (First half of year) is implementing by 4 proposals, including connecting nationwide Undertake (Last half of year) Additional project major points with high-speed KTX network; building a board and express rail network connecting metropolitan areas within30 Second national rail network construction network minutes; building green rail distribution system; and creating an Classification Current 2020 environment convenient railway uses. Transportation Passenger 15.9 27.3 sharing rate This will be as followings with more details. First, KR tries to (%) Cargo 8 18.5 construct large frame of national rail network with “X” shape for Express railway 368.5 701.3 express railways in Gyeongbu, Honam and metropolis as focused Rail extension General railway 3,082.5 3,789.7 (km) (Rapid transit railway) (0) (1,661.1) and build ‘square’ shaped network through the connection of Metropolis railway 106.3 443.1 west and east coast line and Gyeongjeon line. Second, to support Rate of double line (%) 49.6 79.1 the development of 5+2 great sphere economy’s characterization Rate of electrification (%) 60.4 85.0 and to relieve the traffic jam, KR reorganizes operation system from local train to express; and builds metropolis rail network within 30 minutes to approach the city through facility expansion. ● Improve rail investment system for securing new Third, transfers the current Gyeongbu and Honam lines for freight rail business use for maximizing and rapid transit between industrial KR drastically reflected the green value through developing bond distribution points; and continuously promotes construction of of sympathy for railway’s environment-friendly. Especially, KR distribution network such as expanding the incoming lines of revised the preliminary feasibility test guideline as of January coast and industrial complex, introducing 2nd phase loading 2011 by incorporating actualization of environmental cost railway with high transportation efficiency. reduction benefit, actualization of travel time reduction benefit, balancing evaluation system for railway and road and other. With Rail property management business these improvements of investment system, we are able to provide the systematic basis for securing new rail project if KR is commissioned by Ministry of land to manage the rail economic feasibility increases by 25~40%. property of total 67 trillion won, including national property, 28 trillion won; construction property, 39 trillion won. Also during ● Promote rapid transit of general railways last year, 2010, KR contributed to create varied property profit including, operating exclusive team to find hidden property, KR plans to secure the speed competiveness by expressing the implementing the property management target, exporting wood major railways according to the national rail network waste for first time, developing multi complex facility in construction plan. In case of railways already constructed, KR Gongdeok station, developing bridge substructure in south plans to improve the optimal construction speed from 150km/h Chuncheon station, modernizing the property information to 200~230km/h through the construction speed validity system and may others. verification to maximize the investment effects. In detail, KR will promote to begin the rapid transit for 5 major railways including Jeonlla line in earnest. KR expects to have positive effects, Rail engineering business KR & Sustainability Report 2011 including reduction of operating time, competitiveness, community development with balance. As a public rail corporation, KR is diversifying the revenuemaking business by applying the rail engineering’ s capability. 23 ● Open construction project including Gyeongbu rail professional engineers are playing an active part in China rail high-speed railway in 2nd phase on right time market by obtaining contracts in 8 construction supervision and Through a thorough process management and early execution of technical advices for China’s railway. We are also participating in project fund, KR finally opened 5 projects including Gyeongbu overseas rail construction by establishing MOU conclusion high-speed railway in 2nd phase on the optimal time. Through overseas branch for obtaining order in overseas railways in 17 this, KR provided traffic convenience to citizen, achieved Brazil, USA, and Mongolia. Also through the world’ s secondly creditability from citizen with responsible construction and started construction in magnetic levitation railway demonstration Korea Rail Network Authority contributed to the balanced development between regions. line, KR secured independent technology. KR expects to enter into domestic and overseas light-weighted train market and Performance of opening national rail network by year economic and technical ripple effects of related field. Year Opening status 2004 6 projects including Honam station 2005 7 projects including Suwon to Cheonan Distribution facility development business 2006 3 projects including Jochiwon to Daegu Through the activation of distribution facility development, KR 2007 6 projects including Incheon international airport railway reduces the distribution shipping charges. KR reduces distribution 2008 3 projects including Janghang line 2009 2 projects including Gyeongui line fees by increasing rail transportation sharing through opening 2010 5 projects including Gyeongbu high-speed railway in 2nd phase Busan New Port entry real railroad. KR also improved the transportation efficiency through establishing the basic plans for Youngil New Port in Pohang and Inil railway in Ulsan New Port. Railway facility management business Railway facility is divided into facility and operation properties. The Knowledge capitalization business facility properties among the facilities related to high-speed railway To accumulate the know-how, KR put efforts to develop an are managed and decided by government at the Korea Rail Network advanced technology for rail and localize the core materials. To Authority. General railways are managed by Korea Rail Network support this, KR expanded and reorganized the KR researchers authority with its power entrusted by government. Improving project is and they are researching and developing rail technology. Also, to secure the performance, which is more than holding facility’s safety KR made and organized the KR personnel development and performance improvement. This is done by KR; however, it can department to promote the training project to provide the basis be done by Korea Railroad Corporation (hereafter referred as to for internal and external personnel cultivation. Korail) in case of unavoidable project for safe rail driving. SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Governance KR positively operates the outside director supports program to improve the efficiency of directorate, gather the opinions of the persons concerned and apply them into management by using various communication channels. KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Composition and operation of directorate Designation process of On the authority of the law related to public organization non-permanent director operation, KR’s directorate is composed of 13 persons, including For designation of non-permanent director, KR firstly formed the 6 executive directors and 7 non-executive directors. KR holds a executives recommending committee and decided designation regular meeting on every 4th Thursday and temporary meeting procedure of non-permanent director and qualification. Then KR 18 in case of urgent matters for decision arose. Also, KR is holding a openly recruits candidates through main institutions’ briefing week on the board to improve the understanding of homepages, including department of planning and finance, management pending issues for non-executive directors. As the Ministry of land, Alio and KR. Qualifications for non-permanent Korea Rail Network Authority understanding of non-executive directors improved, the request are qualification and capability as a senior officer, leadership, for management references from non-executive directors were professional knowledge, experiences and performance plan’s also reduced. validity, ethicality and public contribution. After evaluating Director meeting is called by chairperson and request from 1/3 of applicants’ capability through the documentation and interview, directors present. 17 items including management goal, plan for the executive recommending committee is regulated to be budget and management, project plan and settlement are appointed by the minister of land affair. agreed by a majority of directors in attendance. But, the chairperson will hold discretion in case of a tie. Director meeting keeps executives in check by securing the specialty and Gather the opinions of the directorate independence of non-executive directors. KR operates varied communication channels among executives, employees and unions to deliver employees’ opinion to the Permanent director Non-permanent director Cho, Hyung-yong Chairman and chairperson of board Lim, Ju-sup Chairmen of Busan facility management authority (former) Vice president of Asia Pacific environment NGO, Kim, Sang-kyun Vice-chairman Woo, Yong-rak Korea headquarter (current) Lee, Bong-chul Director of management Yoo, Byeong-kon (Former) Vice secretary-general of National Assembly Jung, Eui-ha Director of facility management Kim, Jong-kook (Current) Auditor of Korea Road complex distribution Kim, Young-hwan (Former) Auditor of Hongik Society Oh, Byung-soo Director of construction (Current) Foreign partner director of Woosong University, Kim, Sun-ho Director of overseas business Jung, Chan-mook professor (Former) Direct of Deagu University, Branch manager of Chang, Joo-hyo Deagu bank ※Director meeting is composed of all male director meeting. Employees are internalizing the organizational Executive evaluation and indemnification culture of cooperation and participation through Ombudsman committee; and labor union is internalizing them through labor According to the law related to operation of public organization, chief funeral discussion, labor conference and management article 31seciton 6 (contract with chief engineer and etc.) and discussion. article 19, section 2 of the corporation association (dismiss of executive), director of board and permanent director will be entered into result contract. Based on the result contract, director Application of non-permanent of board evaluates permanent director’s performance and director’s specialty provides incentive according to the performance. If a permanent director with low performance can be submitted to dismiss. Non-permanent director is involved in management committee by part and positively participating in KR’s policy decision in the Classification Major Contents way of participating in case consideration, management advise Contract main agency ·Chairman of the board Permanent director (director-treated included) and research suggestion. According to the specialty of nonAssessor ·Chairman of the board, external/internal management evaluation result permanent directors, they participating in conflict management ·Leadership evaluation (chairman of the board will evaluate) Leadership KR & Sustainability Report 2011 ·Customer/Ethical indicator (customer satisfaction/integrity results) committee including 7 management committees and they (50%) ·Originality innovation indicator (Originality innovation propulsion) Evaluation influence on the decision of major policy department. To use Item ·Government evaluation contribution (government management Result specialty of non-permanent directors more actively, KR (50%) evaluation and management plan evaluation index achievement) ·Contribution to achieve future strategy (strategy KPI achievement) manages performance index of non-permanent director Purpose of ·Aims to improve the management result and competitiveness by combining attendance rate of committee and management evaluation securing responsibility management system as the result in the center committee and number of comment per case with KPI and Use evaluation ·Differential rate for incentive increases the targeted standard. result ·Dismiss or submitted to dismiss when poor performance 19 Korea Rail Network Authority Specialized field of executive officer Facility Environment Law Customer Railway Construction Financial ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Lim, Ju-sup Woo, Yong-rak Yoo, Byeong-kon Kim, Jong-kook Kim, Young-hwan Jung, Chan-mook Chang, Joo-hyo Director Director Director Director Director Director Director Activity of management committee by field 7 management committees for recommending active policy Executive Conflict Accounting Customer value Budget outcome Internal Financial committee management audit committee evaluating department management committee committee committee committee committee Public’s point of view Specialty of Strategic implementation Keep in check for chief meeting Strengthen the non-permanent director support and public engineer and perfection of keep in check function Effective application management performance management support Improve management transparency and secure the responsibility SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW ‘improvement of specialization in audit with the strengthening of auditor c2’ and efforts are made to accomplish the foregoing. Audit system Independent audit activities and In order to guarantee the independence of audit, structuring of improvement process KR undertakes strategic audit activities with its KR has undertaken 4-major tasks to enjoy diverse outcomes activities process circular system by establishing such as, active participation activities of audit in board of the activities office and performing audit activities directors, introduction of cross audit system with KORAIL, independently. implementing the integrity consulting of the Anti-corruption and Human Rights Commission, establishment of model for auditor c2, operation of independent personnel system on the office of auditor, securing of budget independence and others. KR operates independence evaluation and circular system on audit KR & Sustainability Report 2011 plan and activities for the substantiation of the audit activities. Organization system of the internal Establishment of Audit operation Diagnosis and audit system operation plan INDEPENDENCE establishment Internal and external Annual audit plan operation inspection establishment KR has established the audit motto in ‘best consulting partner to •Measured and non-measured •Establishment and •Audit measurement KPI lead the improvement of KR’s future value’ through the target establishment implementation of audit operation •Reflection of VOC work plan •Audit evaluation and environment analysis at home and abroad and established the •Facilitation of audit activities •Survey of level of satisfaction management evaluation 20 operation for audit activities •Auditor workshop and •Homepage and Allio midto long-term audit strategy and audit plan for the applicable evaluation system commencement year to enhance the audit function. In particular, KR has set the 4 major tasks in ‘advanced audit system and audit based on Korea Rail Network Authority Feedback fundamental’, ‘audit to be of help for prevention and outcomeoriented KR’, ‘realizing transparent KR by futuristic audit’ and KR Vision Global partner that leads the future value and green growth of railway Audit Vision Best consulting partner to lead the improvement of future value for KR Midto long-term audit strategy and direction Advanced audit system Audit that is helpful to KR with Realizing the transparent KR with Improvement of specialization in audit and substantive audit for basics prevention and outcome-oriented audit the futuristic audit with the strengthening of auditor c2’ Advanced audit system operation Realizing the transparent KR network •Standardization of internal audit process •Strengthening of transparency to realize fair society •Undertaking strategic audit activities •Operation of high level anti-corruption impact evaluation •Strengthening of customer-oriented consulting function •Securing objectivity for internal control Core tasks in 2010 for strengthening Audit activities with prevention and of internal outcome-oriented audit control Strengthening of auditor c2’ •Development and implementation of auditor c2 model •Structuring of advance prevention and others system •Securing the independence of auditor (personnel and budget) •Operation of high level of risk management system •Strengthening of auditor°Øs ethics •Undertaking strategic partnership activities Expansion of participation opportunity and structuring of right to know Goal in for people by practicing the transparent management transparent Transparent management management and operation Securing the transparent management and communication for people Set the level of satisfaction for management notification on KPI for KR enterprise strategy KR has set its transparent management operation Easier Faster More accurately Promotion •Convenience of •Promptness of •Substantiation of direction for ‘Easier’, ‘Faster’ and ‘More Accurate’ strategy management management management notification access notification notification through the internal and external management •Easy readability of •Timeliness of •Clarity of information information information disclosure disclosure environment analysis and transparent management operation goal in ‘satisfying the right to know of people and expansion of participation opportunity Management notification Communication channel •Continuous expansion of management •Expansion of communication with with the practice of transparent management’. notification category interested parties •Accuracy improvement of management notification •Collection of VOC from internal and •Strengthening accessibility of notified external customer information •Strengthening from IR Strengthening KR & Sustainability Report 2011 transparency of KR Internal affairs Information disclosure •Substantive operation for customer •Enhancement of satisfaction through the proposal activities Realization of transparent management advance information disclosure •Process improvement of information disclosure •Securing fairness in personnel and evaluation through management notification •Improvement of information request for service •Maintaining transparency of employment KR has established and operated the process systematically to secure the appropriateness of management notification and establish the management notification plan in 2010 for realizing the Relevant regulations Work procedure for management notification Customer work management regulations Infra for 21 transparent management. In particular, in order to improve the transparent Support organization Management notification dept Dept in charge of management notification Monitoring group and office of auditor management accuracy of management notification, it has structured first System Homepage/Allio Newsletter (Form) Integrated outcome management system confirmation of department in charge, second confirmation of Korea Rail Network Authority managing dept for management notification and third confirmation Outcome monitoring implementation on KPI for level of satisfaction for management notification with the office of audit and designated the supervisor and confirmer Evaluation and Monitoring of and operated. In addition, in order to satisfy the standard of OECD circulation Establishment of management Implementation operation plan notification of independent corporate control principle, KR has discovered the global-level of operation evaluation management notification category to notify on the homepage to undertaking the leading role as a public institution. railway. As a result, KR was selected as the most outstanding KR has fully revised its homepage for management notification in institution that opens information to the public (discloses) for 3 August 2010 for easier access. In the process, it has reduced 8consecutive years from 2008 to 2010 by the Ministry of National Land field and 128-category into 7-field 80-category to clear up any and Marine Affairs. Thereafter, KR is committed to undertake diverse irrelevant or repeated categories. activities more actively to realize the transparent management. Realization of transparent management Strengthening of transparency through through VOC reflection introducing the international accounting standard KR has structured communication channels linking with the needs of The Korean accounting standard that KR has facilitated up to this point each interested parties and implemented actively for two-way is difficult to compare with the overseas institution with the accounting communication to practice the transparent management. In addition, standard reflecting the characteristics of Korea°Øs own. In the future, in order to realize the accompanied growth through the transparent if the IFRS is introduced, the fairness will be heightened and the management, KR has facilitated the contractor project management comparison with the overseas institution is possible to expect the system, accompanied growth cyber center and overseas railway transparency to improve. KR has analyzed the accounting impact and participation network. Furthermore, through the customer proposal prepared the accounting policy in 2010 in anticipation of IFRS that will system, it has collected the demands of external customers for be introduced on trial basis from 2012 and it plans to modify the system improvement and implemented diverse corporate value accounting system in 2011. Through these efforts, the transparent enhancement activities for opening the Comprehensive PR Hall for management of KR is to be matured one step higher. SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW commitment on the oath of ethics from all officers and employees through its ‘Ceremony of Oath for Ethics’ within the company. Ethical management Externally, it has gone through the ‘Bull Session with CEOs of cooperative companies’ to clarify the commitment for integrity of KR and exchanged the resolution to practice integrity between KR makes effort to be the public institution with CEOs. The ‘integrity campaign’ is intensely undertaken during the trust of people by heightening corporate integrity vulnerable period of inspection during the holidays and and transparency. It has continuously advanced its celebration times, such as New Year’s Day, and implemented ethical management system to lay down the cyber ethical education for all officers and employees, and it has global-level of ethical management. implemented intensely on monitoring activities upon reviewing the turnkey works. In addition, in order to reduce the unnecessary visit from cooperative companies and contacts with employees, the customer satisfaction center has been substantially improved to process the works in one-stop in open space to improve the KR & Sustainability Report 2011 work efficiency as well as integrity and transparency. Ethical management system Establishment of special action plan for KR has presented its vision for ethical management in ‘realization ethical management of transparent and clean KR with respect from people’ and KR was evaluated as an institution that lacked external integrity established its core values in ‘human rights’, ‘labor’, among 69 quasi-government institutions as a result of the Anti22 ‘environment’, ‘anti-corruption’ and ‘customer’ to comply with the corruption and Human Rights Commission survey in 2009. 10 principles of UN Global Compact. KR has established ethical Therefore, KR has established special action plan for ethical management strategic system for realizing the sustainable public management in January 2010 for preventing any corruption Korea Rail Network Authority institution with trust and respect from people by fulfilling its s8. fundamentally and improving the level of integrity. KR has organized enterprise Ethical Management Committee with the president and the head of the Committee and Effort to settle down the integrity culture designated and operated the ethical practice team and ethical KR has solidified its will for ethical management with the practice leader for each organization. In addition, the ethical KR ethical management 4 directions of ethical management Clean management Win-win management Sharing management Environment management Vision of ethical management Embodiment of transparent and clean corporation which can get respect from people Ethical Core values in ethical management Human right Labor Environment Anti-corruption Customers management and strategic implementation KR’ s ethical way Enhanced customer satisfaction by embodiment of clean company and provision of best services system Core strategies Establishment of ethical conduct Practical supervising Embedded ethical conscience (3C view points) (Conduct) organization (Compliance) (Consensus) management improvement action plan has established facilities ● Actions for corruption case persons dept to report the result for each month and, for enhancing the efficiency of the ethical management works, the organization 5 scattered in ethics, integrity, and monitoring was integrated into the office of auditor in December 2010. Improvement in clean system 2 By applying the 6 Sigma, KR has established actions to take against three corrupt prone fields of national property 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 management, purchasing of real estates and supervising of sites. According to the established actions, we have set up 61 items for improvement and checked them through the improvement task Suspension Wage cut Reprimand Discharge Suspension Wage cut Reprimand Discharge Suspension Wage cut Reprimand Discharge control system. In addition, IR has published a book showing good 2008 2009 2010 KR & Sustainability Report 2011 examples or cases for improved systems so that interested parties can share them for improvement in clean system. Operation of KR ombudsman Construction of ethical management system KR has tried to find out and correct any wrong systems, practices KR has created a lot of performance by operating a total or work procedures in order to protect people from them. We have customer management system, or “Sorisaem” which helps to also implemented the supervision and evaluation on the railway 23 monitor both customer satisfaction and ethical management. In and construction industry by people. In addition, we have operated order to provide the ethical management action to management the ombudsman system to persuade people to have interest in the in December 2010 in fast and correct way, we have established field and suggest any good recommendation for improvement. KR Korea Rail Network Authority the ethical management system called “Shin Baram (trust has operated 7 ombudsman systems applicable from start of the wind)” for stricter real time monitoring. Due to these efforts, we construction of railways to its finish, making efforts to get trust have achieved the “zero” corruption for KR employees in 2010. from people and become a world level company. ● Organization chart for ethical management system Ethical management system Process Objects Key contents Period Users Control dept 2 times every Plan Do Check Act (PDCA system) for ethical conduct Corruption prevention action control Flash quiz All employees Online flash quiz month Ethical Return of bribe/gift, reporting of entertainment or convenience Self diagnosis of any corruption Auditing help room Self diagnosis Self diagnosis for ethical for ethical All employees management system Every month Consultation on ethical code of conduct Clean mileage system for individual or department Manage Performance management ment evaluation Ethical education Multiple contacting Clean education/campaign Real time cleanness research Ethical education specific for multiple departments to each job Any time All Response to (414 people) employees Analysis of statistics and weak points Real time VOC for cleanness and improvement contactors customers Cleanliness Anyone who Cleanliness mentoring for each 10 times a year System connection mentoring wants department Lanis Sorisaem performance Contribution to MAIL education control community ■ Contest for good BP cases ■ Distribution of book on good cases for system ■ Ethical management system SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Background on the setup of risk management system Risk Management In Jan. 2009, the concrete sleeper located in the Gyeongbu High Speed Rail Zone 2 (Daegu to Ulsan) was found to have some KR has set up and operated the company wide risk cracks. This incident became a turning point for KR to establish management system in which any risk can be the risk management system. This incident was found to happen found out in a fast way and the corrective actions because a part connecting the concrete sleeper and connecting device was made with the absorptive material rather than water are taken against it in a systematic way by grading proofing material, thus rain penetrating into the sleeper to cause any risk control for fast actions. the cracks in the sleepers. Due to this incident, KR took a step to integrate the risk management systems and set up a companywide risk management system for preventive risk management. KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Establishment and operation of risk management system Current issues for management of KR KOR has enhanced the efficiency in risk •Reporting by each headquarter: Reporting of 2010 main issues by each management by integrating risk headquarter. •Strategic task : Task for achieving the mission, and midand long-term managements into four fields of strategic objectives 24 Find out •Understanding VOC : Getting the customer’s opinions through management, disaster, PR and signs and questionnaires Occurrence of recognize management business. The field of management problems problems includes management, ethics, finance Change in management environment Korea Rail Network Authority and investment while that of disaster •Main tasks : low carbon and green growth, and fair society, etc •Departmental tasks : Investment in SOC focusing on railway and establishment of includes natural disaster, terrorism, transparent and advanced construction environment, etc information system and information Diagnosis and classification of risk level Analyze the current Implementation of Implementation of Management through EPMS current jobs innovative tasks •Analysis and control of current Fatal 11pts 11 22 33 44 66 management management issues and risks issue and •Composition of timely task force •Improvement in critical points •Outsourcing for outside services. •Implementation of innovative using the company-wide risk Significant 7pts 7 14 21 28 42 plan actions •Professional advices tasks. control system. Degree to take of Average 5pts 5 10 15 20 30 effect Light 3pts 3 6 9 12 18 Negligible 1pts 1 2 3 4 6 Risk management Management committee Management meeting 1pts 2pts 3pts 4pts 6pts for current Get the advices from outside professionals Fast decision making through the by holding the management committee management meeting Risk management •Participation by non-standing directors •Meeting led by president for control Probability of occurrence issues and and outside professionals of project and risk creation of •Decision making through discussion on •Management workshop performances current matters Appointment of person in charge depending on the risk score Category Score Person in charge Sharing Operation of multiple channels for collection of opinions from team members (CoP* presentation and others) Severe 22~66pts President performances with team Reflection of opinions from team members for problem solving. (Interviews and FGI**, etc) Significant 11~21pts Vice president members and feed back Sharing the successful cases with others (Intranet, presentation, and publications, etc) Less severe 5~10pts Director Less significant 1~4pts General manager * CoP (Community of practice): It is called as a community of practice and means the information, voluntary and small size research group composed of people having the same interest. ** FGI (Focus Group Interview): is a representative qualitative research method for group interview. It is an informal, non-systematic and non-organized conversation with groups on a specific top lead by interviewer. security. In addition, the field of PR includes damage from press Efforts to solve management issues and while that of business includes construction and facilities, safety successful cases related accidents and quality & environment. With the The representative cases KR has made by using the 2010 risk establishment of this system, KR has integrated its order line management system are as follows. First, KR opened the Stage 2 centering on the president and enhanced the work efficiency. Gyeongbu High Speed Railway earlier than planned and established the independent technology for high speed rail. Second, KR converted the airport railway which suffered deficits Construction of management system into black. Third, KR accomplished the timely finish of railway focusing on preventive measures construction through proper settlement of conflicts. Fourth, KR KR has prepared the actions against risks by making the risk overcame the financial difficulties by implementing the debt management conversion table and specifying 4-stage risk grade, removal actions. Fifth, it made a collective agreement with labor focusing on the prevention of risks. The applicable general through mutually beneficial labor management culture. Among manager is responsible to take actions If the risk level is D (less them, the case of crack in sleepers in the Gyeongbu High Speed significant) while the director is responsible for risk level C (less Railway Zone 2 mentioned above is related to the successful finish KR & Sustainability Report 2011 severe). In addition, an applicable director is responsible for B of projects and obtaining of independent technology. The case of risk (significant) while president is responsible for A (severe) risk cracks in sleepers sheds light on the issue of timely opening of the for composition of company-wide task force for actions. high speed railway and the independent technology in railway construction. So, all management including president has focused on the localization of railway parts and made PR to people on its Operation of problem solving process accomplishment in localization of parts and technologies. In Sept. 2009, KR has set up a companyEspecially, president has emphasis on the principle of 100-1=0 , 25 wide risk management policy to prepare which means that even though you succeed 100 times in a row but the basic policy and standard for risk you fail one time, you are a loser. With this mindset, every member management. Each department is in KR has made efforts to localize the railway materials and parts. Korea Rail Network Authority supposed to find out any potential risk factors voluntarily and control them in a ● 3Step-5R system systematic way. In addition, KR has started ● 1R (Reduction) : Stage of reduction the 3Step-5R system in order to keep any 1 STEP Minimize the risk through legal, engineering or educational actions. significant problems from expanded into Collection of Reinforce the organization and education to prevent risk and evaluate information and the management index. big ones with the company-wide actions. readiness against risk ● 2R (Readiness) : Being prepared. The risk levels of D to B belong to Step 1, Be ready against risk using education, and communication channel. which is prior to occurrence of risk. Once the risk is expanded to A, emergency, the Step 2 and Step 3 are conducted according to the specified procedure until the ● 3R (Response): Stage of response emergency disappears. 2 STEP Once the risk level reaches A, president Occurrence step Find out the Operate Make of emergency Apply external Response the main KR decision sets up an emergency headquarter and situation proper factors such to the informati makes a on risk manual as people’s press on decision. level opinion network overseas the site and tried to get solution from discussion with related people. In addition, all kinds of risks are monitored through risk management system ● 4R (Recover) : Stage of recovery depending on grade, department and Proper follow-up depending on the progress of risk risk. The monitoring results are 3 STEP Following action by relevant authority and holding a meeting for internal reporting discussed at the risk management Recovery stage ● 5R (Result evaluation : Stage of evaluation Risk settlement and evaluation of risk, correction or supplementation of manual meeting held every month. and systems SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Participation by interested parties Recognizing that KR’s sustainable management is closely connected with the management of interested parties, KR makes efforts to achieve the “Rail Network which makes the world safety and convenient” through communication with interested parties. KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Definition of interested parties Communication with interested parties KR has grouped its interested parties into four groups for KR has enhanced the communications with interested parties to communications; value effecting customer (central government, listen to the opinion of many interested parties and reflect it on professionals, local governments, local people), value producing the management activities. customer (employees, associated companies), value transfer KR has set up proper contents for interested parties for 26 customer (KORAIL) and value purchasing customer (passenger, communication and set up proper communication channel to get general people and ordering customer from here or overseas). their opinion to reflect their opinion on the management. KR will The railway value which is produced by the value producing continue to improve the participation system through more Korea Rail Network Authority customer (KR’s employees and associated companies) is communication with interested parties. transferred through KORAIL, a value transferring customer to the value purchasing customer (rail passengers and ordering customers). This value transfer is greatly affected by the value affecting customer (policy of central government and support of local people) through all processes. Value influencing customer Value producing customer (central government and local governments) (employees and associated companies) •Activities : establishment and adjustment of •Activities : timely construction of high quality railway policy railway network. •Value keywords : conversation and agreement •Value keywords : transparency, reasonable Virtuous cycle of rail value Value buying customer (ordering customer and general people) Value delivering customer (KORAIL) •Activities : use of railway network and rise in •Activities : operation of safe railway satisfaction. •Value keywords : cooperation, sharing •Value keyword: convenience, safety Central Expansion of investment Policy forum government in railway Value affecting Local Suggestion of construction People’s meeting customer governments of railways Employees Enhanced mission Activation of organizational culture Associate Enhanced CPMS companies competitiveness Production Value producing transferring customer customer KORAIL Construction of high quality Railway policy coordination railway and forming committee the partnership relation Ordering Provision of PCRM customer railway service Value purchasing Critical sharing contents General Improved railway Sorisaem customer Representative sharing channels people image Operation of conflict control committee Movements and Green Korea. On top of that, KR has organized Green Railway Advisory Committee where many interested One of the main factors which make the timely const ction of parties such as NGO, academic experts, religious circles and KR & Sustainability Report 2011 railway difficult is the social and environmental dispute which companies participate and is held four times a year. KR has may occur arising of the construction of railway. KR has conducted many social contributions such as repairing of established the conflict settlement plan in order to reduce the children's playground along the railway (Yongun-dong, Daejeon) railway related disputes and conflicts. Through the education for and replacing of sand in the playground and was awarded by expert in reducing conflicts and operation of conflict control Korea Federations for Environmental Movements for the committee, KR has settled the related conflicts. acknowledge of its effort for contribution to community. Accordingly, KR has tried to educate 20 persons for head office and 20 person for sites and has activated the operation of conflict 27 control committee participated by 10 experts in the field of law, transportation, railway and conflict settlement. Through these Korea Rail Network Authority efforts, we have accomplish the settlement of 6 conflicts out of 7. ● Suggestion for conflict settlement methods and efforts to settle disputes by visiting sites Enhanced cooperation with NGOs Get advices Persuade from conflict Find out the related parties experts and KR has monitored the air pollution over 90 points in Daejeon area cause of conflicts to get common related ground authorities in cooperation with Green Korea. In addition, it has participated in events sponsored by Korea Federations for Environmental ● Educating the conflict control experts and implementing dispute settlement project. Education for experts Sites having conflicts Rise in number who receives the education Conflicts have been : 28% over the previous year settled in 6 sites out of 7 9 ere ta rgeted Total n Numbe r of site umber ere ta of sites 100pers rgeted 26% received 54% received s havin 7 g conflic 5 1 Total n 6 4 umber t in prog 84person of sites ons w Numbe ceived ress r of site Numbe s havin g conflic sw ceived r of site t in prog 54person s havin Numbe ress 22person s re g their co nflict se r of site s havin g their co ttled s re nflict se ttled 2009 2010 2009 2010 SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Significance evaluation KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Significance evaluation for internal and external professionals. To select the priority of Based on the communication with varied interested parties, KR issues collected from varied pathways, KR implemented tires to figure out the issue and incorporate them to relevance** and significant*** evaluations. Relevance evaluation management strategy; thus, KR is implementing reliable 28 is based on the influence of direct short-term treasury, sustainable management. KR drew important issue by using an relationship with management strategy, status of same evaluation process which ISO 26000* social responsibility busines’s action, behavior and interests of interested parties, standard is reflected. To figure out the important issue of Korea Rail Network Authority social norms and context of sustainability. Significance evaluation sustainable management, KR implemented media analysis, is based on the impacts by concerns of interested parties and benchmarking for advanced enterprise, sustainability standard KR’s decision making; and selected list of core issueMajor issues and guideline analysis, survey of interested parties and interview of KR sustainable management. ● Deduction of important issue •SR standard diagnosis •Trend and impact analysis •Interested-parties •Media research Interested party Participation of Figure out the research mapping and deduction interested party core issue of •Related organization of top priority interested parties benchmarking Interested Establishment of participation Figure out the core issue parties pool strategy by interested parties of interested parties Issue pool of subject for evaluation Interested parties mapping Professional interview and Apply for significance and classification interested parties investigation evaluation Materiality Test Confirmation of Interested parties research Reflect to communication interested parties group (Qualitative investigation) strategy for future Core issue list Priority of interested parties Reporting * ISO26000 : Established international guideline for corporation’s social responsibility activities in 7 different fields including environment, human right, labor, governance, fair duty practice, customer issue and participation in the community ** AccountAbility : Relevance(5-part Materiality Test), ISO 26000 : Relevance *** AccountAbility, ISO 26000 : Significance Major issues of KR sustainable management Important issues for KR’s sustainable management drew from process. KR will continuously manage the deducted issues by significance evaluation is as following picture; and this combining with core management assignment; and clearly open sustainable management report includes the activities for the results through the report. important issues confirmed through significance evaluation ● Significance evaluation result KR & Sustainability Report 2011 High •Community communication •CS education •Customer •Trust from nation •Provide safe railways •Affiliated cooperation communication •Specialized social •Community cooperation •Expends cooperated •Open company’s •Provide financial contribution activity and support company’s sustainable information transparency management •Sustainable management strategy and promoting system •Anti-corruption •Sustainable management •Law report •Low-carbon green growth 29 •Expend recognition of •Win-win cooperation •Safety and health •Financial performance •Employee education training sustainable management related support •Improve labor and unions (Stability) and self-development Medium Korea Rail Network Authority •Social contribution •Cooperated company •Responsibility for product •Fair trading •Improve governance of •Operate director board and promoting system communication and quality •Strengthen ethical company management committee •Protect customer’s •Ethical management system management activity •Action taken for climatic •Environmental influence External issue information change evaluation •Provide energy efficiency and save sources •Technology innovation and •Figure out community’s product innovation needs strengthen •Recognition of community •Manage green house gas •Consider all process of environment (LCA) •Public company’s leadership •Action for government law •Measure sustainable •Reduce harmful material •Balance between work •Fairness of personnel •Urbanization •Reuse and recycle management result •Protect diversity of biology and life system Low •Exterminate irrational •Improve organizational •cultivate and secure •Employee communication request for corporate culture environmental professional •Provide equal employment company •Manage waste and personnel opportunity waste water •Buy eco-friendly product •Fairness of cooperated company selection •Manage environmental •Environmental accounting •New business promoting influence of transportation and distribution •Support children and •Improve physical working •Reflect sustainable •Female leadership women health environment management’s element •Protect employee’s personal •Support for retired when overseas investment •Recognition level of information and respect their employees environmental management privacy •Employment stability •Internal process innovation •Manage employee’s difficulty Low Medium High Internal issue Minimize damage to eco-system caused by railway construction Future railway DB administrator, Han, Woo-jin KR, as a public corporation constructs Korea’s railway is positively promoting and performing the ‘lowcarbon green policy. KR considers the nature eco-system of rail construction site to minimize the environmental damage. Keeping the balance between environmental and economic aspects is one of the sustainability management cores. SPECIAL REPORT Ⅰ Construction of eco-friendly railroad KR built‘eco station’with effective environmental-friendly system and performing the low-carbon green management. Also, KR will construct the eco-rail considering nature environment and its ecosystem and keep eco-system healthy. SPECIAL REPORT Ⅰ CONSTRUCTION OF ECO-FRIENDLY RAILROAD Stations adopting renewable energy by year Efforts to construct Category Solar 2008 Head office, Yeosu 2009 3 stations including 2010 2 stations including eco-friendly railway energy Geothermal 5 stations including Osong Station Sorae Station 7 stations including 11 stations Jinju Station Mukhyeon Station including Jeoeup Station and energy Beolnae Station Total 7 10 13 By designing the eco-friendly stations meeting “eco-friendly building certification standard”, KR dioxide volume. The analysis result of 8 stations including has tried to construct the low carbon green buildings Suinseon and Weolgot showed that the geothermal energy in and minimize the effect of the construction of total cooling and heating load was 44%, saving 211 million Won. railway on environment, thus protecting the KR will continue to construct the renewable energy applied ecosystem. building adopting geothermal energy and solar energy in all its stations. KR & Sustainability Report 2011 In addition, KR will expand its green ratio through planting more plants on roofs of its buildings and the green design by adopting the natural lighting and natural ventilation. It has introduced Construction of eco-station sustainable eco-friendly designs such as clothing change ● Efforts of constructing the eco-friendly railway chamber, bicycle parking lot and shower facility at Mukhyeon KR has obtained the competitiveness in green building with its Station along the Gyeongchun Railway Line so that local people eco friendly design, use of recycled energy in railway structured can use them and revised its building standards in a way that the 32 and high efficiency materials and equipment. eco-friendly designs are recommended. It plans to adopt more KR has made its eco friendly design meet the “building energy saving devices such as high efficient, eco-friendly products certification review standards”, and has regrouped the design (products having Environmental Grade 1) and LED lights. All its Korea Rail Network Authority factors into 9 fields such as eco-friendly use of land, reduction of lighting system will be converted to LED type from 2013. traffic load, energy saving, resource saving and recycling, construction of water circulation system and saving of water, ● View of bicycle parking facilities and lots at Sindorim Station prevention of global warming, efficient management of building, construction of eco system, and construction of eco-friendly indoor environment. Lead the green growth through Vision “Embodiment of low carbon green buildings” Objectives Design of stations which meets or exceeds the requirements of ● Construction of eco-friendly rail stock base “Eco-friendly building certification standards” Even though the railway has been getting spotlight as one of the eco friendly transportation means, its rail stock repair center Eco-friendly use of land Prevention of global warming (base) has been recognized as a hated facility because of its Reduction of traffic load Efficient management of Energy saving building noise, dust, and waste water, causing a lot of disputes with local Contents Resource saving and recycling Construction of eco system residents and environmental groups when it is to be constructed. Construction of water circulation Construction of eco-friendly system and saving of water indoor environment So, KR has established the plan for advancement the rail stock repair center to reflect the eco-friendly and energy efficiency design on future centers. Different from the bad image in the past, new rail stock repair centers will be built as eco-friendly facilities, containing the eco-friendly designed waste treatment ● Construction of eco-station facilities such as the cleaners, inspection devices as well as large KR plans to apply the renewable energy all stations across the green space in harmonization with surrounding environment. nation in order to save energy and reduce the emission of carbon Construction of eco-rail conducted in Feb. 2011, the project for railway entering to Gunjang National Industrial Zone had temporary structure to ● Project of recovery of eco system minimize the bad effect on plants and topography as the project KR has processed the ecosystem recovery project using the was related to the open cut method in making tunnel passing ecosystem preservation subsidy system. The ecosystem through the Ecosystem Grade 1 (Open Cut Tunnel in Okcheon). preservation subsidy is a system in which the business which In addition, after recovery of the original soil, the plants were damages the environment contributes a certain amount of planted over it to minimize the environmental impact.. money for recovery of the ecosystem and the business can pay back 50% of its contribution when the recovery project is Endangered wild animal investigated in the environmental impacts assessment, 2010 conducted. KR has recovered the ecosystem for the railway lines which were not in use as recommended by professionals and Area for railway construction Wildlife Daegu Line 1st class: Otter applied for return of the money. In 2009, KOR recovered the (Geumgang to Yeongcheon) Dual lined railway 2nd class: Tumblebug, anas formosa, kestrel, charadrius placidus ecosystem of Daecheon River along some of Janghang Railway Jungang Line 1st class: Otter Line which was in no use any more and converted the area into (Wonju to Jecheon) 2nd class: Marten, flying squirrel, tumblebug, charadrius placidus Dual lined railway places for fish and ecosystem observation path, increasing the KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Poseung to Pyeongtaek 2nd class: Whooper swan, bean goose, tumblebug, kestrel, biodiversity of the area through planting along the river. In 2010, it Construction of railway goshawk, narrow-mouthed toad, Korean golden flog decided to recover some of the Gyeongjeon Line and recovered the area into low carbon forest and mini ecosystem for plants Restricted areas which were assessed for environmental impact in 2010 and animals. Specifically, KR planted 442 plants and made 108 Area for railway construction Wildlife places for animals as well as 15 natural resting places for Daegu Line In potable water protection area: 9 people. Recognized of its efforts for recovery of ecosystem, KR (Geumgang to Yeongcheon) In wild life protection area: 10 Dual lined railway In nature parts: 2 has been awarded the grand prix in 10th Natural Environment 33 Jungang Line In potable water protection area: 3 Contest sponsored by Ministry of Environment with the award (Wonju to Jecheon) In wild life protection area: 5 money contributed to poor people living along the railway, doing Dual lined railway In nature parts: 1 its contributions to communities. Korea Rail Network Authority In potable water protection area: 4 Poseung to Pyeongtaek Construction of railway In wild life protection area: 1 In nature parts: 3 ● Accomplishment of recovery project for Gyeongjeon line ● Improvement in environmental control process KR has improved the process for environmental management during construction in a systematical way. Through inspection and education, it has made effort to put the recommendation from environmental impact assessments into practice and listen to persons in sites and reflect their opinions on the process Before After improvement, supporting the environmental control for associated companies. Especially, the improved processes include the support for ● Efforts to get the biodiversity smooth waste management and enhanced recyclability of KR has conducted the environmental impact assessment prior materials such as the rise of recyclability of 8.7% over previous to the start of construction of railway in order to reduce its bad year. Due to these efforts, KR had not committed any effect on environment. In 2010, KR completed 3 environmental environmental violations. Recognized with its various efforts and impact assessments and had 3 cases under progress. Due to the accomplishments, it was awarded the presidential award at 2010 environmental impact assessments, KR found out several Day of Environment ceremony. KR will continue to enhance the endangered species in the nature protection area and portal efficiency in environment management through environmental water protection area and installed the wildlife path so that wild process improvement and education and training. animals can pass across the railway and the sound insulation wall. According to the environmental impact assessment SPECIAL REPORT Ⅰ CONSTRUCTION OF ECO-FRIENDLY RAILROAD construction of railways ■ Third party verification certificate to fully understand the on greenhouse gas inventory Coping with climate change status of green house and environmental gas emission by construction site and demanagement veloped the method of reducing the gases With the international agreement on the reduction of taking into account green house gases expanding, Korea has established Basic the characteristics of Act for Low Carbon Green Growth. KR has constructed railway construction. In the green house gas inventory for reduction of green house addition, to understand gases and preparation of carbon emission right and planned the volume of greenhouse gases including the clean development mechanism (CDM) projects. the use of construcKR & Sustainability Report 2011 tion materials, KR has conducted the Carbon Footprint on Railway Construction Site and accordingly will plan Coping with climate change the instructions on control of carbon emission on the ● Long and mid-term actions against the climate change construction sites. KR has made Long and Mid-Term Master Plan for Coping With Climate Change in order to reduce the green house gases ● Establishment of greenhouse reduction target 34 arising from construction of railways and get the carbon Following the construction of greenhouse gas inventory on the emission rights. In addition, with the construction of greenhouse sites, KR will find out the greenhouse gases emitted from gas inventory in the field of construction for the first time in operation of companies in 2011. It sets the average volume for 3 Korea Rail Network Authority Korea, KR has established the strategy to reduce the emission of years from 2007 (5,803 in carbon dioxide equivalent, taking into carbon dioxide and preemptively coping with the regulation on account the increased volume when the KR's head office is built) the construction of railways. as the basic volume and plans to reduce the greenhouse gases by 5% each year over the basic volume from 2011 to 2015 with ● Construction of greenhouse gas inventory* total reduction of 20%. To achieve this goal and improve the KR has studied on the emission of greenhouse gases and started efficiency of energy use and remove any energy waste, KR has to reduce the green house gases since 2008. In 2010, it been cooperating with outside firm for the control and completed the construction of greenhouse gas inventory for monitoring of greenhouse gases. In addition, it will introduce the ● Mid and long-term master plan for climate change Develop the methods Development of basic units Measures to cope with government's policy and reduction Accomplishments (2009 2010) (2011 2012) of greenhouse gases (2013 2020) Get the greenhouse Study on the measures for Construction of greenhouse gas gas volume coping with the regulation on inventory and a third (from construction equipment) railway construction party verification Get the greenhouse Study on the carbon Application of instructions for control of greenhouse gases at railway construction sites Standardization of gas volume footprints all across railway basic units for emission of greenhouse gas (from construction materials) construction sites Exemplary operation Expanded scope of application and site control Measures for coping with the KR's greenhouse-gas target control system Coping with the Cope with management by objectives Government's policy Establishment of measure to cope with the management by objectives Allocation of reduction target and conduct of the plan and implementing the reduction Reduce the Participation in the market trading the greenhouse emission rights Participate in carbon greenhouse gas and market and create the create profits. Construction of system to cope with the emission right trading system Acquire the emission right and participate in carbon market additional profits. Study on improved railway Assessment of technology for introduction of renewable energy and expansion of its application Apply the Expanded application construction technology for renewable energy realization of green growth Study on characteristics and establishment of introductory strategy Renewable energy reaches 40% or more of total energy consumed in railway stations of renewable energy * Greenhouse gas inventory : is a total greenhouse gas control system by which the volume of all greenhouse gases emitted from operation of companies are found out, calculated and reported. ● Emitted gas volume Unit : ton in carbon dioxide (CO2) Head office 100 Head office 102 Central Central engineering group Seoul Metropolitan area Seoul Metropolitan area engineering group 797 Central engineering group Central Gangwo 332 269 engineering group 303 820 582 694 Head office Chungcheon 242 2007 2008 Yeongnam 2009 1,389 2010 Yeongnam Honam 233 1,798 149 2,034 171 Gangwo 306 3,498 Yeongnam 217 6,049 Head office Honam Honam 200 Seoul 3,916 Gangwon 177 Chungcheon Seoul Metropolitan area Gangwon 290 Chungcheon Chungcheon Metropolitan 312 311 240 area 231 253 327 Honam 234 Yeongnam 182 ※Greenhouse gas volume (CO2 Eq) : All kinds of gases such as carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen dioxide generated by the use of electricity are converted to the equivalent volume of carbon dioxide. KR & Sustainability Report 2011 ● Reduction target by year Unit : ton CO2eq is successfully completed, the reduced greenhouse gas volume is expected to be 130,000 ton, which is equivalent to carbon 290 Total reduced volume emission rights worth of 3 billion Won a year or 63 billion won for 290 Reduction rate 5% 5,803 1,161 20% 21 years. 290 Reduction rate 5% 291 Reduction rate 5% ● Establishment of assessment system of environmental performance 5,513 Reduction rate 5% 35 KR has set the detailed and explicit environment control system 5,223 away from the conventional and conceptual environmental 4,933 Reduction rate by year targets and control system and has developed the environmental 4,642 Korea Rail Network Authority performance assessment system to measure the level. In 2010, KR attained the environmental management index** of 105.4 in 10 items. In 2011, it will add two more items such as Reduction target reduction target of greenhouse gas and outside recognition of 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 environmental performance to get more reliability. It will make efforts to get or exceed the environmental management index target of 110. Environmental performance index eco-driving movement by introducing more hybrid cars with low Volume of construction wastes (ton/100 million Won) carbon emission and 5-day week driving system. Recycling rate of construction waste (%) Operating ● Conducting the clean development mechanism (CDM*) indexes Purchasing rate of eco-friendly goods (%) projects for acquiring the carbon emission right Recycling rate of sleepers (%) Rate of attained greenhouse gas target (added in 2011) As the global warming is expanding and the regulation on the Hours of education on environment (hr/man) restriction of greenhouse gas is getting stricter, requiring the development of climate change coping technologies, KR has Rate of installation of sound insulation conducted CDM projects to implement the low carbon green Amount of penalties (1,000 Won) growth. Managem Rate of corrections as recommended by internal and outside audits ent index In 2010, starting with the CDM project for Honam High Speed Number of advisory committee for green railway held Railway for the first time for high speed railway, KR plans to Number of non-compliances with the recommendations from environmental impact assessment adopt CDM system to new projects such as Seoul Metropolitan Outside recognition on environmental accomplishments Area High Speed Railway in 2011. If the CDM project for Honam * CDM (clean development mechanism) : It is a system in which the non-Annex 1 countries which have no obligations of reducing the carbon dioxide according to Kyoto Protocol can invest in the carbon reduction project and in compensation with reduction, get the certified emission right (CER). ** Environmental management index : It is an index to measure the environmental accomplishments of KR-EMI and KR giving weight to environmental accomplishment indexes with giving 100 score to Year 2009. SPECIAL REPORT Ⅰ CONSTRUCTION OF ECO-FRIENDLY RAILROAD Promote systematic environmental management KR systematically manages the total amount of input materials, including amount of energy, material, and water in use. The data of input material in 2008 is collected on the basis of 127 construction sites; 208 construction sites for 2009 and 267 construction sites for 2010. Especially, KR achieved to increase the recycling ratio of material in use among the total input materials as the environmental management system is advanced. EnvironmentEcosystem friendly Restoration Green INPUT KR & Sustainability Report 2011 railway Railroad construction site (partners) Amount of electricity in use (GJ) 2008 2009 2010 (Total) 2,982,253 2,932,945 3,893,900 Greenhouse Building 367,025 485,532 527,300 gas 36 Vehicle 208,141 166,308 258,200 Construction machine 2,407,088 2,281,105 3,108,400 ● KR (head office and regional headquarters) Korea Rail Network Authority Amount of electricity in use Amount of fuel for air conditioning and heater in use Amount of vehicle fuel in use Unit : Kwh Unit : ℓ, ㎥ 419,401 (ton) 2008 2009 2010 9,018,114 Amount of rail used (total) 33,307 53,608 65,212 New material 31,487 49,259 61,272 5,122,058 Reused 1,820 4,348 3,940 133,620 2,668,630 15,504 Amount of sleeper used (total) 132,384 156,455 118,597 2,646 2,477 1,799.9 PC sleeper New material 124,453 142,469 111,178 13,400 13,600 13,030 1,800 1,400 2,000 Reused 7,066 11,472 7,127 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Wooden sleeper New material 486 797 232 ■Diesel ■Boiler kerosene ■LPG ■LNG Reused 380 1,717 60 Number of steel used 262,667 572,681 1,163,417 Amount of vehicle fuel in use Amount of water in use 1,972,166 1,861,086 2,419,469 Unit : ℓ, ㎏ Unit : ton Number of aggregate used (total) 16,650.2 76,672 11,203.2 New material 1,951,063 1,789,679 2,228,104 15,425.9 108 ,669.5 61,891 Number of recycled 68,037.2 aggregate used 21,103 71,407 191,365 58,863.1 215,768.1 210,787.4 198,790.2 30,133 Amount of water in use 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 (ton) 2008 2009 2010 ■LPG ■Gasoline ■Disel (Total) 1,420,691 1,589,683 3,525,171 Amount of recycle 282,915 164,400 279,338 ●Amount of energy in use: Amount of energy used in building and electricity, gas, fuel in car Improvement of noise environment Division 2008 2009 2010 Action High-speed railroad (m) 612 300 560 for climate General railroad (m) 8,107 5,466 3,700 change Total (m) 8,719 5,766 4,260 ※Extension of soundproof walls installation to improve quality of life in damaged area by noise Recycling OUTPUT KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Railroad construction site (partners) CDM project Amount of green-house gas emission (tCO2eq) 2008 2009 2010 (Total) 196,593 190,611 262,898 Boiler 18,648 24,281 28,919 37 Vehicle 14,099 11,189 17,945 Construction machine 163,847 155,141 216,034 ● KR (head office and regional headquarters) Korea Rail Network Authority Amount of waste production Amount of green-house gas emission Production of designated waste (ton) 2008 2009 2010 Unit : tCO2eq Total Unit : ton (Total) 715,794 1,037,164 861,478 6,049 4,205 Production rate of construction waste 678,705 980,643 798,501 Recycle 605,924 835,407 739,644 Total Production rate of waste from business’s place 33,418 55,160 62,146 3,498 16.2 2,389 Recycle 16,666 30,660 44,684 0.0 Total 2,034 25.0 Production rate of designated waste 3,672 1,361 831 24.5 1,244. 1,844 1.0 Recycle 210 323 20 1,109 11.0 790 Amount of air pollutant emission 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 (ton) 2008 2009 2010 ■Direct ■Indirect ■Reclamation/incineration ■Recycle Dust(kg) 2,297 1,305 14,742 Number of management in air pollutants emission 4 6 17 The emission of water pollutant and dust indicated in the 2010 report was produced during CWR fabrication work of KR jungang Amount of water pollutant emission technology center; however, the emission will not be measured 2008 2009 2010 any more from 2010 since the amount is very insignificant. Amount of produced waste water(ton) 4,977,145 3,207,309 4,821,362 BOD(mg/l) 3.7 4.1 3.9 ●NOx, SOx No emission COD(mg/l) 19.0 9.7 6.4 ● Waste water emission zone : Han-river, Jungyangcheon, Suhocheon, Tancheon, Suwoncheon, SS(mg/l) 13.8 11.2 9.7 Jungdaecheon, Namhan-river, Gyeongancheon, Deassangcheon, Gonjiamcheon, Sindooncheon, Chatancheon, Yeonhocheon, Euncheon, Guemhocheon, Hwapocheon, Gumahcheon, SooyoungNumber of management in waste water emission facility 42 36 65 river, Hyeongsan-river, Gocheon, Chokokcheon, youngsan-river and etc. Safety is a non-compromised principle Kang Yoon-sik, Seon-goo Engineering The railway construction site of KR is multi-tiered structure with several cooperative companies, including major companies and SMEs. KR emphasizes the most on the railway construction sites is the safety. For preventing any possible accident, KR has thoroughly established safety management plan to make effort to prevent the accident and disaster. KR thinks its focus on safety would be the most fundamental starting point for win-win strategy that same stringent standard is applied to all other cooperative companies as well. SPECIAL REPORT Ⅱ Safety-first policy KR strives for the promotion of transportation convenience and safety for its customer with the optimal engineering method from the design phase to its opening. Safety first, this is the utmost and uncompromising value of KR. SPECIAL REPORT Ⅱ SAFETY-FIRST POLICY ● Accident and quality defect report system High level of Minister of National Land and Maritime Affairs safety management Director of Project Management Division Director of Railway Technology Safety Division KR places the efforts to prevent the accident of Chairman If needed railway users and minimize the human casualties (Head of project managing dept) Director Deputy chairman of construction workers with the systematic safety of PR Office management at the railway construction sites. Head of project managing head office Chief manager of quality safety Head of Regional Head Office General Manager of General manager project managing office of quality safety KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Relevant institution On-site Railway operator Structuring the safety management system If needed If needed Police station, Station, office and fire station, hospital, Supervising Team, work company In order to minimize the damages from natural disaster to reduce local government control office railway construction accidents, KR establishes and implements the safety management plan to remove the risk factors in 40 advance in a way of reducing the disaster rates. In addition, it has site, a finder or head of work site shall use phone, SMS, fax or analyzed the risk factors for each physical, human and other others to report immediately and make initial report in writing for factors, and implements the safety measures for each factor, and the accident and quality defect within 3 hours. The status of structure and operates the system to feedback the result. recovery is reported from time to time and makes the final report Korea Rail Network Authority after completing the recovery. In addition, when having the ● Report system of railway construction accident accident at the railway construction site, make the prompt initial and quality defect report and accident status to prevent the same accident with its When there is a sign of abnormality at the railway construction ‘accident report system’ from November 2010. ● Safety management plan Risk factor analysis Safety measure Performance verification Feedback Designation and management Work facilities risk of vulnerable areas KR Advance forecasting system Safety Seasonal risk for accident prevention inspection Physical factors Work safety appropriateness test and Work type risk work site hazard evaluation Advance approval for operating route work and Operating train risk structuring of railway structure facilities Safety review Imposing Additional Lack of safety knowledge Advancement of professional penalty point Reward Personal human resources and implementing factors the safety education Negligence of worker Risk of natural disaster Create the system for disaster measures Comprehe Cooperating nsive test company Others Drop off of completed facilities Implement safety diagnosis ● Case of safety management undertaking activities Advance forecasting system Dimension of intersection Emergency response test drill for accident prevention •Change crosswalk with underpass •Set the emergency situation expected (Cheongdang Intersection for Gyeongbu-seon) from the disasters from climate •Notice of seasonal risk factor changes in heavy rain, heavy snow, earthquake and others and implement the responding drill jointly Message box with the relevant institutions Through request for preventing electrocution by high humidity and flooding KR safety administration•Notice of climate change risk KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Message box Orders for storm related each administrator in site will secure the part time employment in urgent situation and emergency contacts 41 ● Safety management activities (Dec. ~ Mar.) and rainy season (May ~ Oct.) and has implemented In order to control the occurrence of 5 major accidents (falling, 5 times of joint mock drill for emergency responses along with conduction, dropping, adhesion and electric shock) with high KORAIL, fire station and other relevant institutions. Korea Rail Network Authority frequency of accident, KR undertakes the work only when it is As a result, the accident rate of KR has recorded for one-fifth determined as having no risk factor after inspecting the range of the average in domestic construction business. For appropriateness for work safety by engineer or inspector. In developing safety management specialized human resources, 2010, 235 sites excluding the sites yet to undertake the works KR has developed 13 railway safety managers in 2010 to have from 346 subject sites have had the inspection for work safety. 156 accumulated professionals and developed 9 safety Furthermore, it sends the seasonal risk factors at the railway inspectors to have 30 accumulated professionals. construction sites to the on-site officials via mobile phone SMS to enhance the sense of awareness and structures the safety facilities in cross road dimension, elevator screen door and Designation and management of others to prevent accidents for local residents and railway users. vulnerable areas In addition, when natural disaster occurs, prompt and efficient KR has the management system for signal lights to classify the response is made to minimize the damages with the vulnerable areas for each grade in accordance with the strengthening of operation for disaster situation room in winter construction site risk evaluation. The risk evaluation on work product is implemented within 30 days after the commencement ■ Annual accident rate and the risk grade is designated through the deliberation. 0.209 Status of management for vulnerable areas (As of Dec. 2010) Phase Red Yellow Green Total 0.172 Grade Grade A 10 14 39 63 0.128 Grade B 6 40 59 105 Grade C 10 27 56 93 2008 2009 2010 Total 26 81 154 261 ● Road map to undertake high level safety management Existing (2009) Improvement (2010) After 2011 •Human resource-oriented •Installation of remote video •Human resource-oriented inspection management system (CCTV) on-site inspection ON-site On-site visit for construction sites replacement inspection Prepare the management standard Link to smart-phone •Accident report by •Structuring of accident •Stabilization and facilitation facilitating fax, e-mail and report system by using the of accident report system ACCIDENT others computer network report Possible to make real-time report and entire site accident sharing KR & Sustainability Report 2011 System improvement for high level safety construction. In particular, it has selected 83 places as the management subjects of special management for intense management and it also undertakes substantive verification through joint inspection KR has monitored the vulnerable sites at all times and simplified 42 with outside expert institution. for report system in times of accident to structure the efficient The safety management high level system of KR was selected as safety management system to share with entire sites. In an outstanding institution to prevent the construction accidents particular, this system has facilitated IT technology to enhance Korea Rail Network Authority as the first one in public institutions and, on the day of industrial the efficiency of the safety management. KR has installed a total service and health in July 2011, it has won the Presidential Award of 91 CCTVs in 45 vulnerable construction sites with importance in the group part for construction accident prevention field as of Grade A or higher. Through this effort, the on-site monitoring managed by the Ministry of Labor. This is attributable to the fact is implemented in real time to notify insufficiency to the site in that KR has introduced safety and health management system time. (OHSAS 18001) to structure the systematic safety system and developed and operated the independent system appropriate to Systematic verification of safety the railway site in track operation work with advance approval management system as well as having outstanding outcome in expansion of KR has verified safety management from the commencement safety infra in IT technology in remote video management system time to completion time for each construction phase to prevent and others. KR is committed to fully focus on the safe railway accident through safety management standard and provide construction. convenience in national transportation with the safe railway ■ Comprehensive safety review of railway (Managed by ■ Precise inspection for facilities ■ Safety diagnosis technology the Ministry of National Land and Maritime Affairs) (Measuring the crevice depth) improvement education (2010.8.30~9.17) SPECIAL REPORT Ⅱ SAFETY-FIRST POLICY Implementing regular ■ Outstanding case collections for safety management safety education Collaboration in safety KR, with the collaboration of management the KOSHA, implements education on safety manageKR has undertaken collaboration with diverse ment and health management institutions to overcome its internal limitations and for 2,000 workers at the work acquire the know-how of external specialized sites and, with the support of service management education institutions, and it attracts the independent safety for adjacent works for trek management through structuring of win-win operation from KORAIL, it relationship structuring with cooperative implements safety education Major safety management examples of 25 sites companies. for 700 on-site employees. including rail construction of DongbaeksanDogye of Youngdong line which had received grand prize for the best railway site is recorded (500 books were published and distributed. KR & Sustainability Report 2011 ■ Accident case collection on Operation of safety railway construction Undertaking collaboration for accompanied council with relevant growth of railway construction bodies institutions KR undertakes the safety examination jointly with Korea KR regularly holds the Infrastructure Safety & Technology Corporation, and it railway safety practical implements publication of safety data, joint safety education and council with KORAIL to adjust 43 safety inspection with KOSHA and KORAIL. In addition, it holds the interest relationship and the presentation of outstanding cases of safety management for strengthen the collaboration construction sites to give additional points for winning companies Korea Rail Network Authority and it shares and exchanges when undertaking the evaluation for participating companies. KR technology on safety managefacilitates the outstanding case collections and accident case ment information with the It suggests the work environment safety factor collections each year to facilitate as the safety education data by by accident case systemically; thus, it is able to MNLM and its chartered be used as a safety guide for workers at site. distributing it to the cooperative companies. agencies, Korea Express Corporation, Incheon Airport Authority, Korea Water Corporation, LH Corporation Korea Infrastructure Safety and others. In 2010, it held railway safety & Technology Corporation practical council for each quarter to •Joint safety examination process efficiently 14 current issues. •Joint examination education •Advisory on safety examination Support cooperative KOSHA companies Operation of railway •Implementing safety council with KORAIL •Publication safety data education •Joint safety education KR •Providing safety data •Awarding outstanding site KR has established the railway policy •Joint safety inspection •Sharing outstanding cases adjustment council with the participation •Implementing joint of the deputy leaders of KR and KORAIL, inspection KORAIL major contributors of railway construction, and it has 9 fields, including safety, facilities, •Council operation •Joint safety education train adjustment and others, and it operates •Joint safety inspection the railway practical council on regular basis. Therefore, it has prepared the foundation for safe railway construction and operation. Advance to global market with the global railway competitiveness Professor Eo Sung-wook, Woosong University KR is a public institution to build the railway in consideration of management technology and environmentfriendly features in railway. Now, it needs to advance to the global market as a global public institution beyond the domestic market. The railway is a field that requires professional technology that it would be able to build competitive railway globally with the human resource development and investment on the railway field. In addition, on the basis of the professional human resources, the new technology has to be developed on the technology in railway construction to develop sustainably. SPECIAL REPORT Ⅲ Global Management KR opens up the railway renaissance to link the world with Asia, North America and South America, Africa, Middle East and others on the basis of the world best level of human resource and high-tech technology. SPECIAL REPORT Ⅲ GLOBAL MANAGEMENT investment on industrial infra for overcoming the economic depression occurring from the global financial crisis. Strategy to advance Railway generates vast dispersion effect in boosting the economy to overseas market since it has a great effect related to industries along with the employment stimulating effect in the matter of importance for facilitation among industrial infrastructures. KR has undertaken diverse efforts for advancing to the overseas market and securing the highest level of technology competitiveness to be the Prospect of global railway market global railway company. According to the announcement of SCI/VERKBHT GmbH, a specialized institution in railway statistics, the scale of global railway market is 131 billion EUR as of 2010 and approximately 210 trillion won in Korean currency. For each region, Western Europe has 39.5 billion Eur (30.4%), Asia for 36.5 Eur (27.9%), and KR & Sustainability Report 2011 North America for 19.5 Eur (14.9%), CIS region for 9.6 Eur (7.3%).? The global railway market in 2015 is expected to be 160 billion Coming of global railway renaissance era EUR (approximately 250 trillion won). The expected growth rate in The world is currently encountered with the renaissance era to the next 5 years has been 4.5% per year to have the continuous remarkably extend the investment on railway industry. The growth in high oil price, environment protection, growth in reason for the world to pay attention to the railway industry is private-capital market, high speed railway demand increase and largely two-fold. First, with the movement toward the regulations others. Looking into each region, Asia and CIS are expected to 46 on carbon discharge as the main culprit of the global warming, make drastic growth by 2015 and the gap with the Western the railway that has the effect on the greenhouse reduction is Europe will be gradually narrowed. Asia is visualized for having emerged as low carbon green transportation means. China to expand large-scale of railway and India for policy Korea Rail Network Authority Current major advanced countries have extended investment on movement for developing the railway industry and the CIS region railway transportation and control the road demand that causes has facilitated the railway industry with the need of vehicle substantial carbon dioxide discharge in order to promote low improvement and obsolete infra thereof. carbon green growth and to respond to the climate change The global railway market in the future is expected to have treaty. fierce competition to expand the market share rate and market Second, major countries around the world have expanded taking, and accordingly, it requires the technology and sales IRJ : International Railway Journal Western Europe bn : billon 9.5bn 3.3% Former Soviet Union Eastern Europe 13.7bn 4.9% 9.6bn 2.9% North America 19.5bn 5.0% Asia 26.5bn 4.3% Fast growing Africa/Middle East Central/South America 5.6bn 4.5% 3.4bn 6.8% Australia/Pacific 2.9bn 2.3% Market valumes in 2010 and of growth to 2015 IRJ September 2010 route for advancing to the overseas market of the Korea’s railway industry. 2017~ Outcome accomplishment period 2009~2016 2004~2008 Competency Establishment of global market Foundation reinforcement period building up period advancement plan of KR KR has undertaken for global overseas railway advancement on the basis of its visible outcome in the projects implemented in China. In the future, KR plans to strengthen the global ·Overseas advancement and ·Diversification of ·Visualization of overseas infra structuring (winning overseas project project advancement competitiveness of domestic railway industry as the railway three orders from China for advancement and ·Overseas BTL, BTO project supervision service) variation undertaking construction specialty public institution as well as generating ·Preparation for market ·Network operation for advancement reform in overseas railway private cooperation in new business profit through expanding overseas market in Southeast America, railway industry Central-south America, advancement. Africa and others KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Maximization of winning overseas projects with significant interest in technology transfer. For the market that has significant interest in technology transfer on railway vehicle, system and operation, it is planned to have more efficient Structuring of basis for diversification of overseas and open technology transfer. In addition, for countries with project advancement and strategy securing insufficient finance, the package deal* project advancement has been sought. Through the alternative resource development in 47 Focus on winning Global networking Strengthening of human Establishment of project oil, mineral, forestry, land development right and others of these overseas projects formation resource capability management system countries, it is a way to secure business possibility. ·Visualization ·Establishment of ·Efficient operation ·Establishment of Korea Rail Network Authority project capability Korea-China joint system of TF for project undertaking venture company each project strategy ·Successful undertaking ·Promotion of ·Organization and ·Establishment of ordered project international exchange and operation of employee pool who have overseas project management system Securing the highest global level of relationship language capability ·Operation for each technology competitiveness ·Operation of in-charge overseas project system for each region region KR makes effort to secure the world best level of railway technology for advancing into global railway market. The hightech in ultra-fast, signal and others, undertake active domestication on railway goods and construction with early Direction of global market securing of technology through technology transfer or advancement for KR technology development. Through the core materials in orbit, KR places effort for securing overseas markets and the electric field and others, it plans to make the domestication in performance thereof. Compared to 4 major stronghold orbit field design, such as, rail linkage device and others as countries that operate the high speed railway sooner than well as pilot product manufacturing, high speed railway Korea, the technology strength is considered to be similar that electronic linkage device, trek converter, 350km/h level track the price competitiveness is possible at the present time. line and others. However, in the event that China advances to overseas high In addition, in order to make the verification of capability for speed railway market, differentiation of price competitiveness is railway goods as developed in domestication, the comprehensive expected to be difficult. testing trek is undertaken with the goal of completion by 2015 KR plans to make active advancement into not only major that it plans to undertake reliability test and certification of markets but also markets with relatively smaller scale. Major domestically manufactured vehicles and components here. companies have little interest in small markets that it is desirable to advance to small markets in aspect of experience and risk management. Furthermore, KR plans to advance to markets *Package deal : Developer provides industrial infra, such as railway, road, port, plant and others to the country while the country provides or exchanges with natural resources that it holds instead of cash. SPECIAL REPORT Ⅲ GLOBAL MANAGEMENT ● Status of orders for China railway projects in 2010 Outcome from undertaking on 8case 3 overseas railway project 2case 3 on 6.5billi KR has established its foundation to advance to .9billion on w Projec w t orde r perfo the overseas markets through railway project diversification and facilitation of overseas market 1case rmanc advancement regions. e 2008 2009 2010 2010 projects ordered Amount (100 million) 1. Nansin passenger line (Gamcheong District) 48.5 KR & Sustainability Report 2011 2. Nansin passenger line (Singang District) 37.5 3. Seoan ~ Bogye passenger line 32.9 Notwithstanding the short period of time since the establishment 4. Jinjin passenger line 18.2 5. Hachi passenger line 38.1 in 2004, KR began the supervisory service in passenger vessel of 6. Banyoung passenger line 22.5 China in 2005 and has successfully won the orders for 3 railway 7. Jangsa ~ Gonmyung passenger line (Wunnam District) 96.6 supervision service in China and national railway master plan 8. Jangsa ~ Gonmyung passenger line (Guiju District) 70.2 consulting service in Cameroon. In addition, it has won 8 projects 48 for Jangsa ~ Gonmyung passenger line for Wunnam District in China and others in 2010. Korea Rail Network Authority ● KR's projects in overseas and its activities China-Nansin (Singang) Mongol China-Hachi line China-Hada line Azebaijan China-Banyoung line China-Mookwang line China-Jinjin line Iraqu Chinga-Sootoo line China-Seobo line Soudi Arabia China-Janggon (Guiju) Bangladesh China-Janggon (Wunnam) China10 lines Cameroon Oman Vietnam DR Congo Thailand India Namibia Established overseas market advancement base KR has established its foundation for advancing into overseas Government market by expanding its new growth project team into overseas project head office for facilitating the overseas projects. In the Korea Railway Financial future, it intends to secure the bridges for overseas market by Association institutions holding the accompanied growth council and win-win council for overseas projects. Support of overseas Establishment Railway project financial market advancement advisory and investment Among them, 8 projects including ones in Brazil, Oman, Mongol, of railway policy and California and others as the private-public joint project with joint investment plan Research KR institutions participation in bidding proves with private enterprise. In particular, for the order of high speed railway in Brazil, it held the session Railway research and Railway construction and related to the high speed railway project in Brazil and fully focusing facilities management development of high speed railway on dispatching the TF organization to locality. In the future, KR is KORAIL Cooperative KR & Sustainability Report 2011 companies actively reviewing the plan to include the human right provision when advancing to overseas market or entering into MOU for it. Railway operation Vehicle manufacturing and service Structuring the railway industry collaboration network undertaking of 8 supervisory services implemented in China. KR KR has been able to take the competitive edge to win additional was selected as the most outstanding institution in the evaluation 49 orders for supervisory service following the major high speed of supervisory service in the competition against the advanced railway construction plan of China as a result of its systematic railway countries. And, it held the Korea-China railway technology Korea Rail Network Authority exchange session with China as a way of strengthening friendly relationship with China with its effective publicity campaign on excellence of Korea railway. In addition, it has structured cooperative network in railway industry for government, Korea Railway Association, KORAIL, cooperative companies, research institutions and financial institutions. Through the clear role-sharing with government, public institutions, private companies and others, the California competitiveness of Korean railway industry will be even more strengthened. Completed Supervisory service for Zone 1 of Gugan projects and Mugwang passenter vessels in China Projects Supervisory service for Hada Line passenger vessel under in China and research on master plan for national railway in performance Cameroon Nansin (Singang) and 7 other projects in China Bolivia Brazil Brazil high speed railway, China railway (4 major projects) Project under Mongolia railway, India high speed railway, Bangladeshi railway, Paraguay activities to win a contract Oman railway, Iraq railway, US (California, Illinoise) high speed railway and others Project Thai railway project, Ajerbaijan railway project, currently discovered Bolivia railway project, and Paraguay railway project ECONOMY Expectation of role to leap into the railway advanced country Assistant Director Lee Chang-kyu of the Ministry of National Land and Maritime Affairs The railway opening within the structuring plan for national railway network is the largest part of the KR management activities and is assessed flawlessly to the present time. The efforts for the domestication of components for railway construction are heightened of its economic added value of KR. The economic sustainability of KR is dependent on profit increase through providing the national transportation convenience and leaping into the railway advanced country. KR is undertaken the sustainable management by accomplishing the economic outcome on the basis of efficient financial system and it is striving for the advanced railway strong house by securing the world class of technology through railway R&D. ECONOMY Economic outcome KR has been improving its financial structure by efficient facilitation of assets and saving the business expenses for securing the financial soundness to realize the ‘2020 future management strategy’. In addition, it actively discovers the new growth engine business to expect the new project income KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Emergence of need to maintain KORAIL as the main income source of KR is insufficient from the soundness of financial structure interest cost of bond issued by KR, the current net loss and liabilities are increasing. KR is a quasi-government institution for consignment Unit : million won undertaking to work on behalf of government. Following the Direct and in-direct economic value generation and distribution investment decision of the railway industry by the government, 52 Classification Interested party Contents 2008 2009 2010 50% of the construction expense for high speed railway comes Value Government Government contribution 2,714,885 3,793,584 3,300,332 from the government chartered fund and 50% comes from generation KORAIL & general Business profit 1) 606,624 636,821 589,599 issuing the bonds. (For the high speed railway in the capital Officers and employees Labor expenses2) 87,024 84,552 87,113 Korea Rail Network Authority region, it is 40:60). Since the route service charge imposed from Value Cooperative companies Business profits 3) 4,621,080 6,203,486 5,621,587 Distribution Local residents Social contribution fund4) 165 154 225 Unit : million won Central government and local government Taxes 691 323 822 Summarized Balance Sheet (1) Business income comes from railway facilities use income (KORAIL) and asset related income (lease payment and others). (2) Labor expenses include welfare expenses. Classification 2008 2009 2010 (3) Business expenses include railway construction expense, consignment work expense, facilities Current assets 267,492 280,064 457,505 improvement expense, maintenance and repair, and other business expenses. (4) Social contribution fund includes the contribution. Assets Non-current assets 26,994,324 32,761,596 38,020,062 Total assets 27,261,816 33,041,660 38,477,567 Current liabilities 2,922,282 4,612,927 5,844,627 Setting midto long-term financial goals Liabilities Non-current liabilities 8,948,942 9,659,081 10,930,262 Total liabilities 11,871,225 14,272,008 16,774,889 KR has set the midto long-term financial goals to solve its Capital 15,390,591 18,769,652 21,702,678 accumulated liabilities. This is based on the midto long-term Unit : million won financial plan established in 2010. In order to maintain the Summarized Statement of Income financial soundness, KR has analyzed alternative for each Classification 2008 2009 2010 Sales 606,624 636,821 589,599 When maintaining the current status When accomplishing the target goal Cost of sales 573,500 600,676 542,684 Additional self-help effort + government support Selling and administrative expenses 0 0 0 Operating income 33,124 36,145 46,915 Income from non-operating income 93,657 52,602 31,999 Non-operating expenses 453,719 440,289 472.178 Income tax expenses 0 0 0 Gross income 700,281 689,423 621,598 Gross expenses 1,027,219 1,040,965 1,014,863 Current net income -326,938 -351,542 -393,265 Basic conditions for financial analysis May 2010 to make regular monitoring for income increase, cost savings, and system improvement performance. In addition, it Classification Prerequisite Existing liabilities End of 2009 for 11 trillion 33.8 billion won strengthens the human resource for TFT in finance and expands New borrowing Bond of 5-year maturity, 5.70% the finance organization (4 persons in financial strategy dept to 9 Ratio of government investment Express: 50%, general: 100%/ Metro: 75% persons in financial strategy division) as implementing highly Basic costs Actual expense settlement concept/ maintenance and repair expenses intense improvement action plan in enterprise level. Trek use charge (base income) High speed railway: 31% of business income, general railway: maintenance and repair expense level Self-help improvement 2020 future management strategy / Reflecting profit generation Cash in-flow / cash outflow Contribution, self-help effort/ high speed railway investment expenses and others Increase of investment efficiency by scenario and selected optimal alternatives. As a result, it has saving the business expenses undertaken self-help effort based on the KR 2020 future KR has improved its design value by strengthening its continuous managem ent strategy, and when securing the additional capability of design VE* and generated outcome in saving the responding investment from government, it has formulated the business expenses and others. In 2010, it has implemented 48 analysis result that the minimization of liability scale would be times of design VE on 6 fields to save the budget of 204.6 billion KR & Sustainability Report 2011 available in 2045 with peak reaching for 22.2 trillion won in 2025. won and published the case collection to share within the company and cooperative companies. In addition, it has undertaken to save the business expenses through high level Discovery of new growth engine business work management with the improvement of working method to KR has made effort to improve the financial soundness and relieve save the business expenses of 268.6 billion won, and it has the accumulative deficit by accomplishing the future management secured technology by discovering outstanding cases in the strategy goal and it has actively discovered the new profit business railway field with concrete orbit structure model development 53 model to increase the profit with diversified approach. It first discovers and others. KR is committed to save the budget systematically the profit model by facilitating the railway asset, including the station through thorough inspection and analysis. area development and others on a regular basis. In October 2010, Korea Rail Network Authority comprehensive station area development that reflected the railway ● Status of saving business expenses in work characteristics has become assessable in accordance with the method improvement enactment of the Station Area Development Act/ Enforcement 60.8b illion w Decree/ Enforcement Regulations. On the basis of its foundation to 41.7b illion w on(457 illion w on(83 on(74c illion w advance to overseas through accumulated information and on(7ca 230.4 case) case) ase) se) knowledge in overseas projects, it has won 8 routes for China railway 89.5b billion illion w won(26 on(15c 3cas to generate 36.5 billion won for profit, and it has won 2 orders of 94.1b ase) 268.3 e) national research projects to expect for new profits of 20.5 billion won. b 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Profit generation with the enhancement of facilitating the assets in possession ● Status of budget saving in design VE on 476ca Through the asset status survey for each year, KR has discovered 204.6 illion w 52.6 billion won of hidden assets last year and it has 431ca se 189.2 on billion se accomplished the profit of 73.8 billion won with the efficient won billion 195.4 w national asset management to contribute to the financial structure improvement. 248ca b se Strengthening of exclusive organization 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 for financial structure improvement No. of proposed cases of design VE Amount saved for design VE Accumulated amount of savings in design ME from 2004 to 2010: 1877.6 billion won KR has organized a TFT for financial structure improvement in *Design VE (value engineering) : Review for each function and alternative for feasibility of economics and on-site application on the design contents to secure the required functions for facilities (value = function/expense) ECONOMY Research and Development (R&D) KR expands national R&D participation and own reaserch to develop localized material and promote a rail test track to verify the system’s performance with domestic/foreign rail materials. KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Mid-long R&D vision and promoting strategy New task undertaking and technology KR has established its Second Master Plan for technology R&D and R&D facilitation in a way of having the comprehensive pilot route area to build up KR has won 2 cases out of five national R&D research projects to as the railway testing and industry hub. It undertakes all railway generate the profit of 20.5 billion won and makes effort in quality 54 certification, verification and testing to structure the railway improvement with independent research projects. The orbit system goods certification system and secure its participation for is monitored and the research outcomes in U-Rail system, orbit national R&D projects and independent research expansion for noise & vibration criteria and others are used in practical ways. securing pertinent technology. Korea Rail Network Authority Research on the development of wireless communicationAs a result, through securing continuous technology, it has National R&D based railway control system Research registered 61 cases of new technology and 7 cases of intellectual projects DEVELOPMENT of technology to test apply of the 400km/h level high speed railway property rights, and these efforts were shared when holding the Research on establishing the optimization plan of power technology grand exhibition for the Ministry of National Land and supply on electric railway in railway construction Independent Establishment of criteria to calculate the electric transformer Maritime Affairs. In addition, when developing domestication of research for railway power reception/load projects core materials, it supports the technology and operates the Building up the market-base for procurement of domestic development supporting system for the growth of SMEs. components for trolley track in high speed railway ● No. of new technology and patent registration ● Master plan for the second technology, R&D No. of cases for new No of patent technology registration registration cases •High speed Directions •Structure and pleasant features 61case •Economic feasibility 55case •High efficiency •Safety 36case 5case 5case 7case •Development Development of high efficiency railway Major detailed network structuring technology objectives •Development DEVELOPMENT of economic railway infra 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 high-speed technology •Development DEVELOPMENT of safe and reliable system ※For applying in 40 cases/104 cases by 2009 (38% range) •Development DEVELOPMENT of environment-friendly recycled energy linked railway technology No. of items : As of Jan. 2011 Realization of model optimization for high Status of domestication materials speed railway concrete orbit structure Main materials Completion of DOMESTICATION for DOMESTICATION Classification No. of items domestication this occasion No. of cases No. of subject cases rate (%) Most of concrete orbit structure technologies introduced to Total 108 102 6 94 Korea are from overseas with insufficient technology transfer ORBIT 28 27 1 96 that it has been difficult to make the timely response when Railway routes 32 29 3 91 there was any problem in material supply or quality. Therefore, KR has developed concrete orbit structure model to apply in Signal 48 46 2 96 orbit design in the capital region and Honam region high speed * Materials in 5 fields including civil works have been generalized use to be excluded from the subject. railway projects. As a result, it has secured intellectual property rights and saved the project expenses of 930 million won as well as expecting to make the improvement in core technology Construction of comprehensive test line for railway in railway. Current rail supplies and system are too much dependent on overseas and there is no place to verify the rail supplies even KR & Sustainability Report 2011 though nation develops them. Especially, these problems were Domestication of core supplies and emphasized as a social issue when cracking the ties found in materials for railway goods Gyeongbu rapid transit rail 2nd step was happened. Therefore, KR has made efforts to secure the technology competitiveness KR promotes a project to construct the rail for comprehensive through structuring the test basis and improvement in product test to verify the domestic and overseas rail supply system and capability for developing domestication and facilitation with the divorce from overseas dependency of rail industrial technology. goal of 100% domestication rate of major materials in railway To construct comprehensive test road, KR created an exclusive by 2013. The concrete orbit high speed turnout system has team and developed construction logic to convince the 55 completed its domestication to have the designation as the new authorities concerned. Upon investigation of major candidates to technology in transportation from the Ministry of National Land install a comprehensive test line for railway, KR drew an optimal Korea Rail Network Authority and Maritime Affairs in November 2010, and the railway device place for test line, which was 14km long loop track in Osong has been in domestication pilot project through the design base, Chungcheongbuk-do to demonstrate the intermediate competition. speed (around 200km/h) in the Korea’s reality. After KR’s continuous efforts to build a comprehensive test line for railway, this project finally passed the preliminary feasibility study in August, 2010 and plans to complete the construction until 2015. Once this project is completed, advanced rail technology will be ● ORGANIZATION in charge of domestication system secured and we expect to have synergy effect of rail related technology through rail technology development and KR Research Institute Railing device comprehensive functional assessment test. (Comprehensive & support) (Orbit) ■ Route for integrated pilot tracks Construction Electrical Engineering and & Electrical Engineering and & Division Construction Electrification Construction Signal & Place of orbit (orbit) (Entire units) Communication (Signal) High speed turnout Electronic linkage device system High speed turnout Pull off-fitting system for concrete orbit (Completed in 2010) Clamps Track conversion system Sound absorption plate for tracks (Completed in 2010) Insulation devices SOCIETY Assess as an “Institution of Sharing” Park Mi-ae Children’s Foundation KR has been assessed as an ‘institution of sharing’ that has all officers and employees practicing the social contribution. KR volunteers support children in neglected homes and classes, such as teenage homemakers and others together with the Children’s Foundation. This organization is committed to continue its PR activities through diverse channels externally and support for active service activities of employees internally to enable social contribution to take its place as one of the corporate brands. KR strives for the satisfaction and happiness of all interested parties and has practiced the ‘value of sharing’ through the social contribution activities for local residents and neighborhood of KR’s own. SOCIETY CS Vision Green railway of customer inspiration in opening up the future Customer Satisfaction Striving for Value differentiation for each Heart-felt Management CS Direction railway users customer group services KR operates the enterprise CS organization system to be the company with unyielding affection and 4 major Green railway Enhancement VOC management High level of customer sensitivity Strengthening of CS strategy of closeness system Service implementation trust of its customers. It operates Sorisaem to directions to people improvement capability secure diverse customer channels and build up 18 major Strengthening of participation VOC collection Service q6 On-site CS activities of people capitalization control upgrading support plan organic trust relationship with customers. practice tasks and others plan and others and others and others ● Customer re-definition KR & Sustainability Report 2011 As the expectation of customers heightened on railway and need to secure the conformity of 2020 KR future management strategy Customer satisfaction management system and customer satisfaction (CS) strategy, KR has established new ● Re-establishment for CS vision CS strategy and re-defined the customer appropriate for the CS KR has established its CS vision for ‘Green railway of customer definition. It has classified government, specialist, press and inspiration to open up the future’, and has established its 4 strategic others and the value influencing customer, officers and directions in ‘enhancement of accessibility with people for green employees and cooperative company as the value producing 58 railway’, ‘high level of VOC management system’, ‘improvement of customer, KORAIL as the value delivering customer, and general customer-touching service’, and 'strengthening of CS undertaking public that is the subject of benefit in ‘promotion of public capability’. For this purpose, it has selected 18 practical tasks in transportation’ and project owners at home and abroad, as Korea Rail Network Authority strengthening of activities with people’s participation, VOC collection reflecting the overseas railway projects and light railway project capitalization plan and others to sustain the tailored CS activities for management and others, as key customer as the value each interested party following the CS strategy. purchasing customer. KR has re-established the relation following the relative type with customers to provide optimal Classification Value producing customer Value influencing customer Value delivering customer Value purchasing customer Types of Trust relationship Adjustment relationship Partnership relationship Service relationship relationship Value provided Transparency and rationality Communication and agreement Cooperation and sharing Convenience Structuring reasonable and Agreement and communication with Strengthening cooperative Providing convenient, safe and CS direction transparent work system foreseeable and open attitude relationship for railway users sustainable transportation service Green railway High level of Improvement in customer Strengthening of CS for people VOC management touching service execution capability system CS vision and strategy operation on third management period with consistency in CS activity identification for each customer service for customers with consistent activity to identify each comprehensive scheme. The CS leaders and assistants assigned customer. for each position are active in enterprise in accordance with the detailed plans of CS, and in particular, it has established the KR customer supporters to strengthen the participatory Strengthening the competency in management of people. customer satisfaction management ● Customer Value Committee ● Operation of corporate CS organization For generating the differentiated customer value and effective CS KR has organized and operated enterprise CS organization system operation, KR launched the Customer Value Committee, system for generating continuous CS outcome to immediately consisted with 7 specialists, in 2008. The Customer Value respond to the customer needs. The Strategic Management Committee, held in semi-annual basis, inspects the CS activities Committee has the participation of the CEO and executives of KR in comprehensive ways, advises on establishing the CS resolves major matters on overall CS management and the plan for the following year, and reviews compliance of pertinent customer satisfaction center establishes CS strategy and laws and regulations for CS activities. KR & Sustainability Report 2011 In 2010, the Customer Value Committee undertook the ● CS management activity system supervising the responsible management strategy and carried our important role in advising the CS activity system for KR. Strategic Members of the Customer Value Committee Commissioner Management (Chairman) Committee Classification Name Employer Position Chairman Lee Kyu-hyun Hannam University Dept of Management Professor KR customer supporter Kang Nan-sook Consumers Union of Korea Vice President 59 Customer Lee Sang-min Join Consulting Co., Ltd. CEO Value Committee Kim Young-hwan KR Director Members Customer Integrity Lee Bong-cheol KR Division Manager Korea Rail Network Authority Satisfaction customer support Park Yong-sung Dankook University, Dept of Public Administration Professor Center office Kim Jong-kook KR Director Call Center CS Academy ● Sorisaem operation KR operates ‘Sorisaem’, the management system of voice of CS Practical Affairs customers (VOC) that integrated 27 multiple channels as Committee segregated for each interested party internally and externally. KR realizes the customer satisfaction management through Creative Customer CS leader Innovation Enforcement service office Sorisaem and the real time survey on level of satisfaction for CS assistant Committee (For each (Regional department) Division) interested parties work as the leverage to heighten the customer satisfaction index of KR. ■ CS management activities ▲ Strategic Management Committee ▲ Customer Satisfaction Center ▲ Call Center (head office) Customer relationship •Comprehensive management of multiple VOC collection channels ● 4 major VOC collection Sorisam •Management for primary (work) VOC and secondary (survey) VOC type system KR has defined VOC for demands Customer •Expression of voice for improvement by inner and external customers proposal of customers on specific action on KR VOC collection product and service (simply inquiries, system CIVIL PETITION •Multiple interested parties manifested from the special nature of railway construction opinions, complains, demand for management system System to gather the complaints of customer and demand for improvement improvement, civil request and others) as the integrated body of all Off-line VOC •Work through person to person encounter during the works of railway policy/ design/ work process collection Customer VOC reception channel communication message between KR and customers and it has operated 4 major VOC systems with easy access for customers. overall business in work period and others that KR has prepared systematic and active response system for the current issues. In ● Establishment of VOC classification system addition, with respect to the civil petitions at the site of railway KR & Sustainability Report 2011 following types construction, it is classified for each importance, patent, KR separates the civil petition that requires prompt processing undertaking and type to shorten the civil petition processing and the civil petition that has material impact to the railway period and other optimization actions, and in particular, KR has construction project depending on the VOC characteristics to structured the multiple civil petition VOC analysis system to enhance the customer satisfaction and resolving the implement it systematically in a way of contributing to the timely construction project risks. Under the characteristics of the completion of the railway construction patent. 60 railway construction industry, there are a number of expected conflicts of civil petitions and it influences material impact on the ● CS Management outcome The integrated customer management system that KR operates, ‘Sorisaem’, has acquired the VOC patent system as the first Korea Rail Network Authority public institution and accomplished the highest grade of VOC certification system (AAA) to disperse it to some 20 public 30.3% 28.64 institutions, including KEPCO, Seoul Metro and others. In addition, KR was selected as the most outstanding institution as % 21.7% 19.3% a result of evaluation for Ombudsman service by the Ministry of National Land and Maritime Affairs in November 2010, and it was awarded with the Presidential Award in Ombudsman field by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission in January 2011. Facilities, Open Site Property Work KR has implemented fair compensation and acknowledgement Summary of civil petition VOC analysis on those outcomeㄴto grant the motivation of CS activities. ■ CS star awards in 2010 (Dec. 28) 71.4 pts 59.7p ts 46pts 4.9days s 4.5day 4.1day s 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Level of satisfaction for civil Shortening of civil petition petition VOC processing VOC action period SOCIETY 2008 2009 2010 Current 1,501 persons 1441 persons 1440 persons Procure the capable Women The disabled 126 persons 31 persons 127 persons 34 persons 135 persons 48 persons personnel People with national merit service Retired employees 85 persons 42 persons 89 persons 67 persons 94 persons 38 persons New employees 1 persons 6 persons 36 persons KR has 7 executives and a total of 1,440 officers * Retired employees : Including the resignation of officers (Any person hired as an officer from and employees and it actively undertakes the employee in the applicable year is not included as retired employee.) * New employees : Select the hiring of employees other than officers socially equitable employment system to carry out the social responsibility granted in public others. It pays the remote-distance workers with the transportation institutions. expenses, and when needed, it implements flexible working system to help out harmonized work and family affairs. In addition, for health management and treatment of officers and employees, KR has strengthened the group insurance and entered into an agreement KR & Sustainability Report 2011 with medical institution to enable the family members of employees to have the health examination just like any other employee with the Respect human rights and diversity same amount of payment. In addition, it has installed resting area and feeding room for female employees at the head office and The number of female employees as of December 2010 working in regional division and it has established child care facilities in the new our company is about 135 people and this ratio is increasing every office site (32 persons) in 2009 and increased the full capacity (41 year. The base pay for both female and male within the same position employees) in 2010 to lessen the burden of officers and employees is about the same. Annual recruiting numbers for disabled and for child care efforts. For female employees, the company provides 61 meritorious people are increasing; thus, we are keeping the higher maternity leave of 3 years or less to nurture child of 6 years or number of legal recruiting number of employees. As a public younger (1 year of less for male employees) and the rate of institution, we have tried to meet government employment policy and reinstatement after returning from the child care leave is 100%. Korea Rail Network Authority have recruited new employees and interns to take all the social responsibilities as a role of sharing jobs. When recruiting new employees, we have hired 9 females out of total 36 employees which Personnel reformation advancement program exceeding 20% of “aiming to hire female employees for gender KR has introduced and introduced innovative personnel system in 2009 equity” . Wages for new coming employees are 235% compared to with wage peak system, rank upper limit system, honorary promotion legal minimum wage. KR firstly hired young interns in vulnerable system, retirement conditional promotion system and others, and in class and distributed the profit with related community by selecting 2010, the high ranking term system was newly established to resident students graduated from school located in the community; strengthen the human resource circulation system even more. With and also considered their convenience by working in the residence. the introduction of such a system, it has accomplished the effective of curtailing 141 regular positions, saving 3,168 million won. ● Family-friendly management KR operates the family participation program in celebration of its anniversary and the Day of Railway with the trial riding event and Abolition of rank system as the first one in public corporation Overseas 19 KR has turned seniority sequence rank system into the capability and outcome-oriented ranking system in anticipation of reasonable human resource operation, introduction of wage system for public company, and Gangwon area 90 others. By simplifying the rank structure, the 9-phase ranking structure is Honam area 105 reduced to the rank-oriented 6-stage system to newly establish the high Current Chungcheong region Youngnam area 185 1441persons (Head office, Chungcheon, Osong) 819 ranking term system. The high ranking term system is to select the internal competition as a type to have 2-year term with one year of Capital area 222 consecutive service, and in order to be an executive director, make sure to go through the high ranking position to solidify the settlement of responsible management system and human resource circulation. SOCIETY experience development. The education operated by KR can be classified into fundamental capability, on-duty capability, other Personnel Development environment and others. The officers and employees of KR may freely select various education courses that can improve the work capability by taking the course. KR supports the education and training system to enable all officers and employees to contribute to the corporate vision and work capability required Education Training Management System in individual growth and development. In addition, KR has established environment and training plan in accordance by structuring diverse welfare systems, KR is with the increase of demand for professionals in core technology doing its best to build up the working environment to compete with advanced engineering firms with the willingness for officers and employees. to strengthen the technology skills, expansion of advancing into overseas railway projects, and deepening of global competition. Therefore, KR has found out the needs or dept and individual and facilitated the e-HRD (Human Resource Development) system. KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Human resource image and human ● Leadership capability education resource development strategy Next generation leader and managers are nurtured by linking KR strives for the world best railway technology through shortwith universities at home and abroad. term to long-term capability development on the basis of ‘KRCDP’, challenges to be the professional with global capability, and ● Global capability education 62 develops creative person with the creative capability and social Through the cyber language course and lecturing, the officers constituent to strive for social contribution and service contribution. and employees can improve the foreign language level and strengthen new technology and local adaptation by attending in global marketing professional course, international concrete Korea Rail Network Authority Build Education Training System technology seminar and others. KR has established the KR human resource development to ● On-duty capability education undertake the high speed railway development works as a part of accomplishing the future management strategy in 2020 to set For the successful undertaking of the railway construction the ideal high speed railway image as ‘professional’, ‘creative projects, KR has implemented professional development person’ and ‘social constituent’ to place the effort to develop the education. From 2009, the cyber PM education is independently core human resource for exclusive employee through developed to implement the project management specialist education as well as the highest technology specialist and KR human resource image professional, creative person, social constituent Human resource development strategy Human resource image Leader of railway engineering based on specialty for each field! •Professional : Striving for the world best railway technology and global capability •Creative person : Striving for creative capability with unyielding challenge Global business professional •Social personnel : Social contribution and service mentality Core professional Selection (Within 5%) Career field Type of human resource Subject for entire employees KR-Leader •Leader of railway engineering based on specialty for each field (On-duty person) Goal of advancement •Core professional / Global business professional Development through experience development (KR-CDP) Human Development system Capability Experience Capability Outcome Diagnosis Design Development Management Resource Pool •Short-term/long-term capability development on the basis of“KR *CDP” Management *CDP (Career Development Plan) ● Education and training management system drawing Classification Leadership capability education Global capability education Duty capability education Foundation capability education Education territory Leadership Language/Overseas business Other work skill/duty in-depth/professional Enterprise common Officer/Chief Capability education by class Creative innovative and change management Process of sharing KR core value Famous person’s special lecture National graduate school, Ethical CS education course General Manager Education for professional technician, Acquiring overseas railway advanced technology Foreign language education program Reinforcement of the capability in overseas business National graduate school, Overseas duty training course General Securing a dynamic force for new growth Intensify course for duty skill Education of core personnel Core technology professional course Plan, manager research program master’s program Maintenance education course Deputy General education course PP PF SE VE Manager Technology railway asset development for construction supervision Manager Gyeongjeon line magnetic levitation railway Assistant manager or less KR & Sustainability Report 2011 engineer qualification education for each field with 101 engineers implementing the preventive education on sexual harassment educated from such programs. regularly, there has been no case of gender discrimination. ● Base capability education With the 6-Sigma education and base work education, KR Training outcome implements the education for planning development and report 63 Rate of securing the core human resource, the enterprise KPI of preparation to help improving the current work adaptation KR in 2010 has increased for 1.7% to record 416 employees. The capability. In addition, it develops in-company CS lecturers and core human resource means the employees holding doctoral and Korea Rail Network Authority operates various academies, and in particular, the Integrity master’s degrees working for KR. In addition, other major Academy had the attendance of 414 persons. As a result of outcome index in innovative professional no., education hour per person and others have shown the record improved from the past. Education record of key technology professional Outcome analysis 2009 2010 Outcome index Education course Education performance Rate to secure the 27.2% 28.9% Compared to the previous time 1.7% Total 2,340 core human resource (392persons) (416persons) Increase of (24persons) Sub-total 295 Master BB 47persons 54persons (Increase) 7persons Project management Special lecture on advanced technology 57 Innovation Professional Professional Black Belt 123persons 131persons (increase) 8persons (PMP) Integrated processing 30 Green Belt 188persons 206persons (increase) 18persons Cyber PM 208 Education hour person 128h 135h (increase) 7h Sub-total 169 Design/supervision Design professional 95 Professional Supervisory professional 50 New employee OJT 24 Retirement Annuity system and Sub-total 144 Retirement Support Program TECHNOLOGY Engineer process 58 In-depth education KR has introduced the retirement annuity system since 2007. For Specialized in-depth process 56 the guarantee of income and living stability of employees, the Capability 30 education on the retirement pension is implemented for two Sub-total 1,291 Problem solving times a year, and the total number of subscribers is 1,023 Discussion on modification case 100 Education Workshop (33 process) 1,191 persons (70.9%). From 29% of the employees not subscribed for Sub-total 441 the retirement pension, 25% is subscribed in the government Asset management employee pension that the actual rate for pension has reached to Development Asset information work 377 education 95.9%. 4.1% that is yet to subscribe is consisted of new Asset development 64 employees, employees about to retire and employees taking leave. KR has newly established outside consignment lecture for Education of capability strengthening for housing manager, practical affairs of real estate transaction, real the underachievers estate value analysis and others as the education demand for As a result of outcome evaluation, employees with the low active response for job transfer and retirement in 2011. performance for two consecutive terms (Chief General Manager: lower 10%, General Manager: lower 5%) are selected to implement the capability strengthening education. The education period is 6 Survey of employee satisfaction months by implementing duty base education, social contribution KR implements the employee satisfaction survey on overall activities, research project and others to undertake the education working environment twice a year to find out the awareness level evaluation with the S~A grade to return back to the present position, of constituents and improve the working environment for the B~C grade is demoted and D grade is for withdrawal. plan. The employee satisfaction level on overall working environment in 2010 was evenly improved compared to previous level but the personnel system and compensation system are Granting of motivation for outcome with shown to require steady improvement. personnel and compensation KR & Sustainability Report 2011 The outcome evaluation result is facilitated in differentiated Classification 2009 2010 increase range payment for performance. Those with General Manager or Welfare benefit 69.7% 75.0% 5.3% higher positions have the differentiated range of 120% between Personnel system 56% 62.8% 6.8% highest and lowest grades, and the Deputy General Manager or Compensation/allowance 63.8% 68.7% 4.9% lower grades have the differentiated range of 60% to entice the Internal communication 68.0% 74.2% 6.2% leadership for executive employees. Capability development 69.9% 76.9% 7.0% In addition, the outstanding performer-oriented promotion is 64 implemented to select the outstanding employees for each month to grant the opportunity of family trip for each month. For Advanced outcome management the performers with 16 cases of budget savings, a total of 58 system operation million won for bonus was paid, and through the creative Korea Rail Network Authority KR operates the strategic enforcement strengthening system innovation and sharing conference, the outcome for facilities integrated with strategy, innovation, evaluation and field, asset field, creative innovation, customer satisfaction, and compensation. In other words, the strategic task (enforcement) social contribution have been rewarded. of the future management strategy is undertaken as the innovative task, and as a result, the KPI accomplishment level is Differentiated rate for outcome wage reflected on internal result analysis and the result of the outcome Grade S A B C D evaluation is reflected with personnel and compensation. KR Personnel ratio 10% 20% 40% 20% 10% undertakes the performance contract system for all officers and General Manager and higher 240% 210% 180% 150% 120% Deputy General Manager or lower 210% 195% 180% 165% 150% employees to establish the responsible management system. In addition, by integrating various information systems, KR has Unit : 1,000 won, persons structured the integrated outcome management system to Average compensation of employees monitor the KPI accomplishment status in real time in a way of 2008 2009 2010 contributing the future management strategy. Average compensation amount per person 59,971 59,248 60,760 No. of full time employees 1,516 1478.4 1429.3 No. of average service 15.7 15.7 16.3 Officer/head of dept Head of dept (Chief General Manager/ General Manager) Dept member Classification Performance contract Performance contract Performance contract Contract Chairman Chairman Head of dept ■Budget savings performance ■Outstanding innovation cases Officer/Head of dept Head of dept Member of dept allowance review committee competition Contract Management goal and Evaluation index and goal Evaluation index and goal Contents evaluation category Index Leadership, Evaluation strategy Dept and enforcement task, Dept and index unique for KPI and others KPI and others individual Salary and Salary and performance Performance base Result performance based based payment Wage promotion, payment and promotion, Facilitation payment education and others education and other Personnel management personnel management SOCIETY have the separate safety and health category ranging from Article 120 to Article 137 under the valid collective bargain Labor management agreement effective up to December 2010 to make the effort in protecting the safety of officers and employees and improvement collaboration of health. In addition, in the event that there is any material matters of dissolution, division, merger and others of an KR has built up the advance labor management organization, it is notified to the labor union up to 90 days and it culture with the method of preparing the completely breaks away from child labor and forced working. improvement plan by collecting the proposal and Ombudsman of employees through the labor Operation of employee ombudsman management communication channel. processing system KR operates diverse channels to prevent and relieve the troubles of employees. By operating the 'Ombudsman system’ and ‘personnel exchange system' to receive and process troubles on KR & Sustainability Report 2011 the Intranet, the representatives of labor management attended Status of labor union in the quarterly gathering and it operates the 'free legal service for customers' and individual and work related laws for officers KR labor union was launched in May 2005 as integrated labor and employees as well as the 'dialog with chairman' as the union and its fourth term of executive session was launched in window for 1:1 dialog with the president of 'labor management 2010. All employees of Deputy General Manager and below may council' to process the employee troubles in group. join labor union and number of labor union member is 1,218 persons with the subscription rate of 83%. KR complies with the ● Ombudsman processing operation process 65 labor union and labor relations adjustment laws to guaranty the Reception of employee ombudsman freedom of assembly and collective bargain, and it provides the Labor Management Review and Ombudsman common Reception Korea Rail Network Authority for Ombudsman notice within office for labor union and deducts the union fees at the time of processing Committee Place of record arrangement and 10 days system others Personnel wage payment as a way of supporting the labor union activities. In ombudsman addition, KR has introduced Time-Off system to prepare the Tuesday and Thursday foundation to form the labor management relationship. (Mail and others) Human Resource Personnel Operation Division exchange system Reception Labor management communication channel Under the drastically changing management environment, the Agenda processing for labor management council labor management win-win council (labor management with 3 persons each) as the labor management joint council for Agenda processed at the 2010 labor management council was a settlement of advanced labor management culture and total of 49 cases with the completion of 44 cases with the high productivity improvement through system improvement as well record of 90%. Looking at it in more details, the entire agenda as seeking for advancement plan for KR was newly launched in had substantial difficulties in welfare and personnel part. April 2010. It entered into the agreement in December 2008 to Therefore, KR has implemented for reform action on these two parts and, as a result, the level of satisfaction has been improved in comparison with the previous record. Classification Major outcome Labor management Practical Affairs Committee ·Entering into the advanced level of collective bargain Classification Total Completed Promoting Labor Management win-win council ·Discussion on promotion direction for labor management win-win collaboration Labor Management Joint ·Selection of the most outstanding institution for labor management partnership Total 49 44 5 Undertaking Committee program operation (Award of the Minister of Labor Prize) Compensation 2 2 TF to transfer regional ·Enhancement of efficiency of project undertaking for Honam high Personnel 15 15 company building speed railway with the opening of Gwangju Office Welfare 28 24 4 Retirement Pension Committee ·Operation of retirement reserve higher than the market interest Education and training 3 3 In-company Labor Welfare ·Support of sports and culture activities of employees Fund Committee ·Promotion of employee welfare (summer resting place and others) Others 1 1 SOCIETY Classification Main contents •Operation of Council for determining the policies on Win-win Growth Composition of the Council on accompanied accompanied growth and listing to the cooperative companies and VOC ·organization: KR officers: 6 persons, CEOs growth of Major of cooperative companies: 25 persons Companies and SMEs (5 major companies and 20 SMEs) (Sep 2010) ·Organize the practical committee for each KR has undertaken for accompanied growth region and field under the Council (a total of 10 companies) activities along with major companies and SMEs Newly establish the •Establishment of sub-contract reviewing by re-establishing the accompanied growth strategy Subcontract Review organization for preventing the low subcontracting of railway construction and management of Committee (Jan 2011) for all companies and it has supported for strengthening unfair action of main supplier and contractor and developing the competitiveness with cooperative companies through the fair selection and evaluation process. Major support project for SMEs KR operates the point system for local companies and promotes SME to participate in bidding by reflecting the subcontract ratio KR & Sustainability Report 2011 on evaluation and supports domestication development with new technology. In addition, it has completed the financial terms in Accompanied growth promotion system the first half for supporting the liquidity and jointly advanced to KR has re-established its accompanied growth with large overseas projects with SMEs. companies and SME in Nov 2010 to be born again as the reliable public company. By preparing the foundation for continuous accompanied growth generation advancement of railway Effort for Fairness in Selecting 66 industry and the basis for fair social realization, KR has Cooperative Companies undertaken appropriate works to fit into the work. KR facilitates the e-procurement system to fairly select the cooperative companies. When registering the bidding notice on Korea Rail Network Authority the electronic procurement system, it is automatically linked to Fair society realizing strategy Nara Market Place and Allio to convey the contents to all companies. KR solidifies the condition of the contract through the Vision Realizing the public benefit company relied on by people revision and reduces the subject thereof; KR has placed efforts to slogans Reduce the unfair transaction, Go! Heighten the accompanied growth, Go! minimize the private contract in entire fields of contract in work, Fair society Improvement of the level of social contribution service, purchase and others. Such a change is notified to all (Improvement of accompanied growth index + social contribution index) strategy cooperative companies in electronic procurement system and 3 major Practicing leading Realizing fair Expansion of the cooperative companies conversely present free opinion strategic accompanied growth corporate culture sharing culture themes thereof. KR reflects the opinion of such cooperative company Duty work performance KR hope when presenting the opinion. In addition, when selecting the 49 major Revising the strategy system Expansion of project practicing for accompanied and performance based undertaking cooperative company, any company violating the special task growth and 30 others outcome Differentiated and 13 strengthening and 6 others conditions for integrity has the restrictions in bidding participation with the sanction for unjust companies. In addition, upon the PQ review (pre-qualification review), it renders sanctions by way of imposing the point deduction against companies that violate the Organization system and operation subcontract laws. KR undertakes the accompanied growth works systematically by newly establishing the fair society promotion accomplishing the accompanied growth works under the directives of the chairman Effort to share fair society with in Oct 2010. In addition, it operates the accompanied growth cooperative companies council for each field and region and it has newly established KR implements the education on periodic basis for q6, subcontract review committee to prevent the unfair action. environment, safety, customer satisfaction, ethics and others by facilitating the in-company lecturer with the cooperative companies support center with the accompanied growth cyber center as subject and shares the effort for realizing the fair society. (http://www.kr.or.kr/branch/cowork/) to support online and offline for operation. The cyber center provides the e-service of information on subcontract proceeds payment, record certificate Diverse system improvements for issuance, new technology registration application as well as SME win-win growth competitiveness strengthening in research development technology support and others. KR has newly established the support window for SME in head Along with that the SME support center discovers and solves the office in Dec 2010 and the participation opportunity has been troubles on management, including funding, human resource, expanded as improving the proceeds payment system. In technology and other management issues in a way of protecting particular, the technology sharing with the SME has expanded to the SME and undertakes policy establishment, system have no reflection on the accompanied growth on long-term improvement and others. In addition, for the efficient operation, point of view. specialized counseling staff is designated to process in one-stop service with the implementation of the‘Happy-Call' system. ● Proceeds payment improvement for SMEs KR & Sustainability Report 2011 KR has established full-time monitoring system for proceeds ● Entering into the accompanied growth payment of a subcontract company. In other words, it has support agreement structured character service forwarding system for subcontract KR actively participates in SME support system of the companies. government, and for collaborating growth facilitation in the public sector; it has entered into the accompanied growth ● Expansion of participation opportunity for SME support work with accompanied growth committee in June KR has implemented joint contract structure for main contractor 67 2011. Both institutions implement management advisory of in 4 projects including Wonju ~ Jecheon two-way railways, and SME and practice the technology protection of SME through the upon the review, as the participation equity for local company technology data system and development project for new gets higher, additional points are granted. Korea Rail Network Authority products as well as discovering the system discovery and information exchange to undertake successful railway ● Introduction of e-review construction projects in realizing the fair society in the KR implements the PQ review in e-review to prevent the record construction business field to lead the accompanied growth in advance and reduce the various documents to submit by SME. with SMEs. KR plans to strengthen its capability in accompanied growth as ● Expansion of technology sharing for a public company to improve the unfair subcontract and SME cooperative companies distribution of fair outcome and expand the participation KR has the method to permit 44 cases of patent use, including opportunity for SME. Through the accompanied growth, the joint linkage of bridge construction, to expand the scope of practical plans are striven for the SMEs to win more benefits use for its intellectual property rights. In addition, for promoting and be the model for many public companies that strive for the new technology of SMEs, the procedure has been improved, accompanied growth. including the technology support through technology agreement with SME and it has established the accompanied growth academy for cooperative company education support in railway ■ SME Support Center ■ SME bull sessions construction. ● Strengthening of SME support system For the cooperative registration of accompanied growth with SMEs in the railway construction site, KR has opened and operated the SME SOCIETY Status of operation for each year of KR service Cooperation in local Classification Personnel 2008 665persons 2009 634persons 2010 664persons community and social (Employee participation rate) (43%) (42%) (46%) contribution ● Building up the social contribution fund KR facilitates the social contribution fund (Nanum Fund and KR has strengthened its social contribution wage earner investment) and matching grant system that were program to duly carry out the role of public introduced in January 2008 to stably operate the social institution to people and local community. contribution fund. ※Matching grant system : This is a system to support the social contribution fund by KR for the same amount with the fund amount of officers and employees. 135,0 KR & Sustainability Report 2011 00 wo 10.7 h n ours 1-person based performance Participation in local community and on strategy for advancement 15.57 198mil 7persons 2.1 tim lion w es When establishing the future management strategy, KR has 20,00 3,088 included ‘social responsibility-valued management’ as one of the on 0 won s 68 10 major enterprise strategies and, as the common KPI 362pe 66millio person nw n rson undertaken in all departments, it has selected ‘social s 3million wo contribution mileage for each person’. In particular, the social Total performance contribution activities of KR are undertaken as a part of important Korea Rail Network Authority Blood service service farm KR Social donation personnel hour products scholarship contribution management strategy for sustainable management. Purchase support fund amount For the systematic and directional social contribution activities, KR has established 6 major implementation plans in ‘together ● social contribution management system with local community’, ‘support for neglected class’, KR operates the social contribution management system for ‘environment protector’ and others, and it is linked to important dispersing the voluntary service activities of entire officers and themes in ‘locality attached-type activities’, ‘festival-type service employees. By registering the service activity schedule for each activities’, railway side centered activities’ and others. head office, and monitoring the activities result in real time, and For the less fortunate youth, it has the ‘KR Sodan hope project’ to inspecting the social contribution performance, the insufficient structure the representative brand of KR social contribution activities part has been supplemented. to heighten the understanding on railway for nationwide youths. Infra structuring for social contribution activities ● KR volunteer service organization and operation KR has launched 2005 KR volunteer service team for undertaking continuous social contribution activities, and the officers and employees have joined in the service to implement regular social contribution activities. The chairman is the director of the KR volunteer service organization to lead the effort and vice chairman is in charge of social contribution committee for social contribution activities for each year and fund operation plan. ● Activities with the railway side as the core brand ● Regional attached activities reflecting work •Coal sharing with love : The coal sharing with love event is specialization undertaken for the neglected neighborhood near the railway. •Beautiful playground making : KR has fully repaired or altered •Cleaning and learning instruction in the Samgol Study Room : children’s playgrounds around the railway area (15 areas The Chungcheong head office provides learning instruction including Yongdoo-dong, Daejeon City). It also worked on each month for children in Samgol Village and holds birthday regional NGO, wall painting drawing, swing line changing, parties for them. sand filling up, and facility replacement activities together. •Delivery of lunch meal and free meal voluntary service for •Housing repair of neglected class : By facilitating the KR’s KR & Sustainability Report 2011 single elderly : By linking with social welfare center and NGO, professional strengths (architecture, civil work, electricity and the delivery of lunch meal and free meal voluntary service for others), the old housings are repaired and replaced with single elderly has been provided. electric facilities. •‘KR Sodan’ hope project : ‘KR Sodan’ hope project was •‘KR Forestation with Blue Love’ : By facilitating the landscaping launched in Apr. 2010 for nationwide less fortunate youth and it technology power of KR, it has the landscaping on railway area supported scholarship for 100 youths. In addition, with the 1:1 in Sintanjin, Daejeon (size of 26,136㎡) and repaired its mentoring linkage between youth and employees, Sodan facilities. 69 continues for the support. •Railway Love Camp : By inviting elementary school students in remote distance, field trip to railway construction sites are provided and train experiment event are provided. Korea Rail Network Authority ● NGO and interested party-oriented social ● Festival service activities with the participation of contribution activities all officers and employees and family members •Blood donation of love sharing : Working with the Korea Red •International soccer service activities : KR Sodan, officers and Cross, the blood donation of love sharing is undertaken in Feb. employees and family members are shown for soccer games and Aug. when the blood is most insufficient. and undertake the service activities for the event. •Undertaking of international relief activities : KR undertakes its •Love sharing gimjang event : Undertake the 1-company 1social responsibility as a global railway company by village for all employees in Gapa Village to make the gimjang undertaking Haiti earthquake contribution, less fortunate together and delivered the same to 36 neglected families. needy neighborhood, disaster and damage recovery fund, fruit •The disabled social adaptation program : Together with of love for fund contribution and the like. employees, the disabled employment campaign was •1-company 1-village farm service activities : KR participates in undertaken with the visit to social adaptation tour. helping hand for farm villages during the farming season in 8 regions of Cheongyang Gapa Village, Igong Village and others along with the purchase for farm products all year long. Appendix •Awards history and association membership status •Sustainability Management TFT •3rd party verification opinion •KR's ISO 26000 implementation level standard report •GRI G3.1/ ISO26000 Index •Customer's opinion APPENDIX List of award and association subscription status Evaluation for external institutions KR’s utmost efforts for sustainability management have proved with varied results including eco-friendly institution award from president. Foreign result Institution Significance of award President’ award for being eco-friendly institution(2010. 6) Ministry of Environment Contributed to green growth by eco-friendly railway construction and facility management President’s award for national quality competition(2010. 9) Ministry of Knowledge and economy Strengthened the quality competitiveness through quality management activities KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Grand prize for Korea’s management,Walk of Fame(2010.10) Korea Efficiency Association Consulting Created a management quality innovative result Grand prize for nature environment(2010.10) Ministry of Environment Contributed in spreading projects of preserving the nature environment and restoring the ecosystem Recognized as outstanding institution of information privacy(2010.12) Ministry of Land Appointed as outstanding institution for 6 consecutive years and improved nation trust Recognized as the top institution in labor partnership program(2010.12) Ministry of Labor Lead an developmental and future-oriented labor culture Awarded in green construction design part (2010.12) Seoul newspaper Spread green growth through eco-friendly design Appointed as the most respectable institution in Korea(2011. 2) Korea Efficiency Association Consulting Actualized the social responsibility management with excellent performance President’s award in nation Sinmungo(2011. 2) Citizen rights committee Contributed to protect citizen rights 72 Subscribed Associations KR has joined diverse associations, including UN Global Company and others, for many activities to undertaken successful sustainable management. Korea Rail Network Authority Year of subscription Name of association 2002 International Railway Federation 2004 Korea Project Management Association Korea Civil Engineers’Society, Korea Transportation Society, Korea Railway Society, Council on Transparent Society, Korea 2005 Architecture Society, Korea Electricity Society, Daejeon Environment Movement United, Daejeon Chungnam Green United 2006 Overseas Construction Association, Yunkyung Forum, Korea Proposal Activity Association 2007 UN Global Compact, UNICEF Korea Commission, Korea Railway Construction Engineering Association 2009 Korea Railway Association, Korea Facilities Safety Association 2010 UN Global Compact, Korea Association 4 fields and 10 principles under UN Global Compact KR has joined in「UN Global Compact」 , an international treaty for UN operation for the corporate social responsibility to comply with 10 principles and 4 fields in human rights/ labor/ environment/ and anti-corruption. Principle 1 : A company has to support and respect the internationally declared human rights. Human Rights Principle 2 : A company shall make active effort not to interfere against human rights. Principle 3 : A company has to support practical recognition of freedom of assembly and collective bargain rights, Principle 4 : Exclude all types of coercive laboring, Labour Standards Principle 5 : Abolish child labor efficiently and Principle 6 : Abolish the discrimination on the employment and work undertaken. Principle 7 : A company has to support preventive approach of Korea with respect to the environment issues, Environment Principle 8 : Undertake actions to promote environmental responsibilities, and Principle 9 : Further the development and expansion of environment-friendly technology. Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption Principle 10: A company has to oppose all types of corruptions including illegal acquisition, bribery and others. Sustainable management TFT Sustainable management of KR is undertaken by the Office of Planning and Coordination, Performance Management, Strategic Management/Innovation, and for the flawless work undertaking, it has designated and operated with the person in charge of exclusive affairs and 16 relevant departments. The sustainability management report is also undertaken by the Performance Management with 16 relevant departments with the TFT for preparation. Planning and Coordination KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Director Kang Keun-sik Performance Management Chief General Manager Park In-seo 73 Department of strategy management/ innovation Chief, Lee, Jae-woo / Deputy, Moon, Jong-kyu / Deputy, Jeon, Jin-ho / Korea Rail Network Authority Deputy, Song, Chang-hyun / Section-chief, Yang, Pyo-wook / Section-chief, Yang, Hee-hyun / Staff, Sin, So-hyun / Staff, Choi, Young-sook Summary Economy Environment Society Planning and Budget Financial Strategy Quality and Environment Planning & Budget Deputy General Manager Deputy General Manager Assistant Manager Manager Kim Dong-kook Kim Hak-in Choi Yoon-jung Kim Min-jung General Affairs Audit and Inspection Construction Planning Technical Criteria and Deputy General Manager Deputy General Manager Deputy General Manager Design Evaluation An Sung-seok Yoo Seung-sang Kim Hoon Deputy General Manager Manager Lee Tae-hoon Manager Hwang Byung-bok Overseas Business Planning Manager Jung Ji-eun Roh Kyung-jin Assistant Manager Architecture and Depot Human Resources Yoo Jung-hee Deputy General Manager Kim Yong-soo Manager Seo Jung-bong Safety Management Labor and Affairs Benefits Deputy General Manager Shin Seung-seop Deputy General Manager Yang Dong-beom Technical Research Center Deputy General Manager Deputy General Manager Park Jun-tae Park Man-ho Contract Manager Kim Ouk-soo KR Human Resources Development Institute Manager Jung Hyun-hee APPENDIX Third party verification opinion To KR officers and interested parties ■Introduction accuracy and q6 of sustainability outcome information contained in the report and assertion of KR in accordance with the principle of report responsibility of KR executives and interested party with KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Korea Standard Association (hereinafter referred to as ’verifier’) has received a request for independent verification from KR for the AA 1000 verification standard (AS 1000 AS) 2008. its ’KR 2011 sustainability report’ (hereinafter referred to as The verifier visited the head office from Jan. 1, 2010 to Dec. 31, ‘report’). This verifier hereby presents the independent 2010 for undertaking the verification with the focus on activities verification opinion by reviewing the evidence and and system related to sustainable management under KR 2011 reasonableness of data, result and relevant system included in sustainability report. the report that KR prepared. Responsibility on collection, analysis, arrangement and all ■Verification method 74 assertions on the report shall be on KR. The verifier uses the following method to gather the information, ■ Independence data and evidence required in the verification range and Korea Rail Network Authority undertaken the verification. This verifier has not entered into any interested relationship purported for the profit base throughout the business •Survey on press and Internet data mentioned on KR and undertaking of KR other than the works of providing the third railway industry with the sustainability aspect during the report party verification on the report. In addition, it does not have any period deviated opinion on any insiders of KR. •Visiting the KR head office •Review of management system and process used in preparing the report by improving the sustainable ■Verification standard and level management result •Review of internal document and base data The verifier has applied the AA 1000AS 2008 verification standard •Interview with the person in charge and issue sustainable (AA 1000 AS) and GRI management responsibilities G3.1 instruction to undertake verification. It has the report evaluation standard with the comprehensiveness, importance ■Verification result and opinion and responsiveness as the principle of AA 1000AS 2008 verification standard. The reliability on the information within the sustainability report The verifier has reviewed the contents on the initial draft and of KR has been verified as the guarantee of general level. presented opinion thereof, and if necessary, revision of report was made. The verifier did not discover any error or inappropriate point on the contents listed on this report through ■ Types and scope of verification the verification activities. The verifier hereby presents its opinion on the sustainable report Following the AA 1000 verification standard (AA 1000 AS), the of KR as follows. verifier has undertaken the verification applicable for Type 2. Type 2 verification means the evaluation was undertaken for ▶ Comprehensiveness ▶Responsiveness Q Is the participation of institution guaranteed in the process of participating and accomplishing the strategic response plan on the sustainability? Q Does KR appropriately respond to the issues of interested party? KR actively reflects the important sustainable management KR recognizes its responsibility to report to the interested party issues on the organizational policies and activities. In the future, it influencing or be influenced from it. Through diverse presents the sustainable management strategy and promotion organizations, such as, conflict management review committee, plan of KR and we propose to establish the index for measuring customer value committee, accompanied growth council and the sustainable management result to report. others, to promote the communication with the interested party and attract the participation. ■Opinion and improvement recommendation for Thereafter, by finding out systematically for priority sequence each field and interested issues of interested parties and establishing the KR & Sustainability Report 2011 strategic response plan, it is recommended to integrate with enterprise management activities. •By connecting the risk management system of KR to the sustainable management to manage by including the sustainable issues. ▶ Importance •For the environment management advancement of KR, the Q Does it include the important issues influencing on KR and its interested parties? environment management index in KR-EMI (Environmental Management Index) that is managed in 10 categories is recommended to expand and develop on continuous basis. 75 KR reports major sustainable issues in environment-friendly •It is recommenced to manage the performance record on the railway construction, safety first issues, global management and stipulation with the external institution and undertaken for others. In particular, it has standard effort to realize its strategic social contribution activities program by facilitating Korea Rail Network Authority environmental responsibilities through its eco station and eco the characteristics in railway construction and facilities railway construction, ecology restoration project, CDM project management. and others. In the future, it is expected to enhance the recognition of interested party for the safety management activities through the systematic report in the safety field. July 25, 2011 President of the Korea Standard Association Kim Chang-ryong APPENDIX Diagnosis report of implementation level of ISO 26000 for KR The Korea Standard Association presented checklist for social responsibility performance level based on ISO 26000 (international standard on social responsibility) as a part of the services for the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. This report is on the result of examining social responsibility management process and outcome for each of the 7 core themes of KR in accordance with the check list thereof. Through the railway construction and facilities management, KR implements social responsibility management for strengthening the global competitiveness of KR and promoting transportation convenience of people. KR has established 3 key values of ‘sustainable management’ ‘professionalism’, and ‘mutual trust’ for realizing its vision and strategy in KR & Sustainability Report 2011 a way of sharing the recognition on the sustainable advancement of constituents. In addition, it has secured the foundation for sustainable advancement through environment-friendly railway construction, accompanied growth, and risk management. KR needs to find out the social responsibility and sustainable management with its important territories that the organization is encountered with and integrate the strategic element of social responsibility and sustainable management in the decision making process. Furthermore, it is proposed to promote the trust with its interested party by disclosing the safety related information in recent days. 76 ▼Status of diagnosing the management ▼Status of outcome on social responsibility system for social responsibility Korea Rail Network Authority Organization Social Responsibility governance realization Improve Identification and Participation and participation of development of Human rights interested parties 80 community 72 84 80 84 72 Analysis of Verification 87 80 core and topic 95 55 Customer issue 89 Labor culture 67 70 95 90 Communication Priority setting and execution and plan establishment Fair operation Environment Execution culture July 25, 2011 President of the Korea Standard Association Kim Chang-ryong Implementation level check-list Process 360 points Examination is made on the basis of social responsibility system structuring process (recognition, participation, analysis, strategy, implementation, communication, verification and improvement) of organization as presented by ISO 26000. The social responsibility system structuring is enabled through integrating and continuous A total improvement within the existing management system of the organization. of 1000 Points ISO 26000 Outcome 640 points Examination is made for the organization outcome level with the 7 core themes of ISO 26000 (organizational governance/ human rights/ labor customs/ environment/ fair operation customs/ consumer issue/ local community participation and advancement). It helps easy understanding for organization for concept and terminologies used in activities and KR & Sustainability Report 2011 expectations for each issue in 7 core themes and 37 issues and makes evaluation for the organization to practice. Process diagnosis (8-phase) Outcome examination (7 major themes) Recognition of social responsibility Organizational governance 1phase Review the current status of organization on the basis of Activities respect of the principle for social responsibility and willingness of executives integrate it to the existing system, policy and customs 77 Combining social responsibility to all organization Identification and participation of interested parties Review the interest and requirements of interested parties and Human rights 2phase establish participation strategy Activities to respect human rights, protect and comply and Korea Rail Network Authority realize within the impact zone of the organization Core themes and issue analysis Preparation of issue list through the review and organizational 3phase internal capability analysis Labor practice Policy and customs influencing on the labor environment of workers subject of organization and cooperative companies Establishment of priority sequence and strategy Establish and enforce the priority sequence, goal and plan of 4phase issues to improve and manage in consideration of organizational capability Environment Activities to comprehensively approach in consideration of decision of organization and implication of activities to reduce Implement the influence of organization influencing on environment 5phase Strategy, vision, goal and enforcement plan and periodic monitoring of social responsibility result Fair operation customs Activities with the interest on ethical behaviors of trading between the organization and other organizations, such as 6phase Communication partner, supplier and others With interested party by preparing the communication report Consumer issues Consumer right protection activities with consumer education, 7phase Verification fair and transparent marketing information as well as contract, Activities and report for enhancing the reliability for sustainable consumption and others verification outcome Local community participation and advancement 8phase Improvement Activities to make effort to maximize the resource and Periodically review the improvement outcome to link it opportunity as recognizing and respecting the rights of the local with continuous community Contribution to the sustainable development APPENDIX GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index ● Report Non-report — Not applicable Index ISO 26000 Core social GRI Index Detailed contents ISO 26000 responsibility theme and agenda Fulfillment Applicable page Number Participation of interested parties 6.8.2 participation in local community ● 26~27 Promotion of social Boundary protocol 6.6.5 responsibility within the ● Summary of report value chain Strategy and 1.1 Highest decision maker (Ex: CEO, chairman or equal officer) declares the relativity of sustainability and report ● 4~5 analysis organization and strategy 6.2 Organization governance 1.2 Description on main influence, risk factor and opportunity ● 14~15 Organization 2.1 Name of organization ● 12 Profile 2.2 Representative brand, product and service ● 12 2.3 Organizational structures for report organization including main business dept, management company, subsidiary company, and joint venture company 6.2 Organization governance ● 12 2.4 Head office/location of head office ● 12 KR & Sustainability Report 2011 2.5 Name of country with the concrete relativity with the sustainable problem handled in the report or number of ● 13, 48 countries and main business premises that the report organization currently operate on 2.6 Ownership structure characteristics and legal type ● 12 2.7 Subject market (classification for each region, business field, customer/beneficiary type) ● 12 2.8 Scale of report organization ● 12, 52~53 2.9 Material change under the scale during the report period, structure or ownership structure — No material change during the report period 2.10 Contents of awards during the report period ● 72 Report media 3.1 Period subject for report (Ex: Accounting year /calendar year) ● Summary of report variable 3.2 Most recent report publication date (if existing) ● Summary of report 78 3.3 Report period (Every year, every other year) ● Summary of report 3.4 Place of inquiry on report and relevant contents ● Summary of report 3.5 Contents of report and definition process ● Summary of report 3.6 Report boundary (Ex: Government, business dept, subsidiary company, lease facilities, joint venture company, and supplier). ● Summary of report Korea Rail Network Authority Refer to the GRI boundary rules for additional instruction. 3.7 Detailed restriction on report scope or report boundary ● Summary of report 3.8 Standard of report on object that may influence greatly for possible comparison between organizations or for ● Summary of report each period in joint venture company subsidiary company, lease facilities, outsourcing work and others 3.9 Data measurement technique and calculation standard including assumption and technique to support the ● Summary of report forecasting applied in outcome index and other information collection process 3.10 Effect and re-technology cause from re-technology of information presented in the previous report ● Summary of report 3.11 Major change of scope, boundary or measurement method of report compared to the previous report period ● Summary of report 3.12 Chart showing the location of standard notices within the report ● 78~80 3.13 Policy and present activities to seek for external verification, scope and relationship of standard of external verification, report organization and verification institution 7.5.3 Verification ● 74~75 Control 4.1 Control structure of organization –Including the committees under the board of directors that is responsible for strategy establishment, enterprise, supervision and others 6.2 ● 19 structure, 4.2 Concurrent position of the chairman of the board of directors 6.2 ● 18 responsibility 4.3 In the event that the board of directors is unilateral organization, specify the number of constituents and gender, not independent or officer at the board of directors 6.2 ● 18 and participation 4.4 Mechanism to present for advice or direction by shareholders and employees to the board of directors 6.2 ● 19, 65 4.5 relationship between the compensation (including organization for each dept) on constituents of the board of directors, 6.2 ● 19 high ranking manager, officer and others and organizational outcome (including social/environmental outcome) 4.6 Process to prevent the collision of interested relationship within the board of directors 6.2 ● 19 4.7 Process to determine the board of directors organization to assist economic/ environmental/ social strategy, qualification 6.2 ● 19 of constituents of the board of directors, and professional criteria thereof (including the gender and diversity indices) 4.8 In relations to the economic/environmental/social outcome and activities, the internal mission/ core value statement, code of conduct and principle 6.2 ● 4~5, 14~15 Organization governance 4.9 Procedure for the board of directors to oversee economic/ environmental/ social outcome and management –Including the 6.2 ● 14~15, 19 relevant risky factor and opportunity, and standard, code of action, principle to comply as agreed internationally 4.10 Process to evaluate the outcome of the board of directors, particularly for economic/ environmental/ social outcome 6.2 ● 19 4.11 Adoptation of principle for advance prevention, approach method and description on adaptation method 6.2 ● 24~25 4.12 External initiative subscribed or supported in economic/environmental/social charter, principle and others 6.2 ● 72 4.13 Status of acquisition for each association (ex: industrial association) and national/international policy organization membership 6.2 ● 72 4.14 List of group of interested parties participated 6.2 ● 26~27 4.15 Criteria for identification and selection of interested parties to participate 6.2 ● 26~27 4.16 Status of participation method of interested party in participation frequency and others for each participation type and interested party group 6.2 ● 26~27 4.17 Core themes, interested issues and responsive method raised through the interested party participation 6.2 ● 26~27, 29 ● Report Non-report — Not applicable Index ISO 26000 Core social GRI Index Detailed contents ISO 26000 responsibility theme and agenda Fulfillment Applicable page Number Generation and distribution of direct economic value EX: Profit, sales costs, Participation of local community and advancement/local Economic EC1 employee compensation, donation, investment on local community, profit surplus, 6.8/6.8.3 /6.8.7/6.8.9 community participation/ generation of wealth and income/ ● 52~53 part capital cost, tax and others social investment Managemen EC2 Risk and opportunity on financial impact and business activities of climate change 6.5.5 Climate change moderation and application ● 34~35, 46 t method Notification EC3 Scope of pension support 6.4.4/6.8 ● 63 EC4 Government subsidy benefit performance ● 52 EC5 Wage ratio for each gender of new employees compared to the minimal wage at the locality for major business premises 6.4.4/6.8 Labor condition and social protection/ local community participation and advancement ● 64 Promotion of social responsibility within the value chain/ local EC6 Local purchase policy, customs and ratio of key business premises 6.6.6/6.8 /6.8.5/6.8.7 community participation and advancement/ job generation and ● 66~67 functional development/ generation of wealth and income EC7 Ratio of high ranking of locality and priority hiring procedure of locality 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 Local community job generation and functional ● 48 development/ generation of wealth and income Activities and effect of infra investment and service support with the public interest 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3 Economic, social and cultural rights /local community participation EC8 as priority /6.8.4/6.8.5/6.8.6 and advancement/local community participation/ education and ● 16~17, 68~69 (including the support classification) culture/ technology development and access/ wealth and income /6.8.7/6.8.9 generation/social investment Economic, social and cultural rights /Promotion of social responsibility 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7 within the value chain/ respect for property rights/ required service EC9 Understanding and description on indirect economic dispersion effect /6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5 approach/ local community participation and advancement/job ● 16~17 (Including the scope of influence) KR & Sustainability Report 2011 /6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 generation and function development/ technology development and access/ wealth and income generation/social investment Environment EN1 Weight or volume based raw material use ● 36 part EN2 Recycled material use ratio ● 36~37 Managemen t method EN3 Direct energy consumption volume for each primary energy source ● 36 Notification EN4 Indirect energy consumption volume for each primary energy source ● 36 EN5 Energy volumes saved with the efficiency improvement ● 32 Energy reduction volume through the energy efficiency or recyclable energy based 6.5/6.5.4 Environment /sustainable resource use EN6 product/service supply effort and applicable project ● 32, 34~35 EN7 Indirect energy savings project and outcome ● 37 79 EN8 Total water volume for each supply source ● 36 EN9 Water supply source with significant influence for water ● 36 Korea Rail Network Authority EN10 Total volumes and ratio of re-used and recycled water ● 36 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased and managed in the protective zone, ● 33 microbe diversity value or surrounding area EN12 Influence on microbe diversity from activities, product and service in ● 33 the protective zone, microbe diversity value or surrounding area 6.5/6.5.6 Environment/ environment protection, diversity and natural EN13 Protected and restored habitat habitat restoration ● 33 EN14 Microbe diversity management strategies, current action and future plan ● 33 Red list designated by IUCN that reside within the influenced area and number EN15 of species under endangered specifies, main products for endangered risk, and ● 33 material environmental influence of product and service EN16 Total discharge volume for indirect and direct greenhouse gas ● 36, 37 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas discharge volume 6.5/6.5.5 Moderation and application of environment/climate change ● 36, 37 EN18 Greenhouse reduction project and outcome ● 34~35 EN19 Ozone layer destruction substance discharge volume ● 36~37 EN20 NOx, SOx and other major atmospheric pollutant discharge volume ● 36 EN21 Total waste water discharge volume and water quality for each final discharge area ● 37 EN22 Waste material discharge volume for each type and processing method 6.5/6.5.3 Environment/ pollution prevention ● 37 EN23 Material harmful substance discharge cases and discharge volume ● 37 Ratio of waste material carried to overseas and transportation/ carry in/carry out/ EN24 processing volume defined under I, II, III, and VIII of the Addendum to the Basel ● 36 Convention EN25 Name, size protection condition and biological diversity value of territory and 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 Environment/ sustainable resource use /relationship ● 33 habitat influenced from the waste water discharge of organization protection, diversity and natural habitat restoration Activities and outcome to reduce the environmental influence of product Environment / sustainable resource use / promotion of EN26 and service 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 social responsibility within the value chain/ sustainable ● 33 consumption EN27 Ratio of recycling of product sold and related packing materials 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 Environment / sustainable resource use / sustainable consumption ● 36 EN28 No. of sanctions in penalty and others imposed of violating environment law and regulation 6.5 Environment ● 33 EN29 Material environmental impact of officers and employees movement and 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 Sustainable consumption/ promotion of social responsibility ● 35 transportation of product and raw materials within the value chain EN30 Expenses of environment protection and total investment amount 6.5 Environment ● 15 APPENDIX ● Report Non-report — Not applicable GRI Index Index Detailed contents ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Core social Fulfillment Applicable Number responsibility theme and agenda page Labor part LA1 Type of hiring gender, labor contract and personnel status by region ● 61 6.4/6.4.3 labor custom/ relations with labor management LA2 Newly hired employees; number and ratio of employee’s displacement (by age, sex and region) ● 61 method notification LA3 Benefit given to only full-time employees, not for temporary or part-time 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 Custom and labor relation/ employment relationships/ labor condition and ● 63 employee (by important area of site) social protection 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 Custom and labor relation/ employment relationships/ labor condition and LA4 Employee ratio which group negotiation is applicable social protection/ social communication/ basic rule and right at the work ● 65 /6.3.10 LA5 Minimum notification duration for important project changes (whether specified in the group agreement or not are included) 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 Custom and labor relation/ employment relationships/ labor condition and social protection ● 65 LA6 Employee ratio which labor, public, heath and safety committee is representative ● 65 6.4/6.4.6 Custom and labor relation/ safety and heath at the work LA7 Number of damage, occupational disease, loss day, absent and disaster related to work ● 45 LA8 Education, training, consultation, protection and risk management program to support 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/6.8.3/6 Custom and labor relation/ Safety and health at the work/ participation in ● 41 employees having serious disease and their family; and community citizen .8.4/6.8.8 community society and its development/ education and culture/ health LA9 Health and safety matters for any to be official agreement with unions 6.4/6.4.6 Custom and labor relation/ Safety and health at the work ● 42 LA10 Annual average education time per 1 person by employment type and sex 6.4/6.4.7 Custom and labor relation/ human development training at the work ● 63 LA11 Job training and lifetime learning program for continuous employment and supporting retired employees 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 Custom and labor relation/ human development training at the work/ employment creation and function development ● 63 LA12 Regular performance evaluation and ratio of employees who are targeted for career development evaluation by gender 6.4/6.4.7 Custom and labor relation/ human development training at the work ● 64 KR & Sustainability Report 2011 Status of board and employee category (status) (based on varied indicator 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4. Differentiation and weak group/ Basic rule and right at the work/ Custom and LA13 such as sex, age, and minority) labor relation/ employment relationship/ labor condition and social ● 18, 61 3 communication LA14 Employee category according to the importance of project and proportion 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4. Prohibition of differentiation for poor group/ secure economic, social and ● 61 of endowment and compensation between female and male 3/6.4.4 cultural rights of company and community individuals LA15 Maintaining and reinstatement of female employees after the maternity leave Discrimination and poor group/ basic rule and rights at the work/ custom and labor relations/ employment relationships ● 61 Human HR1 Number and ratio of major investment agreement and contract which passed through 6.3/6.33/6.3.5/6.6.6 Right/ inspection/ evade collusion/ promote social responsibility within value ● 49 right the human rights inspection and any clause related to human rights are included chain HR2 Raito of rights inspection from major supply company, contract company 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/6.6.6 Right/ inspection/ evade collusion/ promote social responsibility within value ● 63 and other partners chain 80 HR3 Hours for educating employees for rights policy and procedure related to the work (Ratio of employees completed the training course is included) 6.3/6.3.5 Human right/ evade collusion ● 63 HR4 Total number of discrimination and related action to this 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4.3 Rights/ Difficulty management/ discrimination and poor group/ basic rule and right at the work/ employment relationships ● 63 Take action against business field has higher violation of freedom of association and 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/6.3.8/6.3 Human Right/ inspection/ risky situation of right/ evade collusion/ citizenship HR5 corrective bargaining; and protect major supplier and relevant rights and political right/ basic rule and right at the work/ employment relationship / ● 65 .10/6.4.3/6.4.5 social communication Korea Rail Network Authority Action for abolition of business having higher change of children labor Human right/ inspection/ risky situation of right/ evade collusion/ differentiation HR6 occurrence, critical supplier and children unions in effective way and poor group/ basic rule and right at the work/ employment relationship / ● 65 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5 social communication Take action again any type forced, the business with higher risk of forced /6.3.7/6.3.10 Human rights/ evade collusion/ employment relationship/ promote social HR7 labor or any major supplier responsibility within value chain ● 65 HR8 Ratio of security administrator in completion of human rights policy and training related to work 6.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/6.6.6 Rights/ Difficulty management/ differentiation and poor group/ basic rule and right at the work/ employment relationships HR9 Number of case violates native’s right 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/6.3.8/6.6.7 Rights/ Difficulty management/ differentiation and poor group/ respect citizenship and political right and property ● 27, 60 HR10 Rights psychology and inspection of number and ratio of sites receiving human rights effect evaluation Risky situation for human rights HR11 60 number of civil complaints submitted, raised and resolved through official civil complaints management method Solve for difficulty ● 60 Social part Ratio of business implements the participation in community social, 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5 Economic, social and cultural rights/ participation and development of SO1 influence evaluation and development program community society/ creation of employment and function development/ ● 68~69 /6.8.7/6.6.7 creation of wealth and profit/ respect for property right SO2 Number and ratio of business which the risk of decomposition is analyzed ● 22~23 SO3 Ratio of employees received the education for anticorruption policy and procedure 6.6/6.6.3 Process management custom/ anticorruption ● 23 SO4 Action for corrupted case ● 23 SO5 Position for public policy, participate in the establishment of public policy and lobby activity Process management custom/ responsible and political participation/ ● 16 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 participate in the community society SO6 Total donated fund/kind by country for party and Politian related corporation — SO7 Number of case that the legal action was taken for unfair competition and exclusive action and its result 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 Process management custom/ fair competition/ respect for property — SO8 Number of case imposed sanction against penalty and metal imposed due to law and regulation violation 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 Process management custom/ fair competition/ respect for property/ creation of wealth and profit — SO9 Business effects community society with actual negative influences or serious subliminal influence Community participation and development ● 27 S10 Protect against and action to relieve actual negative effects or serious hidden effects to community society regarding the social work Community participation and development ● 68~69 Product Consultation step of life cycle evaluates healthiness and safety of product PR1 and service for improvement purpose, rate ● 40 part 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7 Economic, social and cultural authority/ promotion of social responsibility within the value chain/ consumer issue/ protect consumer’s health and safety/ Number of case violates law and voluntary regulation related to customer’s /6.7.4/6.7.5 sustainable consumption PR2 health and safety in the product and service life cycle (by result type) — PR3 Type of product required in procedure and service and ratio of major 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4 Consumer issue/ process marketing/ Realistic and unbiased information and product and service correspond to these information requirement process contract custom/ consumer’s health and safety protection/ ● 17 /6.7.5 sustainable consumption and service/ solve out the complaint and conflict/ PR4 Number of violation of law, standard and voluntary regulation related to product/service information and labeling (by result type) /6.7.6/6.7.9 improve education and recognition — Customer satisfaction related activity such as survey result of customer 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.7.6/6.7. Consumer issue/ consumer’s health and safety protection/ sustainable PR5 satisfaction evaluation consumption/ consumer service and support/ solve out the complaint and conflict/ ● 14 8/6.7.9 accessibility towards the required service/ improve the education and recognition PR6 Observance program related to law, standard and voluntary regulation related to marketing communication such as advertisement, sales promotion, and sponsor 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.6 Consumer issue/ process marketing/ Realistic and unbiased information and — process contract custom/ consumer service and support/ solve out the PR7 Number of violation of law, standard and voluntary regulation related to marketing communication such as advertisement, sales promotion, and sponsor /6.7.9 complaint and conflict/ improve education and recognition — PR8 Number of raised complaints related to violation of customer’s private information and loss of customer’s data 6.7/6.7.7 Consumer issue/ consumer’s data protection and privacy — PR9 Amount of fine imposed by violation of law and regulation related to product and service supply 6.7/6.7.6 Consumer issue/ Consumer service and support; solve out the conflict and complaint — Customer’s opinion KR is waiting for your opinion regarding the KR sustainable management report, 2011. If you have any concerns and suggestion to this report, please contact us with following number. Your opinion and suggestion sent to us will be valuable foundation for KR’s sustainable management. Q1. Which category are you belonging to among the next persons concerned? Stockholder Employee Community citizen Civic organization Financial industrial circle Academia Government Reporter Othe ( ) Q2. What route through did you know about KR’s sustainable management ? KR homepage SeminarㆍLectureㆍExhibition NewspaperㆍMagazine Other website KR employee Other ( ) Q3. What part in this report was you interested in most? KR sustainable management Special Report Ⅰ Special Report Ⅱ Special Report Ⅲ Economy Society Q4. What part in this report should be supplemented? KR sustainable management Special Report Ⅰ Special Report Ⅱ Special Report Ⅲ Economy Society Q5. Does this report help you to understand the KR’s sustainable management? Very helpful Little helpful Okay Not helpful Not helpful at all Q6. Please be free to write your opinion about this report and KR’s sustainable management activity. Thank you for your valuable opinion Address to send Result management group of planning adjustment department, Korea rail network authority 300-731 , 242 Jungang-ro , Dong-gu, Deajeon-si Tel : 042-607-3157, Fax : 042-607-3169, E-mail : ssy0933@gmail.com Website : www.kr.or.kr This report is printed on the eco-friendly paper with soybean oil. 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City Tel : 1588-7270 Fax: 042-607-3629 www.kr.or.kr
