UNITED NATIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 02 UNITED NATIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 03 Statement of support from Logica CEO, Andy Green Logica has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2008. This is our second Communication on Progress. Since becoming a signatory we have made significant progress in implementing the ten principles of the Compact. Central to our business is a commitment to the wellbeing of our people, our environment and the communities in which we operate. We continue to work to inspire our people, clients, shareholders and communities. We do this in a number of ways. Our work in sustainability has reduced our own and our clients’ environmental impact. Our work in this area has been recognised by the Carbon Disclosure Project, where we have been in the leadership index for the last three years. The ongoing personal development of our people is also key to our success. The Logica University offers more than 3,000 e-learning courses to support the development of our people. In 2010 our people spent 55,000 hours completing e-learning courses. We take pride in supporting and creating shared value in the communities in which we live and work. As well as passing on our learning, it helps us to learn new skills and build relationships with our colleagues and clients. Around 3% of our people were involved in community projects in 2010. Since 2009, as part of our GRI level ‘A’ accredited Corporate Responsibility report, we have annually communicated our progress in support of the ten principles in human rights, labour rights, environment, corruption and the environment. To read our full 2010 Corporate Responsibility report please visit our website. 04 Principle Our response Actions Principle 1: We respect human rights within our sphere of When tendering and formally assessing major Businesses should support influence and are committed to operating as suppliers we consider supplier compliance with and respect the protection of a leading employer. Our Ethics policy outlines our ethical policies and practices. internationally proclaimed human our approach to human rights. Our Supplier rights. Corporate Responsibility policy requires our suppliers to support and respect the protection of nationally and internationally proclaimed human rights, and to ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 2: Our Ethics policy and Supplier CR policy, Our Ethics policy is communicated to our Businesses should make sure Corporate Responsibility Report outline our people and its contents is reviewed on that they are not complicit in approach to human rights. an annual basis to ensure it is aligned to human rights abuses. industry best practice and meets the ongoing requirements of our business. Principle 3: An outline of our programme regarding We continue to co-operate with local works Businesses should uphold the collective bargaining agreements can be council and at a pan-European level with freedom of association and the found in our 2010 Corporate Responsibility the European Works Council to ensure our effective recognition of the right Report. Our approach to collective bargaining is employees’ interests are protected. to collective bargaining. outlined in our ethics policy. Principle 4: Our Ethics policy requires our employees to When tendering and formally assessing major Businesses should support the avoid all forms of forced or compulsory labour. suppliers we consider supplier compliance with elimination of all forms of forced This principle is also reflected in our Supplier ethical policies and practices. and compulsory labour. CR policy. We are working with our suppliers to ensure this policy is adhered to. Principle 5: Our Ethics policy requires our employees to Through regular communication of our Ethics Businesses should support the support the effective abolition of child labour. policy and review of our employee’s adherence effective abolition of child labour. We are working with our suppliers to ensure this to it, we ensure we maintain a record of no policy is adhered to in our supply chain. reported incidents of child labour or forced labour, within Logica’s own operations. Principle 6: We promote and support a diverse workforce To ensure employee behaviour is in line with Businesses should support the at all levels of the organisation. We ensure our promoting and supporting a diverse workforce, elimination of discrimination people or potential hires are not unlawfully local regions have produced their own diversity in respect of employment and discriminated against directly or indirectly as policies. Examples can be found on our website. occupation. a result of their colour, creed, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, connections with a national minority, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy, age, disability, religion, or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, gender or gender reassignment or trade union membership and never tolerate harassment in any form. UNITED NATIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 05 Measurement or outcomes We achieved our target of integrating our Supplier CR policy in 50% of new supplier contracts let in 2010. All major countries now include this as part of all their contracts. Remaining countries will include the Supplier CR policy in contracts by the end of 2012. We will begin investigating selected supplier’s compliance with our supply CR policy in 2012. We will continue to investigate any breaches of our policy by suppliers and actively consider CR performance in any renewals or extensions. We will continue to investigate any breaches of our policy by suppliers and actively consider CR performance in any renewals or extensions. We remain fully committed to ensuring a fair and supportive environment for all of our people regardless of whether they have formal employee representation. In 2011 we intend to increase the number of people taking our Ethics training to 70%. We will continue to investigate any breaches of our CR supplier policy by suppliers and actively consider CR performance in any renewals or extensions. All remaining local regions that have not already done so will produce a diversity policy by end of 2012. 06 Principle Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. UNITED NATIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 07 Our response Actions Measurement or outcomes We aim to continually improve the sustainability In addition to our own environmental Our target is to reduce our absolute of our operations. In 2010 we continued to programme, outlined in our emissions by 50% by 2020, based on minimise our impact on the environment. Environment policy, we also support our a 2008 baseline. clients in reducing their environmental impact. Through the efforts of our people, and by Our internal communications In 2010 we reduced emissions by harnessing technology, we are reducing programme involves regular environment 7%. We are establishing groupthe energy, carbon and resource impact awareness events, highlighting the wide and local plans to ensure we of our business. We can power down our issue of our business and personal meet our internal carbon reduction systems overnight and at weekends and use environmental responsibilities. In 2010 and waste reduction targets. We virtualisation to share servers in our data around 2,000 employees undertook introduced online environment centres. We ‘Smart Work’, using collaborative our online environment training. A training for all employees and held our technology to reduce commuting and business major communications programme is annual Group environment week to travel. And we’re switching to more sustainable underway to ensure that 70% of Logica encourage employee participation in sources of electricity. employees undertake the training during environmentally friendly behaviours 2011. Read more about our environment programme in our CR report. Logica is a leader in sustainability services. We have developed a number of The carbon reduction that we These services range from energy environmentally friendly technologies. achieved for one client alone on a management for Swedish consumers, to Our online trip planner service makes Green IT project equated to 14% of managing the carbon impact of how we it easier for people to make more Logica’s own carbon footprint. This drive and what we buy. And we’ve also used sustainable journeys. We have also demonstrates that our real potential insight from our own internal sustainability developed an electric vehicle charging to positively impact the environment programme to create value for our clients. Our solution. In addition, our EMO vehicle lies in our client sustainability services. innovative, smart and sustainable solutions emissions monitoring solution provides We will continue to encourage the have recently been recognised by two information to encourage more diffusion of environmentally friendly prestigious National ICT Awards for 2011 from sustainable driver behaviours and technologies as it remains a key part of the Dutch ICT industry board. Logica won the reduces fuel consumption by 8%. our business strategy. ICT Office Innovation Award for its pioneering charging solution for electric vehicles. Together with Microsoft, Logica also won the ICT Environment Award for the public space smart management solution for energy and cost saving in areas including street lighting. More information can be found on our website. Logica is committed to the highest standards of Our Supplier Corporate Responsibility We continue to record incidents in corporate governance and professional integrity. policy reflects the approach to corruption corruption and will decide how we We conduct our business around the world in we require of our employees and should effectively measure progress on an ethical, honest and accountable manner in suppliers. This policy is included in the this principle after the implementation accordance with all applicable laws, rules and majority of purchase orders across of the ethics training programme. regulations. Logica. Bribery and corruption is covered in our Ethics training module. A major communications programme is underway to encourage 70% of our employees undertake the training in 2011. Copyright statement Copyright © 2011 Logica All rights reserved. This document is protected by international copyright law and may not be reprinted, reproduced, copied or utilised in whole or in part by any means including electronic, mechanical, or other means without the prior written consent of Logica. Whilst reasonable care has been taken by Logica to ensure the information contained herein is reasonably accurate, Logica shall not, under any circumstances be liable for any loss or damage (direct or consequential) suffered by any party as a result of the contents of this publication or the reliance of any party thereon or any inaccuracy or omission therein. The information in this document is therefore provided on an “as is” basis without warranty and is subject to change without further notice and cannot be construed as a commitment by Logica. Logica is a business and technology service company, employing 41,000 people. It provides business consulting, systems integration and outsourcing to clients around the world, including many of Europe’s largest businesses. Logica creates value for clients by successfully integrating people, business and technology. It is committed to long term collaboration, applying insight to create innovative answers to clients’ business needs.Logica is listed on both the London Stock Exchange and Euronext (Amsterdam) (LSE: LOG; Euronext: LOG). Logica More information is available at www.logica.com. 250 Brook Drive Green Park The company is a public company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The address of its registered office is 250 Brook Drive, Green Park, Reading RG2 6UA, United Kingdom. Reading RG2 6UA United Kingdom AUSTRALIA / BELGIUM / BRAZIL / CANADA / CHILE / COLOMBIA / CZECH REPUBLIC / DENMARK / EGYPT / ESTONIA / T: +44 (0) 207 637 9111 FINLAND / FRANCE GERMANY / HONG KONG / HUNGARY / INDIA / INDONESIA / KUWAIT / LUXEMBOURG / MALAYSIA / MOROCCO / NETHERLANDS / NORWAY / PERU / PHILIPPINES / POLAND / PORTUGAL / RUSSIA / SAUDI ARABIA / www.logica.com SINGAPORE / SLOVAKIA / SPAIN / SWEDEN / SWITZERLAND / TAIWAN / UKRAINE / UNITED ARAB EMIRATES / UK / USA / VENEZUELA CODE 2893 0711
