2009 Corporate responsibility report Responsible brand / Responsible brand Guided by the desire to protect the natural environment PKN ORLEN had its Corporate respon­sibility report printed with the use of only two printing inks on Cyclus Offset ecological paper awarded the following certificates: / Responsible brand / Table of contents Letter from the President of the PKN ORLEN Management Board 5 1 / About PKN ORLEN 1.1. Welcome to PKN ORLEN 8 1.2. Our Report 11 1.3. Responsible brand 11 2 / Responsibility towards the market 2.1. PKN ORLEN on the Capital Market 18 2.2. The Supervisory Board 24 2.3. Key opportunities and risks 27 3 / Workplace responsibility 3.1. Corporate Culture 30 3.2. Relations with employees 35 3.3. Occupational health and safety 41 4 / Responsibility towards customers and partners 4.1. Customer care 46 4.2. Relations with suppliers 47 4.3. Responsible production 48 5 / Environmental and social responsibility 5.1. Environmental responsibility 56 5.2. Public relations 66 5.3. Pro-social work 69 Awards 71 Certificates held by PKN ORLEN 72 Index of website addresses quoted in the Report 72 GRI Indicator Index 73 Contact data 74 /4 / Letter from the President of the PKN ORLEN Management Board duty to provide reliable information about our operations. For that reason, among others, PKN ORLEN distinguishes itself in the Polish marketplace with the number of reports that it provides. Our participation in the Global Impact initiative, established by the Secretary General of the United Nations, is very important to us; we have supported the program since 2003, heeding its guidelines and putting forward our own best practices as an example. The Company has committed to uphold all ten principles concerning human rights, workplace standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption activities. Participation in this initiative is a confirmation of the openness and transparency of the Company, and / Dear stakeholders, constitutes a public commitment to those principles and readiness to verify our adherence to them on a day-to-day basis. Since the moment of its inception in 2000, the ORLEN brand has unceasingly grown in value. In 2009, it was recognised The philosophy of corporate responsibility is present in eveonce again as the most valuable. This is a cause for pride ry dimension of the company’s activities. For many years and satisfaction, but also presents us with a responsibility we have honoured the commitments that we have made to our to take special care to safeguard that value by building stakeholders. That is why we take satisfaction in the fact long-term partnerships with all of the Company’s stakeholders that PKN ORLEN now finds itself among the elite group — relationships based on solid foundations. of 16 companies which, since November of 2009, have been noted on the Warsaw Stock Exchange’s RESPECT This dimension of our work is extremely important in the ecoIndex. The group is made up of companies who operate nomic realities of today. Transparency, ethical business in accordance with the principles of corporate responsibility. practices, and positive relations with the market environment Our presence there is indicative of our long-term strategic in the broader sense; these are all considerations which approach to these issues. continue to grow in importance and the main reasons why responsible business practices are rising higher and higher I believe that it also reflects the still-growing trust garnered among the priorities of today’s companies The consistent builby the ORLEN brand, built not only on the basis of economic ding of good relations helps to enhance trust in the company, effects, but also on its perception in the fields of good practices which, in turn, can influence the profitability of its operations. employed and its respected values of corporate responsibility. For the Company, the high evaluation of the brand based The position of PKN ORLEN, its Europe-wide range of opeon the opinions of stakeholders and partners is not only rations and the number of stakeholders present the company the highest distinction, but also a challenge to keep our with many challenges. We must respect and meet a wide work at an invariably high level. variety of expectations from our shareholders, local communities, customers, employees, business partners, and other I believe that our commitment and diligence in perfecting parties affected by our business. The company’s activities are the quality of our cooperation with all stakeholders will pay scrutinised by society, which demands responsibility on our dividends in the form of the enhancement of positive relations part and holds us accountable for it. In realising our fundawith our market environment and, in effect, even stronger mental business goal, which is to increase the Company’s trust for the Company and ORLEN brand. value, we therefore carefully examine the methods by which we achieve that goal. At PKN ORLEN, we understand the idea of corporate responsibility to entail a considered, long-term Dariusz Jacek Krawiec management strategy in which we take responsibility for not only our financial results, but also for the influence we have on the environment in which we work. We also see it as our President of the PKN ORLEN Management Board /5 / About PKN ORLEN / About PKN ORLEN / Our Motto 1.1./ Welcome to PKN ORLEN Whenever you need us. Polski Koncern Naftowy ORLEN is a modern, professionally managed Company which applies state-of-the-art technological solutions. Our brand also symbolizes a dynamic expansion and successful transformation from Petrochemia / Our mission Płock SA and CPN SA into PKN ORLEN. Aiming to become the regional leader, we ensure long-term PKN ORLEN is a leader not only of the Polish economy, but value creation for our shareholders by offering our customers also of the regional refinery and petrochemical industry, products and services of the highest quality. a leading producer and dealer of refinery and petrochemical products. Our products are subject to control from production All our operations adhere to ’best practice’ principles of corto distribution stage, as our top priority is the highest quality porate governance and social responsibility, with a focus of manufactured products and offered services. on care for our employees and the natural environment. We have the largest fuel station network in Central Europe, covering Poland, Germany, the Czech Republic and Lithu­ ania. Our fuel stations offer top quality products and services. PKN ORLEN retail network is based on effective logistics infrastructure consisting of corporate and external fuel terminals, underground cavern storages and a network of long-distance pipelines. As at 31 December 2009 the ORLEN Capital Group consisted of 125 companies. The Group included 82 subsidiaries (36 direct subsidiaries, 46 indirect subsidiaries), 58 directly affiliated entities, 67 indirect affiliates, including 3 joint venture companies (2 directly affiliated, 1 indirectly affiliated). Today PKN ORLEN is the Polish synonym of world-class products and model expansive enterprise, a company obser­ving the principles of corporate social responsibility, ethics, corporate governance and full transparency. The Company stimulates the professional development of its employees and strives to protect the natural environment. PKN ORLEN aims at maintaining the proper balance between economics, surrounding environment and human needs. Consequently, thanks to effective domestic and international investments, PKN ORLEN has joined Europe’s leaders – companies perceived as model representatives of their countries. /8 / Corporate responsibility report Mažeikių Wilno Płock Hamburg Berlin Warszawa Praga Do you know that... In 2009 PKN ORLEN celebrated the 10th anniversary of its operations, the 65th anniversary of the CPN SA establishment and 50th anniversary of the establishment of Mazowieckie Zakłady Rafineryjne i Petrochemiczne in Płock (Masovian Refinery and Petrochemical Plants in Płock), which were transformed into PKN ORLEN. /9 / About PKN ORLEN 2007 2008 2009 Selected financial data (in ‘000 PLN)1 I Revenue on sales 42,703,668 57,224,864 47,481,278 II Operating income 2,093,194 636,354 790,306 III Profit/(loss) before tax 3,257,469 (2,063,057) 1,907,812 IV Net profit/(loss) 2,759,859 (1,570,947) 1,635,885 V Net operating cash flow (used) 847,144 1,292,773 2,806,414 VI Net investing cash flow (1,423,667) (1,993,857) (1,615,776) VII Net financing cash flow 435,476 975,898 335,897 VIII VIII. Net increase/(decrease) in cash (141,047) 274,814 1,526,535 IX Net profit/(loss) and diluted profit/(loss) per ordinary share (in PLN) 6.45 (3.67) 3.82 as at as at as at 31 December 2007 31 December 2008 31 December 2008 X Fixed assets 19,958,199 20,427,025 23,006,696 XI Current assets 12,011,508 11,572,579 14,009,655 XII Total assets 31,969,707 31,999,604 37,016,351 XIII Long-term liabilities 7,289,067 1,216,318 10,368,702 XIV Short-term liabilities 6,847,058 15,401,410 9,514,751 XV Equity 17,833,582 15,381,876 17,132,898 XVI Share capital 1,057,635 1,057,635 1,057,635 XVII Number of shares 427,709,061 427,709,061 427,709,061 XVIII Book value and diluted book value per share (in PLN) 41.70 35.96 40.06 Throughput and output of the Płock Refinery (in ‘000 tonnes) Crude oil processed 13,646 14,218 14,526 Petrol 2,610 2,800 3,055 Diesel fuel 4,568 5,078 5,330 Ekoterm 840 840 790 Aviation fuel 355 418 291 LPG 190 221 210 Environmental impact Water consumption form the Vistula (in m3) 23,721,604 22,991,953 22,448,565 Sewage discharge to the Vistula (in m3) 12,744,813 12,381,024 11,351,599 COD2 load in sewage discharged to the Vistula (kg/y) 974,684 676,524 726,812 Total emissions of all pollutants (in Mg), 6,270,414.25 6,189,145.40 6,158,012.71 including: sulphur dioxide 20,973.30 20,444.59 20,975.23 nitrogen oxides (as per nitrogen dioxide) 7,474.71 6,821.48 7,124.27 carbon monoxide 762.38 812.16 1,010.87 total hydrocarbons 1,397.44 1,384.01 1,238.12 fuel combustion dust 574.53 453.34 399.75 carbon dioxide 6,238,941.29 6,158,959.11 6,126,894.42 other pollutants 290.60 270.71 370.05 Responsible production Environmental charges (in PLN) 17,048,947.56 16,572,326.63 17,226,918.00 including: for emission (including transport) 3 15,184,647.46 14,784,628.49 15,461,484.00 for water consumption 1,120,609.14 1,085,832.47 1,082,459.00 for sewage discharge 743,690.96 701,865.67 682,975.00 Investment expenditures for environmental protection (in PLN) 122,205,258.30 259,126,877.37 191,757,998.86 Our employees Employment as at 31 December 4,748 4,725 4,922 Accidents at work (including grave) 26 (1) 26 23 Absence from work following accidents at work 1,340 952 996 1) Selected financial data concerns PKN ORLEN and applies to the year completed on 31 December. 2) COD – chemical oxygen demand. 3) The amount includes charges for C02 emission allowances. / 10 / Corporate responsibility report 1.2./ Our Report 1.3./ Responsible brand This is already the sixth corporate responsibility report ORLEN is a national, modern and professional brand that issued by PKN ORLEN. Since 2007, the Company issues offers innovative products and services on a world-class its reports annually. As in the previous year, this report was level, serving people in their everyday life, in accordance prepared in accordance with GRI G3 B-level guidelines. with the Company motto “Always there when you need us.” This level tells the reader how advanced the Company is in terms of the number of indicators and the possibilities The brand has existed since 2000. The name and logo of further expansion of reporting in the following years. of the Company, as verbal and verbal-graphic trademarks, It also corresponds to the level of incorporation of GRI G3 were filed for protection with the Patent Office of the Repu­ Guidelines and GRI Reporting Framework. More information blic of Poland and received relevant protection certificates on application levels and GRI G3 Guidelines are available in accor­d ance with the Polish and international law. at: http://www.globalreporting.org. The brand mark is currently protected on the European Union market and in the selected group of countries all In 2008 we conducted the consultation process as a result over the world. Protection extends also over various versions of which we defined the map of stakeholders. We also of the corporate logo, the image of the ORLEN brand fuel identified the aspects of the Company’s activities significant station, names and logos of products and services owned from the perspective of the stakeholders. This information by PKN ORLEN. In 2009 patent protection covered over is presented on our website www.orlen.pl. As in previous 20 trademarks related to the corporate brand, 20 advertising years, our stakeholders actively participate in the proslogans created for the Company and over 130 trademarks cess of development of corporate responsibility reports. of products and services. This is reflected for example in the involvement of emplo­ yees and statements of visitors representing various groups Responsibility for protection of PKN ORLEN trademarks of stakeholders. rests with patent agents and the Marketing Office services. The agents monitor the applications database of the Patent This Report presents the most important events in PKN ORLEN Office of the Republic of Poland in order to prevent violations in 2009. We also provide selected information on the Capiof the Company’s rights. Corporate Identity Department tal Group, although the report relates only to the Company. monitors the media with the aim to identify illegal uses The Report for 2009 shows the adjusted sales revenue for 2008 due to changes in comparable data in this item. Data on LPG for 2008 were also adjusted. Płock The Report as a whole was not verified by an external auditor. For more information on PKN ORLEN corporate responsibility, visit www.orlen.pl. It is worth noting that since last year the corporate responsibility report has been published in an interactive, attractive and reader-friendly format. New Dehli Do you know that... The PKN ORLEN 2008 corporate responsibility report is known e.g. in India. It was from this country that we received not only words of appreciation, but also a wish to provide its “paper” version. / 11 / About PKN ORLEN D. Bolesław Rok of corporate brand mark in communication. It also underCSR Postgraduate Studies Academic Director, takes activities aimed at elimination from the market fuel Kozminski University stations that illegally assume the image of the Company’s fuel stations. In accordance with applicable strategy of corporate brand management the ORLEN mark has also been included in names of subsidiary companies of the ORLEN Capital Group. The decisive criterion applied when making decision concerning the use of the ORLEN designation in the name is the activity of a company in the core business of PKN ORLEN. Another condition is the ability to create added value by strengthening the corporate brand competence on the basis of such qualities as modernity, technological advancement, progress, innovation, and systemness. Companies operating outside the core business, which are not related to products or services offered by PKN ORLEN and do not strengthen its competences, are entitled to use the GRUPA ORLEN designation. For many years you have been observing and supporting the development of corporate responsibility in Poland. In 2009, on the basis of concluded agreements, 28 compaWhat are the key challenges currently faced by Polish nies used ORLEN designation as the element of the compa­ companies wishing to conduct their business activities ny name, and 7 companies used the trademark element in a fully responsible way? in the form of “Grupa ORLEN” annotation next to their logos. In my opinion, the most significant challenges nowadays / Our main brands consist in strengthening the role of ethical leadership on the level of the entire company as well as its individual ORLEN Brand business units, which should allow shaping solid foundations In May 1998 the Polish Council of Ministers resolved to esta­ for responsible competitiveness and innovation. To achieve blish a national petroleum company by merging Centrala this goal it is necessary to develop better educational Produktów Naftowych CPN SA with Petrochemia Płock SA. programmes, targeted at employees, customers and all Thus, on 7 September 1998, Polski Koncern Naftowy SA business or social partners, as well as improved instruments came to existence. The newly-established company needed which make it possible to function within the network a new brand. When looking for a trade name, efforts were of interdependencies in an effective and ethical way. made to achieve associations with the ideas prevailing in the Company’s brand strategy: world-class, petroleum, Corporate responsibility signifies the process of reco­ modern and national. It was concluded that the name gnizing and including the changing social expectations should reflect: quality, strength, power, energy, be suitable in the management strategy, and monitoring the influence for a manufacturer operating in the fuel and petrochemical of such strategies on the growth of the company’s value. industry, demonstrate technological advancement and proA growing level of complexity and changeability of the envi­ ecological approach of the Company as well as customer ronment constitutes one of the most significant factors focus. Naturally, the Polish origin of the Company and its making it necessary to look for better ways of sustainable dominating position on the market had to be incorporated growth, especially by the biggest companies on the given as well. market. Therefore it is necessary to develop the ability to react wisely to changes of social, legal or environmental The next stage in the process of developing a visual identicharacter, which appear both in the broader and more fication system for the ORLEN brand consisted in designing immediate environment. a graphic symbol consistent with the name. The most / 12 / Corporate responsibility report Leszek Kurnicki renowned Polish graphic designers were invited to participate Marketing Executive Director in a competition to create the symbol for the Company. in PKN ORLEN The jury members were most impressed with the work by professor Henryk Chyliński, who also designed the logos for the Teraz Polska Foundation and the Polskie Radio, among others. The winning sign represents a stylized eagle’s head. The present form of the logo also incorporates the trade name, displayed on a rectangular field. Red, white, grey and silver were chosen as the Company’s brand colours. The ORLEN brand image was first presented in 2000, in connection with the secondary public offering of the Company shares on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. The brand identity structure gained a monolithic character, resulting in the use of a uniform branding for the Company, its products, as well as members of the Capital Group. Accordingly, the ORLEN brand became a part of the image of the Group companies and their products. The ORLEN logo is also displayed on engine oils and operating fluWhat attests to the fact that ORLEN is both a valuable ids, lubricants and a wide range of chemicals for motor and responsible brand? vehicles. However, the Company’s flagship is its network of fuel stations, whose standards conform to competences Its current value was evidenced in 2009, when the ORLEN and requirements specified in the ORLEN corporate brand brand was declared, for the third time in succession, strategy. the most valuable domestic brand. Our corporate brand came first in the MARQA ranking, according to which it is Moreover, the brand is associated with charity activities worth over PLN 3.6 billion. We reported a 27% increase carried out by the ORLEN Dar Serca Foundation. The brand in the brand value against 2008, when it was estimated image is also created by the ORLEN Rally Team, which at PLN 2.8 billion. represents both the Company and the country in the most important rally events organised in Poland and abroad. In the Independent Polish Brand Reputation Ranking, “PremiumBrand 2009,” ORLEN received the title of a High Reputation Brand. Brand reputation is one of the most pre­ cious assets in any company. This constitutes a key factor motivating customers to purchase or use of the product. PKN ORLEN appreciates the High Reputation Brand title as the evidence that the Company is perceived as a reliable and responsible business partner. ORLEN has also been awarded the Superbrands Pol­ ska title, which is another proof of its strong position on the domestic market. Our brand has received this title for the fourth time already. Since 2000 PKN ORLEN has kept the highest position in Rzeczpospolita and Polityka rankings – “Lista 500.” / 13 / About PKN ORLEN / ORLEN fuel stations Verva is a brand of new generation fuel, enriched with a set of additives ensuring dynamic operation and power Currently, the ORLEN brand includes a fuel station network of the engine, better acceleration, lower fuel consumption, in Poland and Lithuania. These are modern facilities offering and, consequently, lower user costs. top quality fuel and services, friendly stop-over and resting places. ORLEN fuel stations guarantee quality and safety, offering loyalty programmes and car fleet services. Flota is a professional fleet programme focused on the needs of business customers. It offers partnership approach and advanced technological solutions. The fleet cards offer was developed and tailored to the needs of companies of various sizes and representing different business sectors. The main advantage of the brand is its comprehensive offer targeted at various B2B sectors. Participation in the programme guarantees safe and convenient payment for fuel and services, and sound financial management through better control over a company’s fuel expenses. VITAY is the brand of the Polish most extensive customer loyalty programme aimed at and created for customers of ORLEN fuel stations. The programme offers a wide range of rewards. In accordance with the motto – we know what you really need – it also stimulates activities and behaviours of customers, their zest for life. Its is easily available and user friendly, and the rules of collecting points are simple. Do you know that... In 2009, for the eighth time in succession (since 2002), ORLEN fuel stations received the Golden European Trusted Brands logo in a consumer survey conducted across Europe by Reader’s Digest. This shows consumers’ appreciation for the modern brand on the fuel market, offering high level of services, competitive and rich assortment of products, as well as a wide range of non-fuel products. / 14 / Corporate responsibility report The most loyal customers may participate in the Super BLISKA is a fuel station network offering good value for VITAY programme, which is a unique, prestigious offer money on its products and services. BLISKA stations are under the VITAY loyalty programme. reliable and accessible places for all drivers who need to refuel their vehicles. Our customers may also buy other products and take advantage of optimally tailored services. Reasonably selected offer allows customers to save both time and money. In 2009, for the second time in succession, BLISKA was included among the Most Valuable Polish Brands according Stop Cafe is a place where travellers may enjoy good coffee to a ranking by MARQA. BLISKA came 15th and was valu­ed as well as tasty and healthy snacks. The main advantage at PLN 713.3 mln. This means an 88% increase in the value of the brand is its accessibility, which saves time during of the brand compared to 2008. the travel. Stop Cafe is a friendly place which offers comfort and efficient service, satisfying the needs and lifestyle requirements of current and potential customers. Ekoterm Plus is a natural source of heat. It is a modern light heating fuel which has been designed for use in builDo you know that... dings and meets relevant European standards. The product is environmentally friendly and has high quality parameters. • The name ORLEN was coined by linking the Polish Thanks to its high net calorific value, it is very productive word ORZEŁ („eagle”), which reflects the Polish and thus economic. Ekoterm plus offers long-lasting heat, national character of the Company and provides safety and convenience of use so that our customers may a reference to the national emblem of Poland; and enjoy the time spent in the warmth of the family hearth. the Polish word ENERGIA (“energy”), evoking associations with strength, energy and international character of the Company. • The process of inventing the name included linguistic and association-based surveys (in Polish, English and selected groups of world languages). Among their authors was a famous propagator of the beauty of the Polish language – professor Jerzy Bralczyk. • The author of the company symbol referring to the name – the stylized eagle head – is professor Henryk Chyliński, a graduate and later a lecturer at the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw. / 15 / Responsibility towards the market / Responsibility towards the market 2.1./ PKN ORLEN on the Capital Respect Rating is the initiative of the capital market tarMarket geted at promotion of highest standards of responsible management. PKN ORLEN received one of the highest PKN ORLEN SA shares are listed on the Warsaw Stock marks in the rating of socially responsible companies and Exchange and in the form of Global Depository Receipts as a result was included in the stock exchange index (GDRs) on the London Stock Exchange. Trading in depositoestablished in November 2009 – the RESPECT Index. ry receipts also takes place in the USA on the OTC market. The shares of PKN ORLEN were first listed in November As a result of rating and audit carried out by Deloitte each 1999. The Bank of New York Mellon is the depository audited company was assigned a rating note. Companies of the Company’s depository receipts. The transaction unit that received the highest rating notes in the research on the London Stock Exchange is 1 GDR, which equals were qualified to join the index. From about 120 audito two shares of the Company. ted companies listed on the WSE only 16 received „A” rating note and were admitted to the index. PKN ORLEN The Company share capital amounts to PLN 534,636,326.25 is one of the five companies from the WIG20 index which and is divided into 427,709,061 ordinary bearer shares received such a high note. with a par value of PLN 1.25 per share. RESPECT Index is the first Polish index of companies engaThe Company shares are listed on the official market ged in corporate social responsibility. The aim of the index at the Warsaw Stock Exchange in the continuous trading publication is to promote the highest standards of responsisystem and are included among the largest company ble management. Composition of the group of companies indexes: WIG20 and WIG, and WIG-fuel index. Since listed on the index was decided on the basis of extensive 19 November 2009, PKN ORLEN shares have been research of many areas of their business. The companies included in the RESPECT Index, an index of companies were audited from the perspective of activities towards involved in corporate social responsibility. sustainable development, application of corporate governance principles, communication on the financial market, management, payment of liabilities, treatment of employees and customers, as well as social and environmental activities. Questions and criteria of assessment were based on the international standard – Global Reporting Initiative. The audit will be carried out annually as part of annual update of the RESPECT Index composition. Participation of PKN ORLEN in the index motivates the Company to take still greater efforts towards recognizing and satisfying the requirements of shareholders and other social groups related to the company. The Company will take all efforts to enable PKN ORLEN to remain on the index in the years to come. / 18 / Corporate responsibility report Halina Frańczak applied in the following areas: strategy and organization Marketing Director in Poland and Baltic States, management, economic, environmental and social que­ Deloitte Polska stions. Companies which entered the RESPECT Index portfolio in 2009 (16) received at least 75% of total points during the verification process. These are companies distinguished primarily by their versatility and long-term business context of implemented social responsibility and sustainable development policies. These companies apply tools for implementation of activities in the scope of CSR acknowledged in the course of the verification process, as well as practices which enable the use of these tools and really influence business run by the companies. Participation in the RESPECT Index application pro­ cess gives companies undergoing the process detailed information about strengths and weaknesses of their CSR solutions, which helps them improve their quality. Companies listed on the RESPECT Index are definitely leaders of corporate social responsibility on the Polish Which aspects of corporate responsibility distinguish market. companies listed on the RESPECT Index? RESPECT Index – the first index of socially responsible companies in Central and Eastern Europe had its debut on the Warsaw Stock Exchange on 19 November 2009, as a result of a lot of efforts taken over months. The idea underpinning this project is to distinguish companies that, in the scope of corporate social responsibility and sustainable development, take efforts reaching significantly beyond their obligations defined by law, and incorporate the element of social responsibility into business activities. Possibility to join the index is open to all companies listed on the WSE, with the exception of companies listed on NewConnect and outside WSE (dual-listing). The process of qualifying companies to the RESPECT Index, consisting of several stages, has been based on experiences of other world indexes of similar nature as well as Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. The basis of verification is the questionnaire which asks companies to elaborate on the scope of CSR solutions / 19 / Responsibility towards the market / PKN ORLEN shareholders structure PKN ORLEN shareholders structure as at 31 December 2009 /27.52% State Treasury /5.17% ING OFE* /67.31% other PKN ORLEN shareholders structure as at 31 December 2010 /27.52% State Treasury /5.17% ING OFE /5.08% AVIVA OFE** /62.22% other * In its current report no. 19/2009 of 20 February 2009, PKN ORLEN informed that ING Otwarty Fundusz Emerytalny held, as at 20 February 2009, 22,118,813 shares in PKN ORLEN, representing 5.17% of the Company share capital. PKN ORLEN shares held by Fundusz entitle to 22,118,813 votes at the Company’s General Meeting, which represents 5.17% of the total number of votes. ** In its current report no. 26/2010 of 10 February 2010, PKN ORLEN informed that Aviva Otwarty Fundusz Emerytalny held, as at 5 February 2010, 21,744,036 shares in PKN ORLEN, representing 5.08% of the Company share capital. PKN ORLEN shares held by Fundusz entitle to 21,744,036 votes at the Company’s General Meeting, which represents 5.08% of the total number of votes. / 20 / Corporate responsibility report Eliza Durka step after stimulating the demand of national investors Director is to draw attention of foreign entities to the companies Warsaw Stock Exchange from the index. Methodology of the RESPECT Index development is transparent and similar to those used by the biggest international stock exchanges. Companies listed on our Index increase their reliability and attractiveness among investors from abroad. Finally, WSE, as the most dyna­ mically developing stock exchange in the CEE region, introducing many innovative products and solutions, and monitoring world trends, could not allow itself to be left behind as far as responsible investing is concer­ ned. Creating the first index of respon­sible companies in the region, we plan to be not only the pioneer, but also the leader in stimulating SRI. What does RESPECT Index mean for the Warsaw Stock Exchange? What was the motivation to invite companies to participate in this project? By introducing the index of socially responsible compa­ nies – RESPECT Index – in 2009, we wanted to create the first professional, consistently and methodically deve­ loped CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) benchmark on the Polish market by indicating leaders in this scope among the listed companies. In this way we encourage companies listed on the WSE to a greater involvement in CSR and upgrading standards in this area. Another reason was to create foundations for develop­ ment of res­ponsible investing in our country by delivering a specific financing tool in the form of an index. Deve­ lopment of SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) creates broader possibilities for companies to obtain capital from investors who are more inclined to invest in companies which ensure consistent management in the long-term and transparently communicate changes. The next / 21 / Responsibility towards the market / Corporate Governance / Relations with the capital market The PKN ORLEN Management Board takes all reasoRelations with the Company shareholders, potential inve­stors nable efforts to ensure the observance of the principles in its securities and stock exchange analysts are a priority of corporate governance in all aspects of the Company for the Management Board. The President, Vice President business. As a public company listed on the Warsaw and Members of the Management Board are the main Stock Exchange, PKN ORLEN observes all the principles people contacting the capital market. In order to provide recommended by the code of “Good Practices of Comall interested parties with equal access to information, panies Listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.” all information communicated outside of the Company’s official position is prepared in Polish and English. Such The Company takes a number of measures to streamline information is also published on the corporate website. communication with its environment. In order to reach a broad range of recipients we apply modern technoloIn December 2009 a revised PKN ORLEN website was gies of communication with representatives of the capital launched under the same Internet address www.orlen. market. We organise live online transmissions of press pl. The portal based on a new technology offers a new conferences after each important event in the Company, service for Company shareholders, investors and market such as the publication of quarterly results, announcement analysts. It includes a lot of modern tools and information of strategy, or General Meetings of PKN ORLEN Shareholabout the Company corresponding with state-of-the-art ders, with simultaneous translation into English. Recordings market standards. of such transmissions, in the form of multimedia files, are available on our website: www.orlen.pl. There are, among others: PKN ORLEN runs its corporate website in Polish and • interactive charts and tables allowing for quick compain English. It provides information necessary for investors risons of financial ratios for the Company at different and other stakeholders of the capital market. The website time intervals; offers information on dates of General Meetings, draft resolutions, as well as the entire set of documents pre• interactive charts and tables of stock-exchange quotations sented to shareholders at General Meetings. The portal for PKN ORLEN shares with a return on investment also provides a special form enabling the users to contact calculator; the Company about matters related to General Meetings. • special form to contact the Company on matters related In accordance with the code of “Good Practices of Comto General Meetings in accordance with the latest propanies Listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange” General visions of the Polish Code of Commercial Companies; Meetings are attended by members of the PKN ORLEN Management Board and the Supervisory Board. Media • possibility of subscribing to various PKN ORLEN newrepresentatives are also invited to every General Meeting. sletters, including the latest information from the investor relations area. / 22 / Corporate responsibility report The Company regularly and actively participates in meOur efforts to communicate with capital market partietings with investors and analysts both in Poland and cipants were recognized, which is attested by many abroad. We organize conferences, individual and group awards received by the Company in 2009 in the area meetings, as well as teleconferences with capital market of investor relations: stakeholders. Company representatives also regularly participate in so called roadshows – cycles of meetings • inclusion of the Company in the RESPECT Index; with investors at their workplace. • “The Best Investor Relations in Poland” – international During meetings with capital market participants our survey by IR Magazine; representatives provide information on PKN ORLEN; this is also an opportunity to obtain feedback for the Company • second place in the category „The Best Capital Market from shareholders, investors and market analysts. Relying Communications”; upon stakeholders’ information needs to be gathered in this way, the Company may develop and improve • “The best website dedicated to Investor Relations,” its relations with the capital market. Polish nationwide ranking WarsawScan, NBS Public Relations. The Company strives to expand and diversify its investor base. To achieve this aim, the Company actively promotes its activities among potential shareholders and in new financial centres across the world. With the aim to stimulate the development of new forms and improve the quality of communication with the capital market, the Company publishes quarterly the so-called “trading statement,” which is an estimate of operational and financial data and forecasts for EBIT trends, taking into account the impact of macroeconomic factors and significant one-time events on EBIT. Such estimates are published several weeks before the date of publishing the quarterly reports. “Trading statements” facilitate the reliable building of the Company’s financial results consensus on the capital market before they are published. Since the statements were introduced, the quality of analyst forecasts has significantly improved (average forecast deviation from the data finally published by the Company has reduced). The statement establishes new standards in the field of investor relations. Its positive reception proves how much PKN ORLEN values proper and welltimed communication with the market relating to topics which are of crucial importance to investors. / 23 / Responsibility towards the market 2.2./ The Supervisory Board As at 31 December, 2009 the PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board had 4 members fulfilling the criteria of indepenThe Supervisory Board consists of six to nine members dence. In 2009, activities of the Supervisory Board were appointed for a joint term ending as at the date of the Ordi­ managed by its Chairman. nary General Meeting approving the financial statement for the second full financial year of the term. Members The Supervisory Board acts as a body, however, it may of PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board are appointed and delegate certain supervisory tasks to its individual memdismissed in accordance with the Company’s Articles bers. The terms of performing such supervisory tasks shall of Associations by the General Meeting of Shareholders. be determined by a resolution of the Supervisory Board. Individual members and the entire Board may be dismi­ ssed at any time before expiry of the term. The Chairman Meetings of the Supervisory Board are held whenever of the Supervisory Board is appointed and dismissed required, but at least once every two months. Moreover, by the General Meeting, while the Vice-Chairman and the meeting should be convened at a written request the Secretary are elected by the Supervisory Board from submitted by a shareholder or shareholders representing among the rest of its members. The State Treasury is enti­ at least one tenth of the share capital, the Company tled to appoint and dismiss one member of the SuperManagement Board or a member of the Supervisory visory Board. The right of the State Treasury to appoint Board. Members of the Supervisory Board exercise their the Supervisory Board member expires upon disposal rights and obligations only in person. by the State Treasury of all Company shares owned by the State Treasury. Determination of the principles for remuneration of the Supervisory Board members, in accordance with the ComAt least two Supervisory Board members have to meet pany’s Articles of Association, lies within the competences the criteria of being independent from the Company and of the General Meeting. The resolution of the Extraordientities having significant connections with the Companary General Meeting of Shareholders of 10 January, ny. Before being appointed to the Supervisory Board, 2001 on the change in the principles for remuneration the inde­pendent members of the Supervisory Board submit of the Supervisory Board members was applicable in this a written statement to the Company confirming that they scope in 2009. Monthly remuneration of the Supervisory meet the criteria specified in § 8 (5) of the Company’s Board members constitutes a set multiple of the average Articles of Association. The Company informs shareholmonthly remuneration in the corporate sector, without ders about the current number of independent members profit bonus payments in the fourth quarter of the previous of the Supervisory Board (this information is available year, announced by the President of the Polish Central at www.orlen.pl). Statistical Office. In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, If the number of the independent members of the Supervithe PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board is authorized to dele­ sory Board is less than two, the Company’s Management gate a member or members of the Supervisory Board Board shall be obliged to immediately convene the Gene­ to temporarily take over the tasks of the Management ral Meeting of Shareholders and include in its agenda Board members who are unable to perform their duties. changes to the composition of the Supervisory Board. Until the implementation of the changes to the composition of the Supervisory Board consisting in adjustment of the number of independent members to the statutory requirements, the Supervisory Board performs its duties in the existing composition. / 24 / Corporate responsibility report The PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board has the following This obligation concerns associations of economic or fapermanent committees: Audit Committee, Strategy and mily character, or any other that may influence the deci­ Development Committee, Nominations and Remuneration sion of the Supervisory Board member in the matter Committee, Corporate Governance Committee. Each voted on by the Supervisory Board. Moreover, the procommittee comprises three to five Supervisory Board vision of par. (4) provides for the obligation to inform members. The Audit Committee comprises at least two the Super­visory Board about the occurrence of a conflict independent members and at least one member qualified of inter­ests or possibility of its occurrence, and abstenand experienced in accounting or financial matters. tion of the Super­visory Board member from discussions and voting on a resolution concerning the case affected Detailed tasks of the Supervisory Board Committees are by such conflict of interest. stipulated in the Constitution of the Supervisory Board available at www.orlen.pl. The possibility to eliminate the conflict of interests of members of the highest supervisory body is provided, in accor­ The Supervisory Board is authorized to represent the Comdance with the aforementioned Good Practices (part 2 pany in agreements with the Management Board members, point 1 (5)), by the requirement to make available – including with respect to employment and remunerain the case of appointment of the Supervisory Board tion. The Management Board members are included members by the General Meeting – reasons behind in the incen­tive scheme for the Management Board. the selection of the proposed candidates along with proThe amount of annual bonus depends on operating results fessional curriculum vitae of such persons, early enough of the Company and the level of fulfilment of individual for the other shareholders to become familiar with them tasks defined by the Supervisory Board for individual and to be able to adopt a relevant resolution having Management Board members. obtained sufficient knowledge in that respect. In order to avoid conflicts of interests in the ORLEN Group, the Company applies the provisions of the Polish Code of Commercial Companies, provisions of the Constitution of the Supervisory Board, as well as the “Good Practices of Companies Listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.” In accordance with the Constitution of the Supervisory Board, in the event of conflict of interests, the member of the Supervisory Board affected thereby should inform the other members of the Supervisory Board thereof, and abstain from discussions and voting on a resolution concerning the case affected by such conflict of interests. Breach of the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not invalidate the resolution concerned. In the case of doubts as to possible conflict of interests, the Supervisory Board shall settle the issue by resolution. Pursuant to provisions of part 3 point 1 (2) of the “Good Practices of Companies Listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange” the Supervisory Board member should inform the Management Board about his/her associations with the shareholder holding shares representing no less than 5% of the total number of votes at the General Meeting. / 25 / Responsibility towards the market In accordance with the rule no. 6 of the part 1 of the “Good Articles of Association. In order to be able to perform its Practices of Companies Listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchanobligations, the Supervisory Board is authorised to examine ge” – “A member of the Supervisory Board should have all of the Company’s documents and request the Manarelevant knowledge and experience, and be able to degement Board and employees to provide reports and vote the time required to properly perform his/her duties. explanations, and inspect the Company’s assets. In order A member of the Supervisory Board should under­take releto ensure proper execution of its statutory obligations, vant actions to ensure that the Supervisory Board receives the PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board may file a motion information on significant issues related to the Company.” with the Management Board to prepare appraisements or opinions, or to hire an advisor. The PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board continuously supervises the Company’s activities in all areas of its business, and With the aim to ensure the application of the highest in particular it has the competences determined in the Polish standards of Good Practices and enable reliable assesCode of Commercial Companies and the Company’s sment of the Company by Shareholders, the PKN ORLEN Supervisory Board submits to the General Meeting an annual report including: • the opinion on the report of the Company’s Management Board on the Company’s activities and the Company’s financial statements for a given financial year; • the opinion on the report of the Management Board on the ORLEN Capital Group’s activities and the ORLEN Capital Group’s consolidated financial statements for a given financial year; In 2009, the Supervisory Board had 8 male members and 1 female member. Two members of the Supervisory Board are over 50 years old; the 7 remaining persons are aged 30-50. Details of skills and professional experience of the Supervisory Board members are available at the PKN ORLEN website. / 26 / Corporate responsibility report 2.3./ Key opportunities and risks on the risk management policy and procedures which enable identification of respective risks, risk allocation Activities of PKN ORLEN are associated with high to respective owners, risk analysis in the Company’s key operational risks having influence on the continuity areas and recommending preventive measures. To supof the Company’s functioning, current supplies of proport the system the Company performs internal reviews ducts to the market or provision of services; regulatory (both with respect to internal procedures and the external risks, i.e. resulting from changes in the national and UE environment) relating to the Company’s most important legislation – in particular risks connected with mandatory business areas from the perspective of its current operareserves, fuel quality, compliance with emission norms, tions. Integration of the risk management system enables implementation of the National Index Target; and financial you to implement a uniform approach towards risk marisks originating from the financial market, associated nagement, which translates into an integrated approach with exchange rates or interest rates. to planning on the level of strategies, operational activities and internal control. The risk management system Risk management in PKN ORLEN is not restricted only responds to the needs of a broad circle of the Company’s to the oil industry, but applies to the broadly understood stakeholders who want to better understand a wide range area of macro-economic operations of the Company. of the risks facing the Company, so as to be certain that These risks result from internal factors, such as: strategic, those risks are properly managed. organizational, systemic and procedural assumptions, as well as external factors, i.e. macroand micro-economic factors or legal regulations. Risks are defined on the basis of assessment of their quantitative and qualitative influence on the conducted business activities and the level of probability of their occurrence. Implementation of the integrated risk management in PKN ORLEN allows perceiving the existing risks not only as threats, but also as the opportunity to increase the Company’s value in all of its areas. Implementation of risk management policy is gradually being expanded to include the entire ORLEN Capital Group. PKN ORLEN has been actively implementing a risk management system which guarantees that business decisions are made in full awareness of current risks and that the Company is well prepared to respond to materialised risks, so as to minimise their possible impact on the continuity and possibilities of achieving the business goals established. The Company risk management is based / 27 / Workplace responsibility / Workplace responsibility 3.1./ Corporate Culture The Ethics Ombudsman is obliged to ensure the confidentiality of complaining employees, explain their relevance / The Code of Ethics and the Ethics Ombudsman and undertake or initiate remedial measures. Subsequently, the Ombudsman presents ethical problems notified In 2005 the Company adopted the Code of Ethics based by employees to the Management Board, ensuring confion key values of PKN ORLEN. The document determidentiality and preventing identification of persons making nes the principles that should guide the Company and complaints. In special circumstances, where the welfare its emplo­yees in their relations with the internal and of the Company is at stake, the Ethics Ombudsman reports external environment. It is compatible with the most imdirectly to a competent Member of the Management Board. portant organizational acts regulating the management He or she also presents to the Management Board annual of the Company. The most important organizational acts reports of their activity to promote corporate culture based regulating the management of the Company are compliant on ethics and respect of PKN ORLEN values. with its provisions. We present our experience gained over several years Observance of the Code of Ethics is ensured by the democ­ to external environment and share our knowledge regarratically elected Ethics Ombudsman. The Ombudsman ding solutions implemented in PKN ORLEN. Last year, guarantees all stakeholders the possibility to freely report significant events which allowed the Ethics Ombudsman on any breach of the principles stipulated in the Code. to share the acquired experience included the 4th Polish It also enables them to report any irregularities, and Conference on Fraud Risk Management (MOVIDA 2009) thus helps develop a sense of having personal influence and participation in a panel during the Polish Congress on respecting the values in the Company. of Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility 2009 organized by the Kozminski University in Warsaw as part of the Ethics in Business Conference. The Ethics Ombudsman is obligated to monitor the functioning of the Code of Ethics on the basis of reported issues and to submit a consolidated report to the PKN ORLEN Management Board. Growing awareness among employees regarding standards imposed by the Code of Ethics makes them comment also on moral problems, they get involved in discussion on situations posing moral dilemmas. The majority of problems reported in 2009 concerned internal relations in the Company (66%), general rules (18%) and moral issues. Each submitted problem was analysed in the context of the Code provisions and investigated into, or specific actions were taken. As a result of engaging many business areas in remedial measures, each year the percentage of solved issued is increasing, while the number of problems under investigation is decre­ asing. It is worth noting that the number of complaints regarding relations with business partners is decreasing, which results from systemic remedial measures applied in this scope. / 30 / Corporate responsibility report While performing these tasks the Ombudsman is requ/ Employee integration ired to ensure open communication, detailed analysis of the rules applied in the Company, and trust. He also PKN ORLEN offers its employees various sport and integraneeds to take part in difficult discussions and explanations ting activities which support the development of employees’ regarding issues concerning ethical dilemmas, as well interests and passions outside of work. The package of acti­ as to publicly comment on behaviours incompliant with vities developed in the previous years finds its reflection the Code of Ethics. Taking into account the long-term in the number of people taking part in such activities. character of attitude change in the reported moral cases, educational and communication measures are continuously A traditional part of integrating activities conducted applied that condemn defiance of the Code of Ethics and by PKN ORLEN is the celebration of a corporate event promote proper behaviour. Corporate media play a very – the Chemist’s Day. In the first week of June the Company significant role in this process. In 2009, the Ombudsman organizes for its employees many events that help stimulate published articles in ORLEN Ekspres or was a guest integration, but also motivation. Every year during the cele­ in ORLEN Studio as many as 54 times. The Company bration the Company rewards its fifteen employees who also organized group meetings and workshops on ethical stand out in their work. The “Distinguished PKN ORLEN problems. employee” title is awarded during the award ceremony. The Company also organizes integration meetings for all The general principles of the Code of Ethics and its employees and their families. chapter devoted to relations within the Company emphasise the need to observe the law and good habits, and the principle of respecting the dignity of each human being. Activities popularizing the Code of Ethics among employees (trainings, workshops) have always reminded about its strong connection with the Human Rights Charter. In the Code of Ethics the Company declares its respect for the national origin, race, religion and political orientation of its employees, co-workers, customers and business partners, as well as equal and fair treatment of everybody, irrespective of the above or of the position held by a person, his or her seniority in the Company, membership in trade unions or appearance. PKN ORLEN did not report a single case of breach of the above principles in 2009. Do you know that... In accordance with the Collective Labour Agreement The “Distinguished PKN ORLEN Employee” has been the Company respects the principle of the freedom of actiawarded in PKN ORLEN since 2001. To date, 119 vity and equality of trade unions, and of non-discrimination employees have been distinguished in this way. on the grounds of trade union membership. / 31 / Workplace responsibility During celebrations of the Chemist’s Day PKN ORLEN / Employee Volunteering also emphasizes its local attachment by organizing many attractions for the inhabitants of Płock and engaging PKN ORLEN Employee Volunteering provides the space in initiatives organized by the city. In 2009, the inhafor sensitive, wise and mature people. bitants of Płock and employees of the Company were given the opportunity to enjoy musical performances One of the tools for implementation of corporate responsi“Buffo Theatre Hits” and “Zorba the Greek” offered free bility policy in PKN ORLEN is the Employee Volunteering of charge. Moreover, PKN ORLEN remembers about programme carried out since 2004. Established as a result the youngest inhabitants of the city and organizes special of joint initiative of employees and the employer, today attractions for them. it constitutes an important element of corporate culture. Volunteering in PKN ORLEN means building relations with employees, as well as inclusion and encouragement to take part in charity actions for the benefit of people in need. PKN ORLEN has actively supported projects individually initiated and implemented by employees Do you know that... by providing insurance and board for volunteers during implementation of projects, in-kind and financial support The tradition of celebrating the Chemist’s Day reaches for organizations in which employees operate or wish back to the 1970 s. to operate; PKN ORLEN also promotes their social activity both inside and outside the company. Number of PKN ORLEN employees participating in sport competitions in 2007–2009 300 250 200 150 2009 100 2008 50 2007 0 ORLEN Group Polish ORLEN Group Amateur Car Rally Polish Football Nationwide Polish Nationwide Jedź z Vervą Championship Chemists’ Race Table Tennis Toumament ( Drive with Verva ) / 32 / Corporate responsibility report Models of voluntary work in PKN ORLEN Gifts Of Volunteering Your Volunteering • Collections of gifts for organizations supported by volunteers comprising new or used equipment, furniture, • Model of volunteering allowing the employee to indicomputers or office materials, clothes, school accessories, vidually submit and implement his/her own voluntefood. ering project or a project based on the example given by others. The key values of PKN ORLEN have provided the basis for the creation of the Volunteer Charter. This charter Family Volunteering constitutes a set of principles and values that guide every volunteer in PKN ORLEN in the course of imple• An employee with members of his/her family may mentation of a given task. voluntarily devote time, skills and qualifications to cooperation during a specific action or period with a social Principle of responsibility organization chosen individually or indicated by a coor­ dinator. • We fulfil all tasks related to the assumed role and undertaking. Group Volunteering • We are responsible for the obligations we have assumed. • Should it be impossible for us to fulfil our obligations, • Engagement of a team or the entire department in sol­ we undertake to openly inform about this. ving a selected problem or need of a community. • We are open to new ideas and methods. • We do not make promises we will not be able to fulfil. Joint Volunteering • We perform all activities we engage in with utmost diligence. • Interested employees from various departments • We take care of the assets provided for implementation of the Company and on various positions engage in oneof a task. time undertakings initiated individually or by a coor­ dinator. Principle of cooperation Master Of Volunteering • We act as a team to the benefit of others. • We are people you can rely on. • A volunteer-employee may act as a guide, teacher and • We take advantage of an opportunity to get to know conduct educational or integrating activities for specific and learn new things from other people. groups. • We share our knowledge and skills with others. • We do not criticize things we do not understand. • We ask about things we do not understand. Principle of respect • We treat all people with respect. • We respect customs, values and commonly accepted rules in the environment we are in. • Trust given by others is for us the most significant obligation. • We avoid behaviour that may be misinterpreted. / 33 / Workplace responsibility / Projects implemented in 2009 Third edition of the „Make dreams come true” project. „Magic Schoolbag” facilitated the start into the new school Several dozen works submitted for the artistic competition year for the youngest inhabitants of Płock. for the PKN ORLEN Christmas card, which the Company has organized for five years, are exhibited at an unusual The „Magic Schoolbag” project was implemented as part electronic auction open to participation by all the Comof the ORLEN Employee Volunteering programme. Its aim pany’s employees. Authors of artistic works are children was the purchase by the Company employees of school from family children’s homes, looked after by the ORLEN kits for children from classes 0-3 remaining under the care Dar Serca Foundation. To become the owner of a chosen of the Municipal Social Services Centre (MOPS) in Płock. card, one has to make the dream of its author come true. Employees can make those dreams come true individually Within three weeks of August, the Company employees or in groups. Each employee who decided to be Santa financed 328 colourful kits of school accessories. Each purClaus for a moment and fulfilled the dreams of contestants chased kit was put into schoolbags financed by PKN ORLEN receives a special “Volunteer Certificate.” All presents with a reflective company logo. The final event of the „Maare given to children at a meeting with Santa Claus and gic Schoolbag” action took place on 4 September 2009 the volunteers, organised for all the contestants. in Płock during a family picnic „For a good school year beginning,” to which the Company invited children with In 2009, the Company employees made 200 dreams parents, representatives of the Municipal Social Services come true, which is twice as many as in the previous Centre in Płock and the Company’s volunteers year. The Company with the ORLEN Dar Serca Foundation financed 1000 gifts of sweets for all children who took part in the competition. Number of peple involved Number of volunteers participating in employee volunteering in respective projects in 2007–2009 in 2007–2009 1,200 2007 2008 2009 Let’s Paint the Smile 300 ----1,000 Make Dreams Come True 50 350 600 Magic Schoolbag ----500 Individual --10 20 800 600 400 200 0 2007 2008 2009 / 34 / Corporate responsibility report 3.2./ Relations with employees / Recruitment and professional development / Corporate Collective Labour Agreement In 2009 PKN ORLEN implemented a new recruitment procedure aimed at specifying assumptions and process In 2009 PKN ORLEN implemented the Corporate Colof recruitment, as well as ensuring safety and supervision lective Labour Agreement (CCLA). A number of measures of selection of candidates for specific work positions. were taken to ensure efficient and timely implementation The procedure adheres to the CCLA provisions. Its aim of the document. is to ensure that the Company employs personnel possessing the best skills. Changes concerned the following: • internal regulations and other documents related to or baPKN ORLEN does not apply separate procedures for sed on the CCLA – all internal regulations requiring employ­ment of employees from the local market. Recruitmodifications to comply with accepted provisions ment issues are stipulated in a relevant internal regulation. of the agreement were identified and works related The Recruitment Team does not gather data regarding to their implementation in the Company were initiated; the percentage of senior managerial personnel sourced from • implementation of the CCLA in individual employment the local market in the main locations of the organization. relationships – this stage included the following activities: – the process of assigning employees to new work As at 31 December 2009 PKN ORLEN employed 4,922 positions and ascribing to them a new bonus system people, all of them on the basis of employment contracts, and function, if it is performed; including: – calculation of payroll components and preparation • for an indefinite term – 4,225 of documents related to employees’ employment • for a fixed term – 437 relationships; • for a probationary period – 220 – preparation for assessment under the bonus system; • for substitution – 40 – concluding amendment agreements. • Adjustment of HR and payroll computer system (SAP/HR There are no collective agreements concluded in PKN and self-service) to the new recruitment, remuneration, ORLEN, therefore it was not necessary to specify the time bonus system and employee evaluation procedures. for notifying about any amendments introduced to such agreements. The following measures were simultaneously taken to support the implementation of the CCLA: In individual units the employment amounted to: • integrated, multilateral communication activities targeted • Płock – 3,900 at all PKN ORLEN employees; • Warsaw – 244 • trainings dedicated to managerial personnel in the scope • regions – 778 of employee evaluation and bonus systems. In 2009, 491 people resigned from work in PKN ORLEN. The fluctuation rate amounted to about 10%. In 2009, PKN ORLEN trained almost 7,000 employees. According to the employment structure an individual employee had: • 10.09 hours – employees in managerial positions, • 32.43 hours – employees in other positions. The data provided above include participation of em­ plo­yees in development, specialized, compulsory and language trainings. / 35 / Workplace responsibility Principles for implementation of PKN ORLEN’s professioAll employees are subject to regular assessment under nal development policy are also regulated by the CCLA. the Bonus System based on qualitative and quantitative The objective of the development policy is to broaden performance indicators. These indicators are planned and update employees’ knowledge and skills, as well individually for each employee, and their assessment as to develop their adaptive skills. This allows adjustment is carried out in monthly, quarterly or annual cycles – to the changing conditions on the job market and prodepending on a specific job group the employee belongs motion of attitudes focused on continuous development, to. The method of determining the assessment indicators openness to changes, and lifelong learning. is based on cascading objectives from the top to the bottom of job positions hierarchy, which guarantees that Employees have the opportunity to develop their comtasks carried out by individual employees result from petences and knowledge during personal skills trainings the Company’s strategic objectives. At the same time, or specialized/industry trainings, courses and conferences each objective is set in a manner allowing the employee in Poland or abroad, Master’s degree studies, postgrato personally develop by fulfilling tasks associated with duate studies, doctorate studies, compulsory courses and a level of difficulty and responsibility which significancertified trainings required for their respective jobs, as well tly influences the improvement of the employee’s value as adaptation e-learning trainings. on the internal and external job market. In 2009 employees could participate in Company-level In the course of works on implementation of the CCLA training and development projects. In connection with in 2009 the Company also initiated activities aimed the CCLA implementation the Company organized traat development of the system for assessment of compeinings in managerial skills entitled „The role of a manager tences and expertise, as well as planning professional in team management,” participated by 639 employees. development of employees. The objective of the system Under the 2nd edition of the PMI (Project Management is to support employees in improving their performance Institute) Academy, 24 employees responsible for strategic at work by making full use of their potential and motivating projects broadened their knowledge and skills in the scope them to continuous development. The system will cover all of project management. Additionally, 46 employees PKN ORLEN employees subject to the CCLA provisions. acquired or developed their project competences during Under the system the level of employee’s knowledge and closed trainings. competences will be reviewed and assessed. The final element of the process will be an individual plan of profes­ The Company also ensures the support of restructuring sional development, comprising development activities processes through redundancy schemes for employees providing an employee with specific knowledge and from restructured areas. This includes the Training Packapractical skills, and its implementation will simultaneously ge, which enables employees covered by the Voluntary support fulfilment of the Company’s strategic objectives. Retirement Programme to take part in free, dedicated trainings indicated by the employer and facultative trainings All policies and procedures in PKN ORLEN are compliant chosen by the employee. Trainings indicated by the Comwith the Code of Ethics and thus with various aspects pany include BLOCK 1 “Parachute – active job search of human rights. Superiors are responsible for getting techniques” and BLOCK 2 “Entrepreneurship – starting employees acquainted with those policies and procedures. one’s own business.” In 2009 nothing was reported in the Company that would In 2009, 76 employees covered by the restructuring proentail a major risk of forced or compulsory work. cess participated in trainings under the Training Package. Free trainings under BLOCK 2 „Entrepreneurship – starting In 2009 the average salary in PKN ORLEN for employees one’s own business” were participated by 7 employees. of the lowest rank amounted to PLN 4,031. It is worth The significant majority of employees participated in fanoting that the minimum salary at this time in Poland cultative trainings. was 1,276 PLN. This means that the ratio of the lowest salary in the Company to the statutory minimum salary in Poland was 316%. / 36 / Corporate responsibility report Magdalena Mocarska – Olszyńska / Student training Trainee PKN ORLEN organizes student training all year round and in all areas of its business. Training is carried out in corporate headquarters and in local units, and covers: • group training – organized in cooperation with universities/schools, • individual training, • diploma training A large group of trainees are students from local schools and universities: – 2007: • 138 students of the Warsaw University of Technology, the School of Technical and Social Sciences in Płock (faculty of Chemistry, Mechanics, and Economics), You spent a couple of weeks as a trainee in PKN ORLEN. • 91 students of the secondary schools complex Zespół What have been the most valuable experiences? What Szkół Centrum Edukacji in Płock (specialty: Chemistry is the significance of such experience for a person Technician); at the beginning of a professional career? • 43 students of the secondary construction school Zespół Szkół Budowlanych nr 1 in Plock (specialty: My professional aim after graduating from the Warsaw Environmental Protection Technician); School of Economics was to gain experience in a big corporation. My training in the PKN ORLEN Corporate – 2008: Social Responsibility Team made it possible to implement • 105 students of the Warsaw University of Technology, my plans and verify my academic interests. the School of Social and Technical Sciences (faculty of Chemistry, Mechanics, and Economics), The advantage of working for a renowned corporation • 57 students of the secondary schools complex Zespół is an opportunity to acquire knowledge and experience Szkół Centrum Edukacji in Płock (specialty: Chemistry from the best specialists in a given field. From the very Technician); first days of my traineeship, I became an active member • 15 students of the vocational college Policealne of the Team. What is more, my mentors had confidence Studium Zawodowe in Plock (specialty: Chemistry in my abilities and I was entrusted with independent tasks. Technician); Support and professional substantive help I received from • 19 students of the secondary construction school my superiors are invaluable. Zespół Szkół Budowlanych nr 1 in Plock (specialty: Environmental Protection Technician). PKN ORLEN is a Company that takes care of compre­ hensive development of all of its employees. Therefore, – 2009: already as a trainee, I could take part in a wide range • 114 students of the Warsaw University of Technology, of trainings which significantly broadened and enriched the School of Social and Technical Sciences (faculty my knowledge. Moreover, I as able to become familiar of Chemistry, Mechanics, and Economics), with the specificity, work standards and corporate culture • 115 students of the secondary schools complex of the Company. The traineeship was a great challenge Zespół Szkół Centrum Edukacji in Płock (specialty: which gave me an enormous satisfaction. I am convinced Chemistry Technician); that experience and skills gained in PKN ORLEN will • 15 students of the vocational college Policealne pay dividends in the future, as they constitute a valuable Studium Zawodowe in Płock (specialty: Chemistry asset ensuring competitive advantage on the job market. Technician); / 37 / Workplace responsibility • 26 students of the secondary construction school an opportunity to discuss mutual expectations. ParticiZespół Szkół Budowlanych nr 1 in Płock (specialty: pation in such initiatives organized on the local market Environmental Protection Technician). enables the Company to build and maintain the image of PKN ORLEN as the Company interested in problems In 2009 we admitted 7 undergraduate students for longof people living in Płock and its surroundings, as well term diploma training at our facilities as part of cooperaas to present PKN ORLEN as a strong and dynamically tion scheme with the Warsaw University of Technology, developing enterprise. the School of Social and Technical Sciences in Płock implemented on the basis of the agreement concluded with / Employee care this school. In October 2009 the Cooperation Agreement was extended for another three years. For years PKN ORLEN has offered its employees various benefits which are expected to make the Company a frien/ On – the – Job Training dly place. These include bigger and smaller projects, all of which are important and answer the employees’ needs: The programme was initiated in 2002. It has been imple­ • adjustment of the opening hours of canteens to the emplo­ mented in cooperation with Labour Offices across Poyees’ working hours, land, in particular in Płock. The programme is addressed • delivery of meals to the workplace, to secon­dary school and university graduates. In 2007, • mobile teams offering vaccinations for employees 107 people participated in the programme, while in 2008 at the workplace, – 87 people. • discounts for movies at cinemas, • MultiSport programme – preferential access to sport In 2009, on-the-job training was joined by 35 graduates and recreational facilities across of Poland, of secondary schools and universities. Currently there • special room for breastfeeding mothers. are 36 trainees, including 25 from the Municipal Labour Office and 11 from the District Labour Office in Płock. The Company implements annually programmes for asses­ sment of the impact of work on employees’ health and In September 2009 PKN ORLEN once again took part its potential effects in reference to the set control group in the Job Fairs in Płock. This provided the Company consisting of former employees (retirees and pensioners) with the opportunity to contact students and graduates and employees’ family members. There are many scientific directly, while those interested could obtain all information and research programmes implemented as prophylacabout recruitment and development policy. This was also tic schemes based on early detection of risks resulting Social care – types of benefits in 2007–2009 2007 2008 2009 Costs No. of Costs No. of Costs No. of (in PLN) benefits (in PLN) benefits (in PLN) benefits Holidays for employees, retirees, pensioners 10,521,235.13 12,653 11,604,112.48 13,445 11,299,604.12 13,147 and Voluntary Retirement Programme Financial aid for children and youth 3,510,202.42 7,803 3,375,560.00 7,695 3,217,496.00 7,364 Christmas gifts 390,485.03 6,100 452,245.57 6,500 460,800.00 6,400 Hardship benefits 582,738.55 749 798,483.07 880 924,368.51 1,484 Group events, cultural and educational meetings, prophylactic and rehabilitation therapies or recreation and sport activities 735,389.16 6,220 655,412.44 8,480 719,765.62 7,461 or integration events Housing loans 7,588,610.00 671 6,807,385.00 659 4,830,705.49 456 Reserves 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 80,000.00 0.00 TOTAL 23,328,682.29 34,196 23,693,198.56 37,659 21,532,739.74 36,312 / 38 / Corporate responsibility report Anna Lewandowska – Romanowska from the performed work. This allows detecting diseases Director of Social Relations and Employment in the early stages of their development. Early detection Benefits Office in PKN ORLEN is particularly significant in cancerous and cardiologic diseases, as it increases the patient’s chances to rescue life and recuperate. Detection of occupational risks also serves as an indication for the employer as to what measures should be taken in order to limit the harmful influence. The Company has initiated works aimed at introduction of health policy in PKN ORLEN. For PKN ORLEN the employee constitutes the highest value. It is important for the Company to appreciate and distinguish currently employed employees. Moreover, the Company does not forget about the people who have already finished their professional careers – retired employees and pensioners, who are invited to galas celebrating their 70th, 75th, 80th, 85th birthdays. Galas with participation of retired employees celebrating What motivated the Company to provide a room for their birthdays are organized in cooperation with the Sebreastfeeding mothers? nior Club Councils, which support our actions for retirees and pensioners – the former employees of the Company. PKN ORLEN implements various solutions to fulfil its Representatives of the PKN ORLEN management take part employees’ expectations in the best and fullest possible in such events. All meetings have ceremonial setting. Former way. Ensuring a peaceful work environment for people employees receive special diplomas signed by the Presiwith small children is an important aspect of these dent of the Management Board, flowers, company gifts activities. and financial gratifications. Special meetings for retired employees and pensioners of PKN ORLEN are organized The Company employs a growing number of young mo­ in all cities twice a year. One of such meetings is held thers who return to professional activity after the period before Christmas, while the other one has cultural and of maternal leave. In order to reduce the stress connected educational character and is expected to ensure former with separation of a mother and her baby, and therefore employees the sense of belonging to the community creto make the return to work more comfortable, the Com­ ated by PKN ORLEN. pany undertook to organize a room for breastfeeding mothers in the Administration Centre Building in Płock. In this pleasant place, in nice and friendly atmosphere a young mom may meet and feed her baby during her work time. Advantages are mutual, as a woman who may see her child during work time even for a quarter or so, becomes more relaxed and concentrated. The room is available all the time and used as needed. / 39 / Workplace responsibility Danuta Goszczycka of activities are taken up across Poland. Currently there President of the Senior Club Council in Płock are 11 such Councils, which we exchange experiences and cooperate with. PKN ORLEN introduced regulations allowing for functioning of this type of organization. The goodwill of the former employer and trade unions operating in the Company has also allowed many people to take advantage of the Company Social Benefits Fund in the form of: co-financing of holidays or treatment in sanatoria, repayable housing loans and extremely necessary non-repayable hardship benefits. The fact that the Company remembers about us – former emplo­ yees – is very important for our community. Jubilee meetings are one of the ways to express this. Such events, organized across Poland, are very popular and positively welcomed. Participants of these meetings – persons celebrating a jubilee of 70th, 75th, 80th, 85th, 90th birthday are touched and grateful for the gestures Which aspects of interest and care expressed by PKN ORLEN of appreciation from the Company they sacrificed a huge towards its former employees are the most important for part of their life to. Such activities are an invaluable you? What is the value for a retired employee of kee­ and very beautiful proof of appreciation and respect ping continuous contact with the company he or she for people from our community. worked for? For many years PKN ORLEN has cared for keeping in touch with the community of its former employees. Many valuable initiatives originated from this interest as well as from activities undertaken by retired employees. Over 25 years ago social activities in this scope took the form of the Senior Club Council in Płock. Similar forms Activities and benefits for retired employees in 2007–2009 2007 2008 2009 No. of benefits No. of benefits No. of benefits Cash equivalent before public holidays 565 956 1,039 School kits for children Benefit introduced in 2009 92 Co-financing of holidays for retired employees 717 902 865 Co-financing of holidays for retired employees’ children 304 201 245 Hardship benefits 639 731 1,299 Housing loans 93 86 56 Meetings with retired employees celebrating their 70 , 75 , 80 , 85 , 90 ...birthday jubilee th th th th th 774 795 915 Cultural and educational meetings 2,147 5,057 3,585 Provision of specialist health care by the Military Medical Institute in Warsaw 1,753 1,897 1,850 TOTAL 6,992 10,625 9,946 / 40 / Corporate responsibility report / Social benefits for current and former employees 3.3./ Occupational health and safety As a Company caring for its current and former employees, we provide them access to social benefits. They are In order to adapt to legislative changes and ensure expected to support employees who are in a difficult life safety for employees, PKN ORLEN implemented the occu­ situation, as well as to help improve living conditions and pational health and safety management system. This promote active lifestyle. constitutes a part of risk factors management strategy, which resulted in decrease of the number of accidents, In PKN ORLEN we do not differentiate additional benefits ensuring compliance with legal provisions and increase on the basis of working time. of efficiency of activities carried out in the OHS area. The task of the newly established OHS Office is joint / Principles, significance and effects identification and control of threats to health and safety, of cooperation with trade unions reduction of probability of the occurrence of accidents and for the Company and its employees promotion of safe and healthy work environment. Great emphasis was put on activities performed in accordance Any matters related to collective rights and interests with the PN-EN18001 norm, which helps PKN ORLEN of emplo­yees are resolved while respecting the interests efficiently fulfil requirements set for the Company. of either party and adhering to the principle of social dialogue. The Management Board perceives it as a very The OHS Office has taken over the operational control important aspect to cooperate in the best possible way with of ORLEN Medica Company and ORLEN Prewencja. the trade unions which represent employees. The employer Its structures include also the In-house Fire Brigade whose developed the initiative to organize cyclical meetings members are trained in the scope of firefighting, working focused on the exchange of information, consultations and on heights and under water and provision of first aid negotiations with participation of the PKN ORLEN Manato the injured. Under the protection and safety system gement Board members, the employer’s representatives these services ensure safety on a daily basis for people, and leaders of the trade unions operating in the Company. protect production units of the Company, and if necessary, They concentrated on the most significant current social also help the local community. ad employment issues. In 2009 PKN ORLEN registered the total of 23 accidents As part of activities aimed at boosting the efficiency at work, 13 of which were reported in the Production Plant of the Company, PKN ORLEN and the trade unions in Płock, and 10 in regional structures of the Company. in the Company concluded the agreement on the Voluntary It is worth emphasizing that in 2009 no grave, collective Retirement and Redundancy Programme (PDOEiK) addresor fatal accidents among PKN ORLEN employees were sed to employees interested in termination of employment. reported. This is the effect of initiating the process of impleThe programme agreed with the trade unions eliminated mentation of a new approach towards OHS. It is focused negative social effects brought about by reduction of emplo­ on reduction of the number of inspections to be replaced yment in the Company. In order to perform restructuring by consultations and trainings increasing the level of OHS processes planned in PKN ORLEN, collective agreements awareness. Reported incidents were minor communication on rights of employees covered by these procedures accidents resulting from incautious movement of employees were concluded with the trade unions in the atmosphere on the premises of production units or office facilities. Thus, of social acceptance. dominant types of accidents are fractures (about 35% of all injuries) and sprains (about 22%) of lower limbs Throughout the restructuring processes the Company main(61%) and upper limbs (about 22%). No repetitive acci­ tained ongoing contacts with the trade unions. All activities dents, typical of the chemical industry, were reported. were performed in compliance with legal provisions and There was a decrease in accident rate by 3 accidents did not disturb social peace. in PKN ORLEN. / 41 / Workplace responsibility In order to prevent the occurrence of accidents the ComThis level of accident rates is also influenced by developed pany developed training materials related to „good OHS good practices and internal regulations, as well as procepractices while moving on the premises of production dures specified in the Comprehensive Prevention System units and office facilities.” which is one of the first management systems in Poland in the scope of occupational safety. We have revised Sick absence following accidents at work amounted the procedure applied in the case of accidents at work to 996 days, which corresponds to 43.3 gravity rate and used them for reporting and analysing accident risks (number of days of inability to work per 1 accident). or non-casualty incidents. The new procedure for reporting The frequency rate was 5.0 (number of accidents per accident risks enables the reporting person to suggest 1,000 employees) and the TRR rate (number of accidents proposals of preventive measures. 61 non-casualty inciper 1 million man-hours) – 2.90. dents/accidents were reported in 2009. Many years of experience in development of safe worPKN ORLEN puts an emphasis on identification and king conditions has led to the reduction of accident rates minimising risks at the very source. Surveys and measuin PKN ORLEN. These rates have remained on the similar rements concerning hazardous and health-affecting agents level for several years, which is confirmed by statistical data. at workstations are systematically carried out and they provide the basis for performance of periodic assessments of occupational risk. Accident data in 2007–2009 PKN ORLEN Fuel Terminals Production Plant and units Year Total in Płock outside Płock 2007 26 13 13 Accidents at work 2008 26 16 10 2009 23 13 10 2007 1 340 630 723 Sick absence (calendar days starting from the date of sick leave) 2008 952 611 341 2009 996 689 307 2007 5,4 3,6 10,6 Frequency ratio (no. of accidents per 1000 employees) 2008 5,5 4,4 9,2 2009 5,0 3,5 10,6 2007 51,5 48,5 55,6 Gravity ratio (days of sick absence per 1 accident) 2008 36,6 38,2 34,1 2009 43,3 53,0 30,7 2007 0 Occupational diseases 2008 0 2009 0 2007 3,17 TRR ratio* (no. of accidents multiplied by one million and divided 2008 3,19 by no. of man-hours worked) 2009 2,90 * The TRR ratio shows correlation with the frequency ratio. Due to more precise data, this ratio better presents the accident status of the Company, which is comparable to other world scale refinery and petrochemical corporations. / 42 / Corporate responsibility report We pay particular attention to education of our employees. Further activities in the scope of OHS and fire safety have We also train employees from external companies working been planned for 2010, including e.g. OHS campaign on the premises of the Production Plant in Płock. In order related to equipment under the European OHS Campaign, to visualise and make the employees aware of the risks implementation of the programme concerning appointment on the Plant premises, the Company has prepared 3 how-to of “OHS assistants,” initiation of the implementation profilms. The subjects of the films include: occupational health cess of e-learning trainings for administration employees. and safety during overhaul works on the Plant premises, safety of visitors entering the Company premises and In order to ensure social control over the development existing risks. The films will make it possible to reach and observance of the safe and healthy work conditions, a larger group of employees. PKN ORLEN has its Occupational Health and Safety Commission. It is composed of representatives of the employer We also undertake actions aimed at monitoring accidents and employees. The rules for functioning of the Commission of employees from external companies on the premises were stipulated in the agreement with the trade unions of the Production Plant in Płock. If such accidents occur, concluded on the basis of the Corporate Collective Labour the post accident investigation will be carried out with Agreement and generally applicable legal provisions. the participation of an employee of our OHS service. Its chairman is the PKN ORLEN Management Board In order to increase occupational safety during works member. The Commission resolves all issues concerning performed with participation of external employees (conthe OHS conditions in the Company. 50% of the Comtractors) the Company introduced the clause “Occupational mission members are employee representatives. safety” to agreements concluded with external contractors for overhaul, investment, design and implementation In the same way the social labour inspection operates as well as research works on the Company premises. on the basis of the agreement with the trade unions concluWe also developed a draft Supervision System over ded in compliance with the CCLA provisions and generally external contractors in the scope of OHS. applicable law. Its activities are managed by the trade unions. Under cooperation aimed at developing good Moreover, in order to increase the awareness of employees OHS conditions in the Company, PKN ORLEN organizes in the scope of safe conduct during work on different work meetings of the Company Social Labour Inspector and stations, the Company decreased in 2009 the number Department-level Social Labour Inspectors with participation of direct OHS inspections to replace them with advisory of the trade unions, the PKN ORLEN Management Board meetings. member and employer’s representatives responsible for contacts with the social labour inspectorate. Educational activities were carried out through corporate media. Employees were updated in articles published The OHS Management System functions in organi­ in ORLEN Ekspres and the website on activities of the OHS zational units located in Płock and in Warsaw, which services, changes in legal provisions and issues concerning was implemented and certified in compliance with employees. There was also an information campaign the PN-N – 18001:2004 norm. concerning the use by employees of personal protective equipment and protective clothing, and in the scope of norms for carrying heavy items. In order to increase safety at workstations with the hig­hest risk of fire hazard, the Company introduced anti-electrostatic and hard-inflammable protective clothing. All chemical rescuers have also been equipped with such clothing. / 43 / Responsibility towards customers and partners / Responsibility towards customers and partners 4.1./ Customer care Number of complaints and claims in 2007–2009 In 2009 PKN ORLEN took all reasonable efforts to maintain and elevate customer service standards. Our priority 2007 2008 2009 is the top quality of products and services to ensure that Total CoDo (own stations) 1,174 1,150 1,418 PKN ORLEN fuel stations are places, where in accordance Accepted 285 278 399 with the principle “two hours of driving, twenty minutes break” our customers may safely and comfortably relax. are very important factors for the Company. We constantly It is very important for us to ensure that our Customers work with suppliers to satisfy current needs of fuel stations. are professionally served. We also respect their privacy. In 2009, we did not find any justified cases of customers’ We introduce new products in line with significant world complaints which would arise from the loss of personal trends, e.g. the fair trade idea. Coffee offered at Stop data in the VITAY Programme. Cafe is certified by Fairtrade. Although statistics show that this logo is still not very popular in Poland, we believe In comparison to the previous years, positive effects our duty is to promote this idea and to join the fair trade of these efforts were confirmed by results of surveys movement. Surveys conducted by the Company indicate related to service standards and mystery shopping stuthat the Fairtrade certificate does not directly influence dies. We constantly elevate our standards of customer the decision to buy coffee, however when the customer finds care e.g. by implementing a comprehensive training out that the coffee is certified by this logo, he or she feels system for fuel stations employees conducted by sales satisfied with the purchase of such a product. This is very managers – coaches. important for a good beginning. The year 2009 was characterized by an increased number We strive to make life easier for our disabled customers. of complaints and claims filed at own stations in compariThe portal www.orlen.pl offers them functionality dedison to the previous years. The share of accepted complaints cated to them, whose additional advantage is a legible and claims in the total number of filed complaints and icon. Customers have at their disposal the search engine claims, which remained on the same level in 2007 and allowing them to find PKN ORLEN fuel stations, which 2008, grew by 4% in 2009. Such phenomenon always enables them to plan their journey and locate stations causes concern, therefore its causes were thoroughly on their route corresponding to their needs. analysed. It turned out that in most cases, extreme weather that unfortunately occurred last winter sometimes made After marking an appropriate criterion, the map shows it impossible to win with natural conditions, although our the stations which have a wide access ramp and a toilet fuels met all required norms. adjusted to the needs of the disabled. Disabled customers may also use detailed selection criteria allowing them As our products – fuels – are not sold in packages, to select three features facilitating the visit at the fuel in 2009 the Company did not recover materials from station. It is worth emphasizing that the implementation sold products and their packages. of these ideas was guided not by business motives, but by care and the sense that as the Company we may Suppliers also constitute an important group of our partners. do something which will make life easier for other people. The quality of products we purchase and who supplies them The website www.orlen.pl itself offers features for the disabled in accordance with the applicable WCAG 1.0 stanDo you know that... dard. PKN ORLEN operates in compliance with all points included in Priority 1 and most points of Priority 2 and 3. The Fairtrade certificate means that our suppliers apply This standard applies among others to illustrations captions, the principles of fare trade, the objective of which not using too vivid colours, too dynamic animations etc. is to eliminate farmer exploitation. / 46 / Corporate responsibility report 4.2./ Relations with suppliers lopment of the Company, and on the other hand resulted from efforts to respond effectively to market needs and There are several primary objectives that guide the PKN provide clear cooperation procedures. ORLEN Purchase Office in relations with suppliers. These include developing partnership with reliable suppliers, High requirements have been set for persons responsible for maintaining friendly work environment, creating the model cooperation with suppliers. The Purchase Office personnel of effective cooperation with external customers by satisfying inform – in the course of bidding procedures – about applitheir expectations in the best possible way and readiness cable purchase procedures, provide explanations concerto provide necessary support. ning individual stages of selection process, work schedule of the Evaluation Teams or present general or eligibility The Office mission is to acquire the status of the best requirements towards the bidders. The Company apprepurchase organization in the fuel and energy industry ciates especially contractors who apply good commerce of the Central and Eastern Europe. Thus it is our priority practices and represent the highest level of professional to timely deliver required materials and services of desi­ ethics. Moreover, the Company has signed an agreement red quality, as well as to systematically optimise costs on good practices with the Advertising Agencies Associain the course of these activities. While fulfilling their duties tion (Stowarzyszenie Agencji Reklamowych) concerning employees must be professional, but simultaneously respect the purchase of marketing services. the primary values and principles of the PKN ORLEN Code of Ethics. PKN ORLEN organizes annual satisfaction surveys in order to ensure the best cooperation with suppliers. Regularity In cooperation with its suppliers the Company adheres of surveys allows us to determine whether cooperation with to the purchase policy regulations. One of its key docurespective suppliers is developing, deteriorating or remains ments is the PKN ORLEN Purchase Instruction. On the basis stable etc. of this instruction we select our suppliers in a clear and transparent way. The principle „Think globally, act locally” is also applicable towards cooperation with suppliers. The Company Centralization of scattered purchase functions carried out uses the services of local suppliers (whose headquarters a few years ago was on the one hand the effect of the deve­ are located in the Płock Poviat), thus supporting the local market and business. Their obvious advantages include good knowledge of the local market or possibility to redu­ ce transport costs. However, the final selection criterion is always the ability to satisfy high expectations. Therefore the Company does not keep statistics specifying the share of expenses for services provided by local suppliers. Do you know that... PKN ORLEN cooperates with reliable suppliers from all • Our fuel station no. 581 at ul. Włóczków 5 over the world. All of them are subject to regular verificain Cracow was distinguished as the cleanest tion; forms of long-term cooperation have been developed station according to the Polish nationwide camwith key suppliers. Apparently as a result of such actions, paign PATROL CZYSTOŚCI 2012. no agreements with suppliers have been identified that • In 2009 we served 276,785,721 customers at would require the application of human rights clause. PKN ORLEN own fuel stations. • Motoscan recognized us as the leader in quick, One of the effects of applying due diligence in the purchase polite Customer service and cleanliness at fuel processes is the fact that in 2009 no penalties were impo­ stations. sed on the Company for breach of law and regulations • We are the MasterCard 2009 Trade and Services relating to delivery and usage of products and services. Master. / 47 / Responsibility towards customers and partners 4.3./ Responsible production Also, early in July, we resumed an investment project involving a new boiler no. 8 at the Combined Heat and PKN ORLEN is one of the largest oil industry companies Power Plant of the Production Plant in Plock. With this in Central and Eastern Europe. We process crude oil boiler, the Plock facility will improve its total technological into unleaded petrol, diesel fuel, furnace oil, aviation steam balance and will be able to modernise the existing fuel, plastics and petrochemical products. The Company boilers at the Combined Heat and Power Plant. The project manages seven refineries in Poland, the Czech Repuis necessary to fulfil environmental standards with respect blic and Lithuania. The Company’s integrated refinery to nitrogen oxide and dust emission, which are expected and petrochemical complex, located in Płock, is ranked to enter into force in 2016. The boiler will generate up among the most modern and efficient facilities of its to 420 tonnes of steam per hour, the steam parameters kind in Europe. In 2009 the refinery in Płock processed being 13.6 MPag and 5400C. We plan to start up 14,526 mln tonnes of crude oil, thus increasing its result the boiler no. 8 by late June 2012. by 2.7% compared to the previous year. Following the Fuel Study performed by Solomon AssoIn 2009 PKN ORLEN commenced the implementation of a ciates, we individually developed tools enabling monthly new project. The project consists in design, supply and monitoring of key parameters, such as energy media construction (a „turn-key” investment) of a modern heat consumption, number and reasons for production units recovery steam generator at the FKKII unit for cooling arrests. Monitoring data are used to calculate key perfor­ of technological gases. The energy thus recovered will mance indicators of production units and refineries in order be used to produce up to 40 tonnes/hour of 4 MPag to review the Company’s competitive position. They are technological steam. We expect to start the operation also used as guidelines for making current and future of the steam generation in the autumn of 2010. operational decisions. Another programme in the production area, aimed at incre­ Production volume of selected refinery products asing our profit, was the NCM3 project implemented in 2008–2009 (’000. tonnes) in association with the Solomon Associates consulting company. NCM3 led to development of a number of initiatives 2008 2009 2008/2009 to change/improve the existing situation in the Production Crude oil processed 14,218 14,526 2.17% Plant in Płock to bring it to level with the best practices Total petrol 2,800 3,055 9.11% applied in the world. In 2009, the economic effects Total diesel fuel 5,078 5,330 4.96% of those initiatives amounted to approx. PLN 23 mln. Ekoterm Plus heating oil 840 790 –5.98% Aviation fuel 418 291 –30.38% Propane-butane fraction 221 210 –4.98% Total fuels 9,358 9,676 3.4% Fuel output (%) 65.82 66.61 1.2% White product output (%) 77.98 78.08 0.13% Mass of pollutants emitted [Mg] SO2 NO2 CO2 Dust Amount from the begining of 2009 17,904.1 4,515.8 3,184,076.0 357.6 Amount left for use in 2009 3,803.9 1,230.5 174,882.0 919.3 Permissible emission [Mg/year]* 21,708.0 5,746.3 3,358,958.0 1,277.0 Percentage of permissible emission used 82.5% 78.6% 94.8% 28.0% * Acc. to the integrated permit no. PŚ.V/KS/7600-120/08 of 21.07.2009 and NAP II for CO2 (Polish Journal of Laws 2008.2784). / 48 / Corporate responsibility report Comparison of actual mass emision of pollutants for 12 months of 2009 /82.5% SO2 /17.5% /94.8% CO2 /5.2% /78.6% NOx /21.4% /28.0% CO /72.0% amount left for use / 49 / Responsibility towards customers and partners Actual SO2 and NOx mass emission In 2009 we started preparing for pilot energy consumption for 12 month of 2009 tests at the DRW III and Olefins II units. Particular attention was paid to energy efficiency analyses and proposals 20,000 were developed focusing on solutions and modernisation 3,500,000 17,904 aimed at reducing energy3,184,076 consumption levels. These are indispensable actions to be taken in order to be able – 3,000,000 while using the employees’ potential – to set ambitious 15 ,000 2,500,000 targets to keep pace with the best in the industry. 2,000,000 We implement an Advanced Process Control (APC) sys10 ,000 tem at the Production Plant. In 2009 it was implemented 1,500,000 on the Hydrocracking installation (fractionating column area). It is expected that application of this system will 1,000,000 5,000 4,516 significantly increase the output of the most valuable products, such as aviation fuel or light diesel fuel, while 500,000 ensuring stable operation conditions of the fractionating 0 column0 and the entire Hydrocracking installation. SO2 NOx CO2 T/a Another hydrogen production unit – WW II was started-up in November 2009. The unit was planned as the final stage in hydrogen management process after the start-up Actual CO2 mass emission of the Diesel Desulphurisation 7 and Paraxylene units. Curfor 12 month of 2009 rently (until the mentioned units are in operation), WW II stabilises the hydrogen network and ensures its efficient 3,500,000 utilisation. Should one of the Hydrogen Production Units 3,184,076 break down, the loss will be much reduced, as there 3,000,000 will be less need to substitute it with other production units. More readily available supplies of hydrogen mean 2,500,000 more flexibility in hydrogen processes, in terms of their possibilities and intensification. 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 0 CO2 T/a / 50 / Corporate responsibility report Energy consumption in 2009 / Pro-ecological effects in fuel production 2009 2008 Petrol UM completion completion Crude oil processing Mg 14,526,294 14,217,789 Eurosuper 95 petrol which is the mixture of hydrocarbons Soft asphalt consumption Mg 909,820 928,322 obtained from crude oil processing. It is a basic type GJ 37,310,010 37,970,180 Heating oil consumption of fuel offered on the domestic market. Thanks to the most Mg 129,263 108,411 noble components, such as ether, alkyls and isomerizate, GJ 5,503,860 4,603,430 it has the required octane number at reduced aromatic Mg 717,935 743,656 hydrocarbon, benzene and sulphur content. All types Fuel gas consumption GJ 35,162,870 36,326,990 (incl. natural gas) of petrol produced in PKN ORLEN are enriched with Mg 332,118 365,939 the package of the best quality special additives, whose GJ 16,328,640 18,001,140 main component is a detergent guaranteeing fulfilment Mg 287 384 Diesel fuel consumption in PZC of the highest criteria of intake valves cleanliness specified GJ 12,320 16,360 in the World-Wide Fuel Charter. MWh 80,718 121,769 Electricity purchase 290,584 438,368 Super Plus 98 is a sublime mixture of hydrocarbon obtained Heat energy purchase GJ 302,792 373,084 from crude oil processing. Specific type of components Total consumption of fuel and purchased energy GJ 82,395,436 83,512,492 ensures the required octane number at reduced aromatic MWh 507,123 476,052 hydrocarbon, benzene and sulphur content. Electricity sale GJ 1,825,644 1,713,787 Heat energy sale GJ 4,264,558 4,344,479 VERVA 98 is a sulphur-free fuel, whose high parameters Heat energy production GJ 40,029,440 39,398,995 help reduce fuel consumption and improve the engine in PZC boilers (gross) Heat uptake in steam by the Industrial performance. It also ensures high efficiency and durability Complex (from PZC + purchase GJ 23,784,933 25,063,702 of catalytic converters. This is a new generation of fuels from Polyolefin and Asphalts) formulated with the aim to improve engine performance Heat consumption in hot water GJ 2,361,490 2,273,321 under various weather conditions and variable loads. including: – city GJ 2,094,738 2,024,088 – Industrial Complex Reduced sulphur content (below 10 mg/kg) guarantees GJ 266,752 249,233 + external recipients significantly lower corrosion in the fuel feed, combustion Steam supply to network from production units GJ 5,651,703 5,556,322 and exhaust system. It prolongs durability of catalytic Heat production in waste GJ 19,252,965 19,427,191 converter. It also ensures reduction of CH and CO hydroheat boilers carbons in fumes. VERVA 98 has a beneficial influence Electricity production MWh 1,989,646 1,958,067 Electricity consumption on the engine’s lifetime, increasing mechanical durability MWh 1,563,240 1,603,784 (Industrial Complex + PZC) of its components (cylinders, pistons, rings and valves). Quality and range of motor fuels in 2009 Production Average sulBenzene Ethanol MTBE ether ETBE ether volume phur content content content content content [Mg] [% weight] [% V/V] [% V/V] [% weight] [% weight] Eurosuper 95 140,689 0.0007 0.77 – – – Eurosuper 95 with EETB 778,178 0.0008 0.80 – – 8.53 Super Plus 98 with EETB 295,200 0.0008 0.66 – – 10.56 Eurosuper 95 with Ethanol Płock Production Plant 917,906 0.0008 0.74 4.89 – – Eurosuper 95 with EthanolStorage Facilities 920,024 0.0008 0.74 4.84 – – VERVA 98 Płock Production Plant – – – – – – VERVA 98 Storage Facilities 128,233 0.0008 0.66 – – 10.56 Average content of substances in motor fuels – 0.0008 0.62 1.39 – 4.24 / 51 / Responsibility towards customers and partners VERVA 98 combustion process in the engine is enhanced / Diesel fuel by the use of carefully selected and optimally dosed additives package of washing agents (detergents), which In 2009 PKN ORLEN produced the following types help maintain cleanliness of the fuel feed system and even of diesel fuels with sulphur content below 10 mg/kg guarantee removal of sediment built-up due to the use [0.0010% (m/m)]: of fuels of unknown origin and not containing detergents. It possesses anti-corrosion and antioxidant qualities preThe „Super” urban diesel fuel produced only in few venting fuel degradation in storage. European countries under the name City Diesel. This fuel in its original version with sulphur content of 200 mg/kg was introduced to the Polish market already in 1994 and Share of individual types of petrol in the entire since then PKN ORLEN has been its exclusive producer petrol production in 2009 [%] in Poland. In comparison to the old version, the product satisfies significantly higher quality requirements. The sul2009 phur content is reduced to 10 mg/kg. The final distillation Unleaded petrol 95 86.69 of this fuel does not exceed the temperature of 300 0C; Unleaded petrol 98 9.28 the norm also specifies the content of polycyclic aromatic VERVA 98 4.03 hydrocarbon up to 5% (m/m), which in comparison to standard diesel fuel guarantees lower level of hydrocarbon and solid particles emission and influences lower level Production of the noblest components of ecological of nitrogen monoxide creation and its emission in exhaust petrol in 2009 [Mg] gases. Additives package is used in the product, which improves operating properties of the fuel, ensuring ap2009 propriate washing, anti-corrosion, antioxidant properties MTBE 0 and good lubricant properties. As other diesel fuels, this ETBE 97,853 product is protected from microbiological contamination. Alkylate 115,323 Due to these factors the „Super” urban diesel is used Isomerizate 477,458 in land transport, mainly in public transport, in big urban agglomerations and environmentally protected areas. Share of ether in unleaded petrol in 2009 [%] Ekodiesel Ultra is top quality diesel fuel which meets the strictest quality and environmental requirements for 2009 diesel fuels in the European Union member states. Its most Eurosuper 95, Super Plus 98, VERVA 98 important advantages in comparison to diesel fuel produced MTBE 0.00 so far include: trace sulphur content (below 10 mg/kg), ETBE 9.55 reduced aromatic hydrocarbon content, a higher cetane number, better operating properties in winter and a high microbiological purity level. / 52 / Corporate responsibility report / Heating Oils / Innovation Ekoterm Plus heating oil is a modern and safe energy In April 2009 the invention made by PKN ORLEN emplo­ source, being a product of the highest quality, complying yees was awarded a gold medal at the 37th International with global norms both in terms of operating parameters Exhibition of Inventions, New Technologies and Products and environmental protection standards. It is characterized GENEVA 2009. The authors of the project: “Method by low sulphur content [since 2007 below 0.10% (m/m)], of measuring the temperature of heat exchangers pipes low adhesiveness, low flow temperature (below –20 oC) in process furnaces” are Grzegorz Goleniewski, Antoni and high calorific value. Waldemar Korytkowski and Wojciech Komasa from PKN ORLEN and Piotr Pręgowski from the PIRS company. Range and quality of oils The essential aspect of the solution is registration of a 10 to 20 seconds sequence (50 frames/sec) of thermal images 2009 in conditions of constant geometry of the set “study object Production Sulphur volume content – metric camera” instead of the registration of individual [Mg] [% weight] thermograms made with a hand-held camera. Light heating oil Ekoterm Plus 753,387 0.06 Ekoterm Plus heating oil The use of the measurement method allows us to eliminate Heavy heating oil C-3 930,999 2.00 most disruptions and results in the increase of a measureHeavy heating oil 1 27,734 0.85 ment field as well as reliability of imaging of temperatures Furnace oil for technological furnaces 129,263 0.13 distribution in pipes. This solution had previously received many prestigious Range and quality of diesel fuel distinctions. 2009 Production Sulphur volume content [Mg] [% weight] ONM Super 114,977 0.00046 Ekodiesel Ultra excl. diesel for storage 5,179,475 0.00082 in salt caverns Sulphur content in fuel produced in 2009 [Mg] Total amount [Mg] Sulphur content in heating oils 19,476 Sulphur content in diesel oils 43 Amount of sulphur recovered from processed crude oil 134,850 / 53 / Environmental and social responsibility / Environmental and social responsibility 5.1./ Environmental responsibility population in cooperation with the Society for Wild Animals “SOKÓŁ.” In 1999, two nest boxes were fixed Our Company is aware of its environmental impact, and on chimneys of the Combined Heat and Power Plant and therefore takes responsibility for the mode of its operations. Claus Unit. Since 2000 the Company has cooperated with This is reflected in our environmental policy. „Environmenthe “Peregrine Falcon Restitution in Poland” Programme tally-friendly ORLEN” means that we are: Board – since 2002 – Society for Wild Animals SOKÓŁ. The birds hatched for the first time in 2002. O bliged to take responsibility for the use of natural resources In 2002 the presence of four nestlings of peregrine falcon R eliable in informing people about our impact was recorded in the nest box – two females and two L oyal towards stakeholders males. As a result of the „Name the peregrine falcon” E nergetic in undertaking preventive and corrective competition organized for the first time among employees, measures the four nestlings were called: Oleńka, Petronela, Rafek, N ovel in the implementation of environmentally friendly and Naftek. techniques and technologies Production installations have not exerted a significant Aware of new challenges in the environmental protection impact on biodiversity thanks to applied procedures which area, we started to develop a new integrated environmental guarantee safe use and adherence to permissible emission policy of the Company. parameters. Lack of significant influence of products results from their proper use and respecting of features specified The PKN ORLEN Production Plant is neither located on any in data sheets available to users. protected areas, nor within the Nature 2000 zones. Within the impact of the Plant there are: the Brudzeński Maybe this was the reason for appearance of other original Landscape Park, large areas of the Gostynińsko-Włocławski guests at the premises of the Production Plant lat year. Landscape Park and extensive strips of protected landscape areas: Nadwiślański, Gostynińsko-Gąbiński areas In February 2009, periodic inspection of the “Moczary” and Raciąska Plain. There are also sanctuaries: Świetlista reservoir at the premises of the Production Plant discovered Dąbrowa in Brwilno, Sikórz and nearby Łąck, Łąckie Małe the presence of beavers. The animals which inhabited Lake, Korzeń, Rzepki, Kresy, Jarząbek, Oz Gostyniński, the reservoir built two large lodges on the dike area. Drzewce. A significant role is served by recreational The presence of beavers was confirmed by damage done areas, even of sanatorium character or traditionally perin the surrounding reservoir: disturbances of the banks ceived as good for environmental therapy. These include of the reservoir in the form of numerous holes and a large forests in the Vistula valley on its right bank and forests number of cut down trees. Their activities posed a threin the Gostynińskie Lakeland. at to facilities and installation, as well as operations of the reservoir. With the aim to ensure technical safety Already for many years the area occupied by the Producof the objects and installation the Company turned for help tion Plant has been inhabited by falcons. This area has to competent public administration bodies. In September become the habitat of the most enduring and productive the decision was issued to catch and resettle the family couple in Poland which in the years 2002-2009 hatched of European beavers from the reservoir to the middle 25 nestlings. section of the Osetnica River below the Szczawińskie Lake. The Polish Red Book lists, among others, the peregrine falcon as CR – critically endangered species. Since 2002 the Company has participated in restitution of its / 56 / Corporate responsibility report Arkadiusz Kamiński of strenuous and difficult work was crowned with Environmental Protection Office Director success. The team of beaver catchers left Płock con­ in PKN ORLEN vinced that at least one beaver was left on the area of the „Moczary” reservoir. Therefore, the operation was repeated in Decem­ber. The hunters found one adult beaver – a female, which joined the beavers that had been caught earlier. / Responsible Care Since 1997 PKN ORLEN has participated in the Responsible Care Programme (RC). The Programme is the chemical industry’s global initiative under which chemical companies work together to continuously improve their safety, health and environmental performance and openly communicate their activities. The entities implementing the RC Programme each year In 2009 the Environmental Protection Department, announce the execution of certain tasks aimed at improapart from performing its ordinary duties, had to deal ving their activity in the field of the so-called HSE triad with a very unusual task, whose aim was to catch and (Health, Safety and Environment). They develop required resettle the family of beavers which inhabited the Plant reports and submit them to the Programme Secretariat. premises. How was this task performed? Based on such information, the Polish Chamber of Chemical Industry – an employers’ organization, publishes PKN ORLEN contracted a group of specialists from annually an Environmental Report presenting the achiethe Polish Hunting Association to catch and resettle vements of companies in the scope of reduction of their the beavers. The action was initiated on 20 October negative impact, as well as results of the Programme 2009. To perform this task, PKN ORLEN engaged implementation. This synthetic form constitutes a significant the only such team of specialists in Poland. The most element of the Programme and made the chemical industry difficult part of the task was to locate the positions where one of the Polish precursors of open information policy the beavers could be found, i.e. all lodges, holes, corri­ in the field of environmental protection. dors through which beavers may escape to the darkest corners. The entire action was supported by trained In 2009 the Company completed and submitted to the Prodogs of Jagdterrier breed which can drive beavers out gramme Secretariat the following questionnaires: of their holes and lodges. All such places were guarded. • “Indicators – reporting for 2008,” A net was spread across the reservoir to the depth • “Environmental database for 2008,” of at least 4 m. • “Report on execution of tasks in 2008.” The first beaver – an adult female weighing 18.5 kg was Of 32 tasks reported for implementation in 2009 (inclucaught already on the first day. Then – a male weighing ding 8 continuous, 12 continuations of tasks implemented 19 kg and two young female and male beavers of two in 2008 and 12 new), the 16 tasks in total were impleyears of age and weighing 15.5 kg and 14 kg, respec­ mented in individual areas: tively, were caught on 21 October 2009. The beavers • environmental protection – 6 out of 12 tasks, 4 tasks were put into cages. will be continued in 2010, while 2 tasks were given the „uncompleted” status as a result of difficult macro­ The entire family was successfully transported on 22 economic situation and their implementation was res­ October to the area of the Osetnica River. Two days cheduled for later, / 57 / Environmental and social responsibility • improvement of process safety and occupational safety / Water consumption – 3 out of 11 tasks, the rest will be continued in 2010, • health and health prophylaxis – 4 out of 6 tasks, the rest Water in the Production Plant in Płock is a technological will be continued in 2010, medium used in production processes: for the production • trade in chemicals – 2 declared tasks, of steam in the CHP and as a cooling medium. It is also • other – 1 declared task. used for fire fighting and fire prevention. The Vistula is a natural source of water supply. A water intake with Moreover, it was decided to implement the Framework a pumping station was built above it for water transport. Responsible Care Management System; System RepreThe Company has a separate water permit for the uptake sentative, Supervisory Team and Safety, Environment and of surface water and ground water for the entire ProducHealth Protection Working Team were appointed. tion Plant in Płock. An important function of the programme is ecological In 2009 the amount of reused sewage was reported education. For the third time PKN ORLEN employees took to increase by 58%, which was caused by an increased part in the local stage of the 3rd edition of the Polish nationdemand of the Production Plant for industrial and firewide environmental photo contest „Złap Zająca” („Catch fighting water. The increase of reused sewage amount the Hare”) (the national stage is organized by the RC Prog­ resulted in reduction by 8.3% of the amount of sewage ramme Secretariat). In 2009 the contest as always focused discharged to the Vistula. on promotion of the RC Programme idea and integration of the industry community and employees on environmental Water management is developed in such a way that level, but apart from this it was aimed at engaging ORLEN an increasing number of production facilities and increasing employees in deciding what is environmentally beautiful crude oil throughput does not translate into an increased or interesting and providing the opportunity to show water uptake from the Vistula. There are several main their works. The contest was advertised in all corporate reasons for such a favourable situation. The most important media (intranet, ORLEN Ekpres and ORLEN Studio) and is the permanent modernization of production facilities advertising posters. 99 photos sent by 53 persons were in order to decrease their energy consumption and reuse submitted to the 3rd edition of the local contest. The best of some part of purified industrial sewage in the industrial five works were sent to the RC Programme Secretariat water network. This results from sewage management moand took part in the national stage. Zbigniew Wolski, dernization and improvement, increase of efficiency of water the PKN ORLEN employee won the nationwide contest. blocks in the refinery and petrochemical part, modernization Moreover, two more photos sent by employees of our of water treatment system, in particular decarbonisation Company were also distinguished. and modernization of water demineralization facilities. An award ceremony took place during the International Environmental Protection Trades POLEKO 2009, where all distinguished photos were shown during the exhibition organized after the contest. Volume and type of water uptaken in 2008–2009 (in m3) 2008 2009 2009/2008 Water uptake from the Vistula 22,991,953 22,448,565 – 2.4% Water uptake from deep 513,000 489,000 – 4.7% water wells Volume of reused water 2,643,956 4,196,598 58.7% Drainage from the desalting Odpowiedzialność i Troska of blocks for industrial and 1,261,677 1,311,230 3.9% Responsible Care fire-fighting water / 58 / Corporate responsibility report Methods of water use: Acquisition of permits was associated with implementation of the monitoring plan compliant with new legal require• surface water is used in technological processes ments. The petrochemical cracking unit – Olefins II – has of the Plant in Płock and by other entities located the permit valid until 31 December 2017. on its premises. Depending on the needs of installations the following types of water are uptaken: In 2009, we reported a drop in CO2 emissions by more – industrial and fire-fighting water, than 23,000 tonnes from installations covered by the Emis– decarbonised water, sion Trading Scheme, while the volume of processed oil – softened degassed water, went up by over 2%. – demineralised, – circulating water; GHG emission is generated from processes covered by the CO2 emissions trading scheme, i.e.: • deep water is used for drinking. It originates from Pleistocene water-bearing horizons from Quaternary • fuel combustion process in fuel combustion units (comformations. This is used exclusively to satisfy employees’ bined heat and power plant), sanitary and social needs. • combustion process in refinery units devices, in particular / Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions in: – furnaces, The legislative package of the European Parliament has – flares, been developed in response to climatic changes occur– stationary combustion engines; ring on the Earth. This is meant to ensure that by 2020 the share of renewable energy in the EU will increase • refinery processes: from 8.5 to 20%, and emissions of CO2 – the gas that – hydrogen production, in the opinion of scientists is the cause of global warming – catalyst regeneration, – will fall by 20% in comparison to 1990. The EU is pre– decoking of furnace chambers (pipes), pared to reduce CO2 emissions even by 30%, if under – hydrogen sulphide utilisation. the new, global agreement – post-Kyoto – other developed countries agree to undertake comparable efforts. By a decision of the Polish Council of Ministers PKN ORLEN received CO2 emission allowances for the period of 2008– 2012. Those allowances will be used to calculate the actual and auditor revised emission in the period. In 2009 the Company obtained new permits to participate in the Community Emissions Trading Scheme for: • the Combined Heat and Power Plant – valid until 31 Dec 2019; Greenhouse gas emission in 2008–2009 • crude oil refinery – valid until 31 Dec 2019. Average annual Revised CO2 emission [Mg] CO2 emission allowances in NAP for 2008–2012 2008 2009 Refinery 2,161,551 2,053,013 2,108,110 CHP 3,358,958 3,181,859 3,170,754 Olefins II 1,058,638 850,723 783,642 TOTAL 6,579,147 6,085,595 6,062,506 / 59 / Environmental and social responsibility / Calculation of emissions This is due to lower ash content in fuel combusted in the Plant’s process boilers and furnaces, compared According to guidelines, fuel combusting facilities may only to 2008. use measured fuel streams whose emission characteristics are known. Fuel consumption is measured with the help Increased emission of carbon monoxide resulted from of measuring systems used to measure the size of fuel a large load of post-combustion furnaces at the Hydrosul­ consumption and subject to adjustment and control. Fuel freen unit and changeability of composition of post-combuconsumption in PKN ORLEN is continuously balanced, basted chimney gas and fuel gas, which resulted in variable sed on measuring circuits installed at fuel feeders. Calorific oxygen demand. The increased emission of this pollutant value is calculated on the basis of gas composition specified remained within the limits specified in the integrated permit. with the application of chromatographic analysis method. Sampling frequency is determined by analyses schedule Pollutant emission was continuously measured at three developed on the basis of required sampling frequency. emitters at the CHP. Their scope covered: SO2, NOx Analyses are performed by a laboratory possessing (NO2), dust. required accreditations. Emission indicator is calculated on the basis of chromatographic analysis of composition. Periodic measurements of pollutant emission: • in 2009, we performed 92 checks of pollutant emission In 2009, we reported an approx. 0.5% drop in total at emitters at the Production Plant in Płock, including emissions to the atmosphere compared to the previous 54 emitters subject to mandatory measuring; year, while the volume of processed oil went up by over • emission measurements were carried out at emitters 2%. The drop in total emissions was accompanied by incre­ included in the integrated permit twice a year, once ased emissions from energy generation such as: SO2, in each half-year; NOx and CO, while the emissions of hydrocarbon and • the scope of periodic emission measurements covered dust dropped. (depending on the emitter) the following pollutants: SO2, NO2, NOx (NO2), CO, dust, H2S, aliphatic hyThe drop in total hydrocarbons by 10% was caused drocarbons, aromatic hydrocarbons: benzene, toluene, by the permanent shutdown of the Ethylene Oxide and xylene, cumene. Glycol I unit, while dust emission fell by approx. 12%. Emissions of pollutants in 2008–2009 Emission volume [Mg] Increase/Decrease 2008 2009 [Mg] [%] Sulphur dioxide 20,444.59 20,975.23 530.64 2.59 Nitrogen oxides (as per nitrogen dioxide) 6,821.48 7,124.27 302.79 4.44 Carbon monoxide 812.16 1,010.87 198.71 24.47 Total hydrocarbons 1,384.01 1,238.12 – 145.89 – 10.54 Fuel combustion dust 453.34 399.75 – 53.59 – 11.82 Carbon dioxide 6,158,959.11 6,126 894.42 – 32,064.69 – 0.52 Other pollutants 270.71 370.05 99.34 36.70 Total pollutant emission 6,189,145.40 6,158,012.71 – 31,132.62 – 0.50 / 60 / Corporate responsibility report Greenhouse gases emisions acc. to weight in 2008–2009 [’000. Mg] 16 000 14 000 12 000 10 000 8 000 6 000 4 000 GHG emission 2 000 Crude oil 0 processed 2008 2009 Emission of pollutants (excluding carbon dioxide) against crude oil processing in 2008–2009 [ Mg] [ ‘000. Mg] 33 000 14 800 14 600 32 000 14 400 31 000 14 200 30 000 14 000 29 000 13 800 13 600 28 000 13 400 Crude oil processed 27 000 13 200 Total pollutants emission 26 000 13 000 (excluding carbon dioxide) 2008 2009 / 61 / Environmental and social responsibility / Immission measurements around the Production At most stations, average annual SO2 and NO2 concenPlant in Płock trations in 2008 were lower than in 2007, and benzene concentration remained on a similar level over the last two PKN ORLEN measures pollutant immission to air at three years. Detailed results of measurements were submitted to: automatic monitoring stations located outside the fenced Production Plant in Płock: • the Masovian Environmental Protection Inspector in Warsaw and the Regional Office in Płock, • Junior high school no. 5 – in the scope of CO, SO2, NO2, benzene, • the Marshal Office of the Masovian Voivodeship, • Maszewo Duże – in the scope of O3, CO, SO2, NO2, • Płock Municipal Office. benzene, • Trzepowo – in the scope of CO, SO2, NO2, benzene. The analysis of measuring results obtained at automatic air monitoring stations in 2009 shows that the emissions of all measured substances remained within the environmental standards determined in the Regulation of the Polish Minister of Environment of 3 March 2008 (Polish Journal of Laws No. 47, item 281). Automatic air monitoring stations located around the Production Plant in Płock Nowe Trzepowo CO, SO2, NO2, benzene Nowa Biała Stare Trzepowo Trzepowo I. Łukasiewicza CO, SO2, NO2, O2, benzene W. Zgienieckieg Chemików Kolonia Krzyw a o Maszewo Biała Duże Okó Sierpec lna 559 ka Długa 60 Do br zy ńs ka ka els Bi Kostrogaj 552 559 Maszewo Sz M ed Gimnazjum nr 5 pit yc aln zn a a 552 559 60 Fabryka Maszyn CO, SO2, NO2, benzene / 62 / Corporate responsibility report / Wastewater management sewer systems: industrial (1. and 2.) and rainwaterdrainage (KOP and KOR); PKN ORLEN has a permit to participate in the Commu• 3° of treatment – accelerators (A-4 and A-5) (for wanity system. stewater of both sewer systems: industrial (1. and 2.) and rainwater-drainage (KOP and KOR). Wastewater The increase of reused wastewater amount resulted is optionally directed to this system when pollution in reduc­tion by 8.3% of the amount of wastewater dis­ load flowing to the Central Wastewater Treatment Plant charged to the Vistula. Increase of COD load discharged exceeds standard levels; to the Vistula by 7.4% against 2008 was caused by lower • 4° of treatment – algal and reed ponds (for wastewashare of rainfall wastewater flowing to the Central Wasteter of both sewer systems: industrial (1. and 2.) and water Treatment Plant in 2009 in comparison to 2008. rainwater-drainage (KOP and KOR). The Central Wastewater Treatment Plant is located within Moreover, on the plant premises there are 21 local prethe premises of the Plant. Its purpose is to treat wastewater treatment plants linked with respective units. They play an from the entire Plant to meet the parameters specified important role in reducing pollution load in wastewater in the integrated permit. delivered to the Central Wastewater Treatment Plant. They are mainly mechanical pre-treatment facilities, and Wastewater from the Plant is discharged via four sewer the total amount of pre-treated wastewater is approx. pipes systems leading to the Central Wastewater Treatment 11,306 m3/d. Pre-treatment facilities at individual units may Plant area. The industrial wastewater sewer system (1.) be periodically shut-down upon the consent of the Water is characterised by a large amount of oil products and and Wastewater Plant, provided that pollutant concentrasuspended solids. Wastewater from the 1st industrial sewer tions in sewage are maintained on permissible levels. system is treated mechanically and biologically (2 degree nd of biological treatment). In emergency cases, when pollu­tant In 1996 PKN ORLEN started implementing a solution concentration in wastewater exceeds admissible values, developed by the Water and Wastewater Plant: “Method such sewage may be directed to the 1st degree biologiof wastewater treatment for industrial purposes” consisting cal treatment devices to have its quality improved. This in closure of water and wastewater circuit and production depends on wastewater quality measurements at check of industrial water from treated wastewater. This solution points. Wastewater is monitored. required addition of the 3rd degree wastewater treatment (accelerators for coagulation and flocculation) and 4th deThe industrial wastewater sewer system (2.) also covers gree of wastewater treatment (algal and reed ponds) wastewater which, apart from suspended soils and oil to the wastewater treatment line and construction of an products, contains water soluble chemicals. Wastewater “inhibitor node,” where treated wastewater is inhibited from the 2nd system is treated mechanically and biologically. and sanitized with chlorine water. Moreover, to enable Rainwater, drainage and post-cooling water from all refithe functioning of the 3rd and the 4th degree of wastewater nery and petrochemical units is discharged to the refinery treatment it was necessary to modernize the water deand petrochemical rainwater sewer system. carbonisation unit at the Water Preparation Department. Rainwater from the refinery part (KOR) is contaminated Volume and quality of wastewater with oil products, and rainwater from the petrochemical in 2008–2009 part (KOP) is chemically contaminated mainly with phenol. Increase/ All wastewater is treated in a 4-stage cycle: 2008 2009 Decrease • mechanical treatment (separate for the 1st and the 2nd Wastewater discharge 12,381,024 11,351,599 – 8.3% to the Vistula [m3] industrial sewer system); COD load in wastewater • biological treatment (1° for wastewater from the 2nd discharged 676,524 726,812 7.4% industrial sewer system and 2° for wastewater of both to the Vistula [kg/y] / 63 / Environmental and social responsibility Two accelerators (A-4 and A-5) from water decarbonisain this scope may be the use of membrane processes, tion process were used in the 3rd stage of wastewater e.g. reverse osmosis process (in place of ion exchangers) treatment. Here it was possible to repeatedly use sediment which is carried out without the use of chemicals. from raw water decarbonisation process in wastewater coagulation process. In 2008, we reported a significant drop in the amount of gene­rated waste in the group of waste other than Wastewater is used as industrial water for cleaning, hazardous. This was the effect of completion in 2008 washing and fire fighting purposes. of preparatory works for investments projects. Works carried out in 2009 were not associated with generation of increThe new technologies yielded environmental and economic ased amount of waste. The amount of recovered waste benefits. The volume of water uptaken from and wasteremains stable at approx. 90% ratio to generated waste. water discharged to the Vistula has significantly dropped. In 2009 we generated 4.7 thousand Mg of hazardous However, the closed water circuit, apart from advantawaste, of which 3.5 thousand Mg were directed to recoges, caused certain problems and restrictions. In 2000, very processes outside the territory of Poland, whereas we resigned from directing reversed wastewater to cooling the remaining 1.2 thousand Mg of hazardous waste were systems, as it resulted in excessive salinity of water at water supplied to Polish recipients. blocks. High salinity of circulating water made it necessary to desalt cooling systems and as a consequence caused In 2009, no accidental release of hazardous substances increased ballast water discharge to the wastewater happened at the Production Plant in Płock which could treatment plant. Thus, in order to be able to still use affect human life, soil, vegetation, water reservoirs or under­ recycled water, we will have to reduce salt consumption ground water. in the water and wastewater system. Proposal to be applied Transfer of hazardous waste in 2009 was carried out in the following way: Amount of waste generated in 2008–2009* • within the territory of Poland – for the purpose of recovery – 265.0 Mg, Volume [‘000 Mg] – for the purpose of neutralising – 502.4 Mg; 2008 2009 • to other countries for the purpose of recovery – Total generated waste: 11.9 7.8 4,372.4 Mg. including: – hazardous waste 4.3 4.7 – other waste (excl. municipal waste) 7.6 3.1 This applied both to waste generated in 2009 and stored from the previous years. * according to data for the Polish Central Statistical Office. The proper operation of the Production Plant in Płock was checked by the Masovian Regional EnvironmenWaste utilisation methods in 2008–2009 tal Protection Inspectorate, which performed 3 checks in 2009, of which one was a comprehensive check, one Volume [‘000 Mg] was investment project check and one was a check with 2008 2009 respect to major failures. The results of the checks did not Recovered 10.7 10.7 reveal any parameters in excess of the limits determined Total neutralised waste 0.5 0.8 in relevant permits and decisions, and no penalties were including: – thermal 0.3 0.5 imposed. A post-check disposition was issued stipulating – stored 0.2 0.1 recommendations concerning the requirement to notify – other 0.0 0.2 the Regional Fire Service Chief and the Regional EnvironStored waste 0.7 0.8 mental Protection Inspector about the date of termination of the use of Olefin I unit. / 64 / Corporate responsibility report In 2009, capital expenditure on tasks related to envi• muting the air ventilators at K4, K5, K6 and K7 boilers ronmental protection at the Production Plant in Płock in the CHP (EC) – a fully completed project. amounted to PLN 191.76 mln. Financial expenditure was approx. 26% lower than in 2008. Capital expenditure In 2010 it is planned to continue the implementation on environmental projects constituted 9.24% of the total of the above mentioned projects, and additionally: expenditure incurred for implementation of investment • enclosing oil pipeline HVGO from HOG unit to EC fuel projects at the Production Plant in Płock in 2009. tanks, • replacement of burners on flares in the Production Plant The Company continued investment projects from 2008 in Płock, aimed at limiting the Plant’s impact on respective natural • commencement of a long-term energy and environmental components: investment programme in the Combined. • construction of HON VII Unit and the accompanying infrastructure, The reason for the increase of environmental fees in 2009, • construction of Claus II Unit and the accompanying despite the drop in total emissions, was the increase infrastructure, of emissions of pollutants from energy generation (SO2, • reconstruction of the fuel system in the Combined Heat NOx, CO). and Power Plant, Environmental fees for the Production Plant in Płock – PLN in 2008–2009 Total fee amount [PLN] Increase/Decrease 2008 2009 [Mg] [%] Total 16,572,326.63 17,226,918.00 654,591.37 3.95 For emission (including transport) 14,784,628.49 15,461,484.00 676,855.51 4.58 For water uptake 1,085,832.47 1,082,459.00 – 3,373.47 – 0.31 For sewage discharge 701,865.67 682,975.00 –18,890.67 – 2.69 [’ 000. PLN] 18.00 17.23 16.57 14.78 15.46 16.00 14.00 12.00 10.00 8.00 6.00 4.00 2009 2.00 1.09 1.08 0.70 0.68 2008 0.00 Total Emission Water intake Sewage / 65 / Environmental and social responsibility Zbigniew Gajewski is that business – in the name of increasing its own chan­ Public Relations Department Director ces for development – should do so as well. Accor­ding Polska Konfederacja Pracodawców Prywatnych to us, these are the areas, which – as part of imple­ Lewiatan mented social responsibility strategy – Polish enterprises (Polish Confederation of Private Employers Lewiatan) must concentrate on. Therefore the corporate social responsibility has crucial significance for us. / Implications of climatic changes All initiatives undertaken by PKN ORLEN are aimed at ensu­ ring maximum environmental neutrality of production, storage and distribution processes. We reduced the total emission of pollutants in 2009 by 0.5%, given a 2% increase in crude oil throughput in 2009; for carbon dioxide the drop amounted to over 23,000 tonnes. Apart from carbon dioxide, a drop in emissions was reported for total emissions of hydrocarbon and dust, The organization you represent has for some time been while an increase occurred in the area of sulphur dioxide, directing increased attention to responsible operations nitrogen oxide and carbon monoxide. of companies. In your opinion, what is the significance for entrepreneurs of acting in accordance with corporate social responsibility principles? 5.2./ Public relations We have engaged ourselves in the promotion of corporate When developing our strategic approach to the issue social responsibility, convinced that this is an opportunity of social involvement, we act in line with key values, for the entire Polish economy. The first decade of Polish which include consistency in pursuing goals, ability to coo­ transformations was completed with enormous success, perate, honesty, professionalism, responsibility and entrep­ but there are new challenges ahead of us. reneurship. We strive to respond to the needs of our environment in order to incorporate social responsibilities In the next twenty years we have real chances to catch into the PKN ORLEN development strategy. People are up with the existing Euro-zone countries as far as GDP per in the centre of our attention, which is why our actions capita is concerned. To achieve this, however, we must in the scope of corporate social responsibility are supbe more competitive, innovative and efficient. We will not posed to satisfy their needs and expectations as fully be able to reach this objective, if we do not start looking as possible. The Company is involved in many social for new, qualitative sources of growth: if we do not impro­ initiatives. The range of activities is broad: from charity, ve our intellectual and social capital indicator, we will intersectoral partnerships, support of sport and culture, not be able to cope with the demographic problem, to dealing with serious social problems. we will not learn to develop in our employees innovative approach towards their tasks. Today, there are huge social barriers on the way to eco­ nomic growth. We might say that it is the State, school, NGOs that should take care of them...However, the truth / 66 / Corporate responsibility report D. Eng. Stanisław Szafran / Involvement in organizations and associations Secretary of the Museum of Oil and Gas Industry Foundation Council in Bóbrka In 2009, PKN ORLEN continued its active involvement in organizations and associations, treating this as a signi­ ficant element of functioning on the Polish and Euro­pean economic arena. The Company representatives were active in 41 organizations, associations and other external institutions. The list of organizations participated by PKN ORLEN in 2009 is available at www.orlen.pl. The main advantages resulting from the participation include: opportunity to acquire knowledge, access to current information on normative act drafts concerning the refinery and petrochemical industry on the Polish and European market, ability to influence the shape of final legal regulations by consulting and evaluating governmental and parliamentary legal act drafts, access to research results and technical solutions from abroad, What is so special about the Museum of Oil and Gas participation in seminars and conferences, preferential Industry in Bóbrka? participation conditions in paid trainings for members of a given organization, promotion of PKN ORLEN. Bóbrka is a place which, thanks to nature and activities of wise people, was given a pioneer role in the develop­ PKN ORLEN is active on the European scene through ment of Polish and world oil industry. It was here that its direct involvement and active participation in European Ignacy Łukasiewicz, the creator of oil industry, established oil industry associations. Particularly worth emphasising in 1854 the first crude oil mine in the world with Tytus is the Company’s involvement in the work of EUROPIA Trzecieski. The entire production of the mine was direc­ (Euro­pean Refining Industry Association), an associated to processing in distilleries and to one of the oldest tion which brings together all major oil corporations refineries in the world, built in 1856 by Ignacy Łukasie­ on the European market representing over 90% of crude wicz in Ulaszowice, and later in Polanka, Chorkówka oil processing capacities in the EEA. In cooperation with and other places. other European oil Companies PKN ORLEN participates in the implementation of the mission of the Association. This museum of mining, oil and gas industry is the big­ This consists in constructively contributing to the devegest in Europe and one of the biggest in the world. lopment of policies whose purpose is to ensure safe and It presents all aspects of operations related to oil geo­ sustainable manufacture, supply and use of oil products logy and geophysics, drilling, bore-hole exploitation, by providing support in the form of knowledge to comnatural gas industry and some branches of refinery petent experts of EU institutions and state administration, industry and oil products distribution. Exhibits presented as well as public opinion. in the museum are original or reconstructed artefacts: mining excavations, oil mine buildings from the 2nd half These objectives are also served by scientific and technical of the 19th century and drilling and exploitation devices, research which PKN ORLEN participates in together with appliances, measurement equipment and historical other members of CONCAWE (Conservation of Clean Air objects, as well as archival documents, which make and Water in Europe) – an association whose members this place a worldwide unique panorama of oil mining. include nearly all oil companies form the EEA. The work of CONCAWE is a source of objective information on the impact of the European oil industry on the natu­ / 67 / Environmental and social responsibility ral environment. It also supports technical preparation / Support of sport of oil companies for implementation of projects such as limiting negative impact of chemicals on people and PKN ORLEN constantly searches for new forms of comnatural environment through implementation of the REACH munication to reach a wide group of stakeholders. These system, or participation in preventing climatic changes activities include promotion of talents and support of devethrough the ETS system implementation, and launching lopment of Polish professional sport. The Company strives engine fuels derived from vegetable oil. to achieve the status of sport patron and supports global initiatives and events as well as individual sportsmen. PKN ORLEN’s representatives actively participate in activities of working groups from both associations, they are We support Polish athletes who achieve successes in Euroalso members of management bodies of these associations: pean and world events. The ORLEN Sports Team included the CONCAWE Management Board, the CONCAWE in 2009: Anita Włodarczyk, Tomasz Majewski i Piotr Scientific Council, the EUROPIA Advisory and CoordiMałachowski. nating Committee, and, from the second half of 2010, also the EUROPIA Management Board. For 11 years, we have sponsored the ORLEN TEAM, the first fully professional cross-country racing team in PoThe significance of both association on the European land. The Team represents Poland on international arenas, scene, as well as the importance of the issues they work e.g. in the Dakar Rally. on, allows to conclude that membership in such organizations is a project of strategic character for PKN ORLEN. In 2009 PKN ORLEN was the general sponsor of two prestigious international events: European Basketball / Charity Championships and Women’s European Volleyball Championships. The Company also assumed the function of the tiCharity activities of the Company, including through tular sponsor of the Rally of Poland – the round of World the ORLEN Dar Serca Foundation established in 2001, Rally Championship. The Company concentrates on sports are well known. PKN ORLEN has established priorities associated with strength, dynamism and speed, which are of its charity policy, which are: protection of life and also attributes characteristic of the PKN ORLEN brands. health as well as education. Remaining in compliance What is important, the Company also supports initiatives with its provisions, in 2009 the Company did not make aimed at promoting athletics among the youngest and any financial or in-kind donations to political parties, cares for development of physical education in Poland politicians or any other institutions of similar nature. by sponsoring “Thursdays with Athletics”. This is a cyclical event for children aged 10-12 years and younger. Main programmes of the Foundation concentrate on the supBy the end of 2009 PKN ORLEN became the partner port of education, promotion of foster parenting in the form of the Polish Olympic Movement. of family children’s homes, actions aimed at improving the level of safety, including in particular a broad prog­ ramme of cooperation with fire brigade units in Poland. The Foundation pays great attention to education. It manages several scholarship programmes dedicated to various groups of children and youth, including a nationwide programme and a programme addressed to children from family children’s homes. Since 2009, scholarships are also provided to the group of several dozen of junior high school and high school students from Płock. / 68 / Corporate responsibility report 5.3./ Pro–social work children” was to direct attention to the fact that parents are the first and the most important teachers for their child. / Safety The earlier adults instil in children’s minds good patterns of behaviour in road traffic, the greater the chances that For several years PKN ORLEN has largely participachildren will follow these proper patterns in future. ted in activities aimed at improving the level of safety in the broad meaning of the word. We pay particular attention to professional and voluntary fire brigades across Poland, which play an extremely important role in this area. Particularly important is the great number and diversity of tasks performed by them. It is worth reminding that a fireman is a job which has invariably enjoyed a very high level of social trust for many years. PKN ORLEN cares not only about its own safety. On many BEZPIECZNE DROGI occasions the Company has proved that it cares about external safety through various activities, including active participation in the Hazardous Materials Transport Assistance System, the National Rescue and Extinguishing System, or financing and co-financing the purchase of equipment and making donations in the form of fire-fighting equipment. www.orlenbezpiecznedrogi.pl The programme of assistance for fire brigades implemented by PKN ORLEN is addressed to professional and voluntary / ORLEN for industry tradition fire brigades across Poland. Since 2000 the Company has allocated over PLN 4 mln for this purpose. In 2009 The year 2004 marked the opening of the Foundation for alone, 25 units received financial and in-kind donations. the Ignacy Łukasiewicz Memorial Museum of Oil and Gas The excellent PKN ORLEN In-house Fire Brigade is systeIndustry in Bóbrka, established by PKN ORLEN, Polskie matically improving its skills. Our workplace is secured Górnictwo Naftowe i Gazowe SA and Stowarzyszenie in accordance with the highest international standards. Naukowe Inżynierów i Techników Przemysłu Naftowego PKN ORLEN firemen offer help also to citizens of Płock i Gazowniczego (Association of Oil and Gas Industry and others in need Engineers and Technicians). The objective of the Foundation, operating at the premises / “ORLEN. Safe roads” programme of the world oldest (established in 1854) crude oil mine, is to support the Museum which is a worldwide unique This programme is one of important elements of PKN ORLEN’s construction. Activities of the Museum include collection activities promoting safety, including road traffic safeand preservation of devices documenting the development ty. It was initiated in 2006–2007 by the action which of oil and gas techniques. The extraordinary location in an innovative way presented threats resulting from of the Museum, its great tradition, very original collections failure to abide by safe driving principles. In 2008–2009 and rich educational offer encourage pupils, students, and we concentrated on the role of parents in educating chiltourists to visit looking for original places where history dren on issues relating to road traffic safety. The main meets modernity. objective of last year’s campaign „Parents set example for / 69 / Environmental and social responsibility / ORLEN locally Last year the support of PKN ORLEN made it possible to expand the collection of the Masovian Museum For obvious reasons most of the activities of social character in Płock. The Company in cooperation with the Masovian are carried out in Płock. The history of the Company has Voivodeship local government purchased one of the best been for 50 years inseparably connected with the history self-portraits by Jacek Malczewski. of this city, and lives of many families has been tied to the Production Plant for generations. We do everything We identify problems which are the most important for to be a reliable and a good neighbour and a valued inhabitants of Płock. Therefore, we consistently support partner of the local community. actions aimed at improving the level of medical care in this city. Within the last five years the Company and Since 2002 we have participated in the intersectoral its Foundation supported the Regional Hospital in Płock partnership project. The project is evolving and developing with the amount of almost PLN 4.5 mln. The latest joint systematically. Its coordinator is the Foundation “Grant project which is now taking an actual form is creation Fund for Płock” established in 2005, and PKN ORLEN of intensive care posts in the Regional Hospital in Płock. is one of its founders and donors. It supports, among In 2009 the Dar Serca Foundation financed the programme others, initiatives to increase the level of education among for diagnosing spine diseases addressed to all inhabitants Płock inhabitants, prevent social and economic exclusion, of Płock. As a result queues for magnetic resonance increase safety, and improve the level of health protection imaging became significantly shorter. and promotion. What is important, it also organizes educational activities. For many years PKN ORLEN has also made a unique in kind donation in the form of liquid nitrogen. This For many years we have celebrated together with Płock is a valuable gift for medical and research institutions. citizens the Chemist’s Day accompanied by the Płock Because of technical difficulties related to making this History Days. The rich cultural, sport, educational and kind of donation, the Company treats it as a special form entertainment offer is used by employees with their families of support and provides only to selected institutions from and all interested people. During celebrations of the ChePłock and the region whose activities are important for mist’s Day the inhabitants may also visit the Production the local community. Plant in Płock. Similar goodwill is felt in relations with the police force We support activities aimed at keeping the memory of Płock and the Masovian Voivodeship, which the ORLEN of prominent citizens of Płock who created the history Foundation supports financially and by making in-kind of this city. The Company co-financed the construction donations – mainly cars and computers. An important of a monument in the form of a bench to commemorate aspect of this cooperation is education, especially eduWacław Milke. He was an extraordinary person thought cation of children and the youth or participation in joint to be the most renowned and deserving representative activities. The most recent one “Shine like a zebra with of cultural life in Płock. Wacław Milke was a nestor and reflective stripes” encourages the use of reflective elements. active animator of cultural life, creator of the Płock History Days, initiator of the Peace Bell, a great patriot, extraordiAll these activities are guided by our care about health, narily righteous and modest person, who popularized Płock safety and improvement of the quality of life for Płock in Poland and abroad until the end of his life. He was inhabitants. also the creator and for many years an artistic director of the Scout Song and Dance Group “Children of Płock.” / 70 / Corporate responsibility report / The most important awards and certificates • 1. place in the “Friendliness, Sector, Industry” cate­gory received by PKN ORLEN in 2009 of the 5th edition of the KOMPAS Polish employer ranking. • ORLEN considered to be the most valuable Polish brand in the MARQA 2009 ranking of Polish most valuable • 3. place in the “Employer for Engineer” plebiscite. brands organised by ”Rzeczpospolita” daily. • “Industry Leader: fuels, oils” award in the “Universum • Two awards for PKN ORLE Social Responsibility Report Student Survey 2009.” in the “2009 Social Responsibility Reports” competition organised by the Polish Corporate Responsibility Forum. • The “Best Investor Relations in Poland 2009” award gran-­ ted by ”IR Magazine”. • “The Queen of Sport Laurel” in the “Sponsor” category granted by the Polish Athletics Federation. • “Consumer Laurel” and “Builder of the Fleet Market” statuette in recognition of PKN ORLEN achievements, awarded by consumers and industrial circles, respectively. • PKN ORLEN fleet cards awarded the “Fleet Product of the Year” title in the Polish Fleet Awards 2009 plebiscite organised by Magazyn Flota periodical and Fleet Management Institute Central-Eastern Europe. • 1. place in the WarsawScan ranking, in the category of websites devoted to investor relations. • ORLEN Team among the winners of Dakar Rally: Jakub Przygoński –11th place, Jacek Czachor – 20th place, and Hołowczyc/Fortin car team – 5th place in the general classification. • The success of ORLEN Team motorcyclists: Jakub Przygoński – 2nd place and Jacek Czachor – 3rd place in FIM World Cup. • Prestigious “Abu Dhabi Spirit of the Rally” award won by ORLEN Team: Krzysztof Hołowczyc and Łukasz Kurzeja awarded for great driving and very good results at ORLEN Platinum 66th Rally of Poland, eighth eliminations for the World Rally Championship. • ORLEN MONSTER JAM awarded in the “event marketing” category of the Golden Arrow competition. / 71 / Corporate responsibility report / Certificates held by PKN ORLEN / Index of website addresses quoted in the Report to confirm compliance with applicable standards www.orlen.pl • Quality Management System Certificate (Polski Koncern Naftowy ORLEN) – ISO 9001:2000, www.raportroczny.pl • Environmental Management System Certificate (PKN ORLEN Annual Report) – ISO 14001:2004, www.darserca.pl • Occupational Health and Safety Management System (ORLEN Dar Serca Foundation) Certificate – PN-N-18001:2004, www.funduszgrantowy.plock.eu • Quality Management System Certificate (“Grant Fund for Płock” Foundation) – AQAP 2120:2003, www.funduszgrantowy.pl • Information Safety Management System Certificate (Good Neighbourhood Grant Fund Association for Ostrów – PN-I-07799-2:2005. Wielkopolski”) www.orlenbezpiecznedrogi.pl (ORLEN.Safe Roads) www.bobrka.pl (Foundation for the Ignacy Łukasiewicz Memorial Museum of Oil and Gas Industry in Bóbrka) www.pppt.pl (Industry and Technological Park in Płock) www.globalreporting.org (Global Reporting Initiative) www.peregrinus.pl (Society for Wild Animals „SOKÓŁ”) www.unglobalcompact.org (United Nations Global Compact) / 72 / Corporate responsibility report / GRI Indicator Index Indicator Page Indicator Page Strategy and Analysis Economic Performance Indicators 1.1 5 EC1 10 1.2 5, 11, 27 EC2 66 Organizational Profile EC5 37 2.1 5 EC6 47 2.2 14–15 EC7 35 2.3 8 EC8 68–70 2.4 9, 74 EC9 8, 47 2.5 9 Environmental Performance Indicators 2.6 20 EN1 10, 51 2.7 8–9 EN3 51 2.8 10,18 EN4 51 2.9 20 EN8 58–59 2.10 71 EN9 58 Raport Parameters EN10 58 3.1 11 EN11 56 3.2 11 EN12 56 3.3 11 EN15 56 3.4 74 EN16 59 Report Scope and Boundary EN20 60 3.5 11 EN21 63 3.6 8–9, 11 EN22 64 3.7 8, 11 EN23 64 3.8 8 EN24 64 3.9 11 EN26 51–53, 63–65 3.10 11 EN28 64 3.11 11 EN30 65 GRI Content Index Labour Practices and Decent Work 3.12 73 LA1 35 Assurance LA3 38–41 3.13 11 LA4 35 Governance LA5 35 4.1 24–26 LA6 43 4.2 24 LA7 42 4.3 24 LA9 43 4.4 22, 30–31 LA10 35–36 4.5 24 LA11 36 4.6 24–25 Human Rights Performance Indicators 4.7 26 HR1 47 4.8 8, 30–31 HR4 31 4.9 24–26 HR8 37 4.10 24–26 Sociaty Performance Indicators Commitments to External Initiatives SO3 30–31 4.11 27 SO6 68 4.12 8, 25–26, 57–58 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators 4.13 67-68 PR5 46 4.14 11 PR8 46 4.15 11 4.16 11 11–12, 19, 21, 37, 40, 4.17 66–67 / 73 / Corporate responsibility report / Contact data Polski Koncern Naftowy ORLEN Spółka Akcyjna ul. Chemików 7, 09– 411 Płock Switchboard: tel.: + 48 24/365 00 00, fax: + 48 24/365 40 40 www.orlen.pl Warsaw Office: Warsaw Trade Tower ul. Chłodna 51, 00–867 Warszawa Switchboard: tel.: + 48 22/695 35 50, fax: + 48 22/695 35 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Team: Barbara Tęcza, Head of CRS Team tel.: + 48 22/695 35 92, fax: + 48 22/695 34 70 e-mail: barbara.tecza@orlen.pl The Ethics Ombudsman: tel.: + 48 24/365 33 02, fax: + 48 24/365 53 12 e-mail: rzeczniketyki@orlen.pl Press Office in Płock: Beata Karpińska tel.: + 48 24/365 41 50, fax: + 48 24/365 56 13 e-mail: media@orlen.pl The Cyclus Offset awarded the following certificates: THE BLUE ANGEL NAPM Recycled Paper Mark NORDIC SWAN EU FLOWER – symbol is an official German – symbol is an official German – introduced by the Nordic Council – certificate, which is an official eco-label. In the scope of paper eco-label. In the scope of paper of Ministers is an eco-label used for EU label used for products manu­ products Blue Angel is awarded products Blue Angel is awarded products from both virgin and recofactured from virgin fibres as well only to products manu­factured from only to products manufactured from vered fibres. It defines the criteria as recovered fibres. It defines the cri100% recovered fibres and defines 100% recovered fibres and defines for pollutant emission, energy conteria for pollutant emission, energy the criteria for quality of used chethe criteria for quality of used chesumption, origin of raw materials consumption, origin of raw materials micals and recycled paper. micals and recycled paper. and specific chemical compounds. and specific chemical compounds / 74
