United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report For the period of 17 December 2010 to 17 December 2011 En Masse Pty Ltd En Masse Pty Ltd Suite 102/9-11 Claremont Street South Yarra VIC 3141 | t. 03 9827 1388 | e. enquiries@enmasse.com.au | ABN 31 142 435 532 | 1. En Masse’s Support for the UN Global Compact At the end of 2010 and within its first year of operations, En Masse proudly became a signatory to the UN Global Compact. , En Masse is an education and training business that exists to help create communities of people who respect human rights while engaging in sustainable business practices that help contribute economically and socially. We do this through, among other activities: • Developing and delivering workplace training programs that help people to develop and apply practical skills towards respecting, protecting and promoting anti-­‐discrimination practices; • Providing training in Equal Opportunity that is based upon a behaviour change model that is sustainable; • Assisting people in workplaces to interact with other people in a way that optimises mental health outcomes; • Teaching people practical ways to stand up for their rights at work, as well as protect other people’s rights; • Teaching managers and leaders how to spot the behavioural warning signs in their teams and take proactive measures to reduce the risks that people in their teams may have their rights abused; • Teaching children in schools how to enact respect for themselves and other people, while building their resilience and coping skills. En Masse is also committed to helping communities respect their physical environments. In 2011 En Masse started working with the Australian Conservation Foundation in the development of its online GreenHome training program curriculum. En Masse is proud to support awareness raining and culture change in the area of environmental protection both as an important culture building activity, and in support of enabling better human rights outcomes for all people whose lives are or may become detrimentally affected by climate change. On a day to day basis, En Masse encourages all people with whom our organisation comes into contact to behave in a way that respects human rights: through their everyday interactions, by becoming self-­‐aware and more concerned about the impacts that their behaviours have on other individuals and their communities, and by looking after their own mental wellbeing. 2 We are pleased to present this, our first Communication on Progress under the United Nations Global Compact, and look forward to the many exciting opportunities that we have identified to make further progress towards the UNGC’s 10 Principles during the next year of our signatory status. Mark Dean Managing Director 7 December 2011 3 2. En Masse’s Progress in Supporting the UNGC’s 10 Principles 2.1 Human Rights • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; • Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses En Masse has demonstrated its commitment to human rights through its business activities in the following ways: 1. We have embedded human rights education principles into our core business activities. Through workshops and online training programs, we teach people, including our business and government clients how to take active responsibility for respecting and promoting human rights at work; 2. Through contributing to the human rights education of people working within government. For instance, En masse is a provider of workplace training services to Victorian Government clients and through this avenue, we are actively engaged in programs that assist government executives to understand and discharge responsibly their roles to respect, protect and promote human rights through their workplaces policies, leadership practices and decision making processes that have the capacity to impact on human rights; 3. En Masse has developed an online human rights training eLearning module for people predominantly in workplaces which is also now being explored by secondary schools for use by legal studies classrooms. This program is called the En Masse Human Rights Launch Pad, and a demonstration is available online at http://www.enmasse.com.au/demo/human-­‐ rights-­‐launch-­‐pad-­‐demo The En Masse Human Rights Launch Pad teaches students about the historical and social contexts in which human rights are founded, as well as modern context in terms of international human rights laws. It covers the main international instruments such as the UDHR ICCPR, the ICESCR as well as a number of the conventions dealing with specific human rights abuses and vulnerable groups. 4. En Masse has developed a number of unique online training programs that deal with specific areas of vulnerability based on human rights education principles. These programs deal with reducing incidences of harassment and bulling in the workplace and have been rolled out across a number of service industry organisations. 5. In 2011, En Masse worked with the Attorney General’s Department of Western Australia to 4 successfully develop and deliver a series of training modules for judicial officers and court staff aimed at building awareness and empathy towards people who interact with the courts system who may be particularly vulnerable due to a variety of psycho-­‐social issues. One of the key outcomes that this training program targets is an increased awareness of the additional source of vulnerability from which Aboriginal people suffer wit a view to enabling a more restorative and therapeutic experience to be obtained by Aboriginal people when they interact particularly with the criminal justice system. En Masse believes that this learning outcome has the capacity to contribute positively to a gradual reduction in the over-­‐representation of Aboriginal people in Western Australian prisons. En Masse is now actively exploring ways in which the training materials from this project may be repurposed and adopted by other judicial bodies throughout Australia. 6. En Masse is currently exploring the opportunity to make available its Human Rights Launch Pad program on a pro bono basis through the Australian local UN Global Compact Human Rights Network. 7. En Masse has supported the start-­‐up of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Network in Australia and during 2011, our Managing Director Mark Dean has been involved in co-­‐ facilitating a workshop group (hosted by Rio Tinto) aimed at enabling members’ representatives to increase their understanding through teamwork of methods for conducting human rights impact assessments using practical, life-­‐like scenarios. 8. En Masse has conducted numerous workshops for government and corporate clients dealing with human rights issues in the workplace including harassment, bullying, sexual harassment, tackling discrimination and building awareness about particularly vulnerable groups and their experiences with human rights abuses in the workplace and in communities. 9. During the past year, En Masse has been particularly active in running mental health skills building programs. During 2011, En Masse built into its human rights based workshops a number of mental health awareness raising principles designed to assist learners to deal with the distress that is often suffered by people who are having their human rights limited or abused at work, as well as talking a therapeutic approach to resolving grievances in a way that reduces the risk of long term psychological injury as a result of such experiences. 10. En Masse is currently working with an international health services provider to launch in early 2012 a suite of online mental wellbeing programs. 11. En Masse has built and rolled out numerous face-­‐to-­‐face workplace mental wellness programs. Each of these workshops is based upon building practical skills that enable 5 people to prevent mental health problems from occurring or escalating, as well as providing early intervention strategies to reduce risks where mental health problems are present. 12. All of En Masse’s programs, whether delivered online or through face to face workshops, embed assessment processes that test the effectiveness of our programs in terms of increased skills and awareness. Each of our programs to date has delivered very pleasing results that have led to ongoing uptake by our clients by way of demand for additional products and services that target the building of respectful workplace cultures and reducing the risks associated with bullying, sexual harassment and other forms of discrimination, while improving mental health outcomes. 6 2.2 Labour • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and • Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. En Masse is a small and relatively new organisation that focuses on the provision of professional services and related online training and awareness raising products. Therefore we are fortunate not to have to face many of the labour related human rights issues that many organisations face by virtue of the nature of their labour force as well as their operations. However, in relation to upholding the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, En Masse is particularly active in promoting this principle within the business and government community. Each of our corporate training programs that deals with workplace behaviours (these represent around 60% of our source of revenue) refers to equal opportunity and anti-­‐discrimination as a central guiding principle that enables among other things, increased productivity in workplaces, better mental health outcomes among all stakeholders, and decreased legal and operational risks. These elements of our programs are also promoted on our website at http://www.enmasse.com.au/business-­‐government En Masse also embraces non discriminatory hiring practices and offers flexible work arrangements to suit parents and carers. 7 2.3 Environment • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. En Masse and its employees are committed to the protection of our environment. Our policy is to reduce En Masse’s environmental footprint in the following key areas: • reduce our consumption of resources, such as paper, plastic, electricity and water. • find more sustainable sources for all our consumables. • reduce waste and recycle paper, plastic, glass, metal and toner cartridges. • reduce travel through telephone and video-­‐conferencing. • promote sustainable procurement. • Encourage use of public transport We are currently undertaking an evaluation of the office’s ecological footprint, which will enable us to identify the environmental factors over which we do have control so that we can develop a series of targets to support change across the organisation. Our commitment to sustainability is embraced and driven by senior management, and we have a dedicated green office coordinator to ensure progress is being made. En Masse is also in the process of developing a Sustainable Procurement Policy, the aim of which is to take into account the environmental, ethical and social credentials of our suppliers. En Masse has a relatively small carbon footprint, but with a strong commitment to sustainability we have undertaken the following measures to reduce the environmental impact of operations and services provided: • Office now using only Energy Star appliances; • Use of Skype video conferencing for interstate and international client meetings wherever possible to reduce the requirement for air travel; • Introduction of electronic filing systems to reduce the need for paper files; • Implementation of in-­‐house office paper recycling systems; 8 • Office waste (including eWaste) and recycling systems in place; • The purchasing of recycled paper products (including printing paper, paper towels etc); • Use of environmentally friendly cleaning products; • A preference to work with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified printers; • Staff encouraged to bring their own lunches and use non disposable coffee cups (free Keep Cups provided to staff); • We encourage staff to ride to work and car pool; • Minimise use of air-­‐conditioning • Key reason for choosing new office location was proximity to public transport (train and tram within 100 meters); • Staff are encouraged to turn off equipment when not in use; • Surplus office supplies and IT hardware are donated to charity • Client Christmas eCards used to save paper and donate to our preferred charities. In 2010 En Masse supported the work of Oxfam Australia. En Masse has recently formed a relationship with the Australian Conservation Foundation to develop online sustainability focused training programs for business and community. These programs are aimed at teaching people to become sustainability leaders at work and in their communities. Senior En Masse team members also regularly attend community and corporate events around environmental issues and are also actively engaged in environmental sustainability groups, including Melbourne Sustainability Drinks. En Masse is an active member of the UN Global Compact Network Australia (GCNA) with our Managing Director regularly donating his time to GCNA events and promoting the importance of the Principles related to the Environment. 2.4 Anti-­‐Corruption • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. En Masse is committed through its internal and external activities to ensuring that wherever En Masse and its people operate, we reduce the risks of corruption, extortion and bribery. Out principle methods for ensuing this are through: A. Training programs that are ran regularly to ensure that our people understand the 10 9 principles including with respect to Anti-­‐Corruption; and B. Through the initiation of a draft Code of Conduct in December 2011, which we aim to implement by February 2012. Our draft Code of Conduct states: “Whether you are an employee, contractor, sub-­‐contractor, work experience student or volunteer, your engagement with En Masse is conditional upon you agreeing to abide by this Code of Conduct. Therefore, we ask you to read and familiarise yourself with the following terms and ask your manager if you have any questions or concerns about your willingness or ability to respect and uphold any part of this Code of Conduct. In carrying out your role, you will: • Act in good faith and with honesty. This means that you will act in the best interests of your colleagues at En Masse and of En Masse’s clients, together with the community in which we operate. En Masse holds regular training to enable you to activate this responsibility. You will make all reasonable efforts to attend training sessions; • Apply integrity, transparency and impartiality to all of your activities, decisions and in the discharge of your responsibilities; • Treat your colleagues and all people with whom you deal at or through En Masse with the utmost of dignity and respect. This obligation extends to you refraining from any acts or omissions that may be construed as bullying, harassment or in any way discriminatory; • Collaborate with your team members as well as any clients of En Masse with whom you have dealings. This mean that you will work together in a constructive manner to provide solutions to any job requirements and to enable other people, whether En Masse people or working with our clients, to fulfill their roles in a responsible and respectful manner; • Speak politely, assertively and respectfully to your colleagues at En Masse and to our clients; • Communicate regularly with your manager about your dealings with En Masse’s clients and promptly raise any concerns about the behaviours of any people working with our clients that may impact negatively on your wellbeing, the wellbeing of anyone at En Masse or any other person or group of people affected by our clients’ activities; • Take all reasonable precautions to avoid conflicts arising between your personal interests and the interests of En Masse, our clients, or the communities in which we operate. Should any situation arise in which you feel that such a conflict may be perceived to exist, then raise it promptly with your manager – you will be dealt with courteously and with respect 10 for taking such action early; • Promptly report any conflicts of interests, fraud or corruption; • Actively protect yourself and other people who come into contact with En Masse’s workplace from potential hazards, whether arising out of physical environmental factors (such as premises or equipment) or behavioural factors that may reasonably be identified as problematic or harmful to a person or people in some way; • You must agree to uphold and respect the law and the principles of human rights. You will be provided with training on human rights principles as part of your engagement with En Masse; • You must take active responsibility for respecting all environmental protection policies in place at en Masse at any given time. This includes abiding by recycling guidelines and directives. 11 3. Conclusion In summary, this our first Communication on Progress demonstrates a number of initiatives that En Masse has implemented both internally and externally to our business that support the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Through the forthcoming year, we plan to expand the reach of our programs that help create a culture in Australia that supports particularly human rights and the environment. Through working collaboratively with our partners and clients in government, business and the not-­‐for-­‐profit sector, and supporting the UNGC’s Australian network, En Masse will continue to make progress in supporting the UN Global Compact in a way that creates value in a sustainable way. 12
