United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 30 April 2010 through 1 August 2011 Table of Contents Executive Letter Corporate Profile Company History Promoting the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1 & 2 : Protection of Human Rights Labor Rights Principle 3 : Freedom of association and collective bargaining Principle 4 : No forced or compulsory labor Principle 5 : No child labor Principle 6 : Eliminate discrimination Environment Principle 7 : Precautionary approach to challenges Principle 8 : Promote greater responsibility Principle 9 : Develop and diffuse environmentally-friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10 : No Corruption, Extortion and Bribery Communication on Progress Executive Letter August 1, 2011 Dear Shareholders, ACT Global Sports is proud to be a steadfast member of the United Nations Global Compact for the past four years. In continuation, our entire global family has put their best foot forward toward higher advancements in the synthetic turf market and the worldwide communities in which we serve. We are extremely pleased with the growth Director John Baize we have endured in the past year to include the encouraged principles outlined by the United Nations Global Compact. With our expanding global footprint we embrace all cultures and communities which encompass our synthetic turf industry. With delicate humanitarian consideration, ACT Global Sports does everything we can to understand and harmonize the needs of our employees, partners and the marketplace. We are leading the way in our industry through the guidelines set forth by the United Nations Global Compact. These principles connect our understanding of the turf industry with the world around us for mutual success. By submission of our 2011 annual report we anticipate others will see the value of the basic principles of the Global Compact to also engage in this shared wealth of knowledge and implications for abetter tomorrow. Best regards, John Baize Managing Director Communication on Progress Corporate Profile ACT Global Sports is an innovation-driven company that designs and supplies world-class artificial turf systems. We are known throughout the world by our Xtreme Turf and AC Turf brands. With installations in over 50 countries, we are your global partner in sports and landscaping. We are dedicated to be your key partner by delivering expertise in all project phases—from product research, manufacturing, installation and maintenance. Our production facilities are located in USA, Asia and Europe. We are focused on building relationships through reliable service, investments in the latest technology and world-class manufacturing. Communication on Progress Mission Statement “Our focus is to enhance our market value through integrity, product value and customer satisfaction.” To build our strong market position, we must have a total commitment to integrity, highest quality, ongoing product research, teamwork, and a thoughtful understanding of the customer’s needs. Corporate Values Customers Our approach with our customers is simple—we provide honest solutions. Our experienced team is devoted to building long-term relationships through integrity, hard work and superior expertise. We treat each order of artificial turf with the highest sense of importance—no matter how large or small the project may be. Employees Our employees around the world are our most valuable asset. We invest in our employees through skills training and by offering a comfortable working environment that promotes honesty, innovation and quality service. We are dedicated to hiring the best employees by providing equal opportunity employment. We do not discriminate against gender, race, social origin, background, religion, marital orientation or age. USA Production Facility To expand our global network, we have established sales offices in Texas and Georgia, USA, Thailand, China, Australia, France, Poland, the Netherlands and Cyprus. Communication on Progress Business Partners We value our long-term relationships with our business partners and suppliers. We provide focused marketing, technical and project administration support to the large network of ACT Global Sports partners around the world. All of our suppliers are carefully selected based upon their proven quality material, timely services and reputation for integrity. Society and Industry We recognize that our society and artificial turf industry are important stakeholders in our business. Our commitment to environmentally-friendly products and manufacturing is evidenced by our ISO 14001 environmental certification. We are a participating member of the United Nations Global Compact and support industry organizations such as Synthetic Turf Council and Sports Turf Managers Association. We are also a licensee of the FIFA Quality Concept for Football Turf. Manufacturing With large capital investments in production facilities around the world, ACT Global Sports is dedicated to the artificial turf industry. Our manufacturing facilities in USA, Asia and Europe occupy 120,000 square meters (1,300,000 square feet) of property. Our main production facilities include three production buildings, two comprehensive office buildings, lodging houses, a showcase center, test labs, research and development center and conference area. Our facilities offer state of the art operations for fiber extrusion, tufting, and coating. With a highly trained production and technical staff to operate world-class equipment including our tufting machines, multiple extrusion lines and coating oven, the production capacity exceeds 4 million square meters (over 40 million square feet). Communication on Progress Our total quality management culture greatly enhances customer service and product consistency. We are also pleased to have achieved ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications as a result of our quality measures. Expert Installation Our synthetic turf projects are carefully installed by trained experts to ensure long-term quality and satisfaction. We have installation partners in over 50 countries. We work closely with clients, architects and other consultants to determine the customers’ specific needs. Our methods of installation and maintenance are based upon proven facts and experience. “ We can provide the best turf in the industry, by combining the finest raw materials with the latest equipment from the USA, United Kingdom, ACT Global Sports is FIFA Preferred Producer for Football Turf Germany and Australia.” Communication on Progress Product Range ACT Global Sports has engineered an innovative product range for a wide variety of uses including soccer, football, golf, field hockey, baseball, tennis and landscaping. Our products are the right choice for thousands of users throughout the world. Our landscape and recreational products can be used for many surfaces including: •Airports •Apartments •Businesses (office buildings, retail, car dealers, restaurants, gas stations, etc.) •Churches •Golf courses and greens •Hotels and motels •Lawns •Parks and recreational areas •Pet areas •Public buildings and street medians •Schools •Shopping Malls •Swimming pool areas •Television and movie studios •Trade shows…. and many, many more!!! Product Strategy Our product strategy is to replicate the natural grass experience through performance-based product development and extensive quality testing. Performance-Based Product Development We start by analyzing the biomechanical needs of the athlete or recreational user. We then conduct extensive research and development in our own factory and laboratory to match the biomechanical needs with the New Product 5 Year Wear 10 Year Wear Communication on Progress right combination of grass fiber, backing, turf coating, infill, installation and maintenance methods. As a result, our customer receives a highly engineered system that Benchmarks for American Football replicates the natural grass experience. Kyle Field Study at Texas A&M Stadium ACT Global with cooperation from Labosport and Texas Proven Benefits and Quality A&M University, engaged the research to understand the sport performance of the natural turf at Kyle Field As a result of our product strategy and quality focus, stadium and compare those to FIFA’s international our customer is assured of having the latest artificial synthetic turf standards. Kyle Field at Texas A&M was selected as it is well-known for being one of the top turf technology in the world. Once we engineer the right natural grass football stadiums in the United States. artificial turf system for the athlete or recreational user, we conduct up to 60 independent lab tests to make The on-site technical assessment was performed sure we can prove the benefits and long-term quality. to test shock absorption, vertical deformation (foot These independent lab tests include biomechanical stability), rotational resistance (traction), energy resand athletic testing in addition to torture and durability testing. titution (fatigue indicator) and various ball-to-surface interaction measurements. As a result, we have also achieved numerous certifications and reports. This includes seven products By conducting this study on the best natural grass which pass FIFA lab tests, environmental testing field, we see the results fall within the parameters set and also reports based upon various other by the FIFA Quality Concept. ACT Global’s products standards including ASTM, DIN, Norwegian, Dutch meet those standards. and Chinese standards. Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Company History • Founded in February 2004 as Global Sports Systems • Management team with extensive industry experience in each functional area • Sales in over 50 countries through exclusive distribution partners • Excellent reputation for quality, strong relationships, integrity and expertise • Only company holding all three certifications, FIFA Preferred Producer for Football Turf, Synthetic Turf Council Certified Manufacturer and ISO 9001 • 6 years of marketing reinvestments provides excellent platform for future growth Promoting the United Nations Global Compact To showcase our rewarding participation, our sales offices around the world have promoted the United Nations Global Compact in their respectable markets. The public has access to download and view our latest Communication on Progress from our website. In addition to the publicized COP, we proudly display the United Nations Global Compact Support logo in our marketing efforts to include tradeshow displays, banners, printed literature, and directly in our presentations. With the growing use of technology and public information available online we feel that professional relationships are being replaced by e-mails and phone calls. ACT Global Sports makes great efforts to build relationships on a face to face basis. In this regard we are building a culture of trust. In this regard our participation in the Global Compact is well received. # Principle Implemented Comment 1-2 Human Rights Yes No issues Labor Rights Freedom of association 3 Yes No issues and collective bargaining 4 Yes ISO 9001 Certification Labor Rights No forced or compulsory labor for US facility 5 Labor Rights No child labor Yes No issues 6 Labor Rights -Eliminate discrimination Yes No issues Environment – Precautionary 7 Yes ISO 14001 Certification approach to challenges Extended support of World 8 Yes Environment – Promote greater responsibility Vision, Care as well as relief efforts for Japan Continued contributions towards 9 Environment – Develop and diffuse Yes Carbonfund.org, Greenscapes, environmentally-friendly technologies and water saving technologies 10 Anti-Corruption Yes No issues Communication on Progress Human Rights Principles 1 and 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that they are not complicity in human rights abuses. Actions and Achievements: ACT Global Sports advocates human rights and equal opportunities worldwide. Our head office in Austin, Texas goes even further to display State & Federal Law posters. These posters include information regarding Occupational Safety & Health Association, Employee Rights, and Workers Compensation. We consider our employee’s around the world our family and most valuable asset. Professional mutual respect is prevalent between all members of our staff in each of our offices worldwide. We invite our employees to openly discuss any issues they may be experiencing to work as a team towards a conformed resolution. To further build our culture of trust and professionalism we encourage these same efforts with our valued partners. With communication and proper training of business ethics and procedures we confirm no human rights are violated. Labor Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Actions and Achievements: We confirm our continuation to uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining as noted in our employee policies. There is no discrimination on grounds of membership in a labor union. One of the aspects that makes our work environment so exciting, is our diverse team of individuals. By having such a wide range of personalities and skill sets we are able to work together to form a team of proactive members. ACT Global Sports understands their employee’s and partners have interests and communications outside of work. Our staff members and partners are welcome to associate freely, in good faith, without interference from our management. Communication on Progress In order to ensure these practices of freedom of association are carried out, ACT Global Sports will engage open discussions to review expectations and ethical practices of the work environment. When the company is able to work as a team with respect and understanding we are able to succeed as individuals and a company as a whole. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Actions and Achievements: ACT Global Sports extends their zero tolerance regulations to all forms of forced and compulsory labor. This behavior is unjust and offensive to the integrity of our company and employees. In order to ensure there is no miscommunication between labor expectations, all aspects regarding responsibilities, wages, and schedules are outlined for each employee. As with the other labor standards we invite suggestions that will create a comfortable work environment. We treat all our worldwide partners with the same open courtesy and respect. We go out of our way to ensure they fully understand their responsibilities and they reciprocate their expectation of us. ACT Global Sports takes this principle a step even further to only hire the best in the industry. Through a proper evaluation process we are able to decipher those companies that also follow the basic guidelines set forth by the United Nations Global Compact. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Actions and Achievements: Child labor is cruel and inhumane. Our heart goes out to those less fortunate by continuing our support in World Vision. World Vision is a Christian humanitarian organization dedicated to working with children, families and their communities worldwide to reach their full potential by tackling the causes of poverty and injustice. We feel children should be brought up in a loving and educated environment in order to grow up as strong beings. As a worldwide company we do not tolerate this type of behavior. All of our employees are hired within the legal working age and do so by consent of both parties. We establish a comfortable working environment to ensure our employee’s happiness. In this regard, our efforts are returned by mutual understanding and hard work. Communication on Progress We invite all companies to take a close look at the impact of child labor and encourage them to make a change to stop all forms of child labor. Principle 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Actions and Achievements: As a worldwide company, ACT Global Sports is a melting pot of cultures and ideas. We have valued partnerships in over 50 countries and offices stationed in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Thailand, France, Poland, China, Cyprus, France, as well Texas and Georgia, USA. To be a successful global company we accept and embrace the diverse ideals of each member of our family. In this regard we are able to adapt our approach to properly address each specific regional market without discrimination or disrespect. With this mutual understanding between our valued stakeholders and ACT Global we are able to develop a sophisticated line of communication and acceptance. In progression we do not discriminate against race, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction, social origin, age, disability, HIV/AIDS status, trade union membership, and sexual orientation. Our employees and contractors are hired based on their skills and ability to do the job at hand. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Actions and Achievements: There is an increasing demand for environmentally friendly products. We encourage everyone to execute the best practices in resource efficiency and renewable resources to develop products that are safe for humans and the environment. It is only by collaboration we are able to make an impact toward greater environmental responsibility. ACT Global is an innovative company that continually invests their time and money into developing environmentally friendly products and business practices. We are recognized worldwide by our ISO 14001 environmental certification. This certification confirms our operations meet the highest quality of expected environmental concern. In addition, our synthetic turf product pass strict environmental testing to include lead, mercury, zinc, cadmium, chromium, tin, toxicity, Communication on Progress EOX, and DOC. We confirm these results to the general public by placing hazardous labels on all our artificial turf rolls. We are fully aware of the growing concern of the diminishing water supply. To further approach environmental challenges, we are proud to report that by installing synthetic turf, the average U.S. household can save up to 70% of their water bill. The Southern Nevada Water Authority estimates that every square foot of natural grass replaced saves an additional 55 gallons of water per year. The average lawn is 1,800 square feet, so the average home with synthetic turf saves 99,000 gallons of water each year. This information was gathered from the Synthetic Turf Council. Please review their website http://www.syntheticturfcouncil.org/ for more information. ACT Global continues to support the US Greenscapes program and providing products that eliminate the use of pesticides. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Actions taken & Achievements: In promoting greater environmental responsibility to our valued stakeholders, we must address awareness to both, the environment and individuals as a whole. Earlier this year world news broke out regarding the tragic natural disasters occurring in Japan followed by a scare of a nuclear meltdown. We are saddened by this unfortunate event and cannot imagine the suffering those involved must have endured. ACT Global Sports made donations to the relief efforts in Japan as an act of humanitarianism and compassion. We annually contribute to CARE, a humanitarian organization that fights global poverty in part by providing economic opportunities to women in particular. Our goal with CARE is to provide resources needed for survival in the hands of those individuals most adept to make a change in their immediate community. With our donations, the women, mothers, and wives we support are able to provide value to their families and friends while developing a sense of empowerment. In our environmental efforts, we carry forward with offsetting our companies C02 emissions and investing in reforestation projects around the globe through our partnership with Carbon Fund. We encourage our customers to take a look at this approach and recommend they too look into ® offsetting their particular related production, transportation and installation activities of their order. Communication on Progress ACT Global Sports is a continual proud supporter of Conservation International with their goal to conserve the Earth’s living heritageour global biodiversityand to demonstrate that human societies are able to live harmoniously with nature. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Actions and Achievements: In addition to ACT Global Sports’ immediate involvement with Conservation International, US Greenscapes and Carbon Fund we have informed our valued partners of how they too can also take a step toward suitability. When general contractors and architects purchase and install our synthetic turf products they are able to gain LEED points to establish the amount of efforts they put forth in diffusing environmentally friendly technologies. LEED was established by the US Green Builders Council, the Leadership in Environmental Design organization. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Actions and Achievements: ACT Global Sports does not condone any form of corruption, extortion and bribery. We value Integrity above all things. We are continuously building a higher platform for our brand and partnerships because we are honest and unbiassed with our actions toward our stakeholders. With clear lines of communication we confirm that we only work with those individuals and companies that share the same value systems as ACT Global. In continuation, it is our policy to limit the amount of gifts that can be given or received by an employee or professional partner. Any policy or ethical violation that is detected by an employee is immediately reported to upper management without fear of reprisals. We do not tolerate corruption or bribery in any shape or form. Communication on Progress ACT Global Sports products and services are available through a distribution network in over 50 countries. HEAD OFFICE | AMERICA EUROPE ASIA | MIDDLE EAST | AFRICA CHINA 4201 West Parmer Lane Buitenhagen 22 P.O. Box 53191 Rm. J 9/F Chengjian Mansion Suite B 175 7471 BD Goor Limassol 3301 No. 189 Tiyuxi Rd. Guangzhou Austin, Texas 78727 USA The Netherlands Cyprus P.R. China SALES OFFICE USA Georgia and Texas ASIAThailand, China and Cyprus EUROPE France, Poland, Netherlands and United Kingdom W W W. AC TG LO B A L S P O R T S . CO M | E M A I L : i n f o @ a c t g l o b a l s p o r t s . c o m
