UNNGC Commun nication on Prrogress June 2011 2 Cavalier Logistics Corporatee Sponsorss Presidentt ADDRESSS: 45085 Old Ox Road, Dulles, VA 201 166 Mr. Tim Holdaway H PHONE:: 703‐733‐4 4010 Director ADDRESSS: 45085 Old Ox Road, Dulles, VA 201 166 Mr. Robbie Neilson PHONE:: 703‐733‐4 4010 Cavalier Logistics Stakehold ders Vice Presiident Washin ngton DC ADDRESSS: 45085 Old d Ox Road, Du ulles, VA 201 166 Mr. Gabe Stanziano PHONE: 703‐733‐4 4010 Corporatee Customs Brroker ADDRESSS: 45085 Old Ox Road, Dulles, VA 201 166 Mr. Mann ny Seligmann PHONE:: 703‐733‐4 4010 Chief Susttainability Offficer ADDRESSS: 1350 N Michael M Drive,, Wood Dale, IL 60616 Ms. Cheryyl Mugford PHONE:: 630‐694‐1606 General Manager M Atlaanta ADDRESSS: 5156 Sou uth Ridge Parkkway, Collegee Park, GA 303 349 Ms. Anne Boone PHONE:: 770‐997‐4463 General Manager M Charleston ADDRESSS: 54 Broad Street #2, Ch harleston, SC 29401 Ms. Kathyy Morris PHONE: 843‐266‐‐9700 General Manager M Chiccago ADDREESS: 1350 N Michael M Drivee, Wood Dale,, IL 60616 Ms. Flora Suner PHONE:: 630‐694‐‐1606 General Manager M Dallas ADDRESSS: 1722 Min nters Chapel, Grapevine, TX 76051 Mr. Joe Hillard PHONE:: 817‐329‐4120 General Manager M Los Angeles ADDRESSS: 220 Westt Ivy Avenue, Inglewood, CA C 90302 Mr. John Rodriguez PHONE:: 310‐680‐2013 General Manager M Newwark ADDRESSS: 250 Shefffield Street, Mountainside M , NJ 07092 Mr. Michaael Hickey PHONE:: 908‐233‐0600 45085 Old Ox O Road Dullees VA 20166‐2336 T:7703‐733‐4010 0 F:703‐707‐‐0651 For suggestions s or o further info ormation regaarding Cavalieer’s commitmment to the UNGC, contactt ungcc@cavlog.comm UNNGC Commun nication on Prrogress June 2011 2 June 01, 2011 2 To our staakeholders: Cavalier Logistics L G f support of the 10 princciples of the Global is in full Compa act with respeect to Human Rights, La abor, Environm ment and antti‐corruption. Cavalier Logiistics is comm mitted to incorrporating thee Global Coompact princip ples as well as a accountabillity and transsparency into the framewo ork of its corporate structure, strategies an nd overall dayy to day cultu ure and opera ations. In this annnual Commun nication on Prrogress, we describe d our actions to continually impro ove the integratioon of the Globbal Compact anda its princip ples into our business b strattegy, culture and daily operationns. We also co ommit to sharre this informmation with ou ur stakeholdeers using our primary p channnels of commu unication. Sincerely yours, Tim Holdawa H way Tim Holdaaway President 45085 Old OxO Road Dullees VA 20166‐2336 T:7703‐733‐4010 0 F:703‐707‐‐0651 For suggestions s or o further infoormation regaarding Cavalieer’s commitm ment to the UNGC, contactt ungcc@cavlog.comm UNNGC Commun nication on Prrogress June 20112 Human Rights Cavalier Logistics L is in full f support fo or the 30 articles of the Un niversal Declaaration of Human Rights, proclaimeed by the Unitted Nations GeneralG Assem mbly in Paris in 1948 as a common c stanndard of achievements for all pe eoples and alll nations. It sets out, for thhe first time, fundamentall human rightts to be universally protecte ed. Cavalier encourages e ou to explore this for yoursself by clickin yo ng on the follo owing link Univeersal Declarattion of Human n Rights. Written company c policy Cavalier provides p each member of staff s with a written w Employee handboo ok which clearrly sets forth Cavaliers policy on many subjects, including but not limited to o, Human Rigghts, Businesss ethics and conduct, Workplace, W V Violence preveention, Health & Safety, Wages, W hours and Leave. Health & Safety To assist in i providing a safe and heaalthful work environment e for employeees, customerss, and visitorss, Cavalier Logistics L has established e a workplace saafety program m. This prograam is a top priority for Cavalier Logistics. Its success de epends on the alertness an nd personal commitment c of all. Cavalier Logistics L proviides informattion to emplo oyees about workplace w saffety and healtth issues thro ough regular internal communication chaannels such as supervisor‐employee meeetings, bulleetin board postings, memos, or otther written communicati c ons. Some of the t best safetty improvemeent ideas com me from actuaal Cavalier em mployees. All Staff S are encourageed to raise an ny ideas, conccerns, or sugggestions for im mproved safeety in the worrkplace to theeir immediatte supervisor, or with anotther superviso or or manageer within the company. c Reeports and concerns about workplace safety issues may be made anonym mously if the employee wiishes. All repo orts can be maade without fear f of reprisaal. Business ethics e and co onduct The succeessful businesss operation and a reputatio on of Cavalier Logistics is built upon the Principles off fair dealing annd ethical con e nduct of our employees. Cavalier Logisstics compliess with all app plicable laws and a regulationns and expectts its directorrs, officers, an nd employeess to conduct business b in acccordance witth the letter,, spirit, and in a to refrain from any illeegal, dishonesst, or unethical ntent of all reelevant laws and T policy is extended to our agents, partners conduct. This p and vendors v both in the US and d internationally. Workplacce Violence Prrevention Cavalier Logistics L is commmitted to preventing wo orkplace violeence and to maintaining m a safe work environment. Given th he increasing violence v ociety in geneeral, Cavalier Logistics has adopted man in so ny guideliness to deal with h intimidation n, harassmentt, or other thrreats of (or acctual) violencce that may occur during business hours or on its prem mises. All employees, inclu uding supervisors and tem mporary employeees, should be treated with courtesy and d respect at all times. Employees are exxpected to reffrain from fightting, horseplay, or otherr conduct that may be dan ngerous to oth hers. Firearms, weapons, and a other danngerous or hazardous devices or substances are proh hibited from thet premises of Cavalier Logistics. Unless contraary to state laaw. Conduct that t threatenns, intimidates, or coerces another employeee, a customer, or a membeer of the public at any timee, including off‐duty period ds, will not bee tolerated.. 45085 Old OxO Road Dullees VA 20166‐2336 T:7 703‐733‐4010 0 F:703‐707‐‐0651 For suggestions s or o further info ormation regaarding Cavalieer’s commitm ment to the UNGC, contactt ungcc@cavlog.com m UNNGC Commun nication on Prrogress June 2011 2 Cavalier Logistics L will promptly p and thoroughly investigate alll reports of th hreats of (or actual) a violen nce and of susspicious indivviduals or actiivities. Cavaliier Logistics encourages e em mployees to bring b their disputes oro differencess with other employees e to o the attention of their sup pervisors, Management or the Owner beefore the situaation escalatees into potential violence. Hours, wa ages and leavve L Cavalier Logistics believes that its work w condition ns, wages, an nd benefits offfered to its employees aree fair and comp petitive, and provide p for a good standarrd of living. Caavalier is fullyy aware of the minimum wages w outlined in the United States and en nsures all employees are adequately a coompensated withw above minimum wages, and compensation c n paid is sufficient for the position heldd by the individual employee. Cavalier also a ensures all a employeess are provided ompensation of overtime and d sufficient co a sufficientt vacation time t and sick leave. If employees have concerns about work w conditio ons or compeensation, emp ployees able tot voice thosee concerns to their supervisors. Our experience e haas shown thatt when emplo oyees deal oppenly and direectly with supeervisors, the work w environm e ment can be excellent, com mmunications can be clear, and attitud des can be po ositive. We be elieve that Cavalier Logisticcs amply dem monstrates their commitment to employees by respon nding effectively to employyee concerns. How Cava alier respond ds to and dealls with Huma an rights violaations and incidents Cavalier Logistics L is com c mmitted to all employees.. Part of this commitment is encouragin ng an open an nd frank atmmosphere in which w any problem, complaaint, suggestio on, or questio on receives a timely respo onse from the company's c su upervisors and managemeent. Cavalier Logistics L strive f treatment of all emplo es to ensure fair oyees. Supervvisors, managgers, and employeees are expecte ed to treat eaach other with h mutual resp pect. Employeees are encou uraged to offeer positive and constructive criticism. If employeess disagree with established d rules of conduct, policiess, or practices, they can exp press their concern througgh the problem m resolution procedure. No N employee will be penalizzed, formally or informallyy, for voicing a complaint with w the company in a reassonable, busiiness‐ like mann ner, or for usin ng the probleem resolution n procedure. If a situatiion occurs wh hen employeees believe thaat a condition n of employm ment or a decision affectingg them is un njust or inequ uitable, they are encouragged to make use u of the pro oblem resoluttion procedurre which is clearly c outlineed on the emp ployee handb book. Not everyy problem can n be resolved to everyone''s total satisfaaction, but on nly through understandingg and discussion n of mutual problems can employees and managem ment develop confidence in n each other. This confidencce is importan nt to the operration of an efficient e h and harmonious work w environmment. Specific Goals G for Hum man Rights for the upcomiing year Cavalier Logistics L have drafted a po olicy outlining the Global Compact princciples on Hum man Rights. Th his w business partners and suppliers to show Cavalieers dedication policy will be shared with n to the Uniteed Nations Global G Compact, and to req quest that all business parttners and sup ppliers to adhhere to the poolicy. L Cavalier Logistics will further f investtigate what it can do as an organization a Human Rights n to support all issues witthin its internal operation and externallly. Cavalier will w continue to o further devvelop its emplloyee 45085 Old OxO Road Dullees VA 20166‐2336 T:7 703‐733‐4010 0 F:703‐707‐‐0651 For suggestions s or o further info ormation regaarding Cavalieer’s commitm ment to the UNGC, contactt ungcc@cavlog.com m UN NGC Commun nication on Prrogress June 2011 2 handbookk to ensure all aspects of the Global Compact are ad dhered to, and d Cavalier will seek to offeer additional resources an nd Awareness raising or trraining of employees on Human Rights.. Labor Written company c policy Cavalier Logistics L is strongly againstt any form of forced labor,, Child labor anda employm ment discriminaation. Cavalie er provides eaach member of staff with a written Employee handb book which clearly sets forth Cavaliers policy on many subjects, inclluding but no ot limited to, Equal E Opporttunity, Disabillity Accommo odation, and Employee E Benefits. Equal Employment Op pportunity In order to provide equ ual employment and advancement opp portunities to o all individuals, employmeent decisions at Cavalier Lo ogistics are baased on merit, qualificatioons, and abilitties. Cavalier Logistics does not discriminaate against an ny person beccause of race, color, creed d, religion, sexx, national origin, disabilityy, age, geneetic informatio on or any othher characteriistic protected by law (refeerred to as p protected stattus ). This nond discrimination n policy exten ms, conditionss and privileges of employment as well as nds to all term the use off all companyy facilities, participation in all company‐‐sponsored acctivities, and all employmeent actions su uch as promotions, compeensation, beneefits and term mination of em mployment. Any employees with questions or co oncerns abou ut any type off discriminatioon in the worrkplace are encourageed to bring th hese issues to o the attentioon of their immmediate supeervisor. Emplo oyees can raisse concerns and make rep ports withoutt fear of repriisal. Disability Accommodaation Cavalier Logistics L is commmitted to co omplying fully with the Am mericans with h Disabilities Act A (ADA) and d applicablee state law, and to ensure equal opporttunity in emp ployment for qualified q perssons with disabilitiees. All employment practices and activitties are condu ucted on a no on‐discriminatory basis. Hiring procedurees are designed to providee persons with disabilities meaningful employment e o opportunities s. Pre‐emplo oyment inquiries are madee only regarding an applicant's ability to perform the duties of th he position. Reasonable accommodati a ons for qualiffied individuaals with knowwn disabilities will be madee unless to do so would be an undue hardship. All employmentt decisions are based on th he merits of the t situation in accordance e with defined criteria, not the disabilitty of the indivvidual. Qualifiied individualls with disab bilities are entitled to equaal pay and oth her forms of compensation (or changess in Compensaation) as welll as in job assignments, claassifications, organizationa o al structures, position descriptio ons, lines of progression p nd seniority liists. Leave of all types will be available to all employyees an on an equ ual basis. Cavaalier Logisticss is also comm mitted to not discriminatin ng against anyy qualified employeees or applican nts because th hey are relateed to or assocciated with a person with a disability. L Cavalier Logistics f will follow any staate or local law w that providdes individuals with disabillities greater protection n than the AD DA. This policyy is neither exxhaustive norr exclusive. Cavalier Logisttics is committted to taking all other actio ons necessaryy to ensure eq qual employm ment opportu unity for persons with disabilitiees in accordan nce with the ADA A and all other applicab ble federal, state, and local laws. Employeee Benefits Eligible emmployees at Cavalier C Logisstics are proviided a wide raange of benefits. A numbeer of the proggrams (such as Social S Securityy, workers' co ompensation,, state disability, and unem mployment in nsurance) cover all 45085 Old OxO Road Dullees VA 20166‐2336 T:7703‐733‐4010 0 F:703‐707‐‐0651 For suggestions s or o further info ormation regaarding Cavalieer’s commitm ment to the UNGC, contactt ungcc@cavlog.com m UNNGC Commun nication on Prrogress June 2011 2 employeees in the manner prescribeed by law. Ben nefits eligibility is dependeent upon a vaariety of facto ors, including employee claassification. TheT followingg benefit proggrams are avaailable to eligiible employeees: ‐ Medical M and Dental D Insurannce ‐ Liife Insurance ‐ 40 01(k) Savings Plan ‐ Vacation Bene efits ‐ Holidays ‐ Workers' W Compensation Inssurance ‐ Siick Leave Ben nefits ‐ Tiime Off to Vo ote ‐ Bereavement Leave ‐ Ju ury Duty ‐ Witness W Duty ‐ Benefits Continuation (COB BRA) ‐ Em mployee Assistance Prograam Cavalier Demographic D cs Cavalier iss proud of the e fact that it has h a wide deemographic of o employees;; each and every employeee brings a great g deal of diversity d and are happy to share culturaal experiences and ideas. 60‐69 Male & Female F Ratio o 5% Agge Ratio All 50‐59 22% 20‐29 Female 25% Total 44% Male Total 56% 40‐499 30‐39 24% % 24% 45085 Old OxO Road Dullees VA 20166‐2336 T:7 703‐733‐4010 0 F:703‐707‐‐0651 For suggestions s or o further info ormation regaarding Cavalieer’s commitm ment to the UNGC, contactt ungcc@cavlog.com m UNNGC Commun nication on Prrogress June 2011 2 Black ‐ Africann Asian Ethnicity American 2% 10% W White Hispanic 59% 29% Poland Ukraaine 2 2% El Salvaador Natiionality Thhailand 2%% Mexico 4%% 2% 5% Brazil 2% UK 7% Yugoslaviia 2% USA 68% Guatemala G 6% Specific Goals G for Labo or for the upccoming year L Cavalier Logistics p will produce a pollicy outlining the Global Co ompact principles on Labo or. This policy will be sharedd with businesss partners an nd suppliers tot show Cavaliers dedication to the United Nations Global Coompact, and to request thaat all businesss partners and dhere to the policy. d suppliers ad Cavalier Logistics L f will further investtigate what it can do as an organization n to support all a Labor Rightts and labor issues within its internal operation an nd externally. Cavalier will continue to further f develo op its employeee handbook to o ensure all aspects of thee Global Comp pact are adheered to, and Cavalier C will seek to offer ad dditional reso ources and Aw wareness raissing or trainin ng of employeees on Labor issues and Laabor rights. 45085 Old Ox O Road Dullees VA 20166‐2336 T:7 703‐733‐4010 0 F:703‐707‐‐0651 For suggestions s or o further info ormation regaarding Cavalieer’s commitm ment to the UNGC, contactt ungcc@cavlog.com m UNNGC Commun nication on Prrogress June 2011 2 ENVIRO ONMENT Cavalier Logistics L is commmitted to caaring for and improving th he environmeent in many waysw such as recycling, reforestation n, Truck efficiiency, reusable products, Recyclingg Cavalier Logistics L has immplemented recycling in its corporate office in Dullees VA. With the t corporatee office beinng the largestt of the organ nization, it seemed fitting tot start the reecycling endeeavor here. Strategicaally placed aro ound the office are paper collection cabinets and a larger l bin is lo ocated in thee warehousse. These are emptied periiodically; the paper is shreedded and theen sent off to o be recycled. Additionaally, in the staff kitchen aree two other reecycling bins,, one for alum minum cans and one for glaass and plastiic bottles, and d lastly, in thee warehouse is a large dum mpster for cardboard recyycling. All members of staff are strongly s encouraged to utilize the recyccling bins. Upon reviiew and greatt success of the recycling program p at th he corporate office, Cavalier Logistics iss now rolling this initiative ouut to all the other station. Each station will initially beb provided with w paper collectionn cabinets and d upon evaluaation of each station, it will determine if further recyycling optionss are feasible. Cavaliers Carbon offseet & Reforestation Program / CAVCORP P Many com mpanies are wrestling w withh the task of reducing r their carbon foott print. Cavalier Logistics has designed a program th hat can assist with this dau unting task an nd aid in the reforestation r of The Atlanttic Forest in Brazil. B 1 mature tree stores approximatelyy 13kg of CO2 2 a year, depeending on sizee, species, agee, location etc. A passenger car getting 28mpg, 2 drivin ng 15000 milees in a year ussing regular unleaded u gas produces 475 52kg of CO2 a year y ‐ 366 treees are needeed to offset th he emissions. A straight truuck that uses diesel, averaaging about 7.8mpg and covering 75000 miles m in a yeaar produces 97630kg of CO O2 in a year ‐ 7510 trees arre needed to o offset the emissions. The Atlantic Forest in Brazil B is considered one off the most end dangered troopical forests in the world. Only 12 percen nt of the original area (abo out the size off the US Easteern sea board der from Main ne to South Carolina) remains, and w conserveed. Forest restoration projects are essential d only 7 perceent of that is well to rebuildding the Atlan ntic Forest, an nd many otheer forests arou und the worldd. There aree several organizations in support s o such organization is Th of refforestation, one he Nature Conservan ncy’s Plant a Billion Trees campaign. Caavalier has jo w this organization and is oined forces with offering customers and d staff the ability to make donations directly through Cavalier’s website w and Cavalier will w match all donations. In n addition to general g donattions, Cavalieer is providingg the option for f customs tot register witth the CAVCO ORP and an aggreed fee will automatically be added to t monthly statements for every shipment handled by Cavalier. Cavalier will match all contribution ns made through the CAVC CORP, and Cavvalier will help p customers calculate c the carbon footp print of shipping their freigght. As an example, 5000Lb bs of freight travelling 500 0 miles producces 192kg of CO2 ‐ 15 treees are needed d in order to offset o the emissions. 45085 Old Ox O Road Dullees VA 20166‐2336 T:7 703‐733‐4010 0 F:703‐707‐‐0651 For suggestions s or o further info ormation regaarding Cavalieer’s commitm ment to the UNGC, contactt ungcc@cavlog.com m UNNGC Commun nication on Prrogress June 2011 2 Cavalier Logistics L Trucck Efficiency u Cavalier utilizes fuel addditives in its trucks which allow for thee use of Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel D fuel. Th hese additives also improve e MPG, reducee emissions and a extend th he life of fuel filters. f Cavalier Logistics L is noww a Member of the EPAs SmartWay S Traansportation Program, Cavvalier Logisticcs is proudly working w towarrds environmentally cleaner, more fuel efficient tran nsportation options. o All equipmen nt is being traansitioned to SmartWay ap pproved partn ners or affiliates. Reusable Products Cavalier Logistics L p has provided all sttaff with ceraamic coffee cu ups and reusaable water bo ottles (BPA Free Plastic), sttaff are no longer allowed to use paperr cups or single use plastic cups. Furtheer to this initiative, Cavalier iss seeking to replace all single use paperr/plastic platees and plasticc cutlery in the coming mo onths. Future Iniitiatives/goals for the Envvironment With Cavaaliers committment to the United Nations Global Com mpact environmental principles, many additional ideas and sttrategies are being b discusssed and preseented to the corporate c Maanagers. Cavalier’s goal is to implement as many of theese a possiblee over the nexxt twelve months and beyond. Some off these ideaas are listed below; b Recycle Innk cartridges / use only reccycled paper / diverting to o a paperless office environ nment with new n systems and a technologgy / encouragge staff to turn off lights, computers, prrinters etc wh hen not in usee / create an environmenttal awarenesss education program‐ p a vo oluntary program that Cavalier can help p to encouragee staff to imp plement projeects at home and work etcc, / Replace alll Cleaning Pro oducts with environmentally friend dly products in all its officees / replace old kitchen appliances with h energy star rated efficient appliances a / obtain o an Asseessment of th he environmeental footprin nt and impactt of the company / create wrritten compan ny policy on environmenta e al issues, incluuding preventtion and man nagement of environmental risks / replace r propaane with Electtrical Fork Lifts / Install Ligght sensors in n all Warehouses and officees. Anti‐Co orruption Cavalier Logistics L is currrently takingg action in ord der to effectivvely review th he policies of all business a supplierss with regardss to Anti‐Corruption. Cavallier is in full support of thee FCPA ‐ Foreiign partners and Corrupt Practice Act www.fcpa.us w a has a written policy which and w it will distribute to all business partners and a supplierss, requesting they t adhere to t the policy. Future Iniitiatives/goals for Anti‐Co orruption Distributee a written co ompany policyy of zero‐tolerance for corrruption, bribeery and extorrtion. Create Protocol tot guide staff in situations where they are a confronteed with extorttion or briberry, provide education n and literature to all staff regarding An nti‐Corruption n and Cavaliers policy. We will update our o vendor an nd agent asse essment to incclude a more rigorous Antti‐Corruption section. Inclu uded in this section will be a requirrement for an n officer of the company to o complete and sign a doccument statin ng that they understand and a will comp ply with our policies p 45085 Old OxO Road Dullees VA 20166‐2336 T:7 703‐733‐4010 0 F:703‐707‐‐0651 For suggestions s or o further info ormation regaarding Cavalieer’s commitm ment to the UNGC, contactt ungcc@cavlog.com m
