Value Technology, People, and the Earth Corporate Profile, CSR Report 2011 Message from the Top Management We are promoting stronger CSR management by Our heartfelt condolences go out to all those who lost their lives in the March 11 Great East Japan Earthquake, implementing thorough and we extend our deepest sympathies for those who survived the disaster and their family members. compliance measures and We will devote our utmost efforts to restoring the facilities and equipment we have delivered. enhancing risk management. despite harsh competition with overseas makers in India Message from the Recovery of business performance and elsewhere, we received orders for construction of Top Management new plants in Thailand and Cambodia, and are planning Fiscal 2011 is the final year of our 9th Mid-Term measures to receive more orders. Management Plan (fiscal 2009–2011). With the highest Completion and handover of the Lakeside Plant in the priority on restoring stakeholders’ confidence in us, we U.K.* was a milestone event in our business in Europe. I have endeavored to recover our business performance attended the plant’s opening ceremony last October in as soon as possible to enhance our corporate value. the presence of the Duke of Edinburgh, where I was Clarifying the position of each of our businesses inside thanked by the plant’s owner. I hereby express my the Group, we continue to work to secure profits and sincere appreciation to all those who were involved in enhance competitiveness of core businesses, to rebuild the construction of this plant. businesses undergoing restructuring, and to support the As explained above, our 9th Mid-Term Management sustainability of continuing businesses and early withPlan has been mostly progressing as scheduled. I drawal from businesses we have decided to abandon. believe this is because of the united efforts of all the We have also made efforts to increase profits and executives and employees of our group, who share the strengthen our financial base through continued sense of crisis, work together toward the same direction implementation of enhanced risk/cost management and under the basic policies of the Mid-Term Management reduction of fixed costs and investments/loans throughPlan, and steadily have implemented the planned out the Group. Through these efforts, our consolidated activities. Since this is the final fiscal year of the Plan, ordinary income, our key management target index, we will further promote these efforts to achieve the reached the target value set at the beginning of fiscal Plan’s final goals. 2009 and even exceeded the target in fiscal 2010, (* See page 25 of this Report.) indicating the positive effects of our efforts on the steady recovery of our business performance. Final year of the 9th Mid-Term Management Plan Deployment of businesses The first goal for fiscal 2011, the final year of the 9th In the domestic waste treatment plant business, we Mid-Term Management Plan, is to achieve the Plan’s final have won five bids out of ten submissions made for numerical target of “5 billion yen or more consolidated renewal of waste treatment plants since fiscal 2009, when ordinary income.” To ensure this target is achieved, all the current Mid-Term Management Plan commenced. executives and employees will do whatever they can With the percentage of winning bids increasing, a target during this year with strong determination to absolutely of this mid-term management plan, we have gained the achieve the target. largest share during this period. Moreover, measures to Many plants that have been under construction are improve cost management of plants under construction scheduled to be completed during this fiscal year. With a have shown substantial progress, contributing greatly to large number of new orders received, the amount of work their securing profits. In the waste treatment plant in all of the design, construction, procurement and quality overhaul sector (periodic overhaul of waste treatment control sections has been substantially increasing. Each facilities,) benefits from the merger with the Takuma section will make utmost efforts toward handing over Plant, one of our group companies, have been gradually plants that can satisfy our customers, by ensuring seen. thorough progress control through constant proactive In the domestic energy plant business, while the moves. market remains stagnant due to slow recovery in capital This April, Takuma incorporated the plant department investments in the private sector, we have steadily of one of its group companies, Sun Plant Co., Ltd. This received orders in the field of special fuels, one of our enabled integration of our construction functions in strengths, including chicken and cow manure-mixed eastern Japan. By maximizing the effects of the integracombustion, bagasse biomass fuel, and RPF (recycled tion in the construction and overhaul sectors, we are plastic fuel). In the overseas energy plant business, determined to construct more sophisticated facilities. 1 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 2 help developing countries cope with global warming, understanding of corporate ethics, including relevant measures’ results then reported at the end of the year. Core businesses and business although most issues facing difficulty reaching agreelaws and in-house regulations. This system has enabled different departments to share foundation ment, such as the reduction of greenhouse gas Specifically, the Compliance & CSR Promotion Orcommon goals and to steadily implement measures to emissions targeting all nations, were carried over to the ganization Task Force is held four times a year to introduce into management an appropriate PDCA cycle Another goal for this fiscal year is to further expand next conference. ensure compliance at each worksite and plant. to reduce risks. our core businesses and make our business foundation According to the IPCC 4th Assessment Report, to Contacts with our competitors are strictly controlled in Moreover, we drew up risk management regulations Message from the robust. achieve a target of reducing the temperature rise since accordance with the Regulations Concerning Managefocusing exclusively on DBO projects**, with the aim of As described above, we have steadily been receiving the Industrial Revolution to 2 degrees to prevent serious ment of the Pledge of the Anti-Monopoly Act Compliwinning orders for DBO projects, from which profits are Top Management new orders in the waste treatment plant business. This impact from global warming, the amount of greenhouse ance. promised. The effects of our efforts are beginning to be increase in orders, I believe, is a positive result of the gas emissions must be cut in half by 2050. Moreover, in 2006 Takuma joined the United Nations seen. successful functioning of the flow of accurately grasping The Great East Japan Earthquake significantly Global Compact (see below), and is working to fight corNo orders can be won without adequate risk managecustomers’ needs and reflecting them in proposals while damaged our trust in nuclear power. Now that construcruption as its Principle 10, “Anti-Corruption,” calls for. ment. Making the best use of our experience, we will reducing costs, through integrated efforts of sales and tion of new nuclear power stations, which was believed With the aim of becoming a company that is trusted continue making efforts to further enhance risk manageengineering, and with Takuma Technos, our group to be an effective means of reducing CO2 emissions, is by all stakeholders, all executives and other employees ment. company. virtually impossible, power generation from waste inof Takuma will further strive to ensure compliance and (** See page 15 of this Report.) For cost reduction, while competitive cost-setting cineration and power generation from biomass incineraimprove corporate ethics. techniques are being established due to advances in tion, two of our major business fields, are likely to draw measures to reduce LCC (Life Cycle Costs), stronger much attention in the medium-to-long term. In conclusion customer trust in our company because of the increased Feed-in Tariffs, a mechanism for purchasing renewEnhancing risk management number of orders makes it easier for us to gain support able energies at fixed price rates, are scheduled to be The efforts we have devoted to date are beginning to for further cost reduction efforts. I think we have entered introduced soon and later likely applied to other Risk management, I believe, are activities to assess show specific results. Without being just satisfied with a virtuous cycle, where the efforts we have made so far renewable energies such as woody biomass. Moreover, and prevent the risks a company faces. It is crucial for a these results, however, all of our executives and other have strengthened competitiveness, resulting in winning for two years the Ministry of the Environment has company to build and maintain an effective risk manageemployees will spend this final year of the Plan more orders. An increase in orders received then leads supported high-efficiency waste incineration power ment system in accordance with the company’s risk continuously making united efforts to achieve the final to reduced costs, which further strengthens competigeneration to promote CO2 reduction by providing management regulations. goals and further development toward a bright future. tiveness, leading to winning more orders. To further subsidies of 50% of the construction costs. These are all In fiscal 2008, we established a system in which risks For a corporation to fulfill its social responsibilities, expand our businesses, we must constantly win orders favorable signs for our businesses. in all of our businesses are determined and countercommunication with diverse stakeholders is crucial. I and maintain competitiveness. The number of orders Thus, needless to say, our businesses must properly measures planned at the beginning of each year, with the believe that this report will be an effective tool for this received during fiscal 2011 is expected to increase subrespond to the demands of the present age in and purpose. Since I want to give closer attention to your stantially. outside Japan, thereby significantly contributing to feedback in order to prepare CSR reports that are even Projects for major improvement of waste treatment conservation of the environment and establishment of a easier to understand in the future, I would be very plants are expected to be launched. By winning orders recycling-oriented society. I believe it is our social grateful to receive your honest opinions and advice. for these projects, we will make our business foundation responsibility to enhance and maintain sustainability robust and take a step forward toward further business around the world through development in the fields of expansion. environment and energy. June 2011 Takuma Co., Ltd. Global situation surrounding Thorough legal compliance Hajime Tejima Takuma President and CEO Ensuring compliance is a basic activity necessary to The United Nations Climate Change Conference held build a healthy corporate culture. Basing our actions in Cancún, Mexico (COP 16) in November 2010 ended mainly on the Takuma Group Ethics Charter and Takuma with the adoption of the Cancun Agreements, which Group Code of Conduct, we have steadily implemented includes establishment of the Green Climate Fund to various promotional/educational activities to enhance The ten principals of the UN Global Compact ● Participation in the UN Global Compact <Human Rights> <Environment> Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internaPrinciple 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to On November 10, 2006, the Takuma Group joined the United Nations Global tionally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Compact, pledging to adhere to universal principles covering human right, labor Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental <Labor Standards> responsibility; and right, the environment and anti-Corruption. The Global Compact is a voluntary Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of corporate citizenship initiative proposed by U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan in effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; environmentally friendly technologies. 1999 at the world Economic Forum. Our company practices a social contribution Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; <Anti-Corruption> Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, through the active conduct of business in support of the ten principles. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. including extortion and bribery. 3 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 4 Business Summary Value Technology, People, and the Earth Supporting lifestyles and supporting the environment — at Takuma, with combustion technologies are at the core of our business, we have created a variety of technologies in such areas as waste treatment and water treatment, while focusing on people’s lifestyles and the global environment. Environmental Technologies In order to help solve environmental problems, our desire is to provide new value in the environment and energy fields, including countermeasures for global warming, which is a We contribute to society through the recovery of valuable resources and energies as well as the promotion of problem on a planetary scale, and to contribute to the realization of a recycling-oriented society. safe/clean waste treatment. ■ Pioneer in waste treatment technologies ■ Variety of facilities and abundant delivery experience Since completion of the first large ordinary waste The types of facilities that Takuma has delivered treatment facility in Japan in 1963 using its unique include: “high efficiency waste treatment plant,” which Water treatment plant proprietary technologies, Takuma has constructed over performs high-efficiency power generation by forming high We are working to purify dirty water with a 340 waste treatment facilities. While pursuing the most temperature/high pressure steam; “pyrolysis gasification holistic perspective through a “dialogue with water.” efficient incineration, we have striven to develop optimal and melting plant,” which incinerates pyrolysis gas and technologies that match various forms of waste, which carbon generated through thermal decomposition of waste ●Sewage and wastewater processing plant ●Various types of advanced sewage processing Continuous up-flow sand filter change along with the times. It is no exaggeration to say at high temperature to form slag, while generating plants that the history of waste treatment in Japan means the electricity; “ash melting plant,” which melts ash left after ●Sludge processing plant history of advancements in our company’s waste treatment incineration of waste to form slag to be used as a road ●Biogas plant technologies. material; “recycling plant,” which collects iron, aluminum ●Plants to process water that infiltrates final and glass from waste; and “biogas power generation disposal sites ■ Helping prevent global warming with proprietary plant,” which extracts methane gas from hard-to-burn Ordinary waste treatment plant technologies wastes such as kitchen waste to generate power. We support the realization of a recyclingPurification of park pond water oriented society using advanced waste Coinciding with increased promotion of the 3Rs (Reduce, In the field of industrial waste treatment, we have treatment technologies that meet the needs Reuse and Recycle) in recent years, we work on material delivered “industrial waste treatment plants,” which of local communities. recycling and thermal recovery of waste (the third “R”). combine nonflammable wastes generated from business Energy from Waste plant Energy plants ●Energy from Waste plants Since ordinary waste generated from our daily life holds activities with wastes with high calorific value to perform ●Pyrolysis gasification and melting plants Takuma’s core technologies are utilized in high energy, generating power from such energy helps safe treatment and collect energy, and “hydrogen and ●Resource recycling and collection plants various types of boilers, starting with bio●Bulky garbage crushing plants mass fuel boilers, as well as total systems. prevent global warming. We build waste treatment facilities methane fermentation plants,” which generate hydrogen ●Incineration ash and fly ash melting plants utilizing our unique technologies for incineration, heat and methane from food waste and use these outputs as ●Water tube boilers ●Waste to solid fuel conversion plants Biomass power generation boiler recovery, exhaust gas treatment and waste water treatfuels for boilers. ●Waste heat recovery boilers ●Transition and intermediate processing plants ●Biomass fuel boilers ment, and contribute to preventing global warming by In the field of water treatment, we have delivered ●Raw fuel (biogas) recovery plants ●Monotube boilers reducing CO2 emissions through environmental preserva“advanced processing plants” to purify treated water at ●Various types of pollution prevention equipment Resource recycling center ●Power generation plants tion and thermal recovery/power generation. water reclamation centers (sewage plants) and, in the field ●Gas turbine cogeneration plants of sludge treatment, “sewage sludge incinerators” to ●Fluidized bed boilers control greenhouse gas emissions during incineration. In particular, we boast the largest share in delivery of Gas turbine package advanced processing plants in Japan. Energy Technologies Valuing people and the earth, we promote effective use of diverse energies. ■ Utilizing energy technologies to reduce CO2 ■ Actively promoting development of new energy Industrial waste treatment plant Takuma, not only being a pioneer in boilers, also has a technologies General-purpose boilers long history of possessing, modifying and improving In recent years, in response to the growing anti-global Using advanced incineration technologies, we can even treat toxic substances suitably As the convergence of Takuma combustion incineration technologies in the field of utilizing various warming sentiment, we construct “animal manure and we are supporting the environmental technologies, our boilers are a reliable brand that has earned the support of a wastes and biomass. incineration power plants” based on our new technologies, protection efforts of industry. wide range of industries. Energies, which serve as sources of heat and power, are in addition to woody chip incineration power plants and RPF ●Industrial waste treatment plants Industrial waste treatment plant ●Once-through boilers (Eqos, Super Eqos) Vacotin heater Thermoheater used in a wide range of industries. Not only oil, coal and incineration power plants, with which we have abundant ●Various types of recycling plants ●Vacuum-type water heaters (Vacotin heater) natural gas-based fuels, but also various carbon-neutral experience. Paying attention to effective use of natural ●Package water-tube boilers and renewable energies from various agricultural/forest gas, which generates much less CO2 and can help prevent ●Smoke tube boilers (RE boiler) waste, as well as heat from various plants, can all be used global warming, we also added to our product lineup gas ●Heat-transfer oil boilers (thermoheater) ●Radiation heating equipment (strip heater) effectively. Our technologies that enable effective use of incineration boilers and high-efficiency gas turbine power ●Various equipment for ships diverse energies contribute to securing energy sources for plants. We will continue to actively develop new Plant that generates power Note: These products are handled by Nippon Thermoener the future and preventing global warming by reducing CO2 technologies to utilize energies that are friendly to people from industrial waste and Co., Ltd., which is one of our group companies. Super Eqos RE boiler provides heat to a plantation emissions. and the earth while responding to our customers’ needs. 5 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 7 Corporate Information Group Company Overview Company outline CONTENTS Group companies in Japan Company name: Takuma Co., Ltd. Number of employees (non-consolidated): 749 (as of March 31, 2011) Hokkaido Sanitary Maintenance Co., Ltd. Kyoritsu Setsubi Co., Ltd. Head office location: 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0806, Japan Operation and maintenance of sewage treatDesign, construction and superintendence ■ Message from the Top Management 1 Number of employees (consolidated): ment facilities of Energy from Waste plants, mechanical TEL +81-6-6483-2609 FAX +81-6-6483-2751 3,235 (as of March 31, 2011) equipment of sewage treatment facilities, ■ Business Summary 5 Representative Director: Hajime Tejima, President and CEO Business places: boiler plants for general industries ■ Corporate Information 8 Takuma Engineering Co., Ltd. Iwate-Kenpoku Clean Co., Ltd. Date established: June 10, 1938 Head Office (Amagasaki City, Hyogo Prefecture) ■ Group Company Overview 9 Design of environmental equipment Industrial and general waste treatment Capital: 13,367,457,968 yen (as of March 31, 2011) Osaka Office (Osaka City) plants and energy plants service Takuma Technos Hokkaido Co., Ltd. ■ Editorial Policy / Contents 10 Main business areas: Design, construction and superintendence of a wide Tokyo Office (Chuo Ward, Tokyo) Operation and maintenance of waste variety of boilers, plant machineries, pollution Hokkaido Branch (Sapporo City) treatment facilities prevention plants, environmental equipment plants, Tohoku Branch (Sendai City) Takuma System Control Co., Ltd. Campo Recycle Plaza Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance 11 and heating and cooling equipment and feedChubu Branch (Nagoya City) Design of electrical instrumentation General and industrial waste water/drainage sanitation equipment and facilities Hokuriku Branch (Kanazawa City) equipment, including environmental treatment service Tochigi High Trust Co., Ltd. Deployment of Businesses Design, construction and superintendence of civil, Kyushu Branch (Fukuoka City) equipment plants and energy plants Industrial waste treatment service architecture and other works Taipei Branch (Taiwan) 1. Efforts for DBO Projects 15 London Branch (United Kingdom) Ecos Yonezawa 2. Efforts to Extend the Lifespan of Facilities 17 Harima Factory (Takasago City, Hyogo Prefecture) Takuma Plant Services Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Biopower Katsuta Co., Ltd. Maintenance of a wide variety of Final disposal of Electric power selling using biomass Permits and registrations boilers and environmental facilities industrial wastes energy from wood fuel chips Topics 1. High-Efficiency Raw Fuel Recovery Facilities 19 <Head Office, branch offices and other business offices> Kankyo Sol-Tech Co., Ltd. Katsuta Co., Ltd. 2. Recovery of Energy from RPF 21 Construction license (Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism license, Special 22Analyzing and measurement for enIndustrial and general waste treatment vironmental related issues, including 3. Chicken / Cow Manure Incineration Boilers 23 6129) service Construction consultant registration (Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism water quality, exhaust gas and soil 4. Completion of a Waste Power Plant in the U.K. 25 registration, Construction 21-9335) pollution 5. Receiving Orders for Biomass Boilers in Southeast Asia 26 First-class architect office registration (Governor of Hyogo Prefecture, 201793) Ichihara New Energy Co., Ltd. 6. Gas-Fired Boiler with Low Air Ratio Combustion by ISO 9001 quality management system certification Industrial waste treatment service R.B.N. Co., Ltd. Jet-Film Flame 27 <Harima Factory> General waste, including waste 7. High-Efficiency Gas Condensing Hot Water Heater 28 ISO 9001 quality management system certification home appliances and office autoISO 14001 environmental management systems certification Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. mation equipment, and industrial Manufacture of thermal equipment for power generation (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) Sale of a wide range of boilers and waste treatment service Development of New Technologies related equipment Permission to manufacture boilers and pressure vessels, permission to manufacture cranes (Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare) ISO 9001 ISO 14001 1. Technology to Convert Waste Oil into Light Oil 29 Private product certification standards related to the welding of manufactured electrical goods Energy Mate Co., Ltd. JQA-1952 JQA-EM0313 Takuma Technos Co., Ltd. 2. Gasification of Biomass, Liquid Fuel Synthesis Technology 31 (thermal power) certification (Japan Power Engineering and Inspection Corporation) Sale of cogeneration systems and ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Maintenance, management and opera3. Two-stage Hydrogen and Methane Fermentation of Certification for the manufacture of boilers and first-class pressure vessels (Nippon Kaiji Kyokai) certification certification systems for generation equipment tion of waste treatment facilities, ■ Editorial Policy Manufacture of specific high-pressure gas facilities (High Pressure Gas Safety Institute of Japan) Harima Factory of the same and total service for Biomass 33 excreta processing facilities and other We have prepared this document as a combined Coronsite energy systems for consumer facilities, as well as the design, installaporate Overview and CSR Report, with both a guide to Balance sheet overview and use Fujisawa High Trust Co., Ltd. tion and management of various types Corporate structure net sales composition ratios Operation and maintenance of boilers, environmental equipment our corporation and a report on our CSR activities. CSR Activities for the Future management of general waste and other equipment Efforts to Draw up a Road Map 35 Nagaizumi High Trust Co., Ltd. Audit Dept. Net sales Ordinary income treatment facilities ■ Publisher Facility upgrading, operation and maintenance for general waste final General Affairs Department, Corporate Service Division Compliance & CSR Promotion Div. (Million yen) [Non-consolidated] (Million yen) disposal sites Sun Plant Co., Ltd. CSR Department, Compliance & CSR Promotion Division CSR Report Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. Design, construction and superinten120,000 12,000 Manufacture and sale of clean equipdence of air-conditioning equipment, Takuma Co., Ltd. The CSR of Takuma 37 Corporate Service Div. ment, cleaning equipment, chemical feedwater/drainage sanitation equipThe History of Takuma 38 80,000 8,000 filters, clean rooms, drying equipment ment, electrical equipment and envir■ Data collection period Compliance / CSR Activities 39 Corp. Planning & Administration Div. 53,249 52,491 50,401 4,485 and thermal chambers onmental sanitation equipment 3,851 From April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011 in principle. Committee of 40,000 3,214 4,000 Activities That Contribute to Society 41 In addition, some activities in fiscal 2011 are included. Executive Officers Working with Our Customers 43 Corporate Marketing Group 0 0 Overseas group companies ■ Coverage Working with Our Shareholders 44 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Board of Working with Our Suppliers 44 President Administration Div. Takuma Head Office, Business institutions, Directors (Million yen) [Consolidated] (Million yen) Harima Factory, and some group companies Working with Our Employees 45 Environmental Plant Div. Bioener ApS (Denmark) (Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd., Takuma Technos Co., Ltd., Efforts for Occupational Health and Safety 47 Corporate 120,000 104,930 12,000 Auditors 95,134 Servicing and maintenance of biomass 89,140 Hokkaido Sanitary Maintenance Co., Ltd., Energy & Waste Treatment Plant Div. power generation plants 80,000 8,000 Takuma Technos Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Sun Plant Co., Ltd., Environmental Report International Operations Div. 4,396 Takuma Engineering Co., Ltd., 40,000 4,000 Takuma System Control Co., Ltd., Basic Environmental Policy / Environmental Objectives / 1,668 2,013 KAB Takuma GmbH (Germany) Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc., Environmental Management 48 Engineering Div. 0 0 Manufacture and sale of waste power Kyoritsu Setsubi Co., Ltd., Kankyo Sol-Tech Co., Ltd., Environmental Data 49 2008 2009 2010 (FY) plants and biomass power plants, Takuma Plant Services Co., Ltd., Environmental Accounting / Environmental Efficiency 50 Management Center principally involved with woodchips 6.8% KAB Takuma GmbH, Bioener ApS, Environment and energy businesses Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd., and SIAM Takuma Co., Ltd.) Planning & Development Center (Japan) Outside Expert Opinion Environment and energy businesses 18.0% Project Center (overseas) ■ Time of Issue: Outside Expert Opinion about Takuma’s 2011 CSR Report 51 SIAM TAKUMA Co., Ltd. (Thailand) Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) Consumer heat energy businesses 72.1% Sale of energy and environmental Design, installation and superintendence of Current issue: June 2011 Response to the Outside Expert Opinion 52 3.1% Plant Construction Center related plants, parts sale for plants of waste treatment facilities and a wide variety Next issue: scheduled for June 2012 Equipment and systems businesses the same and after-sales service of industrial machinery and equipment Last issue: June 2010 Working with the Global Environment — Harima Factory 53 Net sales composition ratios (FY 2010) Takuma’s CO2 Reduction Technologies TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 8 9 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 10 Corporate Governance from accounting auditors and the Audit Department about of every business place, division and subsidiary company auditing plans, the status of auditing and other issues and in accordance with the auditing policies, divisions of work otherwise conduct regular information exchanges. They and other stipulations established by the Board of Auditors. cooperate together as they do this and undertake auditing Corporate Corporate Governance Compliance & CSR Promotion Structure Governance In order to accelerate management decision-making related to the execution of our business activities Our structure for the promotion of compliance and CSR Thus, we have established a system that encourages and clarify where management responsibilities are placed, appropriately to the divisions that are to execute them. As is used to advance education about our corporate compliemployees to constantly deepen their awareness through we have adopted an operating officer system in which we of March 31, 2011, the Board of Directors was comprised ance and to foster common awareness about fulfilling our repeated compliance/CSR promotion educational opporappoint operating officers who are entrusted with the of 6 members, and 14 operating officers (including some corporate social responsibilities among all employees. tunities. responsibility to execute our business activities. The Board who are also directors) had also been appointed. The General Manager at each headquarters serves as As to ensuring compliance with the antimonopoly law, of Directors meets regularly once a month as a rule and For corporate auditing, we have adopted an auditor the Compliance & CSR Promotion Supervisor, who verifies we have established Regulations concerning Management whenever else it is necessary to make decisions about system, and our Board of Auditors, which comprises of the state of education at the meeting held at the beginning of the Pledge of the Anti-Monopoly Act Compliance, which important issues related to business management and four auditors, including two auditors from outside the of each fiscal year and establishes policies for the year. require target persons to submit a handwritten pledge issues established by law, as well as to oversee the company, is in charge of it. Auditors attend important In each department, a Compliance & CSR Promoter is concerning compliance with the Anti-Monopoly Law, execution of the directors’ duties. meetings, including those of the Board of Directors and the appointed who offers educational programs four times a aiming to ensure their perpetual compliance. We have also Moreover, we have also established an Executive Executive Execution Committee, and they strive to year to raise employees’ awareness. After each educaset up regulations to control contacts with our competitors Execution Committee, which is chaired by the president/ understand and observe the status of business execution tional program, Promoters submit a report, a list of and established a system requiring submission of copies of chief operating officer, as an organization that deliberates in a timely and appropriate manner. They express their attendants and answers given to test problems to the approvals by the officers in charge and applications for matters that are brought up at meetings of the Board of opinions as necessary, and they conduct strict auditing of General Manager of their headquarters for approval, and approval to the CSR Department to ensure implementation Directors and other important issues related to the the business execution performed by the directors. This then submit the approved documents to the Secretariat of strict examination. The examination results are always execution of our business activities. This committee includes conducting self-assessments and evaluations (CSR Department). The Secretariat analyzes the submitted reported to the management. communicates and provides direction about items decided related to the internal control system by operating officers documents and reports the results at the next meeting of by the Board of Directors and other important items at the end of each term. Furthermore, they receive reports the Compliance & CSR Promotion Organization. General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Directors President Executive Execution Committee Board of Auditors Board of Directors Accounting Auditors (including external auditors) Compliance & CSR Promotion Organization Auditing Division Chairman (General Manager of the Compliance & CSR Promotion Division) Secretariat (CSR Department) Various Committees Representative Directors Each headquarter Executive Execution A person in charge of the compliance & CSR promotion Committee (Deliberation of important matters) Compliance & CSR Audit Department Promotion Division Each department Operating Officers Compliance & CSR Promoters Enlightenment/education Each Division Staff members Coordinating Committee for the Takuma Group Compliance & CSR Promotion Compliance & CSR promotion structure diagram 11 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 12 Risk Management Structure Internal Control In accordance with the Risk Management Policy, we taken at the end of the year. Specifically, the CSR In accordance with the Companies Act, the Basic Policy system. In addition, we send directors and auditors from have established a structure as described in the diagram Department, which is in charge of risk management, for Establishment of an Internal Control System (full text is our company, and supervise the execution of business below, in which all the risks of the Company are classified examines over 500 risks of the entire Company and available on the Web) was adopted at the Board of activities at subsidiary companies. Moreover, we have into project risks/DBO Project risks concerning our core determines/presents the risks that each department Directors’ meeting in May 2006. Based on this policy, we established the Takuma Group Coordinating Committee for business line, namely plant construction, and potential should address, based on the risk classification list, which have enhanced and utilized our internal control system. Compliance & CSR Promotion, and through this comrisks and/or actualized risks concerning other business classifies the risks into common risks for the entire As structures to assure that our Directors and mittee, we are striving to raise awareness and conduct activities, as well as risks concerning financial reporting. company, common risks for each job, risks unique to each employees adhere to both laws and corporate statutes in education at every group company in order to make our To address the potential risks, we have established a department, etc. This integrated handling has helped the execution of their business duties, we have established compliance policies permeate the entire Group. risk management system requiring each department to visualize the actions taken at each department and the Takuma Group Ethics Charter and Takuma Group In order to assure that our system allows auditors to Corporate submit a risk management plan at the beginning of each enabled speedy management decision-making. Code of Conduct. We review their contents whenever effectively audit, the President and CEO has regular meetGovernance fiscal year and report the results of measures they have necessary, and we distribute them to all employees in our ings with the auditors to maintain mutual understanding. Compliance Manual to provide a reference for their use We have also established an Auditing Division as a staff during the execution of their daily work. In addition, we department for auditors. have established an in-house reporting system in order to To ensure the appropriateness of documents and other quickly discover legal violations and other violations information related to finance and accounting, we evaluate related to compliance and respond to them quickly and the status of enhancement and utilization of internal effectively (see p.39). control concerning our financial reporting every year in As a structure to assure appropriateness of the business accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange activities that occur in our corporate group, we have Act. We will make continuous efforts to improve our established Operational Standards for Group Management, system to enhance and utilize internal control, to further Risk Management Code, Crisis Management Code and we are undertaking management of subsidiary increase the reliability of our financial reporting. Project Risk Management Code companies through an approval application and reporting DBO Project Risk Management Code Risks conReporting Request for cerning decision/ President reporting corporate Board of Directors Executive Execution Committee Project risk DBO Project risk activities Actions Taken in Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Request for decision/ Report on reporting Actions Takuma has taken in accordance with the Crisis While trying hard to gather information on quake-hit internal control Elicitable risk Management Code in response to the Great East Japan areas, we took actions to help our customers resume evaluation concerning Reporting Reporting Earthquake are as follows: operation of facilities we had delivered, and to resume financial construction of facilities currently under construction. reporting Each Since our product lineup includes several plants and gas division ● March 11, 2011 turbines that utilize natural energy sources, we have Set up the Earthquake Response Headquarters. Planning/ established a structure to propose various systems to reporting ● Headquarters at Head Office Risk Management support recovery of the Tohoku region. We will offer them Department Potential risk Chief: President various forms of support that can satisfy local needs. Vice Chief: General Manager of Compliance & CSR Promotion Div. ● Donations Risks conGeneral Manager of Corporate Service Div. On March 14, 2011 we placed a box at the Head Office cerning Members: Head of each section to solicit donations, a move which we then expanded to Audit Evaluation financial ● Headquarters at Tokyo Branch branch offices and factories, resulting in a large amount of Department reporting funds raised. We also introduced a Matching Gift program Chief: Head of Tokyo Branch for the first time, under which the Company added an Members: Head of each section amount equaling the donations made by employees, and • Confirmed the safety of our in-house sent the total amount to the Japanese Red Cross Society. employees and external employees, Our London Branch received a large amount of donations and their family members. Reported to the from their partner companies and their employees with a Earthquake Evaluation • Checked with our customers the status message of hope to use the money for Japan. We deeply Response of products we have already delivered. appreciate the kindness and support of the people in the Group Headquarters. companies • Checked the status of facilities/ U.K. equipment under construction. Takuma Group Coordinating Committee for Compliance & CSR ● Providing information for the Ministry of the Environment Promotion (including risk matters) ● March 14, 2011 Through the Japan Environmental Facilities Manufacturers Notified the entire Group of the results of safety confirAssociation, Takuma provided information concerning mation of our in-house and external employees, and disaster waste treatment, etc. for the Ministry of the their family members. Environment, and exchanged opinions on relevant matters. 13 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 14 Deployment of Business Deployment 1 Businesses 1 Aiming to propose DBO projects ■ Management policy for project operation Placing the highest priority on safe operation of facilities, we operate projects in cooperation with operation Efforts for DBO that can satisfy our customers management companies. We implement project operations in accordance with our Company Motto. Projects [D: Design] [B: Build] [O: Operate] Waste incineration technology is said to be an experience-based engineering, meaning that the accumulation of skills from experience and their utilization is important. In the business of constructing and operating waste incineration plants, the application of the DBO approach, Company Motto which uses private management and technical capabilities, is sometimes said to have inconsistent results that differ according to how much expertise a private enterprise has Value Technology, Deployment of accumulated based on its experience and record of results. People, Businesses ■DBO Projects Local government and the Earth Design-Build-Operate (DBO) is one Contract for Contract for operation project approach that is similar to the Basic contract construction work and management private finance initiative (PFI) project approach in that the public conducts Management Policy Takuma Group Power fundraising for the construction of the generation Power facility, so the public owns the facility, Private enterprise sales The project operator shall pursue and private enterprises are commis(Operation, maintenance and management work) sioned to conduct the design and conInvestment Investment Stable disposal/operation struction. In the DBO approach, private Takuma Co., Ltd. Takuma Technos Co., Ltd. Byproducts Resource enterprises are also commissioned to ( Design and ) ( Operation and ) recycling Facilities trusted by local communities operate, maintain and manage faciliconstruction work management work ties for long periods of time. Consideration to the environment DBO project overview (example) to realize its basic philosophy. Takuma has abundant experience in delivery, operation and management of various facilities required for DBO projects. Our Energy from Waste plant construction record Overview of the technology information network (Tons/day) (Tons/day) TACTICS (technology network system) 4,000 Cumulative facility capacity 70,000 Stable disposal/operation Number of operating facilities by year of completion 60,000 Business 3,000 50,000 Head Office place A Technology • We set “stable operation of facilities” as the matter of highest priority in this project. Oldest facility has • Utilizing technologies based on our experience and know-how, we carry out maintenance been operating 40,000 2,000 about 40 years and management of facilities that can maximize the facility capacity and minimize costs. 30,000 Business place B 1,000 20,000 10,000 0 0 Safety information Business place C Facilities trusted by local communities screen ’60 ’65 ’70 ’75 ’80 ’85 ’90 ’95 ’00 ’05 • Each employee should recognize that acceptance by local communities is crucial for Unified Recording and public projects/public facilities and actively participate in activities that contribute to Design Build Operate management of examination of improving environmental awareness in the community, thereby creating facilities that information information People value connections with local communities and working together with them. Commissioned Takuma Technos Co., Ltd. endeavors to raise operation and • We promote information disclosure up to the level that fits the public nature of this Delivered over to operate management work standards by utilizing a technological 340 facilities project, and realize a high level of transparency in project operations. about 60 facilities information network that connects our operation sites at 60 • To ensure that each employee understands the importance of fulfilling this Management (Takuma Technos Co., Ltd.) facilities around the country. Policy, we encourage our employees to acquire up-to-date knowledge and technologies through educational trainings and self-enlightenment programs. Energy from Waste plant share in Japan Operation Support Center Takuma At our Head Office, we Others Takuma 20.3% 13.2% have constructed a Consideration to the environment Company A comprehensive opera• We actively participate in activities that contribute to preserving and improving the surtion support system rounding environment. Company By facility capacity Company Others By number of facilities Company B that remotely moniEarth E A Company C • We play the role as a center for environmental information transmission, with the aim of tors the operating conOperation Support Center Company Company helping raise the environmental awareness of local communities and realize a recyclingCompany ditions of facilities via Comprehensive operation D Company B Company D the Internet. support system using the oriented society. E Internet C 15 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 16 Deployment of Businesses 2 Efforts to develop new ordinary ■ Grants for establishment of a recycling-oriented society Efforts to In fiscal 2010, major facility improvements that help Extend the waste treatment facilities extend the lifespan of ordinary waste treatment facilities and reduce global warming were added to the target of CO2 CO2 emissions before improvement – CO2 emissions after improvement Lifespan of Facilities demanded by the times grants for establishment of a recycling-oriented society by the Ministry of the Environment (grant rate: 1/3 or 1/2). The grant rate is determined based on the rate of CO2 reduction rate = CO2 emissions before improvement reduction achieved (see formula on the right). The grant rate will be 1/2 if the rate of CO2 reduction is 20% or higher, while the rate will be 1/3 if the CO2 reduction is 3% Proposing plans to extend the lifespan of waste incineration or higher. Because local governments are mostly suffering plants that meet our customers’ needs tight financial situations, their interest in this grant system Since completion of the first continuous mechanized waste incineration plant in Japan in 1963, is very high. Takuma offers proposals to extend the Takuma has constructed over 340 plants, boasting a top class share in terms of both the lifespan of the facilities it has delivered in the hope of helping alleviate financial burdens on local governments Deployment of number of facilities and facility capacity (see p.15, Business Deployment 1). Starting even before anti-global warming approaches began to draw public attention in the field of waste and reducing global warming. treatment, Takuma has realized high-efficiency waste power generation and implemented Businesses major improvements that help prevent global warming, while also continuously promoting related research and development activities. ■ Measures to reduce CO2 emissions Ordinary waste treatment facilities have been undergoing drastic advancement through introduction of enhanced measures for environmental conservation such as measures to reduce dioxin emissions. Today, these ordinary waste Representative measures to extend the lifespan and treatment facilities are positioned as urban facilities that not only perform appropriate treatment of waste but also help reduce CO2 emissions of existing facilities are listed on the Representative measures to extend the lifespan form a recycling-oriented society by promoting reduction of waste generation and reuse, recycling and heat recovery right. and reduce CO2 emissions of existing facilities of recyclable resources, while playing an important part in tackling global warming. The Ministry of the Environment is We offer proposals appropriate for each facility to help now promoting, in its Waste Treatment Facilities Improvement Plan, introduction of the “stock management” approach, them extend their lifespan and reduce CO2 emissions, by qEnhancing heat recovery which aims to extend the life of waste treatment facilities to reduce their life cycle costs, thereby realizing efficient making the best use of and effectively combining our updates/improvements and maintenance/management of facilities. proprietary technologies and experience in waste treatwEnhancing power generation capacity ment. eRestoring incineration capacity Therefore, it is important to encourage waste treatment facilities to introduce the concept of stock management, and to properly implement daily operation management and annual inspection/maintenance, as well as timely measures rReducing power consumption of equipment to extend facility lifespan. Also required is not only extending lifespan but improving performance that contributes to CO2 reduction, such as improved energy-saving and power generation capacity. Cited from [Guidelines for preparing a plan to extend the lifespan of waste treatment facilities (waste incineration facilities), March 2010, qEnhancing wEnhancing power Waste Management Division, Waste Management and Recycling Department, Ministry’s Secretariat, Ministry of the Environment] heat recovery G generation capacity Cooling Chemical tower additive Performance Functionality Target performance standard Initial performance diagnosis standard Service information standard Bag filter for all facilities in Boiler Japan Restoration of Water Smokestack functionality Evaluation Servicing and Incinerator PLANETS Application repair Management Degradation standard prediction Past facility service information Minimum standard for operation Time Induction ventilator Overview of our plant service information database We have placed divisions throughout the country that conduct servicing and repair in advance before facility eRestoring specialize in maintenance and repair. Utilizing the degradation progresses beyond established management incineration capacity knowledge that we have accumulated in our own plant levels. In this way, we seek to extend the lifespan of rReducing power service information database, we are actively undertaking facilities, as well as realize stable and safe operation that consumption of stock management that uses this centralized information is free from mechanical troubles. equipment about past servicing and facility repairs. This enables us to 17 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 18 ■ Features of Takuma’s dry methane fermentation technology Topic 1 High-Efficiency Raw Fuel Our dry methane fermentation technology generates methane not only from kitchen waste but also from paper treatment of combustible waste. Furthermore, with this technology, which combines Recovery Facilities materials and plant trimmings. Therefore, compared with conventional wet methane fermentation technology, which targets only kitchen waste, sludge and excreta, a larger methane fermentation with gas engine power generation, facility scale has a much smaller impact on power generation efficiency compared with conventional steam New type of facility that revolutionizes the concept of waste treatment amount of biogas can be collected. Moreover, this turbine power generation, which uses steam recovered — Methane collection and high-efficiency power generation from ordinary waste technology can be applied also to plastics and other raw from incineration exhaust heat. Therefore, this technology materials contained in combustible waste that are not enables small-scale facilities, which are unable to suitable for fermentation, just by providing simple generate power with conventional incineration methods, to pretreatment. This technology is therefore highly useful for perform high-efficiency power generation. Waste for fermentation Dry methane fermentation is beneficial for Waste for non-fermentation Nantan Waste Treatment Facility (image) biogasification of combustible waste Biogas To replace the aging waste treatment facility owned by the cities of Yabu and Asago in Hyogo Prefecture, the new Large amount of methane gas collected Combustible waste Nantan Waste Treatment Facility is being constructed, with scheduled completion in March 2013. Kitchen waste The biggest feature of this facility is that it functions as a Topics high-efficiency raw fuel recovery facility holding both a Dry methane Simple Complicated pretreatment Paper, plant trimmings pretreatment biomass plant, which performs methane fermentation fermentation Wet methane treatment of garbage and paper waste in combustible fermentation waste and conducts gas engine power generation; and a Plastics heat recovery plant, which incinerates residues from the Can be applied to biomass plant (plastics, residue from fermentation) safely small number of elements and stably. Removal, incineration Removal, incineration Methane gas collected from the waste will be used to conduct high-efficiency power generation using a gas High-efficiency raw fuel recovery facility (image) engine power generator (with generation efficiency of 30% Advantages of dry methane fermentation for combustible waste treatment or more). This advanced facility will lead the initiative to create a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society by effectively utilizing the energy obtained from waste while helping to reduce CO2 emissions. ■ Providing safe and stable technologies After completion, this facility will operate as the first dry private facilities (food waste methane gasification facility methane fermentation treatment facility in Japan for urban for Campo Recycle Plaza). Using this experience, we will Biomass plant: 24 tons/day (produces biomass from waste to generate electricity) waste. Our dry methane fermentation technique has offer safe and reliable technologies for stable operation of Kitchen waste, paper Methane fermentation already been demonstrated in some test facilities facilities. tank Biogas Gas engine (biogasification technology test plant for Kyoto City) and Pretreatment power equipment Hot water generator heat recovery CO2 Combustible waste emissions Residues from reduction fermentation Power recovery Plastics Crushed combustibles High-efficiency raw fuel recovery facility Heat recovery plant: 43 tons/day (Safe treatment of/heat recovery from combustible waste ) (Completely incinerates waste safely) Recycling center: 17 tons/day (collects resources from waste) Incineration ash, fly ash (for cement, recycling) Noncombustible waste Collects iron, aluminum, and Crushing/sorting facility other recyclable elements Recyclable waste Final disposal Biogasification technology test plant Campo Recycle Plaza 19 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 20 Efforts for special combustion boilers 1 Hokuriku region Topic 2 Recovery of Energy from RPF Textile makers Plastic material makers Paper manufacturers Households Waste plastics are unused fuels! SHAMPOO — Establishing a local production system for local consumption to ensure stable supply of fuels from waste for customers (case report from Hokuriku region) Ramen noodles Mayonnaise Here are some voices of users of RPF-fired boilers, which are operating steadily in the Hokuriku region, to introduce this system for ensure stable supply of RPF (refuse paper & Other plastic containers plastic fuel). Waste textile Waste plastics Waste paper and packaging Users of RPF boilers in the Hokuriku region RPF Toyama Seishi Kaga Paperboard Manufacturing Urase Corp. (Toyama Pref.) (Ishikawa Pref.) (Fukui Pref.) Our company produces cardOur company recycles about Starting as a textile dyer, our board core paper and paper half the used paper generated in company has expanded into RPF manufacturers’ group (consisting of about ten companies based in the Hokuriku region) Topics tube cores out of 100% recycled Ishikawa Prefecture to produce various fields based on our paper. Our introduction of the paperboards. textile technologies. RPF boiler was certified as a Because our manufacturing proThis boiler, though we must pay Eco Clean Resource Productivity Innovacesses, especially drying, reattention to quality control of (Fukui Pref.) tion Plan by the Ministry of quire a large amount of steam, RPF, helps reduce our energy Economy, Trade and Industry. using RPF is very helpful. By costs. We will work to further Representing RPF manufacturers We have a long relationship with using RPF made of local wastes, improve boiler efficiency, and Takuma. We hope Takuma will I’m sure that our company we hope to receive continued We have a plant in Fukui City. RPF boilers introduced in companies continue to provide finely tuned contributes greatly to helping support from Takuma. located in the Hokuriku region are major targets of our RPF supply. Our services from the customers’ establish a recycling-oriented customers for whom we supply RPF also supply us with raw materials viewpoint. society. (waste plastics, used paper) for RPF. As a local company, we will actively promote this flow of “local production for local consumption.” We will continue to support fuel supply, while encouraging more companies to introduce Takuma’s RPF-fired boilers. Director Ishitani RPF manufacturer A RPF manufacturer B Mr. Teranishi Mr. Yamamura Mr. Makino (Toyama Pref.) (Ishikawa Pref.) General Manager, Manager, General Manager, Manufacturing Dept. Facility Dept. Production Management Dept. We are promoting manual sorting to prevent It would be more convenient for both users foreign substances from getting into RPF. and fuel suppliers if the fuel storage space had capacity for at least three days. Approx. 5,000 tons (consumption per month) Power generation Electricity Steam Steam RPF fuel trading firm; key to stable RPF supply! RPF Shinsho Corporation We serve as a go-between for users of boilers and RPF manufacturers in cooperation with Takuma. We cover RPF Water Gas manufacturers mainly in the Hokuriku region, as well as Air those in the Kansai and Tokai regions. RPF has been increasingly recognized since its JIS was established last year. Since RPF is produced from waste, we will make further efforts to improve quality control and ensure stable supply. Mr. Yamamoto Fluid sand General Manager in charge of Ash Environmental Businesses Air 21 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 22 Efforts for special combustion boilers 2 Topic 3 Chicken / Cow Manure Incineration Boilers The market for conversion to biomass and oilalternative fuels, or actions to reduce CO2 reduction, are Power expanding dramatically. Takuma deals with all types of generation Animal manure is another unused fuel! biomass including food byproducts, shochu liquor lees and sludge as well as construction wood chips, timber offcuts Animal Steam Electric power — Technology that changes this hard-to-dispose-of waste generated in and plant trimmings, and has a widely varied product manure Water Steam lineup covering biomass-fired boilers, power generation huge amounts into fuels plants, biogas plants, Kompogas plants, and more. Takuma is therefore determined to establish a firm In response to various domestic laws and policies, such as the Act on Special Measures for position in the biomass and oil-alternative fuel market. the Promotion of New Energy Usage, etc. (New Energy Law), the Special Measures Law Gas Concerning the Use of New Energy by Electric Utilities (RPS Law), the Biomass Nippon Strategy, and the government buyout system for entire volumes of renewable energy, for which active discussions are currently under way, as well as the trend among private companies to seek higher economic rationality that arose due to the drastically soaring crude oil prices over the past few years, alternative fuels to oil have been attracting extremely high public attention. Ash Ash Since the mid 1950s, Takuma has Fertilizer materials Topics constructed as many as over 560 wood chip-fired and bagasse (waste Flow chart of an animal manure power generation plant sugarcane after juice extraction)-fired boilers inside and outside Japan. Since 2006, when the Biomass Nippon Strategy was established and biomass began drawing public attention, we have delivered 15 biomass boilers. Voices from users of animal manure biomass boilers Among them, very few boilers in Japan use biomass from animal manure as fuel. Takuma constructed two boilers of this type out of three For development of regional agriculture and communities currently in operation. We recently received an order for Our company was founded in 1973 in Miyazaki Prefecture, a leading meat producing construction of a boiler of this type area, with the aim of making effective use of byproducts generated in meat producfrom Nangoku Kosan Co., Ltd., the tion processes. By effectively utilizing livestock byproducts (bones, internal organs, company that introduced our boiler in fat, etc.) generated in association with meat production and animal excreta as feed, 2002. This indicates that our experifertilizers and energy, we are better able to contribute to the development of regional ence in boiler operation is highly agriculture and communities and the establishment of a recycling-oriented society. Mr. Sugita Representative Director appreciated. The new boiler will be Nangoku Kosan Co., Ltd. able to use cow manure as fuel in (Miyakonojo City, Miyazaki) addition to chicken manure, which is used in conventional facilities. Contributing to environmental conservation in Miyazaki Pref. Introduction of this facility has enabled us to collect chicken manure generated throughout the prefecture and to contribute greatly to environmental conservation in Miyazaki Prefecture. Production of feed and fertilizers requires heat for drying and other processes. This boiler, which reduces the consumption of fossil fuels such as heavy oil, also helps reduce CO2 emissions. The incineration ash generated is also effectively utilized as high-quality materials for fertilizers. We are now ordering our Mr. Yuge second boiler of this type from Takuma. We rely on their technological capabilities Executive Director Nangoku Kosan Co., Ltd. and support, and I hope our relationship will continue for a long time. (Miyakonojo City, Miyazaki) 23 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 24 Topic 4 Completion of a Waste Power Receiving Orders for Biomass Topic 5 Plant in the U.K. Boilers in Southeast Asia Biomass, a source of energy that grows in the sunshine, contributes greatly to reducing CO2 emissions. Ensuring a balance between preservation of the global environment and the development of energy—this is what Takuma’s biomass boiler power generation aims for. Bagasse-fired boiler plant Since its early days, Takuma has constructed and delivered many biomass boiler power plants, which use environment-friendly and recyclable agricultural/forest waste as alternative instead of fossil fuels, for industries in Topics Japan and overseas, especially in Southeast Asia. One type of biomass boiler power plant is the bagassefired boiler plant, which holds nearly 50% share in the market for the sugar production industry in Thailand. Sugar factories crush sugarcane into minute pieces and extract sugar with a compressor, and use the remaining fiber called bagasse as boiler fuel. The steam produced can be used to provide electricity needed at the factories, Transporting sugarcane and then used as a heat source for refining sugar. In response to the emergence of changes in market demands that have gradually progressed in recent years, In January 2010, Takuma completed handover of a new there has been a shift in demand for bagasse-fired boilers waste power facility, one of the largest plants in the U.K., from ones for factory use with relatively low pressure and to Lakeside Plant, the client, after four years and four large capacity (steam generation 200–300 tons/h, pressure months of construction work. Construction commenced in 2.0–3.0 MPaG, steam temperature 300–400°C) to comSeptember 2005 in an area near London’s Heathrow pact, high-efficiency boilers (steam generation 120–170 Airport, gateway to the U.K., based on an order we had tons/h, pressure 4.0–11.0 MPaG, steam temperature received because of high appreciation for our abundant 450–520°C). This is because products suited for business experience inside and outside Japan. purposes such as selling excess electricity to external With an incineration capacity of 1,370 tons a day and customers and supplying energy using biomass fuels power generation capacity of 36,650 kW, equal to the under the scheme of establishing an SPC inside sugar power consumption of approx. 50,000 households, this is Bagasse yard factories are increasingly in demand. the first large-scale waste power plant completed in Despite fierce competition from emerging Indian and Europe by a Japanese incinerator manufacturer. Chinese manufacturers, Takuma has established a steady In October 2010, to celebrate the plant’s completion, a Power position in the region in cooperation with our group generation grand opening ceremony was held inside the facility, to company SIAM TAKUMA Co., Ltd. Based on the excellent which a large number of guests, including the Duke of technologies we have accumulated through abundant Electricity Edinburgh, the Japanese Ambassador to the U.K. Ebihara experience, we provide highly reliable bagasse-fired boiler and several other administrative officials, were invited. Steam plants that match market demands and introduce new Many guests expressed their high appreciation for designs, as well as other biomass boiler power plants that Biomass Takuma’s technologies. Water use rice husks, corn cob residue, palm residue, forestry With the high technological capabilities long accumuand woody biomass, etc. as fuels. In doing this, we can lated in businesses in Japan, Takuma contributes to local Gas steadily contribute to society, with the aim of realizing the The Duke of Edinburgh attending the ceremony communities by offering highly reliable facilities for coexistence of environmental preservation and energy customers overseas, where the business environment, development. Air including the characteristics of waste and design/construction conditions, are very different from that in Japan. Ash Ash 25 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 26 Topic 6 Gas-Fired Boiler with High-Efficiency Gas Topic 7 Low Air Ratio Combustion Condensing Hot Water Heater by Jet-Film Flame Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. EQi-2000 3-unit installation GTLH-500 (indoor type) Super Eqos EQi-2000/2500 Super Vacotin heater GTLH-500, the world’s first latent Received the Japan Machinery Federation President’s Award in the 31st Energy-Conserving heat recovery vacuum type gas water heater, developed Machinery Awards in 2010 ■ Outline of machine ■ Effects on energy efficiency ■ Development background ■ Effects on energy efficiency Super Eqos EQi2000/2500 are small gas-fired onceBy changing the air ratio from the conventional 1.3 to as Since Takuma launched the first vacuum-type water Improved thermal efficiency leads directly to reduced fuel through boilers with improved boiler efficiency adopting a jet ultra-low as 1.17 (exhaust gas O2 = 3.0%), boiler efficiency heater in the world in 1974, Vacotin heater, its product costs. film combustion system developed exclusively by Takuma, can be improved from 96% to over 97%, while electricity name, has become a brand name representative of vacuumCompared with the conventional model, with thermal capable of reducing both CO and NOx simultaneously at a consumption of ventilators can be reduced by 22% to 45%. type water heaters and has been a long-selling series. efficiency of 90% with 3,000 hours of annual operation and low air ratio (λ = 1.17), before impossible with conventional In developing the new vacuum-type water heater GTL90 yen unit gas cost, the annual fuel cost can be reduced small once-through boilers. 500, we aimed to further improve thermal efficiency, which by about 800,000 yen with the GTL-500 and about 2.2 100 had already reached nearly the maximum with the existing million yen with the GTLH-500. (The cost amount to be Topics model. The new model was therefore designed to reduced varies depending on the operational situation.) Model EQi-2000 EQi-2500 95 exclusively use the urban gas 13A, a clean form of energy, Boiler efficiency (%) Equivalent evaporation 2,000 kg/h 2,500 kg/h 90 and incorporates modifications to the boiler structure and Boiler efficiency burner control system. As a result, thermal efficiency of Approx. External dimensions 900 × 2,700 × 2,450 mm 16,000 85 improved by 1.5% 95% has been achieved in a wider load range than with 800,000 yen/year Annual gas fee (1,000 yen) the conventional model. 15,500 reduction 80 ■ Features of jet film combustion Based on the GTL-500, with Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. we 15,000 Approx. EQi-2000/2500 jointly developed the GTLH-500, the world’s first latent 14,500 2.2 million yen/year A supersonic nozzle that Takuma originally developed 75 Conventional model heat recovery vacuum-type gas water heater, by adding to to dust off bag filters is applied as the burner nozzle. A 14,000 reduction 70 the GTL-500 a system to collect latent heat contained in self-recirculation gas flow forms inside the combustion 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 the moisture of exhaust gas, which was unused as energy 13,500 chamber by the jet blast, which mixes with thin-layer flame Load factor (%) 13,000 in the conventional model. The GTLH-500 has achieved to lower the flame temperature and reduce thermal NOx. Comparison of boiler efficiency with thermal efficiency of 105% on a low heating value basis. 12,500 Meanwhile, mixing of combustion gas and air is promoted Takuma’s conventional model The GTL-500 and GTLH-500 were both launched for 12,000 so that generation of CO can be reduced in combustion sale in April 2011 as new models substantially different Conventional system GTL-500 GTLH-500 with a low air ratio. from conventional water heaters. This low air ratio combustion helps improve combustion 12.0 efficiency, leading to decreased fuel consumption. 22% ■ System features Power consumption (kW) Controller 10.0 Water supply pump reduction [GTL-500] Ventilator 8.0 ● Uses only urban gas 13A, achieving improved heat recovery efficiency 6.0 45% → Thermal efficiency of 95%, the highest among our 581 kW 4.0 reduction output models. ● Automatically controls the burner between 20% and 100% 2.0 (turndown ratio 1:5) 0.0 → High efficiency operation with no loss even with low loads Conventional EQi Conventional EQi ● Compact design similar than conventional model model model → One-door type with a total width of 820 mm Load factor 50% Load factor 100% [GTLH-500] Comparison of power consumption with ● Ultrahigh efficiency of 105% (on a lower heating value basis) is Takuma’s conventional model (EQi-2000) achieved. Capable of collecting latent energy contained in the moisture of exhaust gas, which before was usually not collected. ■ Effects of introduction ● Separate type latent heat collector is adopted. Assuming an annual load factor of 50%, advantages of Separate delivery or late installation, and bypass operation are introducing an EQi-2000 unit compared with our convenavailable. ● Exhaust gas down-flow system is adopted. tional model are as follows: Primary air Condensed water, which interferes in the process of latent Secondary air heat collection, is guided to fall down by the flow of exhaust Adequate Combustion gas ● Annual fuel savings: 7,000 m3 (N) air gas, to prevent thermal efficiency from declining. ● Annual electricity savings: 10.000 kWh Secondary air ● Designed to be resistant to acid condensed water Primary air ● Annual CO2 reduction: 20 t CO2 All-stainless steel is used for the portions that contact with exhaust ● Annual running cost reduction: 530,000 yen gas, and a device to neutralize condensed water is built in. GTLH-500 (outdoor type) 27 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 28 ■ System features Development of New Technologies 1 Technology to Convert Waste Oil Our next-generation bio light oil production technology reagent such as methanol, does not generate any waste is a mechanism where the ester bond in oil is broken by such as glycerin, and as ingredients can use animal oil and into Light Oil means of catalytic reaction under a 400°C/normal pressure conditions, and then the oil is converted into a light palm oil, both of which have high fluid points. Moreover, the next-generation bio light oil produced with this oil-equivalent hydrocarbon oil consisting mainly of technology is a high quality fuel equivalent to commercial Takuma has developed a technology to produce “next-generation bio light oil” from waste oil*. olefin/paraffin. This method is superior to the conventional light oil, and can be used in cold climates since it has a Unlike existing BDFs (bio diesel fuels), this next-generation bio light oil satisfies the standard ester exchange method in that it does not require any low freezing point. for commercial light oil. A test operation of a school bus using this fuel conducted by Tottori University of Environmental Studies demonstrated this light oil’s high quality as a fuel equal to the quality level of commercial light oil. ■ Development results * This technology was developed based on a study by Kaoru Fujimoto, former professor of the University of Kitakyushu. As part of its efforts toward practical application of this vegetable oil such as palm oil and animal oil such as beef technology, Takuma, in a joint study with Tottori University fat and fish oil, and develop markets for next-generation of Environmental Studies launched in fiscal 2010, bio light oil. ■ Development background conducted a demonstration operation of a next-generation bio light oil production facility using waste oil collected from Note: These demonstration tests are financially supported by the Recently, in view of the issues of energy security and difficult to use waste oil as it is because of its high kinetic households, and a trial operation of a university school subsidy for scientific research to promote establishing a global warming, development of bio fuels (fuels from viscosity and flash point, it needs to be converted into an bus using 100% next-generation bio light oil. recycling-oriented society granted by the Ministry of the renewable energy sources derived from animals and appropriate form of fuel oil. To do this, a technology to In the demonstration facility operation, 65% of the Environment. This technology was developed by Takuma plants, instead of crude oil, petroleum gas, natural gas and produce BDF based on ester exchange has been for practical application with approval by the Kitakyushu energy in the waste oil was recovered for use as coal, as well as fuels produced from these) has been introduced, though it has problems with quality and Foundation for the Advancement of Industry, Science and automobile fuel, with fuel quality satisfying the light oil Technology. accelerating. In particular, development of bio fuels for production costs. To solve these problems, Takuma has standards (compulsory standard, regular standard). transportation that do not compete with the food supply is developed a new technology to produce environmentIn the school bus trial operation (total mileage: 2,700 strongly demanded. friendly and high quality fuel. km, total oil supplied: approx. 500 L), evaluation on engine One such fuel is waste oil, a promising fuel source conformity of the bio light oil as an automobile fuel reports having higher heating value than other biomass resources that the engine exhaust has no smell of oil, like the and existing mostly in liquid form. However, since it is exhaust of BDFs. Other evaluation results also indicate Development of favorable operational performance and fuel costs equal to the commercial light oil. Encouraged by these results, we will further deploy this New Technologies technology to a wide range of biomass resources including Filling a school bus with oil School bus used for trial operation Combustible Bio fuel gas Heat source for heating catalyst Bio fuel production facility Fuel oil Cooler Waste cooking oil, waste palm oil Ships Hydrocarbon oil Farm machinery Public vehicles Cooking oil Animal oil, fish oil Waste oil Bio light oil Solid catalyst CO2 CO2 CO2 Ingredient oil Catalytic reactor Fractionating After-treatment Next-generation (waste cooking oil, etc.) device device bio light oil Ingredient oil is (equivalent to light oil) Biomass Light oil element Light oil is decomposed at normal pressure, 400°C. is extracted. cleaned. Next-generation bio light oil production system 29 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 30 ■ System features Development of New Technologies 2 Gasification of Biomass, To produce methanol, biomass must first be transhot water can also be obtained from exhaust gas after formed into gas fuel. Methanol is synthesized from carbon power generation. Liquid Fuel Synthesis Technology monoxide and hydrogen, which are the main components of this fuel gas, by means of catalytic reaction. Thus, this system can be called a trigeneration plant, which produces from biomass three sources of energy: Other energy sources than methanol can also be methanol, electricity, and heat. Takuma has developed a technology to produce methanol from biomass. Methanol is an obtained in this system. The portion of fuel gas not used In this system, the production volume of methanol, alcohol fuel excellent for storage, transportation and incineration. This system makes optimal for methanol synthesis and any unreactive gas (off-gas) electricity and heat can be adjusted according to the use of biomass energy in various forms such as liquid fuel, electricity and heat to meet diverse are used to generate power, which can be used to cover demand for each element, enabling users to operate the needs. the plant’s motive needs and supply electricity to the plant efficiently. neighborhood. Moreover, thermal energy for steam and ■ Development background ■ Development results Methanol, which is used extensively as a raw material in and a methanol synthesis technology to effectively proIn the empirical test, we operated the system for a total the chemical industry, is also used in the environmental duce methanol from this gas fuel. As part of a project of 2,500 hours, including one month of continuous field for sewage plants and bio-diesel fuel production commissioned by the Ministry of the Environment to operation, and it produced about 5,000 L of methanol facilities. It is also used for small fuel cells of mobile develop anti-global warming technologies, Takuma constably. This demonstrated that our gasification methanol devices such as laptop PCs. ducted a demonstration test of gasification methanol synthesis technology had reached an adequate level for Methanol is generally produced from natural gas, a synthesis for three years from fiscal 2007 to 2009. practical application. fossil fuel. By producing methanol, an important industrial Methanol produced in the test was actually put into Because of these achievements, we were awarded for Japan Chemical Industry The 24th Japan Society of material indispensable for our lives, from biomass, we are practical use as a reaction aid in producing bio-diesel fuel, this technology the Japan Chemical Industry Association Association Technology Energy and Resources Award 2010 Technology Award able to reduce consumption of fossil fuels and emissions demonstrating the effectiveness of this technology. Technology Award 2010 and the 24th Japan Society of of CO2. Energy and Resources Technology Award. We will Takuma has promoted development of a gasification continue making efforts to help prevent global warming technology to efficiently produce gas fuel from biomass and establish a sustainable society. Development of New Technologies New energy Steam, ( hot water ) Electric power Electric power Power Gasification plant Methanol synthesis plant generation plant G Electric power by as ga p r o sif d u Off Biomass ica c e ga Waste materials tio d s n Liquid fuel Heat Gas Methanol produced by gasification Plant trimmings CO2 Gasification plant Methanol synthesis plant CO2 Biomass Gasification methanol synthesis system 31 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 32 ■ System features Development of New Technologies 3 Two-stage Hydrogen and Methane Decomposition by methane fermentation roughly connology enables a higher rate of energy collection than sists of the microbial reaction processes of solubilization, does conventional single-stage methane fermentation. Fermentation of Biomass hydrogen/organic acid formation, and methane formation. Each process is divided into two stages and fermentation Since solubilization and organic acid formation are actively promoted, the time required for fermentation can be is performed under the most appropriate conditions for reduced so that the system can be made compact. The Takuma has developed a technology to efficiently collect energy using microorganisms from each stage. This improves the entire fermentation effiplant design is simple with no auxiliary equipment biomass with high moisture content such as food waste without incinerating the biomass. In ciency. attached since such equipment often causes trouble. this system, biomass is converted into gas fuel, which can be used as an energy source for This two-stage hydrogen-methane fermentation techvarious purposes such as heat, electricity and automobile fuel. ■ Development results Takuma developed the hydrogen-methane fermentation food factories with high moisture content such as okara ■ Development background system as a method of collecting energy from shochu (bean-curd refuse) and juice residue, as well as livestock lees, which was conventionally dumped as waste. The excreta, sewage sludge, high-concentration effluents, etc., Production processes at a food factory require a large This system is applied in our No. 1 Plant for processing demonstration test plant built in 2005 has been in continuthis system is a promising technology that establishes a amount of heat. To satisfy this demand, food factories shochu liquor lees. In shochu production, waste containing ous operation since then. Because of its contribution to recycling-oriented system and contributes substantially to currently rely on fossil fuels, though they are facing an organics called shochu lees is generated in the distillation preserving the environment, the system was awarded the reduced burdens on the environment. Our goal now is to urgent task of reducing the use of fossil fuels. They also process. Conventionally, shochu lees are dumped into the Chairperson’s Prize at the Japan Society of Industrial further improve its energy recovery efficiency and reduce face the task of reducing the volume of food waste ocean without being effectively utilized, while thermal Machinery Manufacturers’ 35th Outstanding Environmental costs. generated in production processes. energy generated using fossil fuels have been supplied to Equipment Awards, and the President’s Award in the fiscal Seeing this situation, we have developed a system that the shochu distillation process. 2009 Energy-Conserving Machinery Awards by the Japan efficiently collects biogas mainly from food waste by By applying this technology for shochu processing to Machinery Federation for its stable operability and high employing two-stage hydrogen-methane fermentation, to collect biogas from shochu lees and use it as fuel, conenergy efficiency. The system also received the fiscal realize both waste disposal and reduced fossil fuel sumption of fossil fuels can be reduced (energy-saving 2010 Japan Institute of Energy Progress Award (Technical consumption. effects), leading to simultaneously achieving both reduced Division) for its remarkable contribution to the energyenvironmental burdens and waste disposal. related technology field. Development of Chairperson’ Prize, President’s Award, Fiscal 2010 Japan Institute After five years of successful test operation, it was 35th Outstanding the fiscal 2009 Energyof Energy Progress Award decided to continue operation of the system. Environmental Equipment Conserving Machinery (Technical Division) Awards by the Japan Awards by the Japan Capable of collecting energy from various unused New Technologies Society of Industrial Machinery Federation wastes including not only shochu lees but also waste from Machinery Manufacturers Equipment using biogas Carbohydrates Heat Hydrogen-methane fermentation system Protein Steam Power boiler generator Electricity Fat Pretreatment equipment Fermentation plant Heat Fuel Gas fuel Automobile fuel Electricity Food waste Removing Hydrogen-methane Biomass inappropriate matter fermentation Fermentation residue treatment equipment Hydrogen Methane fermentation + fermentation Dehydrator Dehydration filtrate, Food factory dehydration residue Hydrogen-methane fermentation system 33 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 34 CSR Activities for the Future ■ CSR issues for the future Concerning CSR issues for the future, we should first CSR activities are activities that should be conducted focus on the top priority fields to take actions for continuously over a long period of time. By creating a road improvement. Once a PDCA cycle of actions/improvement map, we will take steady steps to do what we can and is established, the next step is to check the priority fields continuously make improvements for the future. and consider expansion of those fields. Actions for introducing outside views such as listening to opinions of external stakeholders should also be encouraged. Over the long run, we will deploy extensive CSR activities to respond to social expectations, such as promoting community cooperation/development and addressing Efforts to Draw up We evaluated the status of the compliance/CSR activities we have social and global issues. promoted since 2006, in preparation to draw up a road map for CSR a Road Map activities in the future. ■ Process of drawing up a road map Step ● 1 Review the compliance/CSR activities conducted since fiscal 2006. We will review all the activities we have conducted concerning compliance, risk management and internal control since fiscal 2006, when the Coordinating Committee for Compliance & CSR Promotion was established. Then the current status of each activity will be evaluated internally. The evaluation method will be determined based on various CSR-related guidelines such as ISO 26000, which provides guidelines for social responsibility, while taking into consideration the relevance of Long-term issues for such guidelines to our business activities. the future • Promoting community cooperation/development Step ● 2 Select important tasks. • Addressing social issues There are many legal regulations and issues related to our business activities, for each of which • Addressing global issues relevant departments must take necessary actions. Among them, legal regulations and issues that Next-stage issues Etc. are likely to have significant impact on the entire company should be addressed under a companywide framework. In Step ● 2 , based on the evaluation results in Step ● CSR Activities 1 , we will select the important • Checking priority fields tasks that should be addressed under a company-wide framework. • Expanding priority issues for the Future • Introducing outside views Step ● 3 Develop a scheme to verify the level of implementation of important tasks. Etc. Concerning the level of implementation of the important tasks, it is necessary to gather reports on the Takuma Group’s priority fields progress status from throughout the company and then verify them. In Step ● 3 , to verify the • Fair business activities implementation status, we will develop a scheme to clarify 1) the method for gathering reports on • Promoting environmental progress status, and 2) the system for organizing the gathered data. managementt • Proper labor practices Step ● 4 Share verification results throughout the company. Concerning the results of verification of the implementation level of important tasks, it is necessary to 1) submit a report to management for approval, 2) give feedback to all departments in the company and hold discussions for improvement, and 3) arrange a meeting or other forum to share the results throughout the company. In Step ● 4 , we will organize a scheme for reporting/feedback for sharing the verification results. Actions for improvement for priority issues Actions for next-stage issues Step ● 1 Step ● 2 Step ● 3 Step ● 4 Step ● 5 Step ● Advance/expand Address long5 Provide in-house education/promote permeation. Review activities. Select important Develop scheme Share verification Provide in-house the actions term issues for tasks. to verify impleresults througheducation. the future A series of processes from selecting important tasks, verifying the level of implementation, to sharing mentation level. out company. verification results internally, must be constantly followed throughout the company. In Step ●5 , we will discuss in-house education/measures to promote permeation such as training seminars and workshops for ensuring company-wide deployment and permeation of the processes. Road map for CSR activities (concept image) 35 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 36 CSR Report The History of Takuma 1912 1912 The first “Takuma boiler” is introduced by our founder Tsunekichi Takuma For the energy of Japan and the world 1920 Tsunekichi Takuma We instituted the Takuma Group Ethics Charter, Takuma Group Code of Conduct, and Personal Information Protection Policy and The CSR of Takuma now strive toward promotion of CSR management. 1930 1930 1938 ■ Takuma Group Ethics Charter Tsunekichi Takuma was commended as one of the ten great Founded Takuma Boiler inventors of Japan during the Meiji and Taisho periods (1868– Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Takuma and the Takuma Group companies believe that it is essential for the sound development of the group that all of the 1926) The company motto instituted: directors and employees remain aware of our social responsibilities and the circumstances surrounding us as well as act in “Service to the nation through boiler manufacturing” Amagasaki Factory response to social ethics complying with applicable related laws and ordinances. Bearing the above in mind, we have 1940 established and will promote this ethics charter as our code of conduct, aiming to realize our management principles. 1942 Operation launch of the Harima Factory 1. We shall strive for proactive social contribution while establishing a harmonious coexistence with the global 1949 1949 environment as good corporate citizens. Exported a bagasse firing boiler, which was the first product of Listed on the stock exchanges in its kind in the industry Osaka and Tokyo Harima Factory under 1950 construction 2. We shall act in good faith in accordance with sound business custom, while complying with applicable laws and regulations and committing ourselves to fair, transparent and free competition, as well as conducting lawFor the ful business activities. 1958 environment of Advanced into the environmental facility sectors, including Japan and waste incineration and water treatment plants 3. We shall never have any relationship with antisocial forces or organizations, which may pose a threat to the the world social order and security of civil society. 1960 1963 Delivered Japan’s first waste incineration 4. We shall respect fundamental human rights and never practice discrimination. plant Delivered a sewerage treatment facility 5. We shall strive to provide high quality products and services, based on our advanced technologies, to attain Japan’s first waste incineration plant high acclaim and confidence from our customers. 1970 1972 6. We shall strive to disclose corporate information to shareholders and investors through investor relations (IR) Company renamed Takuma “We are renamed 1975 Co., Ltd. Takuma Co., Ltd. and other activities on a timely and equitable basis. Bulk production of the world’s first June 1, 1972” vacuum-type hot water heater, “vacotin Logo to notify heater” name change 7. We shall strive to protect corporate properties as well as information, while never using either for improprieties CSR Report Vacotin heater 1980 or any unjustifiable purpose other than normal business operations. 1986 ■ Takuma Group Code of Conduct Delivered the first waste treatment facility overseas (U.S.A.) 1. Coexistence with the global environment Practice of 12. Safety of products and services as well Harmony with 1990 2. Coexistence with international society customer as ensuring reliability society 1992 3. Practice of social contribution activities satisfaction 13. Policies concerning advertising A new company motto instituted: “Value Technology, People and the Earth” 4. Free competition and fair trade Making 14. Transmission of corporate information appropriate Practice of 5. Relationship with politics and public ad15. Ensuring reliability of financial report disclosure of compliance with ministration information 16. Prohibition of insider trading 2000 laws and 6. Policies concerning business entertain2004 2004 ordinances as ment and gift-giving 17. Management and proper use of corporEstablished KAB Takuma GmbH in Germany, engaged in the Issued the first edition of the “Environmental Report” Protection of plant construction business for waste and biomass power Instituted the “Takuma Group Code of Conduct” well as sound 7. Prohibition of involvement in anti-social corporate ate properties plants in Europe economic 2005 activities properties and 18. Handling of confidential information 2005 Instituted the “Takuma Environmental Policy” activities information Instituted the “Personal Information Protection Policy” 8. Appropriate export and import transac19. Intellectual property protection Renamed Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. by the merger between tions Takuma Hanyokikai Co., Ltd.—our former subsidiary, which Into the age of 2006 conducted the manufacture and sale of small boilers—and Ebara Boiler Co., Ltd. CSR Instituted the “Compliance Declaration” Instituted the “Takuma Group Ethics Charter” 9. Prohibition of discriminatory actions Participated in the UN Global Compact Respect for basic human 10. Respect for individuality, personal quality, 2007 rights and privacy Issued the first edition of the “CSR Report” 11. Safe work environment 2009 CSR Awareness Survey first conducted 37 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 38 Compliance/CSR Activities ■ Company Motto and CSR activities ■ Compliance/CSR promotion education Positioning fiscal 2010 as the first year of the “compliance continuation/application period,” we held four seminars Company Motto Company Motto, under the principles of 1) encouraging each person to think and act on his/her own, and 2) making the educational Management Principles programs a forum for creating a better working environment. Value Technology, Ethics Charter ● 1st Seminar: Compliance case study ● 3rd seminar: Takuma’s CSR People and Code of Conduct A compliance case study seminar was held in order to —CSR through international standards: ISO 26000 deepen understanding of the matters learned and improve The background and purpose of ISO 26000 issued in In-house regulations the Earth applicable skills by simulating events that actually occurNovember 2010 were explained. Participants then disred or are likely to occur, and then discussing the probcussed the theme “What actions should be taken in your lems in such events. department based on the Company Motto?,” and summarized some specific actions each department could take Out current Company Motto “Value Technology, People and the Earth” was established in 1992. It represents our Case 1 Copyrights concerning the three elements of the Company Motto, determination to take full advantage of the strengths and talents of each employee, constantly develop the Case 2 Abuse of dominant bargaining position “Value Technology, People and the Earth.” (See p.40) technologies that lead the industry, and by doing so, help protect the global environment. Case 3 Awareness of environmental issues What are actions based on the Company Motto? Here are some answers to this question from our employees. Case 4 Ethics for engineers ● 4th seminar: Corporate scandals and compliance —Compliance at Takuma Participants learned that in order to prevent corporate Value Technology ● 2nd seminar: Power harassment, Sexual harassment scandals, it is necessary to not only comply with the laws Based on the results of the CSR Awareness Survey but also maintain a good working environment where • Conduct up-to-date development and pass it down to the next generation, to ensure succession of technologies. conducted in fiscal 2009, participants learned about powemployees’ ethical level is high and their human rights are • Conduct thorough examination and confirmation of technological backgrounds, establish a check system and gather information (trouer/sexual harassment. In addition to what is generally respected. The process of using the in-house reporting ble cases), to prevent recurrence of troubles. known about power/sexual harassment, the lecture also system was also explained to promote thorough under• Ensure transparency in design for all stakeholders by presenting organized design details and backgrounds. covered secondary harassment (reactions to those accusstanding, and an outline of past in-house reports submit• Understand that safety control, quality control, construction control and process control are all included in “technology.” ing power harassment, referring specifically to retaliation ted was disclosed. • Listen to users’ opinions (satisfaction) about Takuma products and the points they think need improvement, and give feedback to the from the harasser or company, others’ attitudes toward engineering departments, to reflect the opinions in future technology and product improvement. those siding with the harasser, etc.) • Promote development of technologies related to resource saving, energy saving and recycling, while striving to reduce waste in every business field. ● Lecture on CSR from an outside management expert • Play a role in expanding Takuma’s advanced technologies in the market by proactively dealing with newly developed products such On September 29, 2010, we invited Shizuo Fukada (former Japanese repas biogas generation facilities. resentative industrial expert and Chairman, ISO/SR Standardization Working • To prevent internal technical information from leaking, introduce systems to prevent information leakage and provide education on inGroup) to give a lecture for management staff on “The CSR environformation security. ment/Trends surrounding Takuma and priority issues to tackle.” Value People • Respect the positions of everyone including customers, employees and business partners, and maintain a fair and honest attitude toward them. ■ CSR Awareness Survey Do you think you act in accordance with • Enhance communication with customers, suppliers, regional residents, employees and their family members, and help create a comCSR Report Question the corporate philosophy (Company fortable and safe working environment. The CSR Awareness Survey for fiscal 2010 was conducted following the Motto), Management Principles, Ethics Charter, and Code of Conduct? • Each member of the department should help each other and engage in sales activities to satisfy the stakeholders. first survey in 2009, with the aim of determining the degree to which educa2% • Respect the cultures of customers in foreign countries and build good relationships, in order to facilitate smooth business promotion. tion to promote compliance/CSR had permeated the company as well as the I think so • Offer user-friendly design, taking into consideration the installation environment. employee levels of awareness and understanding, in order to identify indica• Offer health and safety-conscious design, while preventing designers from working too long. tors for future efforts. After the fiscal 2010 survey, we provided education on I suppose I think so 31% • Enhance safety awareness throughout the company and permeate it at each construction site, in order to establish a safety-oriented items that scored low throughout the company, making effective use of the I don’t really think so 67% culture to prevent labor accidents. survey results. We will continue to conduct this survey and utilize the results for more practical compliance/CSR promotion activities. Results of the awareness survey (example) Value the Earth ■ In-house reporting system Persons seeking consultation • Keeping in mind that preventing global warming is a global task, actively propose products that are effective in reducing CO2 and NOx. • Since our main products are environment-friendly (helping to protect the environment), providing our products/plants helps protect the At Takuma, we have been operating an in-house reporting system since or making reports earth. August 2006, with the aim of promoting compliance management by uncov• Expand sales of energy-saving, recycling facilities, in order to help prevent resource depletion and contribute toward sustainable soResponse Consultation ering illegal or unfair acts as early as possible and undertaking corrective or report cial development. measures. Reporting contacts are set up at our Compliance & CSR PromoAnonymous • Raise environmental awareness by participating in cleaning activities (volunteer) held in line with worldwide Environment Day. tion Division and at an outside law office, as well as a dedicated contact for e-mail contact Law office • Take energy/resource-saving measures such as improving work efficiency and joining the Cool Biz or Warm Biz campaign, particianonymous e-mail reporting. Our In-House Reporting Code and the Takuma pate in volunteer cleaning activities, make donations, etc. Group Code of Conduct declare that informants are not to be subject to dis• Waste treatment and biomass power generation represent sustainable energies that are not dependent on fossil fuels, helping prevent advantageous treatment. To assure that our in-house reporting system is Compliance & CSR Promotion Division global warming and preserve the global environment. (Investigation and response) properly understood and utilized, we have distributed compliance cards with • Promote proper disposal and reduction of industrial waste. During construction work, ensure compliance with laws concerning air and information about reporting contacts to every employee, and we are making In-house reporting process water quality, noise, vibration, etc. efforts to spread awareness of it through education to promote compliance and CSR. 39 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 40 Activities That Contribute to Society ■ Awards received from outside organizations ■ Social contribution activities by Takuma employees ● Japan Institute of Energy Progress Award ● Creation of a new course for the Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST) “Web Our System for processing shochu lees to recover energy using two-stage hydrogenLearning System for Engineers” methane fermentation received the Japan Institute of Energy Progress Award (technical —Akira Kawashimo, Technology Planning & Administration Department (Tokyo) division) for fiscal 2010. This system is a promising technology capable of collecting To provide engineers with learning opportunities, the Japan Science and Technology energy from not only shochu lees but also various wastes with high moisture content that Agency (JST) offers a Web Learning System for Engineers on the Internet. In response to a were conventionally unused as energy, such as waste from food factories, livestock request by JST, Takuma employee Akira Kawashimo created a course called “Recycling-oriexcreta, and sewage sludge, and that contributes substantially to reducing burdens on the ented society and resources/waste” for a new program, “Environmental ethics for sustainable environment. (For more details of this technology, see pp.33 and 34.) society,” which is now available on the Web. Kawashimo recalls, “I think I made use of and communicated knowledge I had acquired through my work for society from the viewpoint of environmental ethics.” ● Japan Chemical Industry Association Technology Award Our Gasification methanol synthesis from biomass technology received the Japan Chemical Industry Association Technol[JST Web Learning System for Engineers] http://weblearningplaza.jst.go.jp/ (in Japanese) ogy Award for fiscal 2010. This technology efficiently converts biomass to fuel gas, and effectively produces methanol from the gas. It is an innovative technology that helps establish energy independence and is expected to serve as a distributed ● Lecturer for “Community carbon counselor” training program energy supply system in urban areas where a large amount of waste biomass is generated and in mountainous areas where —Akira Kawashimo, Technology Planning & Administration Department (Tokyo) effective use of forestry residue is needed. (For more details of this technology, see pp.31 and 32.) The Cabinet Office offers a “Community carbon counselor” training program all over Japan as a local community job creation project. In response to a request from the Carbon Management Academy, Takuma employee Akira Kawashimo gave a lecture on environmental ethics. Kawashimo says, “Environmental ethics is a profound and difficult theme. As a lecturer, I ● Japan Machinery Federation President Award was able to organize the key factors. I hope I can keep on contributing to the local community through my daily work.” Our Small gas-fired once-through boiler of low air ratio jet film combustion type (Super Eqos EQi 2000/2500) received the Japan Machinery Federation President Award in the ● Takuma Group cleaning campaign 31st Energy-Conserving Machinery Awards 2010. We shared the award with Nippon In line with the worldwide Environment Day, we organized a campaign to clean the neighThermoener Co., Ltd., one of our group companies. This is a small gas-fired once-through borhoods around our offices from May to June 2010. Responding to a call for volunteers, a boiler with reduced power consumption, developed jointly by Takuma and Nippon total of 494 employees from throughout the Group participated in the campaign. President Thermoener, and manufactured and sold by Nippon Thermoener. (For more details of this Teshima joined the cleaning of the Head Office neighborhood. At the Harima Factory, memtechnology, see p.27.) bers of “Yotteko-mura Arai,” a residents’ organization in Takasago City, Hyogo Pref., joined the cleaning. Sun Plant Co., Ltd. participated in a cleaning activity for the Machikado Clean ● Distinguished contribution award by the Society of Environmental Conservation Day in Chuo-ku, Tokyo. We will continue conducting cleaning activities as one way to contriEngineering bute to local communities. The Society of Environmental Conservation Engineering is an organization consisting of researchers and engineers from various fields including waste treatment, energy and ● Participation in the city-wide campaign, Clean Osaka 2010 water treatment. At its 40th anniversary ceremony, Takuma was awarded for its long conOn November 2, 2010, volunteers from Takuma’s Techno-Consulting Dept., Osaka particitribution to environmental technologies. pated in Clean Osaka 2010, a city-wide cleaning campaign in Osaka. ■ Contributions to NPOs • Purchasing UNICEF Christmas cards • Use of carbon offset New Year’s postcards ■ Takuma Technical Review ■ Activities to solicit donations for We purchased 560 sets of UNICEF Christmas cards. Fifty We purchased 6,345 carbon offset New Year’s postcards CSR Report percent of the proceeds are used to fund UNICEF in their for 2011. Compared to ordinary postcards, these have a We publish our Takuma Technical areas hit by the Great East Japan work to help children around the world. CO2 offset of 17.7 tons. Review twice per year, and introduce Earthquake (See p.14) • Donations to calendar market held by NPO, Nippon information related to technologies Volunteer Network Active in Disaster that we have developed. The most recent issue features “Efforts by the ■ Supporting the World Food We donated 150 unneeded calendars. The money raised from their sale is used to support disaster victims. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Programme Fisheries concerning biomass,” as well as reports on plant operation and introduction of new products. Please We serve on the Board of Trustees of the Japanese branch of the World Food Programme (WFP), which is ■ Activities by the group company — Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. — part of the UN Global Compact. It is said that nearly a visit our website to read the abstracts. ● Hybrid water heater “duoQ3” awarded in the Equip● Participation in exhibitions billion people are suffering from hunger around the world. [Takuma website > Technical Information > Technical Review] ment/System Design Division of the Environmental/ • Enezo 2010 Energy Solution & Thermal Storage Fair We have a campaign period once per year and place Equipment Design Awards http://www.takuma.co.jp/english/gijutu/gihou.html (May 26–28, 2010, INTEX Osaka) posters around the entrances of staff dormitories and Our hybrid water heater “duoQ3” dining halls, for example, to convey information about the • Energy Solution & Thermal Storage Fair ’10 was awarded in the 8th Environmen(July 28–30, Tokyo Big Sight) ■ Exhibition global food problem to our employees. Together we undertake fundraising and make contributions to the WFP. tal/Equipment Design Awards by the Association of Building Engineering • ENE-WAY 2010 From November 15 to 17, (September 8–10, Nagoya International Exhibition Hall) and Equipment. These awards are 2010, Takuma participated in the 54th National Conference ■ Blood donation campaign given to excellent environmental/equipment designs with the aim of communi• Netsuden Plaza 2010 (November 10–12, Tokyo Big on Life and the Environment We called for blood donation at the Harima Factory in cating widely to society the importance Sight) held at the Kobe International December 2010 and at the Head Office on March 30, of the role of environmental/equipment • Tokyo International Laundry & Conference Center. Many 2011 to help support the Japanese Red Cross Society. engineering and the significance of the Drycleaning Show 2010 people visited our exhibition Many employees donated blood. We will hold this camimpact of facility equipment/system (December 3–5, 2010, Tokyo space. paign again in fiscal 2011. design on architectural design. Big Sight) 41 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 42 Working with Our Customers Working with Our Shareholders With the motto: “manufacturing products meet customer satisfaction,” Takuma implemented its certification for ISO 9001: Management Systems (Registration No.: JQA 1952, registered in 1997), promoting our activities to enhance ■ IR activities customer satisfaction, as well as product quality, based on the quality management system. We completed the switch In keeping with our Takuma Group Code of Conduct, Own shares to ISO 9001:2000 in fiscal 2002 and to ISO 9001:2008 in fiscal 2010. we provide our shareholders and other investors with 5.5% accurate corporate information in a timely and fair manner. As one part of this, we provide notification when we call a Individuals, Financial & general meeting of stockholders, balance sheet inforOthers securities 25.5% companies mation, timely disclosure information, marketable securi43.6% ties reports, annual reports in English and other business ■ Customer satisfaction survey information on our website. Foreign Other We use our customer satisfaction surveys to obtain [Takuma website > IR information] corporations Japanese 8.8% corporations feedback from customers when we have built new plants http://www.takuma.co.jp/investor/index.html 16.6% and delivered new equipment, for example, as well as P Decide where to conduct the questionnaire survey from those to whom we provide regular servicing and Shareholder Composition (as of March 31, 2011) upgrades for existing plants. These surveys allow us to hear the unvarnished opinions of our customers about the D products that we have delivered and our staff who have Conduct the questionnaire survey been responsible for working with them. We conduct our satisfaction questionnaire surveys for these types of customers and analyze the results. If there C Investigate the questionnaire results Working with Our Suppliers were problems, we analyze the factors that contribute to Analyze problem factors and investigate them and undertake countermeasures to prevent them in recurrence prevention countermeasures the future. The questionnaire survey process is shown on (if results are lower than our standard) the right as a PDCA flow. In keeping with our Takuma Group Code of Conduct, we are striving to secure safety and confidence in all our We have used this format to conduct questionnaires products/services, and we particularly appreciate the support of our suppliers. A since fiscal 2007. Since the second year, average scores Follow-up with recurrence prevention measures We believe suppliers are our important partners to achieve the goal of “manufacturing products that meet customer of the evaluations we receive from the results have been satisfaction” and thereby contribute to society. We make efforts to establish a healthy and stable relationship of trust Undertake in parallel elsewhere (only when necessary) continually as high as over 80. that will last for a long time. For customers who gave a total score of 70 or below, or who gave 1 (Dissatisfied) on a 4-point scale to any of the PDCA cycle for customer satisfaction surveys evaluation items, we analyzed the problem factors and [Material Procurement Policies] discussed the measures to prevent recurrence. From New business partners Takuma 1. When appointing suppliers, they must be treated fairly. fiscal 2010, we decided to take the same actions for [Average evaluation scores from questionnaire surveys] 2. Seek to discover new manufacturers. Transmission of customers who gave 2 (Rather dissatisfied) to any of the application form Receipt 3. Confidential information must be firmly controlled. evaluation items, in order to further increase customer FY 2007: 73.4 points (37 plants) 4. Seek to obtain new related information. satisfaction. FY 2008: 80.2 points (18 plants) Submission of documents 5. Promote green procurement. Examination Corporate overviews, FY 2009: 83.5 points (26 plants) 6. Comply with laws and ordinances concerning busicatalogs, delivery records, ness deals. financial reports, etc. Contact with the results FY 2010: 82.3 points (16 plants) of examination 7. Always have VA and VE in mind. CSR Report If there is a specific proposal, 8. Strive toward self-development. continue as follows Estimates Estimate request ● Fair and impartial evaluation and selection Estimate specification, documents, We provide open opportunities for all companies retechnical drawings, etc. Comprehensive evaluation gardless of nationality, company scale or transaction histories. We select suppliers based on our comprehensive Contracts and orders evaluation of their reliability and safeness in terms of quality, prices, delivery, etc., as well as their technological Processes before the establishment of contracts with new business partners development abilities and supply capacities. ● Promotion of CSR-conscious procurement activities Because stable transactions with good suppliers result ● VA/VE∗ activities in improved reliability of our products, we seek to establish In product procurement, we promote VA/VE activities relationships of mutual trust and promote mutual developwith suppliers in order to provide customers with optimum ment. products at low cost. These days, we particularly promote In accordance with our compliance principles, we reVA/VE in view of each product's lifecycle. spect relevant laws and regulations as well as social ∗ VA/VE: value analysis/value engineering norms, and strictly control and maintain any confidential [Takuma website – Material Procurement] information we obtain through business transactions. http://www.takuma.co.jp/procurement/index.html Moreover, we organize study meetings and compliance seminars to improve awareness and knowledge among our employees. 43 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 44 Working with Our Employees ■ Approaches toward employees ● Other enhancements to workplace environments ● Measures to counter sexual/power harassment Our company sets “establish a work environment allow(2) Provide capacity building assistance to employees. ● Work environment measurement [Employee health management measures] ing each employee to challenge their goals, as well as getIn order to promote the cultivation of employees abilities ● Improvement program for lifestyle● Listening to opinions within the company∗ ting on with their work through appropriate assessment” as and their self-development, we hold technical presentation related diseases ∗ To enhance “ideal working conditions” for employees, our company its basic policy. Specifying the following three approaches meetings for technical employees, offer TOEIC tests, and ● Lifestyle-related disease absorbs a wide range of views from employees by placing an as critical items, we introduce various systems for each: provide financial rewards and pay examination fees for “opinion box,” as well as communication via e-mail and telephone prevention checkups employees who acquire new certifications, for example. concerning their working environments. ● Mental health measures ● Health consultations ● Technical presentation for technical employees ● Employee health management ● Transmission of health information We set up opportunities to give technical presentations At our Head Office, in cooperation with our corporate (in-house newsletter and website) with the aims of enhancing presentation skills to promote health insurance society and the staff of our cafeteria busiEmployee motivation younger engineers’ technical capabilities as well as clarifyness, we held a wellness fair with the themes of “Obesity ing challenges and goals to enhance the technical capabilprevention-Creating a body that hardly gains weight” and ● Labor-management relations ities of each one. “Proper drinking-How to drink alcohol smartly.” During the The labor union is an organization which conducts perifair, panels were displayed, a registered dietitian provided odic deliberations and collective negotiations in terms of Enhancement of Cultivation of workplace ● Open laboratory individual diagnoses, and special menu items were annual salary, working hours and other working conditions employee abilities We organize open laboratories with the aim of widely offered. In addition, our corporate health insurance society and establishing a stable employee-employer relationship. environments enlightening our technical development result within the proactively conducts health management measures for all company and of providing opportunities for exchange employees. between the development team and other employees. ● English education support system (1) Enhance the motivation of employees by ensuring transparency as well as satisfaction for assessment. In order to improve the language skills of our employ■ Recruitment ees, we regularly offer TOEIC examinations on site. ● Objective Management System ● Graduate recruitment We utilize an Objective Management System in which ● Recruitment of handicapped persons work objectives are set at the beginning of the fiscal year ● Other systems We implement the periodic recruitment of new gradCurrently, 8 handicapped employees are active in the ● Support for obtaining qualifications uates every year, from the perspectives of long-range outcompany (as of March 31, 2011). We will continue to and the degree to which they are achieved are evaluated look and human resource cultivation. As for the recruitment ● Correspondence education programs strengthen our approaches toward improving the employat the end of the fiscal year. The objectives, which are for the next fiscal year, we will continue to implement fairer ● New employee training ment rate of handicapped people by proactively participatbased on company policies, are decided through meetings and more highly transparent recruitment activities via the ● General employee training ing in job-interview sessions in the local community as well and interviews with superiors to include the work tasks provision of information, putting ourselves in the students’ ● Managers training as implementing year-round recruitment. that each individual is to undertake over the year and the shoes. ● Job rotation system roles they are expected to fill. During the fiscal year, we conduct “midpoint interviews” ● Technical training sessions ● Reemployment system for employees reached the ● Internship mandatory retirement age for everyone around the same time. In addition to regular We have an internship program, accepting university (3) Improve the work environment, facilitating employees’ Since fiscal 2006, when we introduced a reemployment confirmation and follow-up on the progress status of objecand technical college students during their school summer efforts to address business tasks without anxiety. system for those employees having reached the mandatives, these promote communication between superiors and the employees that work under them and provide ● Balancing work and private life breaks. tory retirement age and we have been providing employIn order to maintain suitable working time periods, ees who wish to work actively after retirement with the opportunities to deepen mutual understanding and trust. [Takuma website – Recruitment info] assure days off and support diverse ways of working of CSR Report opportunities to continue playing active roles. our employees, we have incorporated systems for discrehttp://www.takuma.co.jp/saiyou/index.html May October March tionary work, flextime, and half-days off. In addition to various systems for supporting employees who are giving birth Interview Objective Midpoint Achievement and raising children, we have also created a system of ■ Respect for human rights and the meetings setting interviews evaluations time off for employees who nurse other family members abolition of discrimination that exceeds the amount of time legally required. Our company sets out its respect for basic human rights ● Takuma Group Ethics Charter (excerpt) and prohibition of discriminatory acts in the Takuma Group 4. We shall respect fundamental human rights and ● Implementation of no overtime days Ethics Charter, Takuma Group Code of Conduct, and never practice discrimination. ● In-house commendation ● Reduction of working after hours and on holidays labor regulations. In addition, we also support respect for ● Takuma Prize∗ ● Promotion of the use of compensatory holidays and ● Takuma Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) human rights, without contributing to human rights viola● Invention and idea commendations paid time off [Respect for basic human rights] tions, elimination of forced labor/child labor and the aboli● Qualification acquisition commendations ● Paid holidays in half-day units 9. Prohibition of discriminatory actions tion of discrimination through participation in the UN ● Takuma Technical Review Outstanding Paper Award ● Childcare leave 10. Respect of individuality, personal quality and Global Compact. ● Continuous service commendations ● Nursing leave (we allow one year compared to the privacy ∗ The Takuma Prize is awarded 93 days that are legally required) 11. Safe work environment to employees who have dem● Discretionary work system onstrated outstanding achieve● Flextime system ments in their work as well as to employees who have demonstrated outstanding achievements in their efforts for society outside of work, including lifesaving, disaster prevention and volunteer service. 45 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 46 Efforts for Occupational Health and Safety Environmental Report Having made “CSR founded on our shared respect for people” our most important slogan, we have been implementing activities to ensure safety and health with the aim of preventing occupational accidents, enhancing labor health, and promoting the formation of a comfortable working environment. Being the sixth year since we created and started operating the Takuma Construction Occupational Health and Safety Management System (TK-COHSMS), which is based on the OSHMS promoted by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, we are entering the stage in which safety and health activities promoted jointly by offices and factories should be implemented more actively and spontaneously. Under these circumstances, holding “Establishing stable leadership” as one of the priority safety and health targets for fiscal 2011, we will push forward with our goal of being a safer company by fully exercising our Our company has established the “Basic Environmental Policy” as leadership as a master contractor and by ensuring establishment of safety control systems at each related business operator. Basic Environmental follows; aiming to ensure employees contribute toward global environmental conservation. This basic policy applies to the activities ● Occupational safety and health activities and their results 3. Safety patrols Policy of all company departments. 1. Safety inspection system Based on our annual safety patrol plan, our Safety and We maintain a system where any construction or instalHealth Committee (comprising safety and health commitlation work starts only after the health and safety manager tee members and advisors) has continued safety patrols. Environmental Takuma is committed to preserving the environment and realizing an affluent society through business Philosophy activities under the Company Motto: “Value technology, people, and the earth.” in each department inspects the safety and health plans Our safety department and construction division also for the construction or installation work prepared by our conduct independent safety patrols. These safety patrols primary subcontractors, and then approves them. provide inspections/instructions and education, focusing 1. All Takuma Group companies will recognize the importance of maintaining a balance between preserva● Fiscal 2010 on the implementation status of risk assessment based on tion of the environment and business activities. Number of safety inspections done: 141 SSA (Safe Working Procedure Step Safety Assessment) 2. Continuously develop activities to preserve the environment that comply with applicable environmental as well as any unsafe conditions and unsafe acts at worklaws and ordinances, and ensure environmental control and assessment systems conform to international 2. Education for worksite representatives (safety and sites. environmental standards. health education) ● Number of safety patrols implemented in fiscal 2010 Operational 3. Promote development of improved technologies and products for society that preserve the environment. We continuously provide education to increase the levBy Safety and Health Committee (members, advisors): 108 Guidelines 4. Address resource conservation, energy efficiency, recycling, and minimization of waste generated by all els of safety awareness of our employees and affiliated By the safety department: 322 business activities. contractors. By the construction division: 409 5. Improve employee awareness and understanding about the importance of preserving the environment ● April 2004 – March 2011 through environmental education and internal promotional activities. Cumulative number of trainees: 19,608 6. Provide the community with information on the activities of Takuma to preserve the environment. Number of trainees passing the completion exam: 7,301 Environmental Our company has established the following environmental objectives. Objectives 1. Takuma will reduce the amount of overall energy consumption by 30% compared to its level of fiscal 2001 by fiscal 2012. 2. Takuma will reduce the amount of CO2 emissions by 30% compared to its level of fiscal 2001 by fiscal 2012. Takuma 3. Takuma will reduce the amount of waste generation by 30% compared to its level of fiscal 2001 by fiscal 2012. Environmental 4. Takuma will reduce the amount of final disposal of waste by 30% compared to its level of fiscal 2001 by fiscal Objectives 2012. 5. Takuma will achieve a rate of green purchase, such as office supplies, by more than 60% by fiscal 2012. 6. Takuma will take all effective and possible environmental measures by controlling expenditures on the same. ● Takuma's recent safety records (number of casualties and severity rate) Our safety record for fiscal 2010 includes five people who had to miss one or more days of work due to injury, with a Environmental In accordance with the establishment of our “Environmental Objectives,” our domestic group compaEnvironmental severity rate*, which expresses the extent of the accidents, of 0.70. Objectives for Report nies established their own “Environmental Objectives” and are striving toward efforts to reduce the (∗ Severity rate: Cumulative number of lost labor days per 1,000 total actual labor hours) Group Companies environmental load. 6 2.0 5 FY 2006 0.37 Number of 4 5 4 5 4 5 1.5 FY 2007 0.33 Environmental casualties 3 (persons) 2 0.70 Severity 1.0 rate FY 2008 0.41 Management 0.5 FY 2009 0.14 1 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.08 ■ The situation concerning the acquisition of ISO 14001 FY 2010 0.61 0 0.0 Our Harima Factory has acquired ISO 14001 certification and has been implementing environmental management activities, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 based on the environmental management system established to comply with international standards. Number of casualties and severity rate National average severity rate in construction industry Our group companies Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd., Takuma Technos Co., Ltd., and Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. have also acquired ISO 14001 certification. 47 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 48 Environmental Data Environmental Accounting ■ Objectives and achievements Since fiscal 2006, we introduced and disclosed our own environmental accounting system; based on the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Ministry of the Environment.” As our business activities 160,000 7,000 mainly involve environmental conservation plants and its equipment, Takuma Group employees have a significant 140,000 awareness of the need for environmental conservation and we have been implementing approaches toward such 6,000 issues within the Takuma Group. 120,000 5,000 Objective Objective 100,000 4,000 Scope of data collection (GJ/year) 80,000 (Tons-CO2/year) 60,000 3,000 ●Period: April 1, 2010 March 31, 2011 40,000 2,000 ●Sites: [12 companies within the country] 20,000 1,000 Takuma Co., Ltd. (Head Office, other offices including overseas sites and the Harima Factory), 0 0 Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd., Takuma Technos Co., Ltd., Hokkaido Sanitary Maintenance Co., Ltd., 2001 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 2001 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Takuma Technos Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Sun Plant Co., Ltd., Takuma Engineering Co., Ltd., (Ref. year) (Ref. year) [Total energy consumption] [Greenhouse gas emissions] Takuma System Control Co., Ltd., Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc., Kyoritsu Setsubi Co., Ltd., Kankyo Sol-Tech Co., Ltd., Takuma Plant Service Co., Ltd. 1,400 180,000 [4 overseas subsidiaries] 1,200 Waste generation Recycling 150,000 KAB Takuma GmbH, Bioener ApS, Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd., SIAM TAKUMA Co., Ltd. 1,000 Final disposal treatment 120,000 800 Objective (Tons/year) 600 (m3/year) 90,000 Environmental conservation cost Environmental conservation effect 60,000 400 Investment Costs Item FY2009 FY2010 Objective Item (thousand yen) (thousand yen) 200 30,000 (1) Environmental conservation effect concerning resources input for Business area costs business activities 0 0 2001 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 2001 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Pollution prevention costs – 19,814 Total energy input (GJ) 113,505 117,277 (Ref. year) Global environmental conservation costs 1,360 10,778 Water resources input (m3) 60,583 61,276 [Waste generation, recycling, final disposal treatment] [Water usage] Resource recycling costs – 15,432 (2) Environmental conservation effect concerning environmental loads and Management activity costs – 38,035 wastes created by the business activities Greenhouse gas emission volume (tons-CO2) 4,833 4,961 ●Total energy consumption ●Greenhouse gas emissions Research and development costs 26,198 815,353 Waste generation (tons) 879 1,011 The total energy consumption of fuels and electricity at The greenhouse gas emissions created by our compaSocial activity costs – 8,470 Total 27,558 907,882 Final disposal volume (tons) 151 119 our company is indicated in the graph above. The amount ny are limited to carbon dioxide (CO2). The amount of CO2 Total drainage volume (m3) 63,556 61,034 of energy consumed in fiscal 2010 was about the same as emissions in fiscal 2010 was about the same as in fiscal BOD emissions (tons) 3,565 3,466 in fiscal 2009, achieving our objective. We will continue to 2009, achieving our objective as well as the target total COD emissions (tons) 3,846 3,713 promote reducing energy consumption. energy consumption. We will continue striving to reduce T-N emissions (tons) 989 918 CO2 emissions, both at offices and factories. ●Waste generation T-P emissions (tons) 176 160 Our company sells recyclables and reusables from the ●Water usage waste generated through its business activities to scrap The applications of water are cooling and rinsing factory dealers, while outsourcing the treatment of the remainder equipment, while being used for daily life, cooling water for of the waste—non-recyclables and non-reusables—to haulers, processors and final disposal dealers, in accordance air-conditioners, watering plants and makeup water for ponds at the Head Office. The water used for these Environmental Efficiency with the Industrial Waste Control Manifest system. applications is all tap water. At the Harima Factory, its water area is covered by the special measures law for the Seto Inland Sea environmen“As for environmental loads, there is a need for busital conservation, whereby stringent emission concentration ness organizations to reduce their gross volumes. HowDefinition of our environmental efficiency regulations as well as total volume control are applied. Environmental ever, approaches toward high economic efficiency are The water quality is regularly checked at each registered also required from a business management perspective. Consolidated net sales (million yen) drain outlet and the result is reported to Hyogo Prefecture. Consequently, when comprehending and evaluating Report Greenhouse gas emissions (tons-CO2) ■ PRTR emissions environmental performance as well as approaches toward the environment implemented by business orgaAlthough our business activities do not involve a wide ● Toluene (CAS No. 108-88-3) nizations, it is important to comprehend and manage an 30 variety of chemical substances on a massive scale, we Used for chemical analyses inside analytical laboratories index indicating the efficiency of their approaches toward use a few designated chemical substances. Consequently, the environment, while also reflecting the economic 25 22.37 we report and register such chemical substances designaFY 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 value they produce, as well as an index indicating the 20 19.68 ted as PRTR [Pollutant Release and Transfer Register], in Emissions (tons) 3.4 1.1 0.4 0.1 0.03 17.97 total loading dose.” (Environmental Performance Indi15.05 accordance with relevant laws and ordinances, with the After use, all materials are taken away by waste-solvent dealers cators Guideline for Organizations—Fiscal Year 2002 15 13.15 local government. for disposal. Version—: Ministry of the Environment) 10 ● Dichloromethane (CAS No. 75-09-2) ● Xylene (CAS No. 1330-20-7) At Takuma, we calculated our environmental efficien5 Rustproofing paint on structural steel for boilers Rustproofing paint on structural steel for boilers cy in response to the demands of this age. In fiscal 0 2010, our environmental efficiency was almost the same 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) FY 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 compared to fiscal 2009. [Environmental efficiency] Emissions (tons) 0 0.5 0 0.1 0 Emissions (tons) 1.8 1.5 0.2 1.2 1.4 49 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 50 Outside Expert Opinion Takuma Corporation identifies its stakeholders, engages In conclusion Comments on Takuma Corporation’s CSR Report for 2011 with them in order to actively addresses their interests, I congratulate the Takuma Corporation on the considand how it integrates their goals and concerns in formuerable achievement represented by this report for 2011 lating its CSR activities as a mid to long-term strategic and look forward to a more detailed explication of their plan. goals and achievements based upon a strategic mid to long-term plan in the next report. Scott Davis Professor of Strategic CSR Rikkyo University Response to the Outside Expert Opinion The waste processing and treatment industry in the in the most efficient and environmentally friendly way, Wataru Yoshida world and in Japan is not known for its transparency. and coordinate the many organizations, communities Executive Officer General Manager, Few corporations in this industry regularly report on and corporations involved in the use and management of Compliance & CSR Promotion Div. & their CSR activities or implement systematic corporate resources in a responsible and equitable manner. Corporate Service Div. social responsibility initiatives as part of their business In his report on the state of the main business, management processes. President Tejima states that the Takuma Corporation’s The Takuma Corporation stands out in marked consocial responsibility is to maintain and promote sustaintrast to this trend. The Takuma Corporation has proability throughout the world by the development of duced a corporate social responsibility report annually environmental and energy technology. This concise We are deeply grateful to Professor Scott Davis ment Plan into consideration, by closely examining since 2007 (a precursor of this series was published in conceptualization of the social responsibility of the for his comments on our CSR Report for 2011. our CSR activities and determining what the priority 2006 as an Environmental Report) making this report business and management of the Takuma Corporation is This is the fifth time that we have issued a CSR issues are in order to formulate a system in which for 2011 its fifth to date. This ongoing reporting critically important and sets the tone for the entire Report. Fiscal 2010, which is the focus of this the PDCA cycle for CSR activities functions well. achievement, combined with the fact that this reporting report. report, is the second year of our 9th Mid-Term process is grounded upon a well organized and carefully Management Plan, and fiscal 2011 is the final year Our key field is mainly the environment and planned CSR initiative, places the Takuma corporation Processes and Partners of the plan. energy business. Today, corporate sustainable firmly on the leading edge of responsible business in The report gives a wealth of examples showing the In the comments, Professor Davis provided his development is impossible without placing importhis industry. actual processes by which the Takuma Corporation views on the intentions of the President and CEO tance on the environment and energy. In his comimplements its principles in its daily operations. The stated in the “Message from the Top Management,” ments, Professor Davis provides both good points A CSR Report is not just a list of past activities. It is a many innovations in plant design and new technology as well as our efforts for responsible “Deployment as well as needed improvements regarding staying means for a corporation to explain its reason for exispresented in the “topics” clearly demonstrate the of Businesses,” “Compliance,” “Risk Management” committed to our main business. We will make tence, the processes that it implements in order to realTakuma Corporation’s commitment to contributing to and “Development of New Technologies.” steady efforts for continued improvement in the ize and achieve these principles and goals, and the society by the active development and application of Viewing compliance and risk management as the areas he indicated. processes through which it identifies and engages with new technologies as a pioneer in this industry. most important bases of our CSR activities, we Amid changes in circumstances in the world and the partners with which it works and serves. This review The sections describing the corporate governance, introduce their structures and mechanisms in this Japan from day to day, as an environment and will therefore examine the strengths and weaknesses in compliance, and risk management systems are also well report. CSR activities are premised on continued energy company, we strive to continue publicizing reporting of the principles, processes and partners of the presented and explained. The risk management section existence of the company, and thus compliance and our policies, principles and objectives and specific Takuma corporation as a responsible and ongoing conis particularly interesting and could be improved by givrisk management are indispensable. As Professor efforts to achieve them through our CSR Reports. cern. ing examples of risks in each of the three classifications Davis indicated, we will make sure to conduct risk Furthermore, not satisfied with past achievements that were identified in the past and explaining how they management and continue our efforts to explain its alone, we will conduct our business activities under Outside Expert Principles were managed. The explanation in the section on results in an easily understood manner in the future the company motto of “Value Technology, People In his message at the beginning of the report, President operations describing how the “corporate mission and as we do today. and the Earth.” Opinion Tejima describes waste management and energy as policy” is used to ensure that plants are designed and Furthermore, in the section “CSR Activities for We will take the comments offered here to heart, being an industry developing as an ongoing process in operated in alignment with the interests and wellbeing the Future,” we introduce our efforts to draw a roadand would like to use them to promote CSR manresponse to changing international and domestic of the stakeholder is particularly interesting. map for the years ahead. The scope of corporate agement in the future and to prepare even better demands and technological challenges. President Tejima An objective assessment of the state of the business social responsibility activities is broad and thus an CSR Reports starting with the next edition. We aim describes Takuma Corporation’s strategy as being a and achievements in attaining goals for further promotaction plan showing a clear way forward is an to press forward in our efforts to meet the expectacontinuous cycle of learning and innovation designed to ing responsible business is a critical part of a positive essential part of CSR activities. We plan to draw tions of all our stakeholders, so I hope that you will understand the ever-changing nature of waste produced CSR initiative. This report therefore could be further this roadmap, taking the next Mid-Term Manageoffer us your continued support and cooperation. by society, develop the technology required to process it improved by providing an explanation of how the 51 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 52 Working with the Global Environment Takuma’s CO2 Reduction In 1 year, down In 1 year, down In 1 year, Takuma products cut Technologies 1.04 million 4.25 million about 5 tons! tons! million CO2 reduction achieved by Takuma’s CO2 reduction achieved by We convert waste/biomass into energy and reduce CO2! ordinary waste incineration Takuma’s biomass power plants and industrial waste incineration plants∗ (as of end of FY2010) generation boilers (as of end of FY2010) tons! ∗ According to “Waste incineration facility ledger fiscal 2006” by the Japan Waste Research Foundation, and Takuma’s achievement records Reducing CO2 at Energy from Garbage can Waste plants and industrial become energy! waste incineration plants Garbage is not really waste. It is an important source of energy. About 500kWh∗ of power can be generated from one ton of garbage. In Europe and the Americas, waste incineration plants are often called Energy-from-Waste About (EfW) plants, and recovering energy from What is biomass? 1 ton of Waste Biomass is any recyclable organic material derived from a living garbage has become the norm. Please stop thinking of garbage as “garbage.” It is a 500kWh organism, but does not include fossil fuels. For example, even though CO2 is emitted if vegetables and other household wastes “resource.” We are seeking to be the best in garbage combustion of power are incinerated, when vegetables are grown again, they absorb the world with our technologies to convert waste into energy and reduce CO2. generated CO2, so there is no increase in CO2 in the atmosphere. By using ∗ Assumes the waste has a calorific value of 8,800kJ/kg and the heat produced by incinerating biomass to generate power, a power generation efficiency of 20%. the amount of power generated using fossil fuels as fuels can be reduced, and this contributes to decreasing CO2. It’s an environmentReducing CO2 with biomass Woodchips friendly energy. power generation boilers A classic example of biomass power generation is in sugar refineries. At factories that make sugar, the remnants of the raw materials are produced in large quantities. Sugarcane is crushed minutely, and sugar is extracted in a compressor. The remaining fiber is called baEnergy gasse and can be used as boiler fuel. The steam produced can be used to provide electricity necessary at the plant, and then used as a heat source for refining sugar. In recent Working with the years, the amount of power generated at suBiomass power gar refineries has grown greatly. There are generation boiler even examples of single plants that are stably Global Environment supplying electric power equivalent to 50MW. Sugarcane Palm 53 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 TAKUMA CSR REPORT 2011 54 Takuma Co., Ltd. 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0806 Japan Website: http://www.takuma.co.jp/english/ ● For further information on the CSR Report, please contact: General Affairs Department TEL: +81-6-6483-2609 FAX: +81-6-6483-2751 CSR Department TEL: +81-6-6483-2673 FAX: +81-6-6483-2620 In consideration of the environment, this report was printed using a “waterless printing” process and uses paper certified by the FSC and ink derived from vegetable oil.
