Sustainability Report 2010/2011. Highlights 2010/2011 The Growth Track Programme is a partnership of Deloitte and FutureWorld to help Deloitte create its ‘Business of Tomorrow’ and in turn help Deloitte’s clients understand, design and create their future November 2010 1,000 new business ideas for 1,000 solar LED lights. As part of a Deloitte Innovation campaign lights are donated to Stichting Ghanasi September 2010 Waar u wilt, gewoon voor uzelf Impact day; Het leven is al hectisch genoeg, dus het is heerlijk om af en toe te ontspannen met een goed boek. Nu kunt u overal waar u wilt lezen zonder de persoon naast u te storen. 370 Deloitters Topprestaties • Innovatieve LED-technologie met uiterst lange gebruiksduur • Gemakkelijk met één hand te gebruiken • Krachtige, gelijkmatige lichtuitvoer • Ultraplat participated Gebruiksgemak • In-/uitschakelen en drie lichtsterktes • USB-oplaadkabel meegeleverd • Overal te gebruiken en in het boek te bewaren • Bruikbaar als boekenlegger November 2010 Veilig in gebruik • LED blijft koel • Geen open elektriciteit 2 Dedicated Sustainability Board established June 2010 For a number of service lines we analysed how sustainability can be integrated into our client offerings January 2011 Deloitte Sustainability Report published 2009/2010 Innovative CO2 GRI A+ September 2010 bonus system introduced in Green Lease policy June 2010 Annual partner meeting held around the themes of innovation and sustainability September 2010 Sustainability Report 2010/2011 3 Partnership with the Duisenberg school of finance March 2011 Platinum sponsor of the Sustainable Supply Chains and Sustainability Gala 2010 Leon Pieters, partner Deloitte together with Kofi Annan at the event, June 2010 Deloitte collaborated on the WEF report, The Consumption Dilemma Leverage Points for Training sessions Accelerating Sustainable Growth arranged on January 2011 Sustainability Assurance for Deloitte Audit June 2010 May 2011 Stakeholder dialogue Handbook process set up and being on sustainability carried out. New targets for the coming three years for housing will be set in Autumn associations 2011 published March 2011 – Onwards 2011 4 Deloitte Corporate Campaign on Sustainability 45% Carbon reduction September 2010 (target surpassed by 5%) Maak uw winst duurzaam Duurzaamheid is inmiddels meer dan alleen een idealistische keuze: het is een serieuze businesskans. Maar met die constatering zijn we er nog niet. Want waar zitten die kansen precies? En hoe benut je ze optimaal? Deloitte kan daarbij helpen. Met een aantal praktische tools die laten zien waar winst te behalen is. En een gezamenlijke aanpak waarmee je resultaat boekt. Waarmee u werkt aan een zonnige toekomst: niet alleen voor mens en milieu, maar nu ook voor uw bedrijfsresultaat. Lees meer over onze tools op www.deloitte.nl/duurzaamondernemen © 2010 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu DELOITTE_99234_zon 215x285 Elsevier.indd 1 9/22/10 3:30 PM Focus on sustainability in Deloitte’s external magazine Fact October and December 2010 Deloitte Non-Executive Survey on sustainability published December 2010 Sustainability Report 2010/2011 5 About Deloitte European network The Deloitte firms of Denmark, Belgium, Germany, Our mission is to deliver measurable value to our clients Austria, Luxembourg, Central Europe and the and stakeholders through a global network of diverse Netherlands work together internationally within Deloitte Société Européenne (DSE); a regional professionals who bring unmatched depth and breadth of cooperation focused on servicing clients seamlessly, expertise. across borders. France is participating as an associate member. Global cooperation Our vision Deloitte in the Netherlands is a member of Our vision is to be the Standard of Excellence in the Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL). Together we markets in which we operate. deliver integrated expertise and innovative services on a global and a local level with professionalism, quality Our sustainability vision and integrity. Our vision on sustainability is to be the Standard of Excellence in making Deloitte and its clients sustainable Legal status for the future. Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private company limited Our structure by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each The Deloitte organisational structure (the organisational of which is a legally separate and independent entity. chart can be found in Deloitte’s Annual Report Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed 2010/2011) is divided into four core functions that description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche collaborate across specialist industry and market Tohmatsu and its member firms. segments. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting and financial advisory services to public and private clients across multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries, Deloitte brings world class capabilities and deep local expertise to help clients succeed wherever they operate. Deloitte has more than 170,000 professionals, committed to becoming the Standard of Excellence. Deloitte’s professionals are unified by a collaborative culture that fosters integrity, outstanding value to markets and clients, commitment to each other and strength from cultural diversity. They enjoy an environment of continuous learning, challenging experiences and enriching career opportunities. Deloitte’s professionals are dedicated to strengthening corporate responsibility, building public trust and making a positive impact in their communities. 6 Contents Highlights 2 About Deloitte 6 Letter from the Executive Board 8 Shared values and ethical principles 10 Letter from the Supervisory Board 11 Part I: Key activities 2010/2011 13 Sustainability strategy 15 Serving our clients 20 Our people 24 Our role in society 30 Our ecological footprint 36 Part II: Governance and reporting on performance 39 Governance and Reporting 40 Assurance report 52 GRI table 54 Sustainability Report 2010/2011 7 Letter from the Executive Board Rotterdam, 22 July 2011 Dear reader, We are delighted to present our Sustainability Report 2010/2011. Sustainability is an integral part of our shared values, ethical principles and the way we do business. In this document, we describe the elements that underpin our ambitious approach and chart the progress we have made to date. In the year, we took important steps towards ensuring the long-term sustainability of our business. We understand that there there are many areas where we need to contribute, not only in the advice and services we provide to our clients and transparency to our stakeholders but also in our investment in our people, our support for local communities and commitment to environmentally sustainable operations. One of the key challenges we face is to embed sustainability in all of our service offerings. We have made progress in this area, but we are raising our ambitions every year. One of our key initiatives was to start a comprehensive stakeholder engagement process that will soon allow us to sharpen our focus and develop better indicators to measure our success in future The results of the stakeholders engagement process will become available in then next couple of months, and these results will provide significant input for our target Executive Board setting in the coming year. R.J.M. Dassen We hope you enjoy reading this report and are able Chairman of the Executive Board to find the information you are looking for. The report Chief Executive Officer is based on the G3 reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and classifies at GRI A+ level. C.J.G.M. de Boer We are always looking for ways to improve and would Member of the Executive Board welcome any comments you have via our website: Deputy CEO www.deloitteannualreport.nl. Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer J. Volkers Member of the Executive Board Chief Clients & Markets Officer 8 Executive Board: J. Volkers, R.J.M. Dassen, C.J.G.M. de Boer Sustainability Report 2010/2011 9 Shared values and ethical principles Deloitte’s shared values define the underlying beliefs that tie DTTL and its member firms together. Our ethical principles further determine the specific standards of behaviour expected of all Deloitte’s leaders and people. The shared values are: Strength from Integrity cultural diversity Commitment Outstanding to each other value to markets and clients Our ethical principles give guidance on appropriate professional conduct, covering the following issues: Honesty and integrity Fair business practices “We act with honesty and integrity.” “We are committed to fair business practices.” Professional behaviour Responsibility to society “We operate within the letter and the spirit of “We recognise and respect the impact we have on the applicable laws.” world around us.” Competence Respect and fair treatment “We bring appropriate skills and capabilities to every “We treat all our colleagues with respect, courtesy and client assignment.” fairness.” Objectivity Accountability and decision making “We are objective in forming our professional opinions “We lead by example, using our shared values as our and the advice we give.” foundation.” Confidentiality “We respect the confidentiality of information.” 10 Letter from the Supervisory Board Rotterdam, 22 July 2011 Deloitte’s vision is to be the Standard of Excellence and we believe important steps were taken in 2010/2011 to come closer to realising this ambition. The period was the first full year in which Deloitte implemented its new As One strategy. Sustainability is a key element of this strategy and is comprised of two main focus areas. First of all, to ensure the organisation is practicing what it preaches by achieving a high level of sustainability across its own operations, and secondly, to benefit its clients by integrating sustainability across all the services it delivers. Programmes have started in several target areas and a major focus is to undertake a comprehensive stakeholder dialogue process. This process continues until the next fiscal year and will help to further improve our reporting by taking us towards a fully integrated sustainability report. It also helps us to develop targets until end of 2015/2016. The greatest impact that Deloitte can have is to support its clients in their journeys towards greater sustainability. Deloitte has therefore started an extensive sustainability embedding programme for many of its service lines and embarked on a sustainable innovation agenda, including collaborations with leading organisations in this field. A. Verberk (Chairman) At the same time, Deloitte took further steps to reduce its environmental footprint through measures that included a green car leasing policy and constructing a sustainable office buildings in Amsterdam and Utrecht. Target setting will be further defined based on the outcome of our stakeholder dialogues. This report outlines the important progress Deloitte has made in this regard and describes the measures Deloitte is taking to incorporate sustainability even further. >> Sustainability Report 2010/2011 11 The Supervisory Board last year supported the decision by the Executive Board to appoint a dedicated Sustainability Board responsible for driving forward the new strategy. However, this early progress was overshadowed by the passing away of the Chair of the Sustainability Board, Mr. Ko van Leeuwen, who had just begun to enthusiastically shape the Board’s agenda. In April 2011, Mr. Jos Koedijk took over the role as Chairman. We wish him all the best in his new function. We realise that Deloitte’s role in society is important, as we aim to provide sustainable, high quality solutions to our clients. The Board sees Deloitte Netherlands moving ahead with conviction and passion which are the necessary ingredients for achieving our goals. This is also a specific responsibility for Deloitte overall, now being the biggest global accounting and advisory firm. Deloitte Netherlands, is committed to taking a leading role in this challenge towards a sustainable future for all. The Supervisory Board is grateful to all partners and staff for their hard work and commitment throughout this fiscal year. We are confident that the Sustainability programme now underway will ensure Deloitte’s leadership in the market for many years to come. The Supervisory Board A. Verberk (Chairman) J.C. Kombrink J. Schraverus F.G. Barnard (Vice-Chairman) J.G.C.M. Buné F. R. Herreveld 12 Part I: Key activities 2010/2011 Sustainability Report 2010/2011 13 Sustainability strategy • Dedicated sustainability team • Ambition to integrate sustainability into our way of thinking and in the services we offer to our clients • Innovate existing and create new services • Eight core sustainability service lines Serving our clients Our people Our role in society Our ecological footprint • Intend to integrate • Sustainability learning • The future of Audit • Carbon reduction sustainability into our programme for our • Fair Chance Foundation • Sustainable buildings service offerings audit professionals • Impact Day & IT • Innovate new • Diversity strategy • Sustainable offerings, including • Retention strategy procurement advisory and • Green Lease policy assurance services • Reporting on performance Governance and reporting • Governance and risk management • Structured stakeholder dialogue • Reporting progress on performance indicators 14 Sustainability strategy As a leading professional services organisation, Deloitte Central to our strategy for sustainability is our ongoing has much to contribute to public policy, business and commitment to transparency and dialogue with our society. Our commitment to behaving in an ethical and stakeholders. At Deloitte, we are mindful of the role we responsible way is rooted in our core values. We play towards helping to restore trust and confidence demonstrate this commitment to sustainability through: in global capital markets. Please also refer to our Transparancy Report for further information. • The advice and services we provide to our clients We have taken steps to enhance our audit services to • Being transparent with our stakeholders taking a more holistic view of the businesses we serve. Today, we deliver value to our clients by helping to • Investment in our people foster innovation and increase the sustainability of their operations. • Support of local communities and of society One of the most significant areas of public engagement • Environmentally sustainable operations to emerge for the audit profession in recent years is the European Commission’s Green Paper, ‘Audit Policy: It has been three years since we first outlined the Lessons from the Crisis’, a regulatory initiative that targets to progress our ambitious sustainability strategy. aims to learn from the financial crisis and apply these As we look ahead, we are heightening our aims and learning across the industry in Europe. taking bolder steps towards having sustainability thinking incorporated in our ways of working. We For more information about Deloitte’s response to have a sustainability team integrated within Deloitte this initiative, please refer to ‘Our role in society’ on Innovation B.V., which operates within our existing fast, page 30. innovator and growth track schemes. The sustainability team supports our audit, tax, consulting and financial advisory services functions in their innovation process Our sustainability definition to develop new services aligned with Deloitte’s vision on sustainability. The functions are then responsible Create and innovate shared value for people, for creating capacity to embed and sell these services, planet and profit: working with the client teams to identify client needs, create demand and develop client proposals. • Secure long term economic value of business • Mitigate risks and exploit opportunities • D  evelop transparent and credible stakeholder relationships Sustainability Report 2010/2011 15 Sustainable solutions • Build a cross functional collaboration platform Sustainability is an integral part of our vision 2016 and As One strategy for the period 2011/2013 that • A  pply a multiple partner approach; Deloitte actively will enable us to fulfil our vision to be the Standard of engages in external partnerships with other business Excellence, while achieving sustainable growth and a associates and clients leadership position in the market. We look to deliver integrated sustainability solutions that create shared We are undertaking a structured stakeholder dialogue value; benefiting our clients economically, while taking to determine our strategic targets for the coming three into account the interests of our main stakeholders. To years. A survey has been sent to our most important achieve this we intend to: stakeholders and interviews are being carried out. Results will be assessed in the summer of 2011. This will • D  esign an integrated approach towards be followed by a workshop in September 2011 that will sustainability drill deeper into the most material issues and dilemmas facing Deloitte. The results will provide significant input • Innovate existing service offerings for our target setting in the coming year. Figure 1: Creating shared value by delivering sustainable solutions Added value to clients Integrated Core services New services Integrate sustainability in existing services Support clients with core sustainability services (growth inside current business) Innovate new sustainability services (growth outside current business) 16 Update on key initiatives in sustainability at Deloitte As part of our As One strategy, we defined a set of key initiatives in 2010/2011 which translated our Vision 2016 into concrete actions. This table provides an update on these key initiatives. Table 1: Key initiatives Activity Status Comments Relevant stakeholder groups have been identified and are currently being engaged in a dialogue to identify and assess the material issues affecting Deloitte’s sustainability Stakeholder management agenda, performance and reporting. Results will be applied in target setting and reporting for the following years. The three-year programme aims to fully integrate sustainability in all existing service Service impact assessment offerings. In this programme the (indirect) impact of the service on sustainability is assessed and opportunities to make the offering sustainable are explored. A dedicated sustainability team has been appointed, responsible for defining and Operational sustainability executing the sustainability strategy and initiatives. An internal sustainability manager management responsible for internal sustainability management and reporting will be hired in the short-term. A sustainability learning programme has been developed and rolled out from within the Sustainability learning Audit function. Carbon reduction targets for the three-year period have been achieved. Based on the Carbon emission reduction outcome of the stakeholder dialogue, new measurement systems and targets for the next period will be defined. A corporate communications campaign has been rolled out internally and externally. Corporate positioning We developed three campaigns, named ‘Make your profit sustainable’, ‘Maximum strength’ and ‘Radical Innovation’ (Translated from Dutch). Full alignment with other Sustainability is a key initiative in the As One strategy and is monitored by the Board, as strategic initiatives with other strategic initiatives. Alignment is an ongoing effort to coordinate initiatives. By actively engaging people in the sustainability initiatives we have carried out, a Community platform community is starting to take shape. Communication and collaboration between employees from various functions is facilitated and enforced by this community. Deloitters are already participating. Current risk assessment procedures such as client acceptance have been reviewed from Sustainability risk assessment a sustainability perspective. Sustainability aspects are inherently part of procedures, but more conscious decision-making will need to be included in the future. Improved and integrated The outcome of the stakeholder dialogue process will help to define the desired form of reporting reporting. This outcome will be assessed for next year’s report. Supply chain assessment All tenders should include sustainability criteria. No comprehensive assessment on sustainable performance of our current supplier base has been undertaken yet. Planned In progress Objective nearly achieved Objective achieved Sustainability Report 2010/2011 17 Sustainability milestones 2011/2012 We have defined concrete milestones for 2011/2012, based on our sustainability over the last few years. Based on the results of our Stakeholder Dialogue in 2011 it will help us to define our strategic objectives towards 2016. In the coming year there are a number of planned activities around CO2 reduction. We will also carry on with the development of our policy around making sustainability an integral part of our decision making process. This will not only include the reduction of CO2 emission but look at sustainability in a broader sense. This will cover procurement policies and the inclusion of sustainability requirements on the basis of Breeam-NL for the extension of lease contracts. The internal decision making for this new policy and how it will be implemented will be finalized during this financial year. Table 2: Sustainability milestones Activity Milestones 2011/2012 Stakeholder management Comprehensive stakeholder dialogue completed. Results communicated and translated into concrete objectives towards 2016. Service impact assessment Ongoing execution of the embedding programme to integrate sustainability elements into at least 10 existing service offerings. Operational sustainability A dedicated internal sustainability manager (1FTE) is responsible for coordinating internal management sustainability management and the continuation of the external stakeholder dialogue process. Sustainability learning The sustainability learning programme will be further rolled out. This will entail learning programmes as well as learning on the job. At least 100 employees have been educated on the fundamental principles of sustainability, either from a generic perspective or related to a specific function. Carbon emission reduction Extend Carbon Targets to Ecological Footprint targets towards 2015/2016. Key performance indicators and respective targets are defined and enforced for all relevant involved parties. Progress is monitored and reported to the Sustainability Board on at least a semi-annual basis. Corporate positioning Evaluation of our sustainability performance as measured by the annual Group Market Study is increased by at least 5%. Full alignment with other strategic Ongoing effort to align and embed sustainability in all strategic initiatives. initiatives Community platform A community event will be organised for the employees who have joined the community. An intranet information platform on sustainability will be fully functional. Sustainability risk assessment A dedicated sustainability manager will report directly to the Risk & Reputation Leader. Improved & integrated reporting Based on the outcome of the stakeholder dialogue and trend development the current reporting strategy will be amended or revised. Supply chain assessment All tenders for suppliers include sustainability criteria. All current significant suppliers will be assessed on their sustainability performance. 18 ‘We look to deliver integrated sustainability solutions that create shared value; benefiting our clients economically, while taking into account the interests of our main stakeholders’ Sustainability Report 2010/2011 19 Serving our clients Our Audit function started integrating sustainability in its reporting and assurance services a few years ago. As a professional services organisation, our most Sustainability is increasingly becoming an important significant sustainability impact is realised through part of our clients’ organisations. As a result of this we have developed a three-year programme to integrate the services we provide to our clients. As such we try sustainability in all our existing services. The aim of this to practice what we preach and manage the direct programme is to raise awareness of the sustainability issues faced by our clients and make the impact of our and indirect impact we have on the environment, the service offering more sustainable for the long term. economy and society. Client engagement & relevance of sustainability Deloitte actively connects with its clients to improve Our vision is to embed sustainability into our service its service output. Results of the annual Group Market offerings and increase awareness amongst our Study (GMS)1 indicate an average of 7.2 out of 10 on employees and the organisations we provide advice to. client satisfaction with Deloitte. We regularly perform Client Service Assessments (CSAs)2 to receive feedback We have defined eight sustainability services (see on our services and performance. The CSA results next page) that we offer to our clients. Through indicate that clients are satisfied with our sustainability these offerings we try to maximise the sustainability performance (ratings: 66% good; 7% excellent). impact we have on our clients. Important for us is to continuously measure how our clients value our Almost half of the respondents to the GMS value that services. sustainability forms part of the advice offered. This demonstrates a clear market need to integrate sustainability. Source: CSA 2011 Figure 2: Client Service Assessment scores 1 The GMS is performed by an independent external research company that approaches clients of all the ‘Big Four’ companies, as well as smaller firms. 2 C SA is a Deloitte survey amongst clients, in 2010/2011. 343 clients rated our sustainability performance in the text. Excellent Good Acceptable Poor 20 Our eight sustainability service offerings 1 2 3 4 Sustainability and climate change strategy Sustainability governance and risk intelligence Energy and natural resource management Managing energy, natural Human capital and stakeholder engagement for Developing a roadmap Developing strategies and resource consumption sustainability to help address governance to address and emissions within Strategic communications sustainability issues in sustainability related risks sustainable limits and organisational design support of objectives to engage employees in sustainability initiatives and create lasting behavioural change 5 6 7 8 Sustainable operations and supply chains Integrate sustainability IT for sustainability Information management capabilities to enable Sustainability reporting, assurance and compliance Sustainable innovation Create business opportunities focused on throughout supply sustainability strategies, Collecting and reporting sustainable value, using chains, product lifecycles programmes and data in compliance with Fast, Innovator or Growth and internal operations processes laws, regulations and Track methodologies. stakeholder expectations Sustainability Report 2010/2011 21 Four examples of our sustainability services Sustainable Operations & Supply Chains Client insight We have implemented the most obvious efficiencies within the supply chain and now need an innovative approach to reach the next level of having a truly sustainable supply chain. Description of service delivered Sustainable Innovation; energy & natural Sustainability improvement opportunities can be resource management found in every stage of the supply chain. Examples of sustainability improvement opportunities Client insight include the optimisation of the whole supply How can we both deliver value to our tenants and chain network (location, supply chain operations) to communal CO2 and cost savings targets based on based on costs and carbon dioxide emissions, the existing real estate portfolio? making the product more sustainable by reducing packaging and collaboration with selected Description of service delivered suppliers to boost sustainable innovation. We Making real estate more sustainable leads to help our clients to develop a business case for energy savings and CO2 reduction, meeting the identified opportunities and developing a requirements of legal and regulatory framework. roadmap for their implementation. Deloitte supports building owners with an innovative approach whereby saving energy Our experience shows that focus on sustainability measures can be charged budget neutral with not only improves performance in terms of guaranteed cost reduction. So both the tenant reduced carbon dioxide but also reduces costs. and the local authorities benefit from this holistic Deloitte has developed a DigiScan tool to assess energy saving approach. and improve the performance of the complete distribution system. Typical results are 10-15% Tool provided cost reduction and 12-15% reduction in carbon Building & Portfolio Retrofit: dioxide emissions. Grip on Energy Tool provided Deloitte Transport Digiscan 22 Human Capital & Stakeholder Engagement for Sustainability Client insight Sustainability should become a fixed part of the reward system of our company but it is hard to define the right KPI’s. Description of service delivered Reward systems are typically still based on traditional values and performance indicators. Indicators tend to lack a broader reward Sustainability & Climate Change Strategy framework that takes into account non-financial variables. On the other hand, stakeholders are Client insight increasingly demanding that organisations embed In defining a feasible and efficient sustainability sustainability into their business targets. Deloitte policy and objectives we need to know our current developed a Sustainable Reward Framework (SRF) sustainability performance. that can be adapted for individual companies to incorporate sustainable criteria in their Description of service delivered remuneration policies. Owning 2.4 million housing units, the Social Housing Associations would like to contribute to The framework offers a methodology for the lowering the CO2 and energy costs of its housing determination of (variable) remuneration, units. Based on the Deloitte Sustainability Maturity whereby the value of each performance is Model, the level of sustainability in the sector was measured against its sustainability impact. Using defined and best practices were gathered and either existing or new KPI’s designed to meet analysed, resulting in a complete Handbook for the company’s current sustainability needs, the Sustainability. Every Housing Association can now ‘profit corrected for sustainability’ is then used develop its own policy and objectives. to determine the final amount of the (variable) reward. Tool provided Deloitte Sustainability Maturity Model Tool provided Sustainability Reward Framework Sustainability Report 2010/2011 23 Our people Yvette Estourgie, manager Organisation and Change (Human Capital, consulting), participant Manager Development Journey “At the start of the course we completed a personality test, the results of which gave me a lot of insight about myself and the areas I need to improve on. The course also provided input on the clients you work for and the team you work with. Besides this the programme really gave me the feeling that we had accomplished something and that ‘our journey’ had begun. Above all I was able to expand my national and international network.” See page 27 24 At Deloitte, our people are our most important Diversity asset and we are committed to building sustainable People diversity is important to Deloitte and our main relationships with them. We believe that attracting, focus is currently on the advancement of women in engaging and retaining great people is fundamental the workplace. At senior levels, women are significantly to becoming the Standard of Excellence. Our ambition underrepresented. Our goal is to support, facilitate and is to be a high performance organisation with a high nurture female employees to move through to the performance culture. By attracting top talent we are highest level and correct this imbalance over time. and will be attractive for top clients. To strengthen our As One culture we are committed to investing in talent During 2010/2011, 37% of our new recruits were and leadership development. women and our current percentage of female partners is seven. 29% of managers are women, 18% of the Our top priority is to implement our leadership senior managers are women, 10% of the directors are programme. Inspiring leadership is crucial for women and 12.5% of the new partners are women. developing and motivating our talent within the firm. At the same time, we have seen too many talented Another priority is to improve our formation planning women leave our organisation for various reasons. In to optimise the quantity and quality of the workforce. order to retain our talented women, Deloitte has a We have transferred our HR organisation to a new diversity program in place. service delivery model. This ensures a more effective and efficient HR service towards the functions served. Deloitte signed the Charter Talent to the Top, which is an initiative of Dutch government to increase the Leadership programme number of women in decision taking/ leadership The LEAD programme is developed for all newly positions. Signing means that Deloitte has the intention appointed senior managers: this is a two-year to support the objective of the Charter and increase leadership programme that uses a mix of learning the number of women in leadership positions. In the techniques, focused on strategy, authentic leadership past senior women indicated that their reasons for and self-reflection, building and maintaining client leaving were: dissatisfaction with strategy of the firm, relations and leading a team. In 2010, two new LEAD lack of career opportunities or they were dissatisfied groups comprising 100 people started the programme. about the advancement of women. For that reason a special programme was set up to address the issues, Milestone programme the woman partner/director development programme. The Milestone programme helps newly appointed In this programme the female senior managers are managers begin their development journey on the coached by the top of organisation to talk about the right foot to increase their effectiveness. This crossissues around advancement of women and to broaden functional programme enables managers to build their their network within the organisation. In addition to experience in a management role and develop key this a combination of training and coaching for female competencies from a personal, team member and client employees, is available to female employees. Content perspective. is tailored to the years of experience and needs of participant. The programme or part of it can be used Workforce optimisation as a one-off or in series. Content of training is focused In 2010/2011 we started a programme that closely on personal career and presentation, vision, strategy monitors and optimises our workforce, in accordance and understanding and use of the political network, to our plan and business model. This programme will negotiation etc. Empowerment and advancement be developed further to enhance both profitability and of women is something that Deloitte is taking very the match between assignments and the competencies seriously. of our people. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 25 Another important focus area covers ethnic diversity. Recruiting We focused on a number of actions in 2010/2011, We are focused on recruiting highly talented people including: to help build our sustainable organisation and deliver excellence to our clients. During the year we filled • A  ppointing a diversity partner Rob Zuiverloon as almost 1,000 vacancies and professionalised our social per June 2010 media hiring strategy, involving our colleagues. Our recruitment campaign was successfully merged with • D  etermining the strategy for diversity at Deloitte for the Global Green Dot Hiring campaign. We recruited 2011/2013 approximately 700 new hires of which around 200 were experienced hires and 500 were graduate hires. • F ormulating the business case for on six diversityWe also hired 300 interns and students. based global trends which were made applicable to Deloitte During the coming year we expect the number of recruits to increase. Our focus will be on hiring • M  onitoring and measuring processes such as experienced industry professionals, while also recruitment, promotion, evaluation and retention developing a flex force. We will continue to be innovative in our approach to campus recruitment, International Women’s Day: differentiating ourselves in a tight labour market and political drive, share and quality improving our recruitment process. On March 7, Deloitte organised a meeting for female employees ahead of International Women’s Day on March 8. The event was held in support of the Training in Sustainability Assurance advancement of women at Deloitte and featured a This year we organised six sustainability training guest speaker at the Maastoren in Rotterdam. sessions within the audit function. Around 60 enthusiastic employees have already attended Guest lecturer and member of the Lower House, and will play an important role in realising our Tanja Jadnanansing, spoke on the evening to 60 female ambitions in sustainability. Deloitters and shared their opinions about political drive, share and quality. During the intensive one day training session, the participants gain insight into the business case on sustainability for Deloitte and its clients. Relevant regulations and guidelines on sustainability, including COS 3410N and the guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), are explained. The session covers not only theoretical content but also learnings from practical application at existing clients. Important challenges and dilemmas Deloitte and its clients have faced are discussed and evaluated. 26 Learning and development Retention We invest in the development of our people since it We aim to optimise the engagement of our people is a key driver of engagement and performance. In and partners. We believe that through effective addition to thorough technical training for all clientengagement, our people will be more fulfilled and facing professionals, some examples of business skill energised in their work. development delivered in 2010/2011 include: The main drivers of engagement and retention are: Performance coaching workshops These workshops, for new managers, emphasise the • appreciation and recognition importance of coaching, improve the coaching skills of our new managers and clarify the opportunities of • career enhancement and learning Mass Career Customisation. • equal opportunity to excel Manager Development Journey 165 newly appointed managers took part in this • connecting with the company initiative, which was run in collaboration with our European network in Prague and Warsaw. The These drivers have been prioritised and implementation development journey provides insights into crossactivities have begun. functional cooperation, increases awareness of our organisation and further builds competences, such as self-development, client focus, effective communications and relationship building. For new Dutch managers, this journey is preceded by a dedicated course in the Netherlands focused specifically on our firm. Deloitte Leadership programme Leadership and teamwork is integral to our As One strategy. The Deloitte Leadership programme is based on the service offering of Deloitte consulting ‘the dialogical leader’. We place significant value on the fact that the leaders of our organisation act as role models and convey one coherent and explicit vision to empower our talent and make our people successful. The programme facilitates the dialogue around teaming, trust and our core values. During 2010/2011 the Group Management Committee and the Management Teams of the four functions have attended a number of workshops. In 2011/2012, this programme will be extended to other management teams. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 27 Mass Career Customisation (MCC) Leveraging our alumni network MCC is a tool that facilitates career development. We see our former partners and employees as The topics covered in MCC include pace, workload, ambassadors for our company and we are keen to location, schedule, travel and role. It increases flexibility leverage this valuable network through our renewed and quality of the annual performance appraisals, alumni programme. The programme aims to maintain helping to start a conversation with our people. This contact and strengthen relationships with former was the second year of our MCC programme and 76% employees. Even after they have left Deloitte, our of our people completed the profile in 2010/2011. people continue to play a key role in introducing new We believe MCC has already become an important recruits, bringing in new assignments and providing differentiator in the market. input to help us improve our service offering. Optimising employability Alumni online In 2010, we carried out a six-month pilot on ‘Optimising In 2010/2011, we launched a new alumni website and Employability’, in which we focused on decreasing the as part of our social media strategy, we integrated rate of absenteeism by training managers to approach the website with LinkedIn so alumni can register for the absence of their people in a different way. The pilot the programme using their LinkedIn account. We made distinctions between illnesses and other serious launched an internal awareness campaign to make health problems that cause absenteeism and taught current employees familiar with the programme and managers how to react when a situation arose. The encouraged them to invite former colleagues. More managers receive intensive support from our case than 1,000 alumni registered for the programme within managers. the first six months and we have organised our first consulting alumni meeting. Awareness and team engagement programmes We offer working programmes for specific teams, aiming to increase awareness on how to deal with and improve the influencing factors related to employability, staff turnover and team engagement. The working programmes are demand-driven and held at a team’s request. We react directly to each team providing specific needs, problems or questions with a tailor-made programme. Mostly, it are teams with high turnover rates that take take part in these work programmes. The main goal for team members is to recognise factors that influence success and failure in leadership, engagement and productivity. 28 Health and safety The health, safety and vitality of our people is very important to us and we run various programmes and initiatives to ensure we maintain high standards in this area. Deloitte has an internal Health Services department, responsible for the support, monitoring and management of these programmes. Risk inventory and evaluation The risk inventory and evaluation (RI&E) enables us to identify Deloitte’s points of attention in the area of health, safety, welfare and environment. These points have been included in branch reports, a working conditions policy report and a psychosocial work-stress report. Company fitness Deloitte offers company fitness and assistance through a number of programmes operated the workplace. In 2010, 170 Deloitters took part in indoor fitness initiatives (through internal company fitness centres), while another 90 participated outdoors. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 29 Our role in society Our stakeholder dialogue process picks up on these important issues with a view to making a positive At Deloitte, we understand the importance of our role in contribution through our operations and engagement society and the responsibilities we have towards it. We are efforts. As a professional business services firm, we recognise that we must play an active role in society committed to strengthening our community involvement and help to restore confidence in the financial sector through our social responsibility policies and helping to and towards business in general. shape the future of audit services in our markets. The future of audit In the past year, discussions regarding the auditing profession and auditing firms have emerged in the public domain. These discussions focus on public expectation that an accountant should do more than just audit the financial figures, particularly in terms of flagging risks that threaten the financial stability of a company. These expectations are expressed by the public, the investment community and politicians as a result of the financial crisis. One of the more prominent initiatives was the publication of a Green Paper on the future of audit by the European Commission. The most important elements of the Green Paper and subsequent reporting that affect us as an audit firm is as follows: • R  ole of the auditor: Public expectation is that the accountant should be pro-active and provide critical feedback to the supervisory bodies regarding the risks within a company and where appropriate, inform external stakeholders if there are concerns about the (financial) stability of a company and the quality of reporting. • A  udit quality and independence: a professional critical mind, independence and audit quality form the foundations of a strong profession, with no conflicts of interest. 30 As Deloitte, we realise that we have to meet the We very much welcome the debate and will participate changing expectations of society on the future role of in a non-defensive manner as much as possible, always the auditor. Our actions to address these issues are as realising that we have many important stakeholders, follows: including our clients and our people. Our Transparency Report will address the debate 1. Quality is a license to operate: we are taking regarding our profession and our opinions and actions significant actions to ensure we deliver top quality in more detail. audits in a consistent manner. Constant monitoring form the basis for strengthening and improving our audit quality. Our Transparency Report will provide more details of our actions in this area 2. An elaborate dialogue with our most relevant stakeholders regarding their expectations is the basis for mutual commitment and trust in the future role of the auditor. We have started this dialogue in which we appoint the following themes (1) reporting regarding the outcome of the audit to supervisory bodies and the regulators, and the relationship between the auditors and the supervisory bodies (2) the scope of the audit, where stakeholders are looking for more focus on risk management, sustainability of business models and integrated reporting (non-financials). 3. We are actively involved in the discussion about the issues of audit quality and independence on a national and European level. We strongly support a solid and transparent system of regulation, which adequately secures the interests of society, but is based on a widely accepted European denominator. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 31 Make others grow The Deloitte Fair Chance Foundation was established last year. This important initiative leverages time, funds and expertise to help build the skills and knowledge of underprivileged young people, aged between six and eighteen. The Deloitte Fair Chance Foundation aligns the expertise of professionals and volunteers with various community investment programmes in the Netherlands. Deloitte Holding also works with our community partners to define a clear policy for these initiatives. The programmes will enable us to direct our time and funds, as well as the expertise of Deloitte and its people, in improving the entrepreneurial skills, ethics and financial literacy. The Foundation Board is responsible for the strategy, policy and finances of the Fair Chance Foundation. The board is made up of two members of the Board of Directors from Deloitte Netherlands and two external members. The Foundation Board meets at least four times a year. IMC Weekend School Deloitte has supported the IMC Weekend School, a supplementary school for children aged between 10 and 14 from underprivileged neighbourhoods, for the past five years. There are nine branches of the IMC Weekend School across the major cities of the Netherlands, all funded by companies and foundations. Partners of the Deloitte Fair Chance Foundation: The school helps children from under-resourced neighbourhoods to broaden their perspectives, gain self-confidence and establish a connection to Dutch society through sciences, the arts and cultural studies. In 2010/2011, the Deloitte Fair Chance Foundation and IMC Weekend School collaborated to professionalise the growing alumni network of the IMC Weekend School through setting up the “Future for Life Institute”. Professionals of Deloitte supported the institute, as volunteers and being coordinated by the Foundation helping to define the mission and vision, products and services offered, as well as implementing an innovative social media strategy. The Future for Life Institute provides a valuable support network for children who graduated from the IMC Weekend School. 32 Stichting Jong Ondernemen “Deloitte Fair Chance Foundation is a dream (Young Entrepreneurs Foundation) partner for Future For Life since an inspired The ‘Jong Ondernemen’ initiative aims to develop the network needs a firm basis of logistics, planning entrepreneurial skills of Dutch youngsters. The scope and funding. Deloitte professionals thoroughly of this programme includes teaching participants the consider the basis while simultaneously keeping necessary skills to develop real products and services all options open for alumni initiatives and in the field of innovative and sustainable businesses any unexpected developments. Exactly this and to work with real money, suppliers and clients. combination of steadiness, professionalism and The programme is rolled out free of charge in primary the ability to think outside the box matches the and secondary schools. This year, we worked on spirit of the Weekend School. Together, Future broadening the reach of Jong Ondernemen to include For Life and the Foundation are ready for a great children in underprivileged areas. future. I am looking forward to everything that we are going to achieve together”, says Heleen Terwijn, Founder IMC Weekend School JINC JINC allows young people to acquaint themselves with the world of business. The main focus is on career orientation and the ability to master the skills necessary for finding work. The Fair Chance Foundation has been participating in JINC’s projects since September 2010. Deloitte offers company visits and practical assignments, as well as providing mentors. Deloitte’s Executive Board and top management spent a day at the Marcanti College in Amsterdam with secondary school students aged between 14 and 16 to help improve their interview techniques and offer advice on the job application process. The session made students aware of the effect that their attitude and appearance can have on an employer. It also taught them vital communications skills, such as shaking hands when introducing themselves and making eye contact with the person when both speaking and listening. It was a valuable experience not just for the students, but for Deloitters too. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 33 Nibud Geldexamen (Nibud money exam) The Nibud money exam was initiated by Deloitte Holding in 2010 to teach school children aged between 11 and 12 about the value of money and provide life budgeting skills. We believe that all children should be able to manage their money. A pilot syllabus has been rolled out to 40 schools and we are awaiting feedback before launching the programme nationwide. The intention is for the children to take an exam in the last grade of primary schools that are comparable to the traffic exams and diplomas (Verkeersexamen) taken in the Netherlands. The Fair Chance Foundation is also rolling out the Nibud money exam among young people in underprivileged areas. Volunteers of the Foundation give guest lessons at primary schools around the country. Impact Day 2010 In the Netherlands, one of the best and most productive ways that Deloitters give back to society is by participating as volunteers during Impact Day. This day is one of the core events of the Deloitte Fair Chance Foundation in its mission to help underprivileged children throughout the country. In 2010, around 370 colleagues dedicated a day in support of 35 projects in cities across the Netherlands. The organisations benefiting from these projects were carefully selected based on the added-value they provide in educational programmes for underprivileged children. The day was an extremely positive occasion for all involved, with more than 1,000 young people engaged in a range of activities, including a trip to De Nederlandsche Bank and the De Geldkoffer initiative – both of which aim to teach young people the value of money. 34 Her Royal Highness Princess Maxima of the Netherlands handing out money exams to graduates. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 35 Our ecological footprint Buildings Deloitte’s strategy on buildings is to consolidate our Deloitte aims to make a positive contribution in office space. This helps to improve multidisciplinary protecting the environment. We formulate initiatives at collaboration between the service lines and facilitates a more efficient use of space, as well as providing a good a local level, taking global developments into account. working environment. Firm commitments have been made to reduce the carbon Combining Amsterdam and Amstelveen offices: emissions of our business and we are implementing a Zuid-As Development number of strategies to achieve this. We aim to reduce In 2007, when the plans were first made to combine the Amsterdam and Amstelveen offices (35,000m2), emissions through improved energy efficiency in travel, there was no suitable space available. In 2010, before procurement, buildings, IT and when organising events. the final decision for the Zuid-As development was made, we again investigated the availability of suitable existing office buildings in Amsterdam, but without Carbon reduction target achieved success. Therefore, the decision was taken, and Fiscal year 2010/2011 was the final year of our agreed this fiscal year, with OVG Real Estate (Project three-year plan to reduce our CO2 emissions. We Development Company) and the Municipality of aimed to reduce our CO2 emissions by 40% from the Amsterdam, to build a new sustainable office building baseline year, fiscal year 2006-2007. The overall target in the ‘Zuid-As’ district in Amsterdam. This construction was exceeded as we actually achieved a reduction of project will be carried out in accordance with the 45%. This was realised through reductions in electricity BREEAM-NL environmental assessment methodology. use, heating, flights, paper and lease cars. Having met The goal is to obtain an ‘Excellent’ certification upon the target, we have also been able to improve the completion of the project, marking the development as processes in place to measure our emissions. one of the most sustainable offices in The Netherlands. In February 2011, we contracted an energy coordinator for the project whose objective is to further improve the information gathering process of energy and water consumption. In addition the coordinator will propose and implement energy reduction initiatives in all our offices. During 2010/2011, some Audit firms were criticised for using development projects of new buildings to distribute development profits to their partners. At Deloitte, any share in development profits received are accounted for as a credit to the rent paid to the owner of the office building and not specifically distributed to our partners. 36 Mobility Catering Deloitte has completed a tender for the catering Lease car policy revision facilities for all its locations. Among the selection The green lease policy was implemented on September 1, criteria are proven sustainability policies and procedures 2010, aiming to contribute to creating a healthier of the catering company. Points of interest are environment. Deloitte has changed its lease car policy fair-trade, the use of healthy and seasonal products, to reduce its impact on the environment. The new the dissemination of information about unhealthy policy promotes ‘greener’ transportation alternatives products, as well as sound employment conditions that help reduce CO2 emissions. All preferred lease such as training and compensation policies for catering cars in our scheme are more sustainable than before employees. and employees are now able to select cars that have lower CO2 emissions for example a hybrid car like the Sustainability in events Toyota Prius, Honda Insight and the Lexus 200 CT. An We try to incorporate sustainability as much as possible additional stimulus for our employees is the bonus/ when organising events. It is our ambition to minimise penalty scheme, based on the average CO2 emission the negative effect of our events on society and the levels of each category of car. If emissions of the environment. In 2010/2011 we achieved the following: selected car are lower than the average emissions, the employee will receive a bonus but if emissions exceed Although our invitations are still mainly sent out in the average, a penalty will be imposed. print, we prefer and try to use digital communication where possible. Registration is carried out by email or We are installing electric power sockets in a number online and confirmations are always sent out by email. of our parking garages. We have also ordered three electric cars which will be made available to employees More recently, we have begun to focus on identifying that need flexible transportation during the day, while ‘no shows’ in order to minimise the wastage of food commuting to and from work by public transport and materials. In the confirmations we send out, we (Green Wheels). The use of these electric cars will also add a ‘no show’ logo and ask guests to inform us if help promote electric driving by our employees. they are not able to attend. Finally, we introduced a new scheme for car allowances for our partners and employees, with higher or lower When we book an external location we prefer locations allowances based on the CO2 emissions. with a ‘Green Key’ label an international standard for environmentally-friendly venues. We also work NS Business Card very often with a climate neutral catering company, In the last year the number of employees travelling which uses local products, sustainable ingredients and by train has increased. This is partially due to the new compensates for their CO2 emissions. In audio-visual head office in Rotterdam being more centrally located. equipment, we choose more sustainable alternatives All employees from Deloitte are also able to travel for such as LED, which are more energy efficient. business with the NS Business Card. The business card makes it easy to travel by train as you no longer need Some of our events also focus on sustainability as a to buy a ticket and declare it afterwards, saving both theme, in addition to the measures taken to minimise time and money. The use of the NS Business Card in the environmental impact of the event itself. Some 2010/2011 provided 28,028 train journeys, an increase examples of this include: of over 7% compared to 2009/ 2010, accounting for an aggregate travel distance of 2.7 million km. • E xecutive Breakfast – Ladies only: speaker Jacqueline Cramer on Sustainability, location with Green Key label, biological food and beverages • Supervisory Board members Dinner: a high-level dinner in the Maastoren, that was catered for by our climate neutral catering company Sustainability Report 2010/2011 37 We experience restrictions in our attempt to make Waste events more sustainable. The law (Telecomwet) limits In 2010/2011 we continued to implement our waste the possibilities of making the communication process collection method: the five stream waste collection. completely digital and we cannot control the forms The five streams of waste identified at Deloitte are: of transport used by our guests. Equally important • Paper; is that sustainability measures can be expensive to • Refuse remaining after the separation of recyclable implement, leading to cost concerns that can override elements; environmental considerations. • Swill (e.g. food remains); • Cardboard; IT • Small hazardous waste (e.g. batteries). In 2010/2011 the Deloitte Cyber Centre has reduced its energy use by around 11-12%, therefore achieving We divide our waste into five categories to allow for its commitment to reducing its total IT energy efficient recycling, processing and disposal. On every consumption by 10% every year. This saving is largely floor in our offices, paper, cardboard and refuse are realised by implementing a new storage system in the collected. Both smal hazardous waste (e.g. batteries) Cyber Centre. and swill (limited to refuse related to catering), are collected centrally per office. IT components are assessed for energy efficiency prior to their purchase and use, while older, less energy efficient hardware, is being constantly replaced. The Deloitte data centre is monitored by sensors to ensure temperature and humidity is at an optimal level and minimum energy-cost. By decreasing the data centre temperature, the Cyber Centre diminishes energy necessary for cooling. Energy efficiency is monitored in monthly IT management meetings. Additional savings in power, paper and ink have been realised with the introduction of secure printing that requires password-based activation of printing in all offices. For the period 2011/2012, IT has planned to further investigate opportunities to reduce energy usage by measuring power unit efficiency. 38 Part II: Governance and reporting on performance Sustainability Report 2010/2011 39 Governance and reporting Ethics and integrity We maintain a high standard of integrity within our At a global level, the Deloitte Corporate Responsibility own organisation by reserving our advice and support (CR) agenda is overseen by the Global Corporate for clients upon whose integrity we can rely. It is an important part of our own integrity guidelines to Responsibility Council and headed up by Deloitte Global identify potential conflicts of interest in the work we Chairman John Connolly. Cees de Boer, member of the perform and to ensure they do not become a reality. Deloitte Netherlands Executive Board, is a member of the It is part of our duty of care to our stakeholders to Council. The council meets twice a year and has global implement stringent “know your client” procedures before agreeing to undertake client work. We have a oversight and responsibility for our overall CR agenda. formal client and engagement acceptance procedure that must be carried out before a client or engagement is accepted. We evaluate clients according to their Governance & Risk management independence, ethics, type of business and reputation. In the case of ethical dilemmas, the matter is referred Sustainability Board to our Ethical Officer. In other cases, the matter can be Our dedicated Sustainability Board, reports directly passed to the Executive Board. At this moment, areas to the office of the CEO and has overall responsibility of sustainability are not explicitly part of the integrity to implement sustainability as an integral part of our guidelines, although some aspects of sustainability business. performance may be taken into account. Jos Koedijk, a senior partner, has been appointed as Complaints and whistleblower procedure our Sustainability Leader for the Netherlands from Our complaints and whistleblower procedure was April 2011. The introduction of a proper stakeholder set up in 2007 and is accessible for both internal and dialogue process, a multiyear strategy and operational external complaints. The procedure can be viewed at plan gives the Board a solid foundation to fulfil its www.deloitte.nl > about Deloitte > Complaints and sustainability vision as part of Deloitte’s overall Vision whistleblower procedure. 2016 and the As One strategy. This procedure is in addition to the existing processes Reputation and risk management we use to safeguard our integrity, quality awareness Deloitte in the Netherlands has a National Reputation and ethical conduct. It is based on the following legal & Risk Leadership Office, responsible for governing risk foundations: and related policies in the areas of: • T he Accountants’ Organisations (Supervision) Act (WTA) • Independence • The Accountants’ Organisations (Supervision) • Issues regarding regulatory compliance Decree (BTA) • Ethics • The International Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) • Security 1, on complaints procedures • Continuity and crisis management • The Dutch Corporate Governance Code (Code Frijns) • Pandemics • Insurance and claims The Complaints Committee, which reports to the • Acceptance centre Executive Board and the Works Council, deals with • Process risk and quality risk control complaints from staff, clients and third parties and covers matters such as intimidation, violence, discrimination and bullying. 40 Stakeholder dialogue Dialogue with our people Dialogue with our people is very important to us. Stakeholder engagement We use their input to help formulate, validate and Our most visible stakeholders are our employees and refine our people strategy and actions. In addition to clients. However, we also look at the interests of other the dialogue carried out for the continuation of our parties, such as professional associations, government sustainability reporting strategy, our Executive Board bodies, suppliers and users of our audited information. frequently conducts Straight Talk sessions with our In the year we developed a five-step stakeholder people on a variety of material issues. The sessions dialogue process [see table below]. Extensive desk consist of direct discussions with our people at all levels research has helped to define a preliminary set of across the organisation, providing a valuable source of material issues that we expect stakeholders to raise. In information and insight. order to prepare for a feasible and balanced discussion, we produced a 22-question survey for all stakeholder groups. The results will be presented at a roundtable workshop in September 2011, when we will also outline our vision for a feasible integrated reporting approach. From the roundtable workshop, we will create a new set of targets covering the period to 2016 when we expect to deliver on our Vision 2016. The whole process is conducted in close collaboration with our stakeholders, with the survey being carried out in a meeting with them, rather than anonymously. Meetings with our clients are attended by the Lead Client Service Partner (LCSP) to ensure maximum attention is given to the interviewee. Table 3: Five-step stakeholder dialogue process Steps Description 1. Identifying stakeholders Identification of most relevant stakeholder groups. Determining the nature and objectives of the relationship with these stakeholders 2. Determining key themes Desktop research for general trends and key themes identified Formulating questions and dilemmas to discuss with stakeholders 3. Dialogue Approaching the most relevant stakeholders in a structured/systematic way Effectively collecting stakeholders’ opinions and expectations 4. Analyse and validate Analyse and collect stakeholder input to formulate draft policies Roundtable event with key stakeholders to validate draft policies 5. Formulation and Define the sustainability targets and KPIs implementation Continue dialogue process Sustainability Report 2010/2011 41 Straight Talk As the representative of our staff, the Works Council Following the success of our Straight Talk sessions last (Ondernemingsraad) has a key role within our year, the Executive Board again held several sessions organisation. It advises the Board of Management in throughout the country in 2010/2011, focusing on the matters such as compensation and benefits, workforce As One strategy. The Board aimed to find out how the planning and progress against our people strategy and strategy works for Deloitters in practice and determine it also has a proactive approach towards sustainability. how Deloitters can directly contribute to help the It makes an invaluable contribution to company-wide firm. The great strength of the Straight Talk sessions initiatives, such as default double-sided and secure is the open dialogue it facilitates between employees printing. The Works Council also initiated important and the Board. The Deloitters value the meetings and steps towards making our lease car policies ‘greener’ appreciate the Board’s transparency in discussing issues and encouraging a more environmentally friendly use of they face. It is also an excellent way for the Board to our company cars. better understand the sometimes unique issues to a We also carry out other surveys and forms of dialogue specific office. In addition to the face-to-face sessions, to engage with our key stakeholders, including using CEO Roger Dassen, spoke with employees via an social media on our recruiting website; an As One interactive chat on Yammer, which also focused on the diagnostic for partners and directors; and using groups As One strategy. of people as ambassadors to help test, plan and implement critical people initiatives. Sustainability community We have started to develop an internal sustainability External partnerships community platform throughout Deloitte Netherlands. As the community continues to grow rapidly, we Global partnerships are shifting our focus from an individual approach Deloitte Netherlands fully supports the commitments to a community-wide approach. This is a more made by the global DTTL organisation to the UN effective way of raising awareness about important Global Compact (UNGC), the World Economic Forum’s sustainability topics and sharing knowledge throughout Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Principles the organisation. The platform is open to everyone and Global Corporate Citizenship Initiative and the within Deloitte, while we have also been organising Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We translate these workshops, webcasts, blogs and seminars, and wherever possible into local activities and initiatives developing tools for our community, with the aim of and share our knowledge and experience with other serving our clients in the best and most sustainable way member firms. we can. Our support for these commitments requires us to: Our community platform will be linked to the DTTL community of practice on sustainability, a strong • H  ave an understanding of sustainability initiatives network of 750 practitioners. undertaken by other member firms and identify opportunities to leverage and learn from these activities • T ranslate the commitments made by DTTL to the UNGC, World Economic Forum’s PACI Principles and Global Corporate Citizenship Initiative and the GRI, into activities for Deloitte Netherlands • S et targets for Deloitte Netherlands. The Sustainability Board will support the Executive Board in the setting of these targets for the next strategic period 42 UNGC Duisenberg School of Finance (DSF) The UNGC is a voluntary international network In 2010/2011, Deloitte became the first major of corporations, UN agencies, trade unions and international advisory firm to partner the DSF, aiming non-governmental organisations that supports 10 to bridge the gap between academia and business. universal principles. Deloitte has made a public The cooperation, which will last for an initial three pledge to promote corporate responsibility in the years, is a knowledge and talent sharing initiative that areas of human rights, labour, the environment and recognises the importance of educating new leaders in anti-corruption. finance and will enable Deloitte to make a positive and telling investment in the future of the financial world. The Netherlands Network of the UNGC is an initiative As part of the collaboration, Jean-Pierre Boelen, partner of Dutch business leaders that aims to further the and country leader of the Financial Services Industry at contribution of private business – within its sphere Deloitte, will also join the DSF board. of influence – to sustainable development. We actively participate in the Steering Committee of the MVO Nederland Netherlands Network, take part in the yearly UNGC We are an active member of the network of Sustainably Netherlands Symposium and contribute where feasible Responsible Organisations (MVO) in the Netherlands. to projects or workshops. In the year, we participated in the Future Leaders event with four of our talented young managers. They In June, we participated in the UNGC Leader’s Summit. worked with 250 other future leaders towards an At the summit, the Deloitte Management Model for agenda of domestic change. In March, they presented the UNGC was launched, an undertaking of DTTL and their results to the SER (Social-Economic Council) of the its member firms to contribute to the UNGC through Dutch Government. our knowledge. We are using the UNGC Management Model for our own organisation and produce an annual World Economic Forum – Sustainable consumption Communication on Progress for the Netherlands as an Deloitte supports the World Economic Forum and integral part of this report. its initiatives. In 2010/2011 we contributed to its Sustainable Consumption Initiative, which aims to The sustainability report is based on the G3 reporting develop practical ideas to place sustainability and the guidelines of the GRI and also serves as the annual vision of closed loop systems at the heart of business communication on progress regarding the UNGC. models. This requires collaboration from multiple industries across the entire value chain and full product GRI lifecycles. The outcomes were presented in three We are an organisational stakeholder of the Global reports, a collaborative effort between Deloitte and Reporting Initiative (GRI) and this report follows the World Economic Forum. In the Netherlands, we GRI G3 guidelines for the fourth year. Based on a seconded a manager to support the development of self-assessment and external verification by our auditor, the reports and our Director of Sustainability Strategies, this report classifies as a GRI A+ level report. Ralph Thurm, oversaw the developments and took part in various thought leader workshops. In 2010, Deloitte Netherlands participated in the European GRI Organisational Stakeholder Dialogue event, held in Milan. Furthermore, we attended an additional local Organisational Stakeholder event. Overall, Deloitte is supporting the GRI in various ways. Our US member firm is a sponsor of the GRI’s Focal Point USA, while in the Netherlands, we sponsor GRI conferences and other events. We have also extended proposals to the GRI for the development of its forthcoming guidelines. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 43 Reporting process Our last report was number 41 in the ranking and classified as a runner up the first time we took part. Scope of the report The outcomes of the rankings and the shortcomings Deloitte Holding BV, referred to herein as ‘Deloitte’, that were identified have helped to further strengthen reports on the most relevant sustainability activities in our approach and focus on areas for improvement in the Netherlands on an annual basis. This report refers this report, e.g. regarding case studies, readability and to the period from 1 June, 2010 to 31 May, 2011 and supplier activity, amongst others. includes data from Deloitte Holding BV and its fully owned entities. The scope of the report is similar Materiality assessment to that of the Annual Report. This report expresses In developing last year’s report, we conducted an the sustainability performance of Deloitte in the internal stakeholder engagement process to identify all Netherlands. Its content contributes to the overarching relevant processes and respective process owners that sustainability report of DTTL. affect one or more of the relevant GRI G3 performance indicators. As in 2009/2010, all GRI G3 performance We have taken the utmost care to ensure the indicators are addressed in 2010/2011, either by a) information in this report is accurate. When data reporting relevant performance data, or; b) explaining relating to a different period or older data has been the reason for omission of performance data. adjusted, the text explicitly says so. For continuity, we compare progress with similar charts from last year, We acknowledge that agreeing on material topics where possible, so that the readers can benchmark our should be part of an ongoing, structured dialogue progress. with stakeholders. As we do not have all the outcomes of the current stakeholder dialogue process, we The report is based on the G3 reporting guidelines of cannot ensure coverage of all material issues for the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and also serves our stakeholders in every instance. As mentioned as the annual communication on progress regarding previously, this process will take us into the next the UN Global Compact (UNGC). We are a ‘GC Active’ fiscal year and will include further target setting until member of the newly proposed UN Global Compact 2016 and agreements regarding our outline of a first ‘Differentiator Framework’, which tries to define certain integrated report. content coverage levels. From the global stakeholder engagement process The GRI table can be found at the end of the report. performed by DTTL in the past year, we have gained Reference to performance that is related to the UNGC insights into some of the most significant material principles is included in the management approach issues for Deloitte. This information, in combination table. We provide the required profile information, an with the output of the stakeholder dialogue process overview of our management’s approach and address currently being undertaken, will support our materiality all performance indicators, with due regard to the assessment from next year onwards. GRI materiality principle by either: a) reporting on the indicator, or; b) explaining the reason for its omission. Based on a self-assessment and external verification by our auditors, this report classifies as a GRI A+ level report. This report also enables us to participate in the Dutch ‘Transparantie Benchmark’ that the Dutch Ministry for Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation (ELI) is carrying out annually among the 500 largest companies in the Netherlands. 44 Data collection Economic value generated The internal controls system that was designed Table 4 presents the distribution of direct economic last year to collect reportable data was applied in value generated during 2010/2011. This distribution 2010/2011 to facilitate data collection. Information provides insights into Deloitte’s contribution to the has been collected by respective process owners from sustainability of the economic system in which we our business information systems or provided by our operate. The data is compiled in the organisation’s suppliers and then centrally recorded and reviewed. audited profit and loss statement and supplemented with specific data on community investment. With regards to CO2 emissions, we apply the mathematical model and conversion factors as described in the WBCSD/WRI GHG protocol and our internal DTTL guidance on sustainability reporting. The text states whether the data is based on estimates. The registration of complaints occurs on a voluntary basis, hence we cannot assure completeness. DTTL Global also requires a fixed set of data for the DTTL Global Sustainability report. We have been named the ‘leading member firm’ with regards to data quality and completeness in adherence to internal DTTL requirements. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 45 Table 4: Distribution of economic value generated Component € in milions Explanation Direct economic value generated Revenues 632.7 Net sales plus revenues from financial investments and sales of assets Economic value distributed Operating costs 243.6 Payments to suppliers, non-strategic investments, royalties and facilitation payments Employee wages and benefits 283.3 Total monetary outflow for employees (current payments, not future commitments) Payments to providers of capital 6.8 All financial payments made to the provider of the organisation’s capital Payments to government 0.6 Gross taxes Community investments 0.3 Voluntary contributions and investment of funds in the broader community (including donations) Economic value retained Economic value generated less economic value 98.2 Investments, equity release, etc. distributed Ethics and integrity At Deloitte, we understand it is an imperative to maintain high standards of integrity within our organisation. Furthermore, we are acutely aware of the importance of ethical behaviour and integrity of all Deloitters. The tables below indicate our commitment to ethics. As a result of improved reporting structures we have increased transparancy in this year’s by specifying the number of reported incidents based on their nature. Table 5: Incidents Type Number of reported occurrences 2010/2011 Sexual harassment 4 Intimidation 3 Stalking 1 Other disrespectful treatment of colleagues 20 (including bullying) The information in this table is based on the number of All incidents are dealt with by an ethics officer or incidents reported by the Ethics Officer. counsellors. Consult and advice was given to persons In addition to the actual incidents reported (listed involved. If necessary professional support was under Other disrespectful treatment of colleagues) the offerered and sanctions were imposed. In five situations counsellors and the Ethics Officer receive requests for the complaints procedure was used and dealt with by advice regarding ethical issues from Deloitte employees the complaint committee. and Deloitte departments, such as HR end Legal. 46 We attribute the increase in number of reported incidents to the fact that the role of the counselors and the Ethics Officer are becoming increasingly known to Deloitte employees. Through our internal news magazine (Deloitter) and other communication channels, we continue to raise awareness of available reporting mechanisms. Furthermore in 2010/2011 a globally initiated ethical survey has been conducted. Table 6: Plans and targets on our continuous commitment to ethics Actions 2010/2011 KPI Practical guidelines: Implementation of the renewed uniform sanction escalation Practical guidelines functioning on escalation and sanctions of ethical procedure issues Increase knowledge: Roll out of a new communication plan and refreshed company Increased knowledge of Deloitte staff of the ‘Bedrijfscode’. code Ethical Survey: Ethical Survey Conduct Ethical Survey amongst all employees Proceed with: Communication in Deloitte gazette on ethical dilemmas Continued publications on ethical issues within Deloitte internal publications. Participate in Global Ethics Deloitte community Clear (recurring) training sequence for all Deloitte staff Participate in Deloitte training programmes to discuss the practical Awareness about available ethics training materials aspects of business ethics with the practice. Supporting the practice with ethical dilemmas People data for 2010/2011 Although overall retention improved, full-time staff levels decreased by 3,3% as a consequence of the ongoing economic downturn. Due to attrition and disposition of certain businesses at the end of last year, our average headcount dropped from 4,993 at the end of 2009/2010 to 4,836 at the end of 2010/2011. Table 7: People data 1 Realised 2010/2011 Targets 2010/2011 Realised 2009/2010 Targets 2009/2010 Average FTE’s 4,472 4,434 4,624 4,662 Average headcount 4,836 4,786 4,993 4,881 Total partner hires 8 19 (ex GSC)* 3 14 Total staff hires 736 649 (ex GSC)* 479 535 Total experienced hires 190 286 (ex GSC)* 84 145 Total graduate hires 546 363 (ex GSC)* 395 390 Total internship 226 30 (ex GSC)* 182 Total exits 741 926 633 Total divestments 0 0 * No specific targets are set for Group Support Center (GSC) Sustainability Report 2010/2011 47 Table 8: People data 2 2010/2011 2009/2010 2008/2009 Average age of Deloitte employee 34 34 33 Male (%) 63 63 63 Female (%) 37 37 37 Sick leave (%) 3.5 3.0 3,1 Total sick days 56,912 50,090 57,765 Total number of sick reports* 9,316 6,565 7,718 * Total number of individual cases in which employees reported sick (as recorded by our HR desk). Table 9: People data 3 Part-time / Full-time Part-time 2010/2011 Full-time 2010/2011 Part-time 2009/2010 Full-time 2009/2010 population (%) Population of fee-earners 19 81 19 81 Population of support 47 53 46 54 Population of Deloitte 25 75 24 76 Table 10a: Headcount male/female 2010/2011 Employment Total Male Female Total Male Female category 2010/2011 2010/2011 2010/2011 2009/2010 2009/2010 2009/2010 Partner 240 223 17 241 226 15 Director 211 190 21 215 197 18 Senior Managers 469 383 86 432 355 77 Managers 676 481 195 676 493 183 Aspirant / Jr. Managers 1,131 770 361 1,162 801 361 Other staff 2,110 985 1,125 2,197 1,010 1,187 Table 10b: Turnover 2010/2011 Employment Turnover male Turnover % Turnover Turnover % category 2010/2011 male female female 2010/2011 Partner 10 4% 0 0% Director 11 6% 2 10% Senior Managers 47 12% 11 13% Managers 72 15% 25 13% Aspirant / Jr. Managers 152 21% 74 20% Other staff 304 31% 233 21% 48 Table 11: Gender diversity Diversity figures female (%) Targets 2010/2011 Realised 2010/2011 Realised 2009/2010 Realised 2008/2009 Partner 8 7 6 5 Director 8 10 8 10 Senior Managers 20 18 18 16 Managers 25 29 27 25 Aspirant / Jr. Managers 35 32 31 31 Other staff 50 54 54 53 Table 12: Ethnic diversity Job Level % Foreign % Native % Unknown Partners 3% 73% 24% Directors 7% 80% 13% Senior Managers 9% 78% 13% Managers 8% 81% 11% Aspirant/Jr. Managers 16% 75% 9% Other staff 21% 68% 11% Stagiairs 24% 65% 11% Deloitte 16% 73% 11% * ‘Native’ refers to persons whose parents are originally of Dutch descent. ‘Foreign’ refers to persons from which one or both parents is not originally of Dutch descent. ‘Unknown’ refers to person for whom it is unknown (not registered) what the place of birth or origin of one or both parents is. Table 13: Training of employees Function Average training days / fte 2010/2011 Audit 14.8 Consulting 2.4 FAS 5.8 Tax 6.6 Others 2.5 Table 14: Number of performance reviews Performance reviews 2010/2011 Number of employees 4,836 Number of performance reviews 4,196 Percentage of performance reviews 87% Sustainability Report 2010/2011 49 Table 15: Number of new hires 2010/2011 Fee Earners Support Total Male new hires 581 28 609 Female new hires 322 31 353 Table 16: Gender of new hires 2010/2011 new hires Male Female Total Partner 7 1 8 Director/Staff Director 10 3 13 Senior Manager 32 8 40 Manager 20 8 28 Senior 70 31 101 Staff 194 98 292 Analyst/others 59 35 94 Secretary 0 37 37 Other support 11 9 20 Job on the side (Ideale bijbaner) 29 19 48 Working student 30 25 55 Internships 147 79 226 Hires excl. internship 462 274 736 Experienced hires 139 51 190 Inexperienced hires 323 223 546 50 Ecological footprint Transport Under our preferred lease car programme, all employees with mobility criterium can select a lease car from the preferred model list, which includes Hybrid cars (energy label A; 14% taxation). Table 17: Ecological footprint Category Description 2010/2011 2009/2010 2008/2009 Unit Travel Number of lease cars 3,231 3,448 3,718 Number of professional km per lease car 21,227 22,165 22,869 km CO2 emissions per lease car based on km1) 4,35 4,54 4,69 tCO2 CO2 emissions per lease car based on litres1) 3,56 3,43 3,73 tCO2 Number of flown km per FTE ) 2 4,362 2,772 2,788 Km CO2 emissions of flights per FTE3) 0,51 0,30 0,32 tCO2 Building & energy Square meters in use (year end) 114,439 116,654 124,765 m2 Energy consumption (KWh per m2) 4) 135 129 122 kWh Energy consumption per FTE 3,461 3,322 2,975 kWh Increase / decrease in consumption (KWh per m )2 4.86% 5.5% 4% % CO2 emissions due to energy consumption5) 0 0 0 tCO2 Percentage energy consumption Deloitte Datacentre 22% 23.5% 27% % Non-hazardous waste & disposables Total paper in use 315,901 373,183 363,712 Kg 1) Reporting in litres is more realistic for CO2 emissions 2) Data based on flights booked by our preferred travel agent 3) For continental flights we used the short haul conversion factor and for intercontinental flights we used the long haul conversion factor 4) Energy consumption is based on the weighted average of m2 of which 60% is calculated and 40% estimated 5) We purchase all our electricity from renewable energy sources, the CO2 emission is therefore 0. ‘Greener’ transportation is encouraged through the NS business card, which aims to make premium rail travel available to all employees. The use of the NS Business cards in 2010/2011 provided 28,028 train journeys, an increase of over 7% compared to 2009/ 2010, accounting for an aggregate travel distance of 2.7 million km. Table 18: NS Business card NS Business Card 2010/2011 2009/2010 Number of journeys km Number of journeys km Taxi 790 7,241 1,022 3,371 Train 28,028 2,675,287 26,162 2,770,001 Bicycle etc. 466 448 Total 29,284 2,682,528 27,632 2,773,372 Sustainability Report 2010/2011 51 Assurance report To: Shareholders, Supervisory Board and Executive Management’s responsibility Board of Deloitte Holding B.V. Management is responsible for the preparation of the report and the information therein in accordance Engagement with the criteria mentioned above. This responsibility We have performed an assurance engagement in includes designing, implementing and maintaining accordance with Standard 3410, ‘Assurance standard internal control relevant to the preparation of relating to social reports’. Our assurance engagement a sustainability report that is free of material aimed to obtain reasonable assurance that the misstatements, selecting and applying appropriate information in the sustainability report 2010/2011 reporting policies that include the GRI reporting of Deloitte Holding B.V. is, in all material respects, a principles and using measurement methods and reliable and adequate representation of the policy, estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. activities, events and performance with respect to The choices made by management, the scope of sustainability during 2010/2011. Our engagement did this report and the reporting policy, including any not include any quantitative of qualitative information inherent limitations that could affect the reliability of relating to future information such as estimates, information, are set out on page 44 of the report. expectations or targets, or their achievability. Auditor’s responsibility Criteria Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with regard We assessed the sustainability report 2010/2011 to the sustainability report based on the engagement against the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) described above. An audit is aimed at obtaining a published by the Global Reporting Initiative, the Guide reasonable level of assurance for our conclusions. We to sustainability reporting of the Dutch Accounting performed our procedures in accordance with Dutch Standards Board (Raad voor de Jaarverslaggeving) and law and the requirements set out therein with respect Deloitte Holding B.V.’s own reporting policies. We to the independence of assurance team members. believe that these criteria are suitable for our assurance engagement. 52 We have performed all the procedures deemed Conclusions necessary to obtain the evidence that is sufficient and Based on our procedures performed to obtain a appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. Our reasonable assurance and taking into account the main procedures were: choices made by Deloitte Holding B.V. as reflected in • A ssessing the acceptability and consistent the reporting policy, we believe that the information application of the reporting principles used, and in the sustainability report 2010/2011 of Deloitte the significant estimates and calculations made in Holding B.V., in all material respects, provides a reliable preparing the sustainability report 2010/2011. and sufficient representation of the policy, activities, • A ssessing whether all relevant topics have been events and performance with respect to sustainability addressed. during 2010/2011, in accordance with the Sustainability • Auditing the reliability of the information in the Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting sustainability report 2010/2011 of Deloitte Holding Initiative, the Guide to sustainability reporting of the B.V. by: Dutch Accounting Standards Board (Raad voor de obtaining an understanding of the sector and Jaarverslaggeving) and the documented reporting the relevant sustainability issues specific for the policy of Deloitte Holding B.V. organization; obtaining an understanding of the design and operation of the systems and methods used to Zwolle, 22 July 2011 collect and process the reported information, including the consolidation process; identifying inherent risks relating to the reliability Ernst & Young Accountants LLP of the information and investigating the extent to which these risks are limited by internal controls; assessing the concerning internal controls for their operating effectiveness, insofar as this was relevant for our assurance engagement; D.A. de Waard perform based on a risk analysis further procedures related to the quantitative and descriptive information in the report, by a combination of: interviews with relevant staff on strategy, policy, communication and management combined with document analysis to substantiate the related descriptive information in the report; quantitative analyses to assess the quantitative data; reconciliations with audited financial statements and underlying environmental and social data systems; detailed checks of the data themselves on a test basis, using internal and external sources of information to substantiate the reliability of the information provided; evaluating the sufficiency of the sustainability report 2010/2011 of Deloitte Holding B.V. and its overall presentation against the criteria mentioned above. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 53 GRI table Additional comments or GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page external reference GRI A+ 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation Letter from the Executive Board 8 (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Letter from the Executive Board. 8, 40-45 Governance 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Cover 1 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Please refer to the Annual Report, Annual Report Website www.deloitte.nl 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Please refer to the Annual Report Annual Report 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Website www.deloitte.nl Website 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation Website www.deloitte.com Website operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Please refer to the Annual Report Annual Report 2.7 Markets served Scope of the report 44 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Please refer to the Annual Report Annual Report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Please refer to the Annual Report Annual Report structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Website www.deloitte.nl Website 3. Report parametres 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided Cover, About us 1 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Scope of the report 44 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Scope of the report 44 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Letter from the Executive Board 8 3.5 Process for defining report content Scope of the report 44 3.6 Boundary of the report Scope of the report 44 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Scope of the report 44 boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Scope of the report 44 outsourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques Scope of the report 44 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements Scope of the report 44 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Scope of the report 44 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI Index Table 54-61 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Assurance Report 52 for the report 4. Governance, commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Governance and risk management 40 54 Additional comments or GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page external reference GRI A+ 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Governance and risk management 40 Executive Officer 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the Letter from the Supervisory Board, 11, 40 number of members of the highest governance body that are Governance and risk management independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Letter from the Supervisory Board, 11, 40-55 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body Governance and risk management 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Letter from the Supervisory Board, 11, 40 governance body, senior managers and executives (including Governance and risk management departure arrangements) and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts Governance and risk management 40 of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Governance and risk management 40 members of the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Deloitte shared values and ethical 10 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and principles social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Governance and risk management 40 organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own Governance and risk management 40 performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Governance and risk management 40 principle is addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Stakeholder Dialogue 42, 43 principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations Stakeholder Dialogue 42-43 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Dialogue 41 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Stakeholder Dialogue 41 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Dialogue 41-43 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Stakeholder Dialogue 41-43 engagement GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or external GRI A+ reference Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Yes Performance 46 including revenues, operating costs, employee Distribution of economic value compensation, donations and other community generated (table) investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Yes Please refer to the Annual Report (AR) AR No material risks related to climate opportunities for the organisation’s activities due Risk management change have been identified in the to climate change risk assessment performed by the RRL. Specific risks related to our services are assessed as part of an ongoing key initiative ‘service impact assessment’, refer to page 15 Sustainability Report 2010/2011 55 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or external GRI A+ reference EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan Yes Performance 46 obligations Distribution of economic value generated table EC4 Significant financial assistance received from No Not material, as Deloitte has not received government any significant financial assistance from government. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage No Not material, as the ratio between n/a add. compared to local minimum wage at significant standard entry level wage and local locations of operation minimum wage is not a relevant steering instrument for Deloitte. The remuneration system is based on function level and performance. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Yes Our ecological footprint 36-38, locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Our suppliers textbox 51 operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Yes Our people 24-29, management hired from the local community at Diversity table 49 locations of significant operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Yes Our role in society 30-33 investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect No No specific information available, an n/a add. economic impacts, including the extent of impacts assessment of the impact of our services is part of an ongoing key initiative ‘service impact assessment’, refer to page 15. Environmental performance indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Yes Our ecological footprint 36-38 No raw, associated process or packaging materials are relevant to Deloitte services and products. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled No Not material, as this percentage is not input materials significant for materials used considered significant, please refer to EN1. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Yes Our ecological footprint 36-38, source Ecological footprint table 51 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Yes Our ecological footprint 36-38, Ecological footprint table 51 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Yes Our ecological footprint 36-38, n/a add. improvements Ecological footprint table 51 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable Yes Our ecological Footprint 36-38 n/a add. energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Yes Our ecological footprint 36-38 n/a add. and reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source No Not material, as no water is directly withdrawn by Deloitte from natural sources. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal No Not reported, as no water is directly n/a add. of water withdrawn or discharged by Deloitte. 56 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or external GRI A+ reference EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled No Not reported, as no water is directly n/a add. and reused withdrawn or discharged by Deloitte. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed No Not applicable, as Deloitte does not own, in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of lease or manage land in or adjacent to high biodiversity value outside protected areas protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, No Not material, as Deloitte sevices and products, and services on biodiversity in protected products have no direct impact on areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside biodiversity. protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored. No Not reported, as Deloitte does not own, n/a add. lease or manage land in or adjacent to protected areas EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for No Not reported as Deloitte does not have n/a add. managing impacts on biodiversity significant direct impact on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national No Not reported as Deloitte does not have n/a add. conservation list species with habitats in areas significant direct impact on biodiversity affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Yes Our ecological footprint table 51 by weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions No Not material, as Deloitte does not have by weight significant other indirect greenhouse gas emissions. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Yes Our ecological footprint 36-38 n/a add. reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight No Not material, as Deloitte does not have significant emission levels of ozone depleting substances. EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type No Not material, as Deloitte does not have and weight significant NO, SO or other emissions. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination No Not reported, as no water is directly withdrawn or discharged by Deloitte. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Yes Our ecological footprint 36-38, 51 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills No Not material, as no significant volumes of hazardeous substances are processed by Deloitte EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or No Not reported, as no significant volumes n/a add. treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of hazardeous substances are processed of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, by Deloitte and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity No Not reported, as no water is directly add. value of water bodies and related habitats withdrawn or discharged by Deloitte. significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 57 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or external GRI A+ reference EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Yes Our ecological footprint 36-38 of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging No Not applicable, as Deloitte services and materials that are reclaimed by category products do not involve packaging material EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total No Proprietary information. No related number of non-monetary sanctions for administrative or judicial cases noncompliance with environmental laws and have been brought against the regulations organisation resulting in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance to laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Yes Our ecological footprint 36-38, Only transporting members of the n/a add. products and other goods and materials used for Ecological footprint table 51 workforce is applicable to Deloitte the organisation’s operations, and transporting operations members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and No Not available, as expenditures or n/a add. investments by type investments for protection are not specifically recorded and tracked. Initiatives to reduce Ecological footprint are disclosed under EN26 Human rights performance indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of significant No Not reported, as human rights aspects investment agreements that include human rights are not directly relevant to operations in clauses or that have undergone human rights the Netherlands. screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors No Not reported, as human rights aspects that have undergone screening on human rights are not directly relevant to operations in and actions taken the Netherlands. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and No Not reported, as human rights aspects n/a add. procedures concerning aspects of human rights are not directly relevant to operations. that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Yes Performance Ethics and Integrity 46 actions taken incidents table HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise No Not material, as no related significant freedom of association and collective bargaining risks apply to Deloitte’s direct operations may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for No Not material, as no related significant incidents of child labour, and measures taken to risks apply to Deloitte’s direct operations contribute to the elimination of child labour. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk No Not material, as no related significant for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and risks apply to Deloitte’s direct operations measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the No Not material, as no related significant n/a add. organisation’s policies or procedures concerning risks apply to Deloitte’s direct operations aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving No Not reported as violations of rights of n/a add. rights of indigenous people and actions taken indigenous people is not applicable to operations in the Netherlands 58 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or external GRI A+ reference Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Yes Our people 24-29, contract, and region Part-time fulltime population table 48 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by Yes Our people 24-29, age group, gender, and region. Turnover table 48 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are No Our people 24-29 Not material, as the indicator is no n/a add. not provided to temporary or part-time employees, relevant steering instrument for Deloitte. by major operations The basic benefits provided to all employees are in compliance with Dutch laws and regulations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective No 24-29 Not material, as Deloitte makes only bargaining agreements collective agreements that are valid for all employees. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational No 24-29 Not material, as standard notice period(s) changes, including whether it is specified in are in compliance with Dutch law and collective agreements legislation and included in standard employment contracts. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in No 24-29 Not material, as health and safety n/a add. formal joint management–worker health and monitoring and advisory is largely safety committees that help monitor and advise on conducted in collaboration with our occupational health and safety programmes external service providers. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Yes Our people 24-29, and absenteeism, and number of work-related People data 2 48 fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, Yes Our people 24-29, and risk-control programmes in place to assist Health & Safety textbox 28 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal No Our people 24-29, n/a add. agreements with trade unions Health & Safety textbox 28 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Yes Our people 24-29 employee category LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong Yes Our people 24-29 n/a add. learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Yes Our people 24-29 n/a add. performance and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Yes Please refer to the Annual Report Annual of employees per category according to gender, Report age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by No Not material, as the ratio between the employee category salaries of men and women is not a relevant steering instrument for Deloitte. The remuneration system is based on function level and performance. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 59 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or external GRI A+ reference Product responsibility performance indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Yes Governance 40 impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with No Proprietary information. No related n/a add. regulations and voluntary codes concerning health administrative or judicial cases and safety impacts of products and services during have been brought against the their life cycle, by type of outcomes organisation resulting in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance to laws and regulations. PR3 Type of product and service information required No Not material, as no regulations or codes by procedures and percentage of significant are applicable to the information and products and services subject to such information labelling of Deloitte services with respect requirements to sustainability impacts. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance No Not material, as no regulations or codes n/a add. with regulations and voluntary codes concerning are applicable to the information and product and service information and labelling, by labelling of Deloitte services with respect type of outcomes to sustainability impacts. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Yes Serving Our clients 20 n/a add. results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, Yes Governance, Risk 40 and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance No Proprietary information. No related n/a add. with regulations and voluntary codes concerning administrative or judicial cases marketing communications, including advertising, have been brought against the promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcome organisation resulting in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance to laws and regulations. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints No Proprietary information. An integral n/a add. regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses security policy and corresponding of customer data governance process is in place to ensure customer privacy. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for No Proprietary information. No related non-compliance with laws and regulations administrative or judicial cases concerning the provision and use of products and have been brought against the services organisation resulting in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance to laws and regulations. Society performance indicators SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any No Not material, as no significant direct programmes and practices that assess and manage societal impacts are relevant to the the impacts of operations on communities, communities in which Deloitte operates. including entering, operating, and exiting The indicator is not a relevant steering instrument for Deloitte. Indirect impacts of our services are assessed as part of an ongoing key initiative ‘service impact assessment’, refer to page 15. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units No analysed for risks related to corruption 60 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or external GRI A+ reference SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s Yes Our people 24-29 anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of No Proprietary information. No related corruption administrative or judicial cases have been brought against the organisation resulting in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance to laws and regulations. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public No Governance 40 Not material, as no publicly-expressed policy development and lobbying positions can be held that could affect the integrity of the practice. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to No Our role in society 30-35 Not material, as our charity related n/a add. political parties, politicians, and related institutions contributions focus on educational by country purposes. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive No Proprietary information. No related n/a add. behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and administrative or judicial cases their outcomes have been brought against the organisation resulting in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance to laws and regulations. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total No Proprietary information. No related number of non-monetary sanctions for administrative or judicial cases non-compliance with laws and regulations have been brought against the organisation resulting in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance to laws and regulations. * T he materiality of the indicators has been determined through an engagement process with relevant internal stakeholders and input from external stakeholders as described in the report. Sustainability Report 2010/2011 61 Our vision on sustainability is to be the Standard of Excellence in making Deloitte and its clients sustainable for the future. Deloitte Wilhelminakade 1 Postbus 2031 3000 CA Rotterdam Nederland www.deloitte.nl Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and deep local expertise to help clients succeed wherever they operate. Deloitte's approximately 170,000 professionals are committed to becoming the standard of excellence. This publication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this publication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this publication. © 2011 Deloitte The Netherlands Designed and produced by Communications at Deloitte, Rotterdam.
