2010 2011 FOCUS Corporate Social Responsibility at Societe Generale May 2011 Retail Banking – Corporate & Investment Banking – Specialised Financial Services and Insurance Private Banking, Global Investment Management & Services Our vision “Banks and the financial system are vital to wealth creation and development. It is because the banks have important responsibilities as recent events have underlined that we are doing our utmost to show that Societe Generale’s way of operating meets the needs of all our stakeholders and that the Group warrants their trust, the keystone of our business Societe Generale Group’s corporate social responthe different geographic, cultural, social and economic sibility is based on five core principles that have contexts in which we operate. This enables us both already proved their merit and are continually being to more effectively manage our risks and to seize the reinforced: business opportunities offered by new markets. _ a quality approach focused on the client and a constant concern for their satisfaction; Ambition SG 2015, our Strategic Plan on a 2015 _ a robust system of corporate governance, which horizon aims to make Societe Generale one of is continually being adapted to the demands of Europe’s major banks, to be close to its customers society; and to offer its shareholders sustainable growth with _ a constantly reinforced system of risk management less risk than in the past and to be seen as truly and internal control processes; attractive to work for. _ a comprehensive compliance policy and the application of ethical values, on which long-term We see sustainable development as a continuous performance depends; improvement process, constantly drawing on the _ a culture of innovation designed to encourage best practices of this and other economic sectors, staff to contribute to change; to better identify and better manage our direct and indirect impact on society and the environment. This I believe that we can only achieve our aim of long-term approach is notably based on the ten principles value-creation for all by applying a policy favourable of the United Nations’ Global Compact which we to social development and the environment. joined in 2003.” In every business, we integrate environmental and Frédéric OUDÉA, social concerns into our core strategies, adapted to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer OUR VISION Our commitments Societe Generale Group is steadfastly committed to safeguarding the environment and human and social rights in every aspect of its development a commitment that is upheld by each of its business lines and activities namely through the responsible management of its teams and a proactive desire to reduce its direct impact on the environment. Societe Generale adheres to 6 sets of core principles: 2004 2001 Diversity Charter in France. UNEP Statement by Financial Institutions on the Environment & Sustainable Development. 2010 Global Investor Statement on Climate Change 2006 Amundi signs the Principles for Responsible Investment 2003 Global Compact, an initiative first launched by the Secretary General of the United Nations The Equator Principles 2007 Equator Principles Founding member of the Wolfsberg Group (member of the Steering Committee) (anti-money laundering). OUR COMMITMENTS 3 Recognised CSR targets Societe Generale aims to be a benchmark bank in Sustainable Development which means: _ ensuring Environmental and Social issues are part and parcel of each of its businesses and activities, _ being a responsible employer, _ c arefully managing and reducing the Group’s direct impact on the environment. A recognised CSR approach: _ Societe Generale Group is listed on the sustainable development* indexes: FTSE4 Good and ASPI. _ SAM (Sustainability Asset Management agency which is the ratings agency for the Dow Jones sustainable development indexes) rates Societe Generale above the sector average. * A sustainable development index lists those stocks with the highest environmental, social and corporate governance ratings by specialist agencies. Recognised CSR targets 4 Applying policy to sector Societe Generale’s Environmental and Social General Principles draw their inspiration from best practices within the banking profession and other sectors of the economy: Equator _ These General Principles are based not only on the regulatory and legislative framework that Principles applied governs the bank’s activities, but also on its voto 71 financing luntary adoption to initiatives such as the Global Compact and Equator Principles. projects in 2010 _ The bank has identified those economic sectors in which it operates that present the highest environmental and social risks and adjusted its policy accordingly. To date, the 4 core sectors that take priority are oil and gas, mining and metals, coalfired power plants and defence. Other sector policies are set to follow. _ The bank’s policies provide a clear framework for these activities with a high environmental and social impact, pooling its experience in responsible development with its expertise of the world’s emerging markets. Applying policy to sector 5 Corporate Governance Societe Generale Group’s actions are overseen by independent supervisory bodies and comply with clear and consistent corporate governance policies and processes. The Board of Directors is responsible for independSociete Generale as an exhaustive array of risk ently defining the governance policies and procedures management resources to guarantee its lasting that ensure the bank’s efficient and effective control: growth: _ 11 directors elected by the Annual General Meet_ 5,200 employees who work for the Group’s risk ing (including 9 independent directors) and 2 emfunction. ployee-elected directors on January 1st, 2011. _ 10 Board of Directors’ meetings in 2010 and _ A permanent supervision process that ensures 26 meetings held by the Group’s 3 Specialthe compliance, security and validity of operaist Committees: Audit, Internal Control and Risk tions. Committee, Compensation Committee and Nomi_ The internal Audit Division created in 2010 nation and Corporate Governance Committee. comprises, under the authority of the Head of Group Internal audit, all internal audit teams 69% of directors are 1,500-strong. This system is independent from operating teams, and covers all Group entities independent directors and activities. Société Générale takes every measure to ensure its activities comply in full with all applicable laws, regulations and best practices. In 2010: _ The Group’s Compliance Department employed _ The Group Code of Conduct issued to all enti80 people in Paris and 63 people in Russia in ties since 2005 was updated; new embargo and 2010. sanction policies, were also issued. _ 19,500 employees were trained in the prevention _ The procedures in the prevention of money launof money laundering and the financing of terrorist dering and the financing of terrorist activities were activities (2010 2011). updated in order to integrate the applicable regu_ “Know Your Customer” (KYC) due diligence was latory changes following the transposition into assigned to a dedicated department. French law of the 3rd European Directive. Corporate Governance 6 Our CSR structures Societe Generale’s Sustainable Development commitments are relayed at every level of the Group: _ The Executive Committee defines the Group’s CSR policy. _ The Sustainable Development Department implements and coordinates this policy. _ A network of around 60 contributors deploys the Group’s policy and oversees all local initiatives. EMPLOYEE AWARENESS _ Bilingual training programmes on sustainable development and CSR. _ RPS (Responsible Performance Survey) a CSR self-assessment tool used in the analysis and evaluation of CSR priorities and action plans that has been tested in France and Brazil. _ A sustainable development intranet, “Planethic ”, © which is accessible to all staff. _ A variety of other initiatives including brochures on CSR and on climate change, conferences, seminars, exhibitions… CSR REPORTING TOOL _ indicators linked to CSR in the Group’s business lines and other social, environmental and sponsorship criteria. _ 1,000 contributors to data reporting. _ 62 countries covered by the reporting scope. _ Environmental reporting covering 97% of Group employees at the end of 2010 (excluding Rosbank). Our CSR Structures 7 Making CSR our business SOLIDARITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES _ a new solidarity savings service enables custom_ Societe Generale is France’s No. 1 non-mutual ers to contribute all or part of the interest on their bank for start-up loans with a 10.14% market passbook accounts (“livret A”, “livret Jeune” for share. young customers under 25 years, “livret d’Epargne Plus”…) to charities, _ “Your Bank: Here & There”: a customized offer for France’s migrant bank customers. A team _ € 80,000 donated to Handicap international and of 15 advisors devoted to banking services Restaurants du Cœur in 2010 through the retail and products tailored to France’s main foreign bank’s loyalty schemes, communities. 550 “open days”, 5,000 one-on_ Over 50,000 Societe Generale customers in one meetings, 4 forums and 5 conferences in France hold a charity bank card. 2010. _ A benchmark supporter of microfinance institutions _ Making branches more accessible: in February in numerous countries, Societe Generale works 2011, 60% of branches had already been hand-in-hand with several partners: refurbished to cater for customers with reduced mobility and 4,600 Group ATMs already adapted Around 30 microfinance institutions, primarily for the visually-impaired. in Africa. € 99 million in credit line commitments in 2010. Solidarity savings:  irect shareholder in 6 MFIs overseas and D _ € 52,633 donated to various charity associations founding shareholder of the microfinance holdin 2010 through Conciliance a solidarity service ing company, MicroCred. that enables customers to make their savings  enewal of its partnership with Adie (French AsR work for another good cause by contributing all or sociation for Economic Interest) in France to which part of the interest on their passbook accounts, it provided a credit line of € 1,674,000 in 2010. Making CSR our business 8 ENVIRONMENTALLY-FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES _ 8,700 “sustainable development” loans granted portfolios and structured transaction stratein France since 2007 (approximately € 113 milgies: management of a 2007-2012 portfolio lion). of 100 million tons of CERs (Certified Emission Reductions) and sale of 570,000 tons of _ Close to 8,000 “Eco interest-free loans” grantCERs on behalf of the World Bank’s Adaptaed at the end of 2010 for a total € 134 million. tion Fund. _ 1,041,422 account holders who had switched to orbeo is a market leader with two Energy Risk electronic statements at the end of 2010. Rankings 2010 awards. _ New offers and services from ALD Automotive _ € 2.8 billion in new green loans in 2010. to optimise the fuel consumption of customer _ 140% increase in credit lines linked to renewable vehicle fleets: energies in 2010. An electric vehicle offer in partnership with Renault and PSA. _ Partner to numerous private/public sector ventures linked to sustainable development: A new car-sharing service with ALD sharing. Energy-savings contracts with schools in the Ecodrive programmes. centre of France. A customer scheme to partially or totally offset New Diabetes and Endocrinology Center the CO2 emissions of their fleet. (Hôpitaux de Paris). _ Societe Generale and Rhodia have pooled their New campus of the École Nationale Supérieure skills and resources in orbeo, a joint-venture with des Techniques Avancées (High Environmental market solutions to fight climate change: Quality accreditation and geothermal heating Set up in 2006, orbeo offers origination (desystems). velopment and implementation of greenhouse First “positive energy” building to achieve BBC gas emission reduction projects) and trading accreditation (French low-energy building services, the optimization of carbon credit standard) in Bordeaux in 2009. Making CSR our business 9 Socially Responsible Investment Amundi (merger between SGAM and CAAM in 2009): € 12.8 billion in SRI assets under management on December 31st, 2010. Societe Generale _ A team of SRI financial analysts in Paris and London. _ SRI roadshows for France Télécom and BASF in London in 2010. _ Rated as the number 1 bank in socially-responsible investment by institutional investors.. _ “100% sustainable development” certificates: market listed investment products (water, energy, wood industry, waste management and global warming sectors). Socially Responsible Investment 10 Societe Generale, a responsible employer _ Social Dialogue: 283 collective bargaining agreements signed throughout the Group in 2010. LANDMARKS _ Promoting diversity is one of Societe Generale  55,617 employees in 85 countries at the end 1 of 2010 Group’s key HR policy priorities. To date, 4 agreements have been signed linked to 120 nationalities diversity issues: gender equality, labour market 60% of employees are women marginalisation, the disabled and older workers. 62.93% of employees work outside of France _ Mission Handicap is devoted to the recruitment, training and careers management of disabled 1  5,098 new recruits on permanent contracts persons (1,931 disabled persons employed by (56.44% are women) the Group in 2010). C  lose to 90,000 present and former employee _ 3.53 million hours of training for more than shareholders 117,245 employees. 9  ,181 work placements and 374 VIE interns taken on in 2010 _ Over 8,879 employees were able to switch jobs in France in 2010 (62% of whom work in retail banking). _ 3,973 employees in France were promoted internally in 2010 (56% of whom are women). _ Fighting HIV/AIDS: action plans in each of the Group’s 11 subsidiaries in Africa. _ Information campaigns on the risks of malaria and distribution of self-diagnosis kits (Cameroon) and impregnated mosquito nets (Senegal) in 2010. a responsible employer 11 Societe Generale, a citizen-focused employer _ Societe Generale assigned over € 10 million to solidarity programmes in 2010. _ Citizenship Week: 43 participants in the 5-day programme and 555 volunteer employees who devoted part of their free time to the Group’s 27 partner associations in France in 2010. All told, Group employees gave 26,000 hours of their time to work on solidarity programmes. _ Societe Generale Foundation for Solidarity: support for 91 projects (51 new projects and 40 ongoing projects) to promote professional integration and access to education. The Foundation distributed € 1.9 million in 2010. _ Citizenship Programme at SG CIB in partnership with the association Care: support for 5 projects to give underprivileged children in Mali, Bangladesh, Peru, Morocco and Benin access to education. With an initial budget of € 1 million for 2008 2010, the partnership was renewed in 2010 for a further three years. _ Talents et Partage: € 450,000 was donated to 100 projects by the charity organisation of current and former Group employees which was accredited by the “2011 European Year of Volunteering” scheme. _ Societe Generale supports a number of artists and works to promote access to the arts for young people, devoting over € 7.9 million to cultural sponsorship programmes in 2010. _ Sporting activities is another area to which Societe Generale is strongly committed, with € 13.7 million allocated to sports sponsorships and partners in 2010. a citizen-focused employer 12 Societe Generale reduces its environmental footprint _ Societe Generale’s Carbon Neutrality Plan aims to reduce the Group’s CO 2 emissions per occupant by 11% between 2008-2012 and to progressively increase this figure through the purchase of carbon certificates (65% of Group emissions in 2010, 100% in 2012). _ Two complementary approaches are currently in place: C arbon action plans for each business line with yearly reduction targets linked to energy, buildings, business travel and paper. C ross-function projects aimed at covering the joint needs of the Group’s business lines and providing solutions that benefit everyone (Green IT, Responsible buildings, etc.). _ Today, renewable electricity accounts for 24% of all electricity consumed (close to 157 GWh). In 2010, 41% of electricity consumed in France is renewable electricity. _ Societe Generale proactively works to save on energy consumption in its buildings: _ In 2010, the Granite tower became the 1st highrise building to be HQE ® (Haute Qualité Environnementale) certified for its construction, operations and use. _ 1st eco-branch (low-energy buildings standard) underway in France. _ Creation of an energy-savings branch within the Group’s Real Estate Department. _ Introduction _ Societe Generale has stepped up its measures of the Group’s Responsible Builto reduce its carbon footprint linked to business dings Reference Framework (RBR), the aim of trips: more restrictive travel policy and purchawhich is to constantly seek to improve the energy se of vehicles with lower CO2 emissions. and environmental performance of all Group property, and which has been specifically tailored to _ Recycled and eco-label 1 paper accounts for factor in the inherent needs of its different activities 66% of paper consumption Group wide and and the diversity of its entities around the world. 100% of paper consumption in France. 1 Derived from sustainably managed forests. Reducing our environmental footprint 13 Environmentallyfriendly and socially-responsible purchasing _ Over 2,000 listed suppliers. _ 100% of purchasers in France are trained in CSR. _ New Sustainable Sourcing Program 2011-2015. _ Sustainable canteens in 2010 (fair trade products, selective sorting and management of food waste, labelling of local and seasonal produce as well as their origin). _ Internal postal service for 50 Group sites assigned to an adapted sector company. _ Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) assigned in part to 8 adapted or protected sector companies. Environmentally-friendly 14 2010 financial results Net banking income: € 26.4bn Group net income: € 3.9bn Societe Generale has strong results which are fairly distributed 2010 breakdown of group net income before tax and social charges (€ 15,022 millions) 13% 8% 64% 15%  ersonnel expenses (including charges) 64% P  tate (Company tax and others taxes) S 13%  hareholders (Dividends) S 8%  etained net income for credit R and development 15% partner of economic development 15 Find out more Equator Principles : http://www.equatorprinciples.com/index.shtml Mission Handicap : http://careers.socgen.com/groupe/fr/decouvrir/mission-handicap.html ALD Automotive : http://www.aldautomotive.com/ Amundi : http://www.amundi.com FTSE4Good : http://www.ftse.com/ftse4good/index.jsp Information taken from the website http://csr.societegenerale.com c  ontact.devptdurable@socgen.com Design: Group Sustainable Development Department May 2011 Photo credit : © V. Védrenne, © Michel Labelle, © Philippe Zamora, © Régis Corbet, © Emmanuelle Bourillon, © Yethy Getty Images Graphic Obsession : © Gregor Schuster, © Tom Grill Fotolia : © Vibe Images, © Christopher Meder, © Yri Arcurs. Ref. (C) 709487 ­­­– Studio Société Générale +33 (0)1 42 14 27 05 – 05/2011 Société Générale adhère à Ecofolio et participe au financement du recyclage des papiers. Ce document a été conçu par la Société Générale dans le souci d’une incidence minimale sur l’environnement et imprimé sur du papier issu de forêts gérées durablement.
