DHV Group UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress 2010 STATEMENT As a member of the Global Compact, the DHV Group business policies incorporate and support the ten Global Compact principles. This is made explicit in our Global Code of Business Principles and assured through our Business Integrity Management System. The DHV Group is a company for people from people. The sustainable development of our living environment is central to our company mission. Upholding the principles of the UN Global Compact makes a positive impact on economies, societies and eco-systems. Our view on corporate responsibility is that we are part of the global living environment and have an obligation to make a positive contribution. This is a continuous journey. Companies have unique opportunities to contribute through their knowledge, directly within their spans of control and indirectly through their networks. In 2010 the Group continued to strengthen our contribution to sustainable development through projects, in our own operations and through community engagement. Highlights of 2010 include the certification of our Business Integrity Management System, external recognition across the globe for sustainability in projects and innovation, participation in sustainability platforms, and our initiatives to help build futures through education. In our own operations, we maintained the focus on diversity, and have increased the measurement and compensation of our CO2 footprint. Our integrated Annual Report 2010 (AR) gives an overview in terms of financial and corporate responsibility performance. A specific Corporate Responsibility Supplement 2010 provides additional detail at a level of GRI B+. This includes review by an external third party. The AR and CR supplement are prepared under the authority of our Executive Board and explicitly state commitment to the UN Global Compact. For more information and examples, we invite the reader of this Communication on Progress (CoP) to refer to our Annual Report 2010 and Corporate Responsibility supplement 2010 on http://www.dhvgroup.com under the heading About Us. 1 DHV Group UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress 2010 Global Compact Principle Action taken & impact achieved and/ or plans for the coming year. Cross reference*) 1. Businesses should support and Our core values of integrity, respect and freedom provide a compass for our actions world-wide. The explanation CR pp. 6, 20 respect the protection of of these values in our Global Code of Business Principles explicitly states that our company policy does not internationally proclaimed human tolerate violation of human rights. This is also included in our Group Strategy Paper, Vision 2015, which was rights; and issued in March 2010. We also consider a range of international frameworks and principles as important impulses for the positive CR p.18 development of the world’s economy, ecology and social and cultural structures. Each DHV Group company implements Human Resources policies suitable to local circumstances. In CR pp. 25, 26 developing countries we implement a standard that is higher than local norms (health care, office facilities). No fatalities occurred during 2010. Lost time injuries and lost time are reported. 2. make sure that they are not complicit The scope of our Business Integrity Management System includes reporting and investigation of human rights CR pp. 15, 20 in human rights abuses. abuses. In 2010 we updated the system, which was subsequently certificated by Ethic Intelligence. DHV Group is the first engineering consultancy with a certified Business Integrity Management System. All DHV Group companies are required to apply BIMS. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom The core value of freedom specifically includes our support for freedom of association, speech, thought and CR pp. 14-15, of association and the effective action, while recognizing the business framework in which the Group operates. We subscribe to the 18 recognition of the right to collective conventions of the International Labor Organization. bargaining; In the Netherlands, where approximately 41% of our employee population is based, there is a legal requirement to have a Works Council. This council actively engages with management on policies. 4. the elimination of all forms of forced The DHV Group Strategy Paper, Vision 2015 (issued March 2010) specifically states that in line with our CR pp.18, 20 and compulsory labour; commitment to international frameworks, our company policy upholds the international conventions of labor standards, including those on child and forced labor. 5.the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in Our company policy does not tolerate discrimination. The majority of our staff (72%) is covered by a formal CR pp.23-25, respect of employment and occupation. program against discrimination. We believe diversity in staff promotes innovation and more comprehensive 34-35 solutions. Our diversity encompasses differences in nationalities, ethnic background, gender, language, age and experience. DHV is signatory to the Dutch Talent to the Top Charter, which focuses on increasing the percentage of women CR pp. 23, in leadership positions. In 2010 this remained at 17% in the Netherlands and world-wide. In 2010 we expanded 34-35 our Executive Board with a female chief Financial Officer. 2 DHV Group UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress 2010 Recruitment, promotion and remuneration are performance related and measured against objective criteria. In CR pp. 22, 2010 the percentage receiving structured performance appraisals increased to 70% from 67% in 2009. 34-35 7. Businesses should support a We actively promote taking a precautionary approach to environmental challenges in our projects in cooperation AR pp. 15, precautionary approach to with our clients. This is a central point in our approach to business as is illustrated in both our annual report and 18, 20, 22 environmental challenges; CR supplement. CR pp. 19-20, 30 8. undertake initiatives to promote To stimulate additional CR in projects, we developed a methodology for evaluating the degree of sustainability in CR p.19 greater environmental responsibility; and our projects. In 2010 we appointed a sustainability director in the Netherlands to strengthen sustainability leadership. In our own operations, we have increased focus on environmental aspects. We target a 25% reduction in CO2 AR p. 15 emissions per FTE vs. 2008 and committed to compensating to a climate neutral position. Due to improved CR p.26-29 reporting of electricity usage in Africa, we have restated our historical electricity usage. This and a decrease of FTE in the Netherlands resulted in a slight increase of the CO2-footprint per FTE for 2010. The 2010 emissions of the whole DHV Group will be compensated in 2011. We focus on appropriate measures to reduce our footprint, identify cost reductions and increase efficiency gains CR p.29 within our office operations on a local basis. In the Netherlands we received a “Green Finance declaration” from the Dutch Government for the renovation of our head office, which will be completed in 2011 and takes it to the highest energy label (from ‘G’ to ‘A’). CR p.26 9. encourage the development and We initiate and support the development of environmentally friendly technologies AR pp.11, diffusion of environmentally friendly 15,18,20, technologies. We have developed innovative water treatment technology and design sustainable buildings and eco-cities. 22,24 Several examples are shared in our annual report and CR supplement. CR pp. 19-20 10. Businesses should work against The DHV Group has a zero tolerance policy toward corruption, bribery, collusion, extortion, fraud and other AR p. 15 corruption in all its forms, including forms of improper actions for corporate or personal financial gain. This also applies to actions by our business CR. p.15 extortion and bribery. partners. The DHV Group applies a structured approach to integrity in business practices. Our Business Integrity Management system (BIMS).This system was updated and certified in 2010. *) AR= Annual Report 2010 DHV Group CR= Corporate Responsibility Supplement 2010 3
