1 CONTENTS KEY FEATURES 2 Key Features 2 This is Tata Motors Limited’s sixth1 Sustainability Report covering data from 01 April 2009 to 31 March 2010. The report includes performance data and information related to Indian operations at View from the Driver’s Seat 3 Jamshedpur, Lucknow, Pune and Pantnagar. The unit at Sanand was in the construction phase during Designed for Global Excellence 7 the reporting period, and hence it has been covered separately. The report does not include performance data and information related to Joint Ventures and subsidiaries. Guided by a Clear Vision 11 Driving on a Robust Chassis 13 This report is based on Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 Guidelines and is self – rated at applicability level A. Further, this Report serves as our Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Delivered by a Skilled Assembly Line 17 Compact principles. This year we have engaged KPMG to provide professional services for Accelerating Growth 23 developing this report. Cruising Towards a Greener Environment 29 2009-10 was the year of innovation at Tata Motors and hence we have selected “Wheeling Ensuring a Safe Journey 39 Innovation” as the theme for this report. Innovation is an intrinsic part of our growth strategy and we demonstrate it through our approach in everything we do. From changing customer needs to Powered by an Efficient and Powerful Engine 45 managing scarce resources, elements of innovation are embedded into our business processes. Caring for the Neighbourhood 49 Our culture of perpetual search for excellence is attributed to our ethos and our efforts to serve Disclosure on Management Approach 55 customers over several decades by bringing continuous innovation in our products and processes. GRI Content Index 56 We have created several breakthrough products that have changed market dynamics and helped in Glossary 57 providing our customers a new experience and value for money. In the 80s we introduced the 407 platform for Light CVs – a cost effective alternative to the then existing Japanese vehicles. In the 90s we presented Indica – India’s first indigenously designed passenger car, that offered more car per car to the user. In 2005 we introduced ACE – India’s first mini-truck to meet the needs of last mile distribution, offering the functionality of a 4-wheeler at the price of a 3-wheeler. In 2008, we introduced Nano – the people’s car at a price point that was never heard of, with the functionality of a standard car and compliant to current safety and environmental regulations. The Nano has to its credit a record 37 patents. In 2009, we launched the World Truck, a new generation of trucks that match with the best in the world and perform at a lower life-cycle cost. We have adopted the Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM) to ingrain innovation across all business processes. This model is based on the Malcolm Baldridge National Quality Award for business excellence and principles of Balanced Score Card. As an outcome of implementation of this model, we have deployed IT systems across the value chain, institutionalized a Stage Gate process to develop right products and implemented a collaborative product development approach that utilizes the capabilities of suppliers, design houses, subsidiaries and associate companies specializing in different verticals. Our innovation agenda is driven by our people and we diligently identify right talent and nurture them to become future leaders and achieve business goals. At a global level, we continue to position ourselves as a local company in the country of operation in order to address the needs of all stakeholders. 1The report covering our performance for the year 2004-05 and 2005-06 were limited to internal circulation. 2006-07 onwards, we have reported our performance on the public domain and can be accessed at: http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php 3 VIEW FROM THE DRIVER’S SEAT 4 The person in command of the steering wheel has great responsibility: to focus on the road ahead without losing track of the path behind. Guided by a long term vision and decades of experience, our MD steers our company into the future, creating path breaking products and life altering experiences for our consumers across the globe. of metal scrap generated thereby reducing equivalent use of virgin material. We are actively seeking opportunities to diversify our energy mix, and currently renewable energy amounts to around 4.38% VIEW FROM THE DRIVER’S SEAT of our total energy consumption. 5 We address health and safety related issues at two levels – operations and products. We follow a 6 zero accident policy and our endeavour is to ensure safe operating conditions for all. I deeply regret the sad demise of three contract personnel that occurred at Jamshedpur, Pune and Lucknow this year. We have taken necessary counter measures to ensure that such accidents do not repeat. Each and every life is precious to us. The occurrence of even an injury is unacceptable in our operations. Our products are constantly evaluated by the customers on their safety standards. Today’s customers’ justifiably demand advanced safety features in vehicles, as a bare essential and to meet this demand, we have continuously upgraded product safety with new and cost-effective technologies. Tata Motors was the first Indian manufacturer to develop and introduce airbags in vehicles. We are still the only manufacturer in India to have a crash test facility. Our Engineering Research Centre is adequately equipped with state-of-the-art facilities to address specific issues related to the health and safety impacts of our products. We have created a culture which fosters and drives innovation using a systematic approach comprising a process framework well-supported by initiatives like Imagineering, Innovision, Innomatix and Innovista. Teams and individuals are encouraged to explore new technologies, alternative methods and processes, and to submit ideas. Such ideas help us to achieve cost savings, enhance efficiencies and better performance. We even capture ideas suggested by our customers, key channel partners and vendors. With a strong financial During the year, we launched several social responsibility initiatives based on the outcome of a position, balanced portfolio structured stakeholder engagement model. We have linked our focus areas of health, education, of products, well-defined employability and environment to the Human Rights Charter, Bharat Nirman Programme and Millengrowth plan, and access to nium Development Goals. Some of the notable initiatives include a malnutrition testing centre in collaboration with UNICEF, provision of marketing linkages to self-help groups organised by village national / international women and revamp of course structure at Industrial Technical Institutes. We partnered with Governmarkets, we feel that we are ment of Gujarat in their existing projects ranging from health, education, environment to employability Dear Stakeholders, now in a better position to enhancement. We touched over 500 thousand people through our social responsibility programmes. create sustainable value and We have great pleasure in introducing Tata Motors Limited’s sixth Corporate Sustainability Report Sustainability is everyday business at Tata Motors and we are cognizant of the fact that we cannot achieve responsible growth. providing reliable and impartial information regarding our role as a responsible citizen. We believe succeed if we do not incorporate this concept in our decision making. I would only reinforce our We are committed to that there are no limits to responsibility towards society and our role is important especially when Group’s commitment to running our business in a sustainable way and creating value for our there is a strong potential in our sector to innovate and make efficient products available to our achieving our goals as customers. customers over the long term. I sincerely invite your views and suggestions to further our sustainresponsible citizens and ability agenda. assign high priority to health, This year witnessed several historical developments and achievements at Tata Motors, in terms of safety, well-being and strategic acquisitions and partnerships, propagation of robust business plans and adoption of sustainable business practices. Vitally important to this was the contribution of each and every one development of our people. of our employees and business partners that helped us demonstrate an excellent performance. Over the years, our biggest acquisitions have been: Jaguar Land Rover, Daewoo Commercial Vehicles Company and Hispano Carrocera S.A., carried out with the intention of scaling up our business and offering a wider product range to our national and international customers. We also launched the much awaited people’s car, the Nano and the all-new second-generation Indigo Manza sedan and displayed our new Crossover vehicle, two new passenger carriers and an entirely new range of heavy commercial vehicles. P M Telang This year Tata Motors posted record consolidated net revenues and profits of `` 925,190 million Managing Director – India Operations ($19,376 million) and ` 25,710 million (UD $ 538 million) respectively. Our domestic sales in India Tata Motors Limited for cars and commercial vehicles were 633,862 units – a growth of 34.1%, of which passenger vehicle sales were 260,020 units – an increase of 25.3% over the previous year. During the year we took a relook at our sustainability priorities and identified key focus areas namely Energy and Climate Change, Material and Waste Management, Health and Safety, Sustainable Innovation, and Social Responsibility. This report elaborates on our approach towards enhancing our performance around each focus area. With the increasing focus on climate change and the subsequent need to control and reduce carbon emissions, we evaluated the carbon footprint of our operations. Apart from our processes, the major focus area is reduction of vehicular emissions during use. We have therefore, initiated development of environment friendly vehicles. We are on the anvil of launching a hybrid electric-CNG city bus and a range of other electric vehicles. Our focus at present is also on harnessing hydrogen as a source of energy. We have reduced our material intensity by recycling scrap metal generated from our operations through co-operative society services. This year we have recycled more than 17,500 MT 7 DESIGNED FOR 8 GLOBAL EXCELLENCE Vehicles that offer world-class technology, promise superior performance and deliver great mileage at economical costs are desired by all. Our plants at Jamshedpur, Pune, Lucknow, Pantnagar, and recently Sanand, are built to internationally accepted standards and create exceptional vehicles, which provide much more value for money than ever. DESIGNED FOR Our domestic sales in India for cars and commercial vehicles were 633,862 units – a growth of 34.1%, of which passenger vehicle sales were 260,020 units – an increase of 25.3% over the previous year. Our share in the Indian four-wheeler automotive vehicle market increased to 25.5% this 9 year, from 24.4% in the last year. We market our commercial and passenger vehicles in several 10 GLOBAL EXCELLENCE countries in Europe, Africa, the Middle East, South East Asia and South Asia. Our exports of vehicles manufactured in India increased by 1.6% to 34,088 units in this year as compared from 33,536 units in the last year. Since launch of the Nano in March 2009, we received a total of 203,000 bookings. The deliveries commenced in July 2009 and this year we could deliver 30,763 vehicles from our Uttarakhand facility. The following table sets forth our total sales of Tata and other brand vehicles: Category Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 Units % Units % Units % We started as Tata Locomotive and Engineering Company Limited, a public limited liability company that was incorporated on 01 September 1945. On 24 September 1960, we changed our name to Tata Passenger Cars* 232,006 34.30 166,962 33.00 182,291 30.50 Engineering and Locomotive Company Limited and finally to Tata Motors Limited on 29 July 2003. In Utility Vehicles 35,107 5.20 39,049 7.70 50,130 8.40 September 2004, we became the first company from India’s engineering sector to be listed on the Light Commercial Vehicles 228,987 33.90 160,787 31.90 173,382 29.00 New York Stock Exchange. In India, we are the largest automobile and commercial vehicle manufacturer by revenue and among the top three passenger vehicle manufacturers in terms of units Medium and Heavy sold for the year. Currently, more than four million vehicles produced by us are being operated in India. Commercial Vehicles 179,661 26.60 138,601 27.40 191,394 32.10 Total 675,761 100.00 505,399 100.00 597,197 100.00 We have five principal automotive manufacturing facilities in India. The first facility was established in 1945 at Jamshedpur, Jharkhand. The operations at the second facility commenced in 1976 at The following table sets forth our market share in various categories in the Indian Pune, Maharashtra. The production at the third facility in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh commenced in market-based on wholesale volumes: As an organisation that is actively involved in policy making and driving 1992. Our fourth facility commenced operations in 2008 at Pantnagar, Uttarakhand. Recently we As an organisation that is actively Category Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 change, we are members of a have initiated construction of our fifth facility at Sanand, Gujarat for manufacturing of the Nano. The involved in policy making and driving number of organisations that strive to Sanand plant is expected to commence its operations around June 2010. As of March 31, 2010, our Passenger Cars* 16.00% 13.20% 14.20% change, we are members of a add value to the automobile industry: operations included 67 consolidated subsidiaries and equity method affiliates across the globe. The Utility Vehicles 12.40% 17.60% 20.10% number of organisations that strive to details of the same can be accessed in our 2009-10 Annual Report. Light Commercial Vehicles 64.80% 65.40% 64.40% add value to the automobile industry: • Indo German Chamber of Commerce We offer a broad portfolio of automotive products, including the world’s most affordable car — the Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicles 63.30% 61.90% 60.40% • The Associated Chambers of Tata Nano, premium luxury cars and SUVs. By volume, we are the world’s fourth largest truck Total Four-Wheel Vehicles 25.50% 24.40% 26.10% Commerce and Industry of India • Society of Indian Automobile manufacturer and the second largest bus manufacturer in the above 8 tonne category. (ASSOCHAM) Manufacturers (SIAM) Awards & Accolades 2009-10 Reader’s Digest Asia Trusted Brand Awards • Bombay Chamber of Commerce • Association of Indian Automobile We produce a wide range of automotive products as follows: for the 4th consecutive year. and Industry, Mumbai Manufacturers (AIAM) The following were our achievements during • Tata Motors is among the country’s most • Passenger Cars: Our passenger cars include the small car – the Tata Nano, the compact cars FY2009-10: • Prostep, Germany • Maharashtra Economic admired companies for their Corporate Development Council, Mumbai Indica and the Indica Vista, the mid-sized cars Indigo and the newly launched Indigo Manza and Social Responsibility initiatives, according to • Federation of Indian Export the station wagon version of the Indigo, the Indigo Marina. We have expanded our car lines by • The Economist named Mr. Ratan Tata, a survey conducted by global consultancy Organization (Western Group) • Indo American Chamber of introducing several variants to suit different customer preferences. For example, the Indica Chairman of Tata Motors as the winner of its firm, Nielsen. Commerce gasoline variant, Xeta, is available with a dual fuel (petrol and liquefied petroleum gas) engine. annual 'Business Process Innovation Award' • Wards Automotive Reports,USA • CVBU Pune plant was awarded a Trophy and • The Indo-Japanese Association Jaguar has established its presence in the premium car segment. With the discontinuation of for the successful development and launch • Automotive News, USA /Crain Certificate for “Green India Awards-2009 & production of the X Type in December 2009, Jaguar currently produces three car lines XK, XF and of the world's cheapest car, the Tata Nano Communications Inc.USA • Automotive Research was declared as “Green Leader” by FROST & XJ. A new generation of the Jaguar, XJ, was also unveiled in London in July 2009. • Tata Motors has received two prestigious SULLIVAN, Bangalore. Association of India (ARAI) • Cardesign News Ltd.UK • Utility Vehicles: We manufacture a number of utility vehicles, including the Sumo, and the sports awards – the NASSCOM CNBC IT User • Tata Motors CVBU was awarded the Golden • Confederation of Indian Industry utility vehicle, the Tata Safari and the lifestyle pickup, the Xenon XT. The Sumo, the Safari and the Award in the Auto segment and the CIO 100 • Global Compact Network Peacock award for Occupational Health & (CII) Xenon XT have variants to meet different consumer preferences such as the Safari DICOR 2.2 Special Award in the Innovation category – Safety for the year 2010. VTT range, powered by a new 2.2 L Direct Injection Common Rail (DICOR) engine and the Sumo for excellence in IT implementation • ACE Plant at Pantnagar plant won first prize Grande, an SUV with the comforts of a family car. We have unveiled Aria, our next generation of • Tata Nano won the Gold Prize in the 2010 in “Automobile Manufacturing” sector, an premium SUV powered by a 2.2 L DICOR engine at the Auto Expo 2010. Land Rover produces Edison Awards under the Best New Product award for “National Energy Conservation five car lines under the brands of Range Rover and Land Rover, and provides us with presence in – Transportation Category Awards-2009” by Bureau of Energy premium all-terrain vehicles. Range Rover is the premium range consisting of Range Rover and • Tata Nano won the Frost & Sullivan 2009 Efficiency (BEE), Ministry of Power, GoI. Range Rover Sport, and the Land Rover brand comprises of the Defender, Discovery and Innovation Award for its outstanding • Car Plant at Pune bagged the First Prize in Freelander vehicles. innovation and exceptional contribution to Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) the auto industry as an engineering marvel. • Light Commercial Vehicles: We manufacture a variety of light commercial vehicles, or LCVs, competition organized by the Confederation including pickup trucks, trucks and buses with a GVW of between 0.7 tonne and 7.5 tonnes. This • CNBC-TV18 conferred the Chairman, of Indian Industry (CII), Western Region, for also includes the Ace, India’s first indigenously developed mini-truck with a 0.7 tonne payload, Mr.Ratan Tata, with the India Business the year 2009-10. the Magic, a passenger variant for commercial transportation developed on the Ace platform, Leader Award for building the brand India • Jamshedpur plant won the Best Entry Award and the Winger. abroad. for the Energy Conservation (ENCON) • Tata Motors has won top three honours at Contest 2009-10 organized by the • Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicles: We manufacture a variety of medium and heavy the annual Good Green Governance (g3) Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in the commercial vehicles, which include trucks, buses, dumpers and multi-axled vehicles with GVW Awards 2009 Eastern region (ER). of between 9 tonnes to 49 tonnes. In addition, we manufacture a range of high horsepower trucks ranging from 220 horsepower to 500 horsepower, including dump trucks, tractor-trailers, • Tata Motors has been declared as the • Lucknow has been awarded the Excellent mixers and cargo vehicles. During fiscal 2010, we unveiled a new range of trucks, referred to as Commercial Vehicle Maker of the year in the Energy Efficient Unit Award at the 10th the as ‘Prima’ line, to our customers in India, South Korea, and expect to extend the offer ‘CV’ Commercial Vehicles Awards 2010, National Awards for Excellence in Energy gradually to other countries such as South Africa, the other SAARC countries, Middle East and instituted by CV Magazine. Management 2009 conducted by CII various countries in Africa. • Tata Motors won the Gold award at the Godrej Green Business Centre at Chennai. * Passenger cars include Fiat vehicles distributed by us. 11 GUIDED BY A CLEAR VISION 12 A clear view is Passenger Car Business Unit (PCBU) Commercial Vehicle Business Unit (CVBU) essential, to maintain a Vision Mission Vision Employees: To create a seamless organization that incubates and promotes innovation, momentum and to race To develop TATA into a world class Indian car brand for innovative and superior value vehicles. • To be the most admired multi-national Indian car company producing vehicles that To be a world class corporate constantly furthering the interest of all its stakeholders. excellence and the Tata core values. ahead at high speeds. people love to buy Vendor and Channel Partners: To foster a World class in:Mission • To create an organization that people enjoy long-term relationship so as to introduce a • Product appeal and styling clean, working for, doing business with and Shareholders: To consistently create broad range of innovative products and contemporary lines and shapes investing in shareholder value by generating returns in services, that would benefit our customers and excess of Weighted Average Cost of Capital other stakeholders. • Interior space and passenger comfort (WACC) during the upturn and at least equal to • Quality and reliability Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) Community: To proactively participate in during the downturn of the business cycle. reshaping the country’s economic growth. Superior value in offering:To take a holistic approach towards • Lowest ownership cost Customers: To strengthen the Tata brand and environmental protection. create lasting relationships with the customers • Relevant cost effective technology by working closely with business partners to • More content at same price point provide superior value for money over the as competition life cycle. We are guided by a clear vision, well supported by management systems that help us achieve unattainable goals and demonstrate sound performance. 13 DRIVING ON A ROBUST CHASSIS 14 A strong chassis protects the occupants and ensures a smooth ride, and a vehicle built on such a chassis can cross all barriers outperforming its competition. Our corporate governance principles function as our robust chassis, protecting us from unethical business practices and ensuring smooth functioning of our organisation. Shareholders DRIVING ON A ROBUST CHASSIS Audit Committee 15 Management Board of Directors CEO & Managing Director Executive Committee of Board 16 Committee Remuneration Managing Director – India Operations Committee Operations Nomination Committee Head Chief Head (ERC) Committee (Commercial Financial Vehicles) Officer Investor’s Grievance Committee Head (Passenger Cars – Commercial) Head (Human Resources) Ethics & Compliance As a Tata company, our philosophy on Corporate Governance is founded on a legacy of fair, ethical Chief (Strategtic Sourcing) Chief Internal Auditor cum Committee and transparent governance practices based on the highest standards of professionalism, honesty, Head (Passenger Cars – Operations) Chief Ethic Counselor Special need based integrity and ethical behaviour. Over the years, we have enhanced the mechanisms that govern our Head (PCBU – International Business) Head (Legal) Committee operations. We have adopted and implemented the Tata Code of Conduct that articulates our values, Company Secretary Head (CVBU – International Business) ethics and business principles and serves as a guide to our organization, directors and employees2. Head (Corporate Planning) Head (Govt. Affairs & Collaboration) Head (Corporate Communication) We cherish the presence of renowned business leaders who provide informed oversight on our strategic business decisions. Their experience and knowledge has been instrumental in Tata Motors’ success over the years. Our Board of Directors3, chaired by Mr. Ratan N. Tata consists of 12 practices are adopted, monitored and reviewed at Tata Motors. The conformance of employees to non-executive Directors (including 6 Independent Directors). The composition of the Board, as on 31 TCoC is monitored by the Ethics and Compliance Committee. It ensures that each employee March 2010 is as follows: becoming a part of Tata Motors’ growth story abides by the content and motive of the TCoC, and thereby manifests its role in avoiding risks related to ethical non-compliance in our operations. Any S. No. Name of Directors Position of responsibility cases of non-compliance to the Code are taken seriously across all levels, and persons involved are 1 Mr. Ratan N Tata Non-Executive, Chairman penalized accordingly. We have also appointed a lady Ethics Counselor across locations as a part of 2 Mr. Ravi Kant Non-Executive, Vice Chairman our Sexual Harassment Redressal Mechanism. Opportunities and forums have been created for all 3 Mr. N A Soonawalla Non-Executive employees and stakeholders to voice a genuinely held concern about ethical misconduct or report a 4 Mr. J J Irani Non-Executive violation that is perceived to be in contravention to the Code. Systems and processes for addressing 5 Mr. R Gopalakrishnan Non-Executive remedial and disciplinary actions arising out of violation of the code have also been put in place. The 6 Mr. N N Wadia Non-Executive, Independent status on ethical concerns is presented in the Audit Committee meeting on a periodic basis. 7 Mr. S M Palia Non-Executive, Independent Management Systems 8 Mr. R A Mashelkar Non-Executive, Independent 9 Mr. S Bhargava Non-Executive, Independent The Tata Business Excellence Model enables us to drive performance and attain higher levels of 10 Mr. N Munjee Non-Executive, Independent efficiency in our businesses and our social responsibility initiatives. An Enterprise Process Model 11 Mr. V K Jairath Non-Executive, Independent (EPM) manual comprising of enterprise level processes and their sub-processes helps us to conduct 12 Mr. Carl-Peter Forster Group CEO and Managing Director business in an effective and efficient manner. The model is continuously upgraded to ensure that it 13 Mr. P M Telang Managing Director – Indian Operations evolves in line with process changes, changing business needs and global paradigm shifts. This approach has helped us to evolve a uniform approach to all business processes across all To address the various governance requirements we have the following committees4: Audit manufacturing locations. committee, Remuneration committee, Investors’ Grievance committee, Executive committee, Nominations committee, Ethics and Compliance committee. We have health, safety and environment We have successfully implemented ERP SAP, which has given us the advantage of reliable, committees at each plant. HSE performance is monitored and reviewed by the top management consistent and accurate data across all areas of operations. We also keep track of regularly. We have an ERM system that maps the strategic, operational (including Safety), carbon industry/competition through many approaches including innovative processes such as ‘FIBRES' related, financial and governance risks related to the Business strategy. It also assesses potential (Fact & Information Base Reverse Engineering Of Strategies). Our CRM-DMS (Customer Relationship weaknesses in the internal processes. It is facilitated by respective Risk Champions who are required Management – Dealer Management System) is a unique initiative, implemented through a centralized 2 For detailed information on the Tata Code of Conduct, please refer our to determine the risk treatment (Accept /Reduce/Transfer/Eliminate) and work out the mitigation online system. This is developed and deployed to all the channel partners (2000+locations). Corporate website: http://www.tata.com/aboutus/articles/inside.aspx?artid=NyGNnLHkaAc= plans accordingly. All our manufacturing locations have adopted and are certified for management systems related to 3 For more information on our Board of Directors, please go through our latest Corporate Governance report for 2009-10, available at Ethics at Tata Motors quality, environment, occupational health and safety and social accountability. We have mandated http://www.tatamotors.com/know-us/pdf/CG-Report-2010.pdf our suppliers to adopt ISO 9001/TS 16949 quality management system framework for 4 For more information on our various Board Committees, please go through our latest Corporate Governance report for 2009-10, available at The Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) plays an important role in infusing principles of ethics, implementation, management and improvement of their work processes. http://www.tatamotors.com/know-us/pdf/CG-Report-2010.pdf transparency and responsibility in our operations. Over the years, the TCoC has ensured that ethical 17 DELIVERED BY A SKILLED 18 ASSEMBLY LINE An efficient and able assembly line ensures that a vehicle is built to surpass all hitherto accepted standards. The contents of this report have been essentially developed after assessing the feedback received from our stakeholders and subject to our materiality assessment framework. DELIVERED BY A SKILLED We view engagement with multiple stakeholders as a key enabler of both risk mitigation and innovation. We engage with our shareholders at the corporate level through the Investors’ Grievance Committee. The Board regularly oversees the market performance of our stock and communication sent to 19 shareholders, analysts and media. We publish regular financial performance and provide requisite 20 ASSEMBLY LINE information to shareholders, analysts and media aiding our shareholders in taking informed decisions. Investors’ Grievance Committee comprising three Board members is empowered to oversee the redressal of investors’ grievances. Based on the recommendations of the Investors’ Grievance Committee, we have proactively undertaken investor friendly initiatives such as sending reminders to investors who have not claimed their dues, launching an odd lot scheme, sending nominations forms, launching a shareholders discount scheme, arranging factory visits, and many more. We have a well established Customer Relationship Management (CRM) framework which ensures We have pursued a strategy of increasing our presence in the global automotive market and of that we constructively engage with our customers to provide them with quality products and enhancing our product range and capability through strategic acquisitions and alliances. Our goal is services. Our CRM is a critical component of our internal controls system. The programme to position ourselves as a major international automotive company by offering products across enhancements, which further enrich this on-line common platform for our sales, spare parts service various markets by combining our engineering and other strengths. We also acknowledge the activities and all channel partners, gives us an on-line real-time market and customer interaction and impacts of our operations on the environment and society and strive to mitigate any negative information capability. We have extended the customer touch points through the web, call centres impacts. The Board has the overall responsibility of executing the strategy and detailing the business and SMS to attain maximum customer outreach. We started a ‘Customer Centricity’ initiative which plan based on identified external and internal risks. The outcome of stakeholder engagement also tied the sales and service with back-end operations to deliver customer expectations and have forms a key input to our strategy. We make every effort to address the concerns and expectations of assigned executives to key accounts to take care of their requirements. our stakeholders by proactively engaging with them through various forums and media. We conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys to assess the current levels of customer This year we made an effort to identify and prioritize material sustainability issues through an satisfaction and seek inputs for product and services innovations. A survey conducted by JD Power employee engagement exercise conducted at our manufacturing plants across India, followed by a Asia Pacific Report which measures the defection rate of customers to non-authorized service senior management review. All the issues of material significance were identified and ranked across centres was released in October 2009. The study, called The 2009 India Customer Service Index six critical materiality filters. A materiality threshold was defined and all the issues with ranking (CSI) Study, is based on responses from more than 5,800 owners of nearly 50 different vehicle beyond the threshold were subject to management review. On the basis of prioritization and models. On a 1000 point scale, we received a rating of 750, and were ranked 5th overall, out of 11 management review, five material issues have been identified: companies. Providing Customers (existing as well as prospective) with appropriate Access Mechanisms has been acknowledged as an important process and is well documented as a part of • Energy and Climate Change our TS16949 the formal ISO QMS. The range of access mechanisms available has been strengthened The maximum impact of a vehicle on climate change is during its use and we continually strive by introducing access and relationship building approaches which includes providing Toll Free line & to produce products that have improved fuel efficiency and lower emissions throughout their life 24x7 helpline. cycle. Across manufacturing plants, we also focus on energy efficient processes and conservation initiatives. • Material and Waste Management Implement strategic Material substitution is a focus area at Tata Motors, where we try to replace virgin materials initiatives and review and/or hazardous materials by environment friendly materials. Recycle and reuse of materials, along with reduction of waste, not only contributes towards reducing our environmental impacts, but also help in improving our operational efficiency. Our research and development team is working towards evaluating the end of life recoverability and recyclability of our vehicles. E • Health and Safety st nga ak ge s eh w ue Vehicular safety is of paramount importance for our customers, and we ensure that the safety old ith er iss ns y er performance of our vehicles exceed the prescribed standards. By virtue of our manufacturing s tif nc en o Id nd c processes, occupational health and safety is vitally important to us, and we have taken steps to Set goals a reduce incidents and accidents by providing a safe working environment. TML and targets STAKEHOLDER • Sustainable Innovation ENGAGEMENT an d s ic Report back ue eg MODEL The year 2009-10 was the “Year of Innovation” for Tata Motors, and this was demonstrated by e iss rat t to stakeholders our path breaking products such as the Nano and the World truck. From changing customer s th in s ng es ns n i Pr needs to managing scarce resources, elements of innovation have been embedded into our dr er lan i an oriti business processes. Ad onc p c d ze co is nc su er es ns • Social Responsibility Building on the legacy of the Tata Group, we at Tata Motors contribute to the development of society through varied and numerous initiatives, spread across geographies. Environment, education, health and enhancing employability are our focus areas. Include the learnings and Going forward, we intend to expand the materiality assessment framework to include inputs from our feedback in strategic planning key stakeholders. We also plan to review our materiality assessment on a periodic basis. Our approach and performance on the material issues have been discussed in detail in the respective performance sections. Stakeholder Engagement model at Tata Motors DELIVERED BY A SKILLED We have a vast network of suppliers and dealers across the country. We regularly engage with our suppliers and dealers and have established relationship management programmes with them. We periodically conduct supplier and dealer meets to discuss mutual issues of concern. Suppliers and 21 dealers can reach the management at all times on any issue or concern through their respective 22 ASSEMBLY LINE company contact points. The Board periodically reviews and addresses supplier and dealer related issues. Many of our suppliers share a special relationship with us and we have helped a number of them grow their business. A large number of our suppliers who used to supply exclusively to Tata Motors have now grown significantly, and supply to other businesses as well. We are guided by the legacy of Tata Group while establishing community relationships and engaging in philanthropic activities. We have dedicated Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) cells across our plants and also at the corporate level and they are responsible for the implementation of community Employees are our core strength. We engage with our employees through various structured as well as development initiatives. We conduct periodic community needs assessment surveys to understand informal forums that include town hall communications, employee satisfaction surveys, employee the concerns and expectations of the communities in which we operate and accordingly develop our suggestion schemes, performance appraisals and feedback. Employees are encouraged to discuss or engagement strategies. Our interventions are aimed at receiving active participation from report any issue of concern with appropriate personnel in the organization based on the nature and area communities, often asking them to take ownership of initiatives. We also partner with NGOs. We of concern. We have an efficient system in place for employees to report any non adherence to Tata undertake impact studies to understand the effectiveness of our initiatives and have regular reviews Code of Conduct related issues, to the Management. The internal newsletters and magazines provide as per the Tata CS Protocol. employees with key information regarding our future plans while sharing best practices and celebrating achievements. Employee suggestion schemes have helped us achieve operational excellence and they This year we have made an effort to engage with our employees on our sustainability agenda. have also made employees realize that they are integral part of our success. The issues and concerns The outcome of this engagement was reviewed by the top management and the results have of employees are periodically reviewed and addressed by our Management Committee. been encouraging. Stakeholder engagement mechanisms Stakeholder engagement mechanisms Who do we Government; Who do we Shareholders Customers Investors; Community; Society Employees Dealers Suppliers / Vendors engage with? Regulatory agencies engage with? Dealer meets; Joint Sunrise and Sunset programmes; Annual General Technology Days, Customer meets; meetings; Horizontal Kaizen events; Meetings; Investor meets; Meetings with local Supplier meets, Joint How do we Key account process; communications; How do we Quarterly Participation in QFD programmes, Kaizen Investor calls; One-to-one meetings community; Public Horizontal deployment; engage? communication; Surveys; and NPI; Competitor events, Participation in engage? Road Shows hearing Weekly / Monthly Analyst meet Feedback calls; data and analysis; NPI, Competitor data reviews; Improvements Special training and analysis displays programmes Annual; How frequently Annual; Annual; Annual; How frequently Daily; Quarterly; Annual; do we engage? Quarterly; As per requirement Quarterly; Requirement based Quarterly; do we engage? Quarterly; Monthly; Quarterly Twice a year As per requirement Daily Weekly Understanding Building capacity Financial and technical Delivering quality Understand product Relationship building; Community development concerns; performance; Broad Financial performance; know-how; products; Time What is the feedback; Redress Appraising the initiatives Communicating What is the future strategies; Broad future strategies; improving and management; agenda? complaints; Suggestions government on industry Communication; policy decisions and agenda? Feedback and address Feedback and addressal delivering better Compliance to Tata on product constraints; Discussions Capturing societal seeking feedback; of concerns; Approval of concerns response to Code of Conduct and development; on way forward concerns Communicating from shareholders customers other policies; performance Transcripts of Customer Satisfaction Minutes of meeting; Employee satisfaction How do we Minutes of meeting; Minutes of meeting; Dealer Satisfaction Vendor rating; Board How do we teleconferences; Index; JD Power Action plans; survey; assess it? Action plans; Action plans; Index; reviews assess it? Minutes of AGM Survey Feedback letters; Appraisals 23 ACCELERATING GROWTH 24 Banking on people, investing in state-of-the-art Research and Development, building world class manufacturing facilities, creating a strong marketing network and sound financial management practices result in accelerated growth. We surpassed the economic downturn on the basis of our superior products and robust financial management practices. We have grown with rapid strides, taking our employees and business partners along with us. Sustainable Supply Chain ACCELERATING GROWTH Our approach to manage risks in the supply chain has been focussed towards maintaining relations 25 based on mutual respect and equal opportunities with all our suppliers and partners. We follow set criteria for managing procurement and contractual purchases of goods and services in line with our 26 general purchase and contracting conditions. We have initiated steps to include our supply chain in our initiatives on social accountability and environment management activities. Our endeavour is to partner with suppliers who bring expertise and innovative solutions to improve the environmental profile of our facilities, enabling employees to work in an environmentally conscious workplace. All our significant investments, including contracts with suppliers incorporate the aspects of human rights as stipulated by all national and state laws. The automobile industry was amongst the worst-hit sectors during the global meltdown. Automotive We have undertaken an e-commerce initiative through the development of a business-to-business sales in North America, Continental Europe and the United Kingdom were particularly hard-hit in site with the assistance of our subsidiary, Tata Technologies Limited, for electronic interchange of 2008-09, mainly due to the rise in fuel prices and the collapse of banking institutions. Sales of cars data with our suppliers in India. This has enabled us to have real time information exchange and in the United States declined by 21.5% over the previous year while sales in Europe and the United processing to manage our supply chain effectively. Further, we use external agencies as third party Kingdom declined by 11.9% and 6.4% respectively. By contrast, the automotive sector in Asia logistic providers to reduce space and save costs. experienced growth. China and India were the main drivers of this growth. India witnessed growth in passenger vehicle sales of 24.5% from 1.5 million units in 2008-09 to about 1.9 million units in We are also exploring opportunities for global sourcing of parts and components from lower cost 2009-10 in the domestic market. Commercial vehicle sales in India also registered a recovery of 40% countries, and have embarked on a vendor management programme that includes vendor base Our goal is to position ourselves as a because of increased execution of major infrastructure projects in the country. A robust product mix rationalization, vendor quality improvement and vendor satisfaction surveys. In India, about 60% of major international automotive and involvement of suppliers and partners enabled us to achieve a greater operational efficiency, our procurement in terms of value is from locally based vendors (within the same state of operation), company by offering products across including a low break-even point. many of who supply exclusively to Tata Motors and we ensure that we provide them with a steady various markets by combining our source of income through our ever expanding operations. engineering and other strengths as well We posted a record net revenue and profit of ` 355.93 billion and ` 22.40 billion respectively during the year. Our domestic sales figures in India were 633,862 units – a growth of 34.1% over the as through strategic acquisitions. Our We are also working with our channel partners to reduce our climate change impact in our supply previous year. The sales of passenger vehicles increased by 25.3% to 260,020 units in this year. On strategy6 to achieve these goals Economic Value Generated chain. Through our unique initiative, Green Dealership, we are creating awareness and promoting the basis of consolidated (group) revenues in 2009-10, Tata Motors entered the Fortune Global 500, consists of the following elements: and Distributed (in ` billion) good environmental practices and management systems in our supply chain. The initiative also aims a closelywatched annual ranking of the world’s largest corporations with a rank of 442. We are also at disseminating information on energy conservation which could provide potential financial savings • Leveraging our capabilities Economic Value Generated 383.64 India’s 5th most valuable brand, with a brand value of US$ 3.28 billion, as per the 2009 edition of for our channel partners. We have estimated the carbon footprint of our tier-1 supply chain and have • Mitigating cyclicality India’s Most Valuable Brands Study5. initiated a CO2 abatement plan at the supplier level. The following are some of our key milestones: Gross Revenue 383.64 • Expanding our international Economic Value Distributed 368.21 • Creating awareness amongst the vendors on climate change through a 20 minute info-module business Operating Costs 322.99 on the science, impacts, causes and abatement of climate change and related effects • Reducing costs and • Sharing energy conservation ideas that are working effectively across our locations breakeven points Employee Benefits and Wages 18.36 • Collecting environment and energy related data through a questionnaire from Tier-1 vendors and • Continuing focus on high quality estimating their footprint attributable to operations related to Tata Motors and enhancing customer Payments to providers satisfaction of capital 20.96 We have initiated Product Development / Engineering programs for our suppliers that include 3D • Enhancing capabilities through the Payments to government 5.89 design visualization capability, enriching digital content by adding behaviour to digital models, adoption of superior processes Economic Value Retained 15.43 knowledge based engineering tools and enhanced digital collaboration. A supplier portal, which facilitates close collaboration from design / development stage to production planning and • Customer financing scheduling was also introduced. • Continuing to invest in technology and technical skills Vendor Parks – Creating shared value • Maintaining financial strength We have established vendor parks in the vicinity of our manufacturing operations and vendor clusters • Leveraging brand equity have been formed at our facilities at Pantnagar and Sanand. This initiative is aimed at ensuring flow of component supplies on a real-time basis, there-by reducing logistics and inventory costs as well as lowering uncertainties in the long-distance supply-chain. At Sanand, adjacent to our plant boundary, we have established a vendor park with all basic amenities in place which would house vendors supplying exclusively to Tata Motors. We aim to source more than 60% of our components from the vendor park, thus increasing our resource efficiency and decreasing our emissions due to reduction in logistics related travel. Our plan is to accommodate around 40 vendors in the park. In a sequential manner we plan to generate awareness amongst our vendors about issues like work-site safety, energy and water conservation and encourage them to take up activities to make their operations sustainable. A registered co-operative society will be formed by the vendors and there would be a management committee that will have representation from TML and the vendor co-operative society. Through this initiative we are aiming to generate employment for close to 4000 personnel. 5 The study is done by Brand Finance, a London-based global brand valuation firm for The Economic Times. 6 Further information can be obtained from our SEC Filings at http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/sec-filing.php 27 ACCELERATING GROWTH 28 Research and Development We continue to increase our investment in research and development to support future innovation to ensure that we have the new products and technologies to maintain and grow our market positions to be the leaders in the locations we operate. During the year we have spent ` 11.71 billion on research and development activities, which was 3.29% of the net turnover. We have technologically upgraded our engine development centre by adding facilities such as a 440KW High Dynamic Transient Dynamometer with a state-of-the-art raw gas emission measurement and intake air-conditioning system for developing heavy duty commercial vehicle engines. We have also added a variety of testing facilities and equipment such as a sound quality studio, acoustic transmission loss test rigs for specific body panels, cost effective telemetry based measurement system for pass by noise, wheel force transducers to gather road load data in a single set up and have also indigenously developed in-house capability to conduct side pole impact crash tests. Innovations such as ultra violet tubes and portable oil skimmers have been successfully used to extend the useful life of coolants. We have developed the following new technologies/methods and processes for our range of passenger cars and commercial vehicles such as: • Plastic balance gears • Spoked flywheel • Mass dampers on rear suspension arms • Dual mass flywheel systemImported from During the year, we have filed for 150 patent applications, 44 design applications and 78 copyright Technology for Imported from Year of import Status applications. 6 patents were granted, 30 design and 34 copyrights were registered for applications Engine management AEC, Australia 2009-10 In progress filed in the earlier years. for series hybrid technologies for buses Technology for Imported from Year of import Status Design and Ricardo UK Ltd, UK 2006-07 Under implementation Development & FEV, Germany 2007-08 Under implementation development of new application of a two 2008-09 generation engine cylinder common rail 2009-10 platforms for LCVs diesel engine for small and Uvs passenger car and Design and AVL List GMBH Austria 2007-08 Completed small commercial development of new delphi diesel systems, vehicle generation engine France Gas injection AEC, Australia 2009-10 In progress platforms for ICV/MCV technology for LCV, MCV and HCV engines Design and M/s torotrak (holdings) 2007-08 Under implementation development of Ltd. UK Stop-Start feature for Lucas, UK 2009-10 In progress infinitely variable various vehicle Continental, USA transmission based on platforms full toriodal-traction Concept-Automated Prodrive, UK 2009-10 One unit imported as drive variators for Manual transmission Porsche, Germany Technology various vehicle for commercial Demonstrator platforms vehicles Completed Design and Wagon SAS, France 2007-08 Completed Multiplexed wiring Continental, USA Completed development of flush 2009-10 systems for bus sliding and plug platforms Design and Tata Motors European 2008-09 Under implementation Gas injection AFS, Canada 2009-10 Completed development of electric Technical Center plc, technology for Ace, hatchbacks in UK Ltd. (TMETC) Xenon and winger windows vehicle engines. Indica Vista EV 29 CRUISING TOWARDS 30 A GREENER ENVIRONMENT Globally, the automobile industry is focussing on developing vehicles that can run on clean fuels, have a high fuel efficiency, low emissions, high end-of-life recyclability and low material intensity. Our Engineering Research Centre spearheads Research and Development at Tata Motors. It is well-supported by the robust environment management practices adopted by us enabling us to create a greener environment. CRUISING TOWARDS The key materials used for the production of our vehicles have been listed below: Material Unit of Measurement Quantity Quantity 31 2008-09 2009-10 32 A GREENER ENVIRONMENT Steel Steel Tubes Tonnes Tonnes 153,240 8 185,205 30 Non-Ferrous alloys Tonnes 2,635 3,339 Ferrous Alloys Tonnes 1,251 1,372 Steel Melting Scrap Tonnes 43,281 53,418 The looming crises of climate change, water scarcity, decreasing air quality, and resource Paints, Oils & Lubricants Tonnes 7,896 7,684 constraints are long-term challenges for our operations. Natural resources and ecosystems have been undervalued, and the environmental impacts of business have been regarded as externalities. Kilo Litres 9,692 10,024 At Tata Motors, we believe we must manage our operations such that we comply with the highest Tyres, tubes & flaps Numbers 4,086,280 4,555,111 Average distribution of materials in TML group vehicles standards of business practices and environmental sustainability. The key elements being; improved (as percentage of total weight) energy efficiency and conservation, diversity of energy sources, material stewardship and waste Engines Numbers 69,002 104,309 1 0.18 5 management, water conservation, biodiversity management, application of innovation and new 3 at our Jamshedpur plant. New boxes are not consumed and these boxes are recycled when various 5 technologies and compliance with national laws and relevant conventions. This year, we have invested a total of ` 238.13 million towards environment management activities across operations. dispatches are made from the factory. The wood from broken boxes is reused to make tool boxes and other utility items. Progress on commitments 12 Recycling bus seats What we said What we have achieved Switch over to Bharat IV. Achieved Chassis of some buses, built at the Lucknow plant, are sent to the Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd. (AGCL) for the building of their body. Once their body is built by AGCL, the driver seats in the Develop hybrid electric cars, electric traction systems for buses are replaced with new ones. In order to reduce costs and wastes, our team at the Lucknow buses, hybrid buses, fuel cell buses, electric cars, electric small plant decided to obtain these discarded driver seats from AGCL and use them for building the new 74 commercial vehicles and bus rapid transit systems. In progress driver’s seat, after conducting minor repairs. The new refurbished seats are then fit into the chassis, Eliminate asbestos based brake pads and clutches. Achieved resulting in huge reduction of waste and requirement of virgin material. Metals Glass Eliminate solvent based paints in products. Achieved Reusing metallic pallets Others Elastomers M.O.N.M Polymers Eliminate hexavalent chromium for corrosion preventive coatings. Achieved At Lucknow plant we came up with an innovative programme for complete replacement of wood Fluids Develop lead free bearing shells and bushes. Achieved packaging material at some of our plants. To eliminate environmental impacts of wood consumption, Work to find ways to harness hydrogen as a source of energy. In progress scrap metallic pallets were sent to engine suppliers, as a replacement for wood packaging. Metallic pallets are now being reused for the transportation of our engines. The packaging for sheet metal Work on development of environmentally friendly vehicles (EFVs). In progress parts too has been changed from wooden to corrugated boxes which have a recycling potential of Enhance the drain period of axle and gearbox oil. In progress minimum 4 times. Reuse of wooden packed boxes at Jamshedpur Material and Waste Management Across locations, the non-biodegradable non-hazardous waste is disposed off as scrap, while the (in tonnes) 60 bio-degradable non-hazardous waste is used to make manure. At our Jamshedpur plant, we have 52.31 The principal materials and components required by us for use in our vehicles are steel sheets and installed an organic waste converter to process the wet waste generated from the canteen along with plates, castings, forgings and items such as tires, fuel injection equipment, batteries, electrical items horticultural waste into ready-to-use manure. The major categories of non-hazardous waste 50 46.25 and rubber and plastic parts, consumables (paints, oils, thinner, welding consumables, chemicals, generated at our locations include plastic waste, metallic scrap and other packaging waste. Due to adhesives and sealants) and fuels. We also require aggregates like axles, engines, gear boxes and cabs various initiatives to reuse packaging material, we have gradually reduced the disposal of 40 for our vehicles, which are manufactured by us or by our subsidiaries, affiliates or strategic suppliers. non-hazardous waste over the last 3 years. 30 Innovation is a catalyst to our way of business and an intrinsic part of our growth strategy. We have Non-Hazardous waste disposed (in tonnes) successfully implemented lead free wheel balance weights, printing inks, bulbs, coatings for fuel FY 2007-08 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 20 tanks, carbon brushes for electrical motors and alternative designs/coatings for hard chromium and cadmium plating. Asbestos-free brake pads and clutches have been introduced in many of our Plastic waste 81.39 142.26 89.70 products. Work is under progress for reducing and eliminating hexavalent chromium for corrosion Metallic scrap 12,639.56 15,669.67 10,869.79 10 preventive coatings and developing lead free bearing shells and bushes. We are compliant with the European Union directive 2000/53/EC on end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) that banned the use of four Other waste7 100,674.67 100,692.05 90,049.21 0 2008-09 2009-10 hazardous heavy metals in automobiles. Our products Indica and Indigo have already achieved 85% Total 113,395.62 116,503.98 101,008.70 recyclability as per EEC directive. Recently, Indica Vista has been awarded the prestigious European Recyclability Compliance Certificate, as per the EC Directives, by the Vehicle Certification Agency, UK. Non-Hazardous waste disposed (in Kgs per vehicle produced) This year we have reused 17,784 tonnes of metal scrap and forgings in our process thereby avoiding use of freshly procured material. In addition, waste sand and machine slurry generated at our FY 2007-08 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 Jamshedpur unit is used for land filling within the premises. We have optimized our fleet with vehicles Plastic waste 0.14 0.29 0.14 less than five years of operation that helped to increase fuel efficiency. Metallic scrap 21.75 31.86 16.78 Reusing packaging material Other waste 173.22 204.75 138.98 Wooden packing boxes, in which automobile parts are received, are kept stored for recycling/reuse Total 195.11 236.91 155.89 7 Includes cartons, jute bags, wood waste, rubber waste, canteen waste, sand CRUISING TOWARDS Energy and Climate Change Energy and climate change risks have significant bearing on the automotive industry in particular, 33 with more than 14% and 16% of the annual global Green House Gas (GHG) emissions being 34 A GREENER ENVIRONMENT attributed to transportation fuels and industrial processes respectively. Automotive companies are under increasing pressure to demonstrate responsible business behaviour through production of fuel efficient and innovative alternate fuel vehicles and also manage their energy needs efficiently14. The results of our efforts towards addressing environmental issues are evident through our products (Nano, Vista, Manza) which have best in class fuel efficiency. An intranet web site 'Yugandhara' has been developed to create consciousness about climate change amongst workforce. We manage our energy needs in a responsible and efficient manner, undertaking various energy The hazardous wastes generated are disposed as per the rules and regulations prescribed by the conservation initiatives across our manufacturing plants. This year we have consumed a total of respective State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) as per the Hazardous Wastes Management & 2,327,673 GJ of direct energy and 2,015,819 GJ of indirect energy. While the overall consumption Handling Rules. The following is a depiction of the hazardous waste we have disposed over the last of energy has increased over last year, our energy consumption per vehicle produced has decreased, 3 years. which is a testimony of our concerted efforts in this area. The source fuels for our direct energy consumption include high speed diesel (HSD), light diesel oil (LDO), furnace oil (FO), liquefied Direct and Indirect energy consumed Category of Hazardous waste FY 2007-08 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 (in GJ) petroleum gas (LPG), propane and petrol. The indirect energy is the energy sourced externally in the 5000000 Sludge (tonnes)8 5,929.85 4,536.28 4,299.25 form of electricity. We are actively seeking opportunities to increase our renewable energy 4500000 consumption. We use wind energy at our Pune complex and solar energy for lighting and heating Used Batteries (tonnes) 18.35 32.14 37.76 2,015,819 purposes at our Lucknow plant. Renewable energy amounts to 4.38% of our total energy 4000000 2,157,382 Used oil (tonnes) 9 203.14 150.93 168.00 consumption. We have deployed a special team comprising 17 members to focus on climate change 3500000 1,814,251 Oil contaminated materials (tonnes) 10 33.23 44.83 23.56 management across locations. 3000000 Other hazardous waste (tonnes)11 290.04 209.97 402.15 Every year we undertake initiatives across our plants to conserve energy through process 2500000 Other hazardous waste (KL) 12 0.00 131.24 121.66 modification, process optimization, removal of redundancy and retrofitting of equipments. Each 2000000 2,327,673 individual plant identifies various opportunities for energy conservation and implements them. 1,859,427 1500000 1,766,124 Other hazardous waste (Nos)13 11,691.00 7,284.00 4,314.00 Energy performance is considered a critical parameter while assessing the performance of a plant. 1000000 This year we were able to conserve over 175,975 GJ of energy owing to our energy Category of Hazardous waste FY 2007-08 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 500000 conservation efforts and also realized a financial savings of ` 85 million. Some of the key (per vehicle produced) 0 energy conservation initiatives undertaken include: 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Sludge (kgs per vehicle produced) 10.20 9.22 6.64 • installation of variable frequency drives and circulation pumps in paint shops Indirect energy consumed Used Batteries Direct energy consumed • replacement of the forced draft exhaust arrangements with natural draft exhaust arrangements (kgs per vehicle produced) 0.03 0.07 0.06 for the extraction of fumes in the paint shops Direct and Indirect energy consumed Used oil (kgs per vehicle produced) 0.35 0.31 0.26 • installation of energy efficient motors, LEDs & CFL lamps, wind ventilators, super magnetic dust (in GJ per vehicle produced) Oil contaminated materials separators, solar photovoltaic hybrid systems for corridor lighting 8 (kgs per vehicle produced) 0.06 0.09 0.04 • use of natural light in the plants by using polycarbonate translucent sheets 7 3.689 Other hazardous waste 3.712 • switching off unwanted high bay lights and shop substation transformers 3.111 (kgs per vehicle produced) 0.50 0.43 0.62 6 • downsizing of the motors Other hazardous waste 5 (litres per vehicle produced) 0.00 0.27 0.19 • provision of heat resistive covers for furnaces 4 Other hazardous waste • introduction of Propane in place of LDO in ovens and heat treatment furnace (Nos per vehicle produced) 0.02 0.01 0.01 • transferring cylinder block core production from shell core method to cold box method. 3 3.199 3.591 3.592 2 We are committed to the prevention of spills from our operations. Across locations, there is a continuous upgradation of systems with timely replacement of equipments and comprehensive 1 inspection. There were no significant spills across our operations during the year. 0 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Reusing ETP Sludge Indirect energy consumed In the automobile industry, ETP sludge generated is a hazardous waste that poses a serious problem. Direct energy consumed In a first of its kind initiative, we have developed a technology to use ETP sludge as a raw material in making pavement tiles. This minimizes the amount of waste reaching the landfill and eliminates the cost of waste disposal. We have formulated a process that uses a right mix of cement, sand, crushed stones, ETP sludge, and water; followed by a manufacturing and curing process to produce the pavement tiles. The challenge was to device an ideal mix of ingredients and a curing process to get the required strength with minimal adverse impact on the environment. This year at Pantnagar, we utilized 120 MT of ETP sludge for manufacturing pavement tiles instead of sending it to authorized waste disposal sites for incineration or land filling. 8 Sludge includes Paint sludge, phospating sludge, Grinding sludge, Salt bath sludge, ETP sludge, Chromium hydroxide sludge 9 Used Oil Density used to convert used oil from KL to Tonnes – 0.9 kg/l 10 Includes cotton rags, scrap oil filters, oil soaked saw dust 11 Includes solid hazardous waste like containers of acid, electronic waste, scrap asbestos etc. 12 Includes liquid hazardous waste like spent coolants, waste thinner etc. 14 Source: Emission Database for Global Atmospheric Research version 3.2 13 Includes steel containers of paint and oil CRUISING TOWARDS region so as to maximise the efficiency. A traction requirement outside the optimum operating region of the engine is handled by the electric motor and battery. 35 • Electric traction system for buses We are developing an electric traction system for buses which is an all-electric power train using motors and inverters for driving the engine. The power 36 A GREENER ENVIRONMENT source for the electric supply can be on-board, like a small diesel / CNG Genset or a fuel cell, or off-board, as in the case of a trolley bus. The vehicle will also have a bank of batteries onboard to provide high, intermittent power for acceleration and also to recover the braking energy using regeneration. • Series hybrid bus We are developing a diesel / CNG hybrid bus to test the electric traction Total energy conserved due to energy conservation initiatives system that we have developed. The traction system is all electric and a down-sized IC engine Direct and Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (in GJ) runs a generator to charge the batteries. (in tCO2e per vehicle produced) 200000 We have adopted the Tata Group Climate Change Policy which addresses key climate change issues 1.2 related to products, processes and services. The policy states that we will strive to minimize year • Parallel hybrid bus We are developing a parallel hybrid bus on the city bus platform as an greenhouse gas emissions by promoting fuel blends sourced from non fossil fuel sources, alternate solution to a series hybrid bus. 175,975 1.0 maximizing use of renewable energy, proactively engaging with government in shaping related • Fuel cell bus Fuel cell bus is a derivative of an electric bus, in that the electric power source is a 150000 0.757 0.752 regulations, conserving energy and other resources through innovation in processes, amongst other fuel cell. A fuel cell is a primary battery, which oxidises hydrogen to water through a catalyst, 0.8 0.649 things, on an annual basis. We are systematically investing in research and development for generating electrical energy during the process. The oxidation occurs at much lower temperature introducing technologies that increase fuel efficiency, reduce GHG emissions, and enhance than combustion temperatures of hydrogen, resulting in no emissions other than water. 100000 109,460 dependency on renewable sources of energy. 0.6 • Electric car We are developing an electric car based on the Indica platform targeted at European We are committed to reduction of GHG emissions throughout the lifecycle of our products. The markets where there is availability of surplus electricity. The vehicle would use high energy 0.4 development of fuel efficient vehicles and vehicles that emit low levels of greenhouse gases is an density batteries to give a meaningful driving range between charges. 50000 55,269 integral part of our product development and manufacturing strategy. Considering the climate change • Electric small commercial vehicle An all-electric small commercial vehicle is under 0.254 0.255 0.2 risk, we are actively involved in partnerships with technology providers to adopt energy efficient development at Tata Motors for North America and Europe. 0.226 technologies not only for products but also for processes. We also participate actively in various 0 National Committees in India which are working on formulating policies and regulations for • Bus rapid transit system This system, developed by us based on use of low floor CNG buses 0.0 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 improvement of the environment, including GHG reduction. with high capacity, is a sustainable solution for mass transportation problems in metros like Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru. It proposes use of special lanes on the routes reserved for Indirect greenhouse gas emissions In addition, we voluntarily disclose fuel efficiency information of our passenger vehicles in India in such buses to facilitate faster movement and is based on Intelligent Transportation System Direct greenhouse gas emissions Energy conserved by energy conservation initiatives (in GJ per vehicle produced) accordance with Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) guidance. We are also in the model (ITS) . It is enabled by information, communication, smart card and GPS technologies to 0.30 process of developing products that meet the future emission norms in India and other countries. We provide better service to commuters. Total reduction achieved in GHG emissions due to energy conservation initiatives have products which meet the BS III and BS IV norms in India and are also working on products that (in tCO2e) will meet the impending Euro VI norms in international markets. The Nano has best in class fuel We have continued our endeavour to absorb the best of technologies for our product range to meet 50000 0.25 0.272 efficiency and has low CO2 emissions of less than 100gm/km. the requirements of a globally competitive market. All of our vehicles and engines are compliant with the prevalent regulatory norms in India and also in the countries to which they are exported. 0.20 0.223 This year, our operations resulted in direct GHG emissions amounting to 165,299 tonnes of CO2e and 40000 indirect GHG emissions amounting to 420,809 tonnes of CO2e. Our climate change and energy Biodiversity Management 40,572 0.15 conservation initiatives have helped us to avoid 40,572 tonnes of CO2e. We have established environmental cells at each of the manufacturing locations, which ensure that 30000 0.10 Further, we use R134a which has zero ozone depleting potential as a refrigerant in our products. We the biodiversity value of the areas in which we operate is maintained and enhanced by our presence. 0.095 also ensure that no refrigerant is released to the atmosphere during any service, repair and Our plants at Pantnagar, Jamshedpur and Pune are located in industrial areas as designated by the 25,236 20000 maintenance of air-conditioning equipment of products. The refrigerant charge on any vehicle is first respective State authorities, and hence by design, have minimal impact on biodiversity. Our Pune unit 0.05 recovered before the system is serviced and recharged. All HVAC system components of our has, since inception, taken a number of steps to preserve the ecological value of the land in which it vehicles are checked for refrigerant leakage that is kept well below the specified limit of upcoming operates, including creation of four ponds, two lakes and covering 245 acres of the land with trees. 10000 12,742 0.00 Marshy / swampy areas have been developed all along the margin of the water bodies, with the 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 norms of 40 grams per year. Our Pune, Jamshedpur and Pantnagar plants use R134a as a refrigerant and coolant and have phased out all ozone depleting substances. Only our Lucknow plant used 163 specific intention of creating ideal nesting spots for birds. The Pantnagar plant has facilitated plantation of 125 species of trees over an area of 40 acres. As a result of these efforts, numerous 0 kg of R-22, this year. 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 birds have been sighted in those areas. Direct and Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (in tCO2e) Owing to increasing consumer demand for fuel efficient products, growing concerns of climate 600000 change and depleting fossil fuel resources, it is imperative for us to develop vehicles that are fuel efficient and deliver high overall performance. Our product development and innovation efforts are Total reduction achieved in GHG emissions due to 440,140 420,809 driven by dedicated Engineering Research Center (ERC) teams working at our manufacturing plants. energy conservation initiatives 500000 369,827 We are working on using composite materials as a significant initiative to reduce the weight of our (in tCO2e per vehicle produced) vehicles and thereby improve their fuel efficiency. We are also partnering with many leading 0.08 400000 technological institutes in India to discover opportunities to develop energy efficient technologies. An 0.07 exploratory project along with IIT Madras has been initiated for the use of hydrogen fuel and we are 300000 working with the steering committee of National Hydrogen Energy board to find the ways to harness 0.06 0.063 hydrogen as a potential energy source. Development of CNG vehicles, electric vehicles and hybrids 200000 are at the forefront of our efforts. We have manufactured CNG versions of buses, light commercial 0.05 vehicles, and ACE goods carrier, along with LPG versions of Indica. Tata Motors has promoted the 0.051 165,299 0.04 100000 131,440 hub-and-spoke approach for goods and passenger movement which has enabled better turnaround 125,140 time, improved fuel efficiency and smarter logistic solutions. Some of our key initiatives towards 0.03 0 developing alternate fuel vehicles include: 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 0.02 0.022 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions • Hybrid electric car The concept hybrid electric car has been demonstrated while prototypes are 0.01 Direct greenhouse gas emissions under development. The hybrid car consists of a mechanical and electrical power train. Hybrid vehicles achieve significant improvement in fuel economy by limiting the IC engine’s operating 0.00 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 CRUISING TOWARDS Singur to Sanand In an operation unprecedented and unparalleled in the world of automotive manufacturing, Tata 37 Nano’s original plant at Singur, West Bengal was dismantled, transported and re-assembled about 38 A GREENER ENVIRONMENT 2100 km away at Sanand, Gujarat. The operation started in November 2008 and by the end of May 2009, the dismantling and trans-shipment job was complete and re-installation began in Sanand. By August 2009, about 70% of the re-installation work had been completed and by November 2009, pilot production was ready to begin. It is due to the unswerving commitment and the efforts of our employees that we were able to achieve this humungous task of rebuilding an entire plant with limited procurement of new materials and minimal impact on the environment. Total air emissions Total wastewater discharge (in tonnes) At Sanand, we have undertaken focussed efforts towards good environment management practices, Other Air Emissions (kilolitres) 1000 in line with our internal policies. We have replaced water cooled chillers with air cooled chillers of 3500000 900 capacity 2800 TR which have resulted in saving nearly 340,000 litres of water per day. We have Apart from GHG, our other air emissions include Total Particulate Matter (TPM), Oxides of Sulphur 3,464,541 constructed a water body within our premises, in order to reduce our dependence on municipal water 3000000 800 (SOx), and Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx). These are primarily related to fuel use and manufacturing 341.86 and also to enhance the level of the ground water table in the area. The excavation for the water body processes. We are guided by the local regulations for measuring and monitoring the air emissions. 2,850,207 700 413.37 was initiated along with the civil work for the construction of the plant. Further, a total of 1,500 trees 2500000 2,759,953 We carry out periodical monitoring of air emissions and report the same to local pollution control 600 of different varieties were planted surrounding the water body. Different species of migratory birds 304.77 authorities. We manage our air emissions within the prescribed limits and strive to reduce them have also been sighted at the water body. 2000000 500 beyond compliance levels. This year we emitted 341.86 tonnes, 482.74 tonnes and 42.35 tonnes of 400 482.74 TPM, SOx and NOx15 respectively. At Sanand, we are working with the local community under the aegis of Sumant Moolgaonkar 1500000 300 372.55 Development foundation, in partnership with the Gujarat government. We aim to provide reverse 344.67 Water Management osmosis plants to the 20 villages that surround the Sanand manufacturing unit. This year the Sanand 1000000 200 team won the prestigious Shram Award given for outstanding contribution in the area of welfare, In recent years, water management has been increasingly recognized as a pressing environmental 500000 100 safety, innovation and productivity improvement by the Ministry of Labour and Employment under issue. We have adopted rigorous standards to reduce water consumption at our plants and facilities 0 Gujarat Government's Rajyasarkar Shram Paritoshik Yojana. Mr. Naresh Khobragade and Mr. Rasik and have also strived to create resource awareness and education programmes on the subject. We 0 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Thakor from the powertrain shop received the Shram Veer and Shram Shree award for their 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 are committed to reducing our water footprint by increasing operational efficiencies, introducing SPM contribution in safety and productivity improvement in their work area. innovative process modifications, and increasing focus on reuse and recycle of water. The total water SOx withdrawal at our plants increased by 5.26% from the previous year on account of increased production, however the per vehicle water consumption reduced by around 20%. Air emissions Our water consumption is primarily sourced from municipal supplies at our plants and our Wastewater discharge (in tonnes per vehicle produced) dependence on ground water is less than 20% of our total requirement. In some of our plants, we (kilolitres per vehicle produced) 2.00 have installed rain water harvesting structures to utilize rain water for non-process activities. At our 6 Lucknow plant, a rainwater harvesting scheme with a total harvesting potential of 1,456,920 5.96 1.75 kilolitres per annum is under implementation. Four percolation pits with recharge shafts have been 5.61 5 1.50 erected in first phase and two more would be erected in the second phase. At Jamshedpur, the 0.84 design of the facility ensures that we can meet nearly four to five months of our fresh water 4 4.40 1.25 requirement from the harvesting pond. 0.53 1.00 0.52 Wherever possible, we recycle wastewater and thus reduce wastewater discharge and fresh water 3 0.75 intake. In 2009-10, we reused 14% of the total water consumption in our processes through various 0.76 0.75 initiatives across our plants. The total waste water discharged this year was close to 2,850,208 2 0.50 0.59 kilolitresacross all our locations. The ETP at our Pune plant was not operational for a significant period of time during this year which in turn reflects in the decrease of the quantum of reused water. 1 0.25 0.00 0 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 SPM SOx Total water withdrawal Water withdrawal type 2009-10 Water consumed Total water recycled / reused (‘000 kilolitres) (‘000 kilolitres) (kilolitres per vehicle produced) (kilolitres per vehicle produced) 8000 12 2.5 36.70 11.75 11.90 7000 1,092.33 10 6,828 2.0 6000 2.03 9.51 6,161 8 5,853 5000 1.5 1.64 4000 6 1.34 1.0 3000 4 2000 Muncipal water 0.5 2 1000 5,031.99 Ground water Rain water 0.0 0 0 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 15 The NOx emissions are currently not calculated for our Pune, Jamshedpur and Pantnagar manufacturing plants. We aim to report the NOx emissions for all manufacturing plants next year. 39 ENSURING A SAFE JOURNEY 40 Our customers deserve vehicles that meet highest safety standards and our employees and associates deserve a safe and healthy working environment. We have taken great care to ensure that every journey with Tata Motors, either in our vehicles or in our manufacturing locations, is a safe one. health and safety joint programme for scrap yard contractor employees in Pune. 17 female contractor employees had a medical check up and sun protective aprons and scarves were ENSURING A SAFE JOURNEY distributed to them, to protect them from the summer heat. 41 Safety concern and awareness is a core focus area and we have formed a cross-location team to 42 improve the safety standards and processes. Safety reporting has been standardised across and an intranet portal for centralized safety data management has been initiated. We have created a bay ownership concept to drive safety awareness and have also initiated behavioural training on safety to employees. All our plants have safety committees, having equal representation from management and non-management cadres. Our safety performance16 over the years across our plants is as follows: Occupational Health and Safety Total safety performance of Plants Permanent Employees Sound occupational health and safety management practices have yielded numerous tangible Units 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 benefits like lowered costs of treatment, decreased hospitalization, reduced absenteeism and increased employee satisfaction. Keeping this in background, we have taken a number of steps to Near misses Numbers 119 240 1,350 ensure that our workers and staff are safe and healthy. We have articulated an organization wide Reportable injuries Numbers 288 161 145 occupational health and safety policy, which maintains our commitment to being an injury-free and Special Features of CNG occupational disease-free, safe organisation. Lost days Numbers 3,556 2,065 1,931 Buses: Special safety features for Fatalities Numbers 2 1 0 school buses: All our manufacturing units take utmost care to ensure employee well being, and have programmes • Stainless steel CNG for prevention, detection, treatment and monitoring of lifestyle related diseases, epidemics and other Minor injuries Numbers 395 387 324 piping protected with PVC • Anti skid flooring illnesses. Occupational health related programmes are conducted for target groups like employees First aid cases Numbers 713 689 519 coating • STOP sign on door working in the foundry, paint shop, welding line, etc. to make them aware about various health hazards and precautions to be taken regarding adverse health effects of their tasks. We do not have Manhours worked Manhours 99,775,004 87,476,234 97,479,879 • SWAGELOK pipe fittings • Safe arm rest any incidents of workers being afflicted by an occupational disease in the year. to prevent leakage and The decreased number of reportable injuries, lost days, fatalities, minor injuries and first aid cases • Tooth guard In the year 2009-10, there was a ‘Swine Flu’ epidemic in Pune. In a short span of 10 days, we are an indication of our strengthened safety systems and of increased awareness amongst our increase reliability organized awareness lectures for around 8,400 employees, giving salient features of signs and employees. This has resulted in better reporting of near misses by our employees. Across plants we • Battery cut off switch for • Grab handle have introduced a zero-accident plan, and have designated safety owners in each bay, who report all symptoms and precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of the disease. This helped us avoid the incidents and unsafe practices in a systematic manner and take steps to ensure that no dangerous enhanced safety • Wide windows spread of H1N1 infection amongst our employees and their family members. Further, in Pune, there are over 800 employees who are suffering from diabetes and hypertension. We have the following practices are followed. Cross bay safety audits are also conducted to further strengthen the system. • A burst disc inside every • Window guard rails – facilities to motivate these employees towards proper treatment and thereby help them avoid This has reduced the number of incidents and accidents. cylinder valve to ensure 4 numbers complications arising out of these diseases. This year, we had three fatalities amongst our contract workers. We are taking concerted steps to safety in case of an • Emergency exit • In-house blood testing facility on the last Sunday of every month ensure that no fatalities occur in future. We have looked into all the accidents and are taking our best accidental increase in efforts to provide help to the families of the contract workers who have expired. system pressure • Seat belts in • Health awareness lectures by experts on various topics like diet, complications and control AC bus models measures to be taken etc. Product Safety • Catalytic convertor • A diabetic card is given to all diabetic employees to keep track of the tests to be done at • Anti skid step edge temperature sensor specified intervals and their results One of the most critical parameter on which our products are judged is their safety level, and hence beading indication for added • Number of health education programmes conducted: 5 we, at Tata Motors have taken utmost care to ensure that our products adhere to the highest standards of safety. Our aim is to create a robust system for developing safe products through safety • Door open warning • Number of employees benefited: 571 research and innovation. We have been putting lot of efforts through ERC to improve both active and buzzer • High pressure solenoid Our Lucknow plant organised free cardio and neuro checkup camps for our employees. Our passive vehicular safety. We go beyond legal requirements to provide safer products – an example being the truck ACE, which has been designed to meet stringent crash safety standards, which go for safety in HP line • Retractable foot step – Jamshedpur plant has conducted health awareness sessions on hypertension, diabetes, coronary artery disease, water borne diseases such as typhoid fever and Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, HIV / AIDS, well beyond the legislative norms. • Pressure regulator with in 52 seat MCV bus post-retirement health management, first-aid management and diet management during the year. A venting for additional 400 bed hospital functions as a secondary care unit and all categories of employees and their eligible We have been continuously upgrading product safety with new technologies being brought in. Tata Motors is the first Indian manufacturer to develop and introduce airbags in vehicles. We are still the safety dependents are supplied free medicine from the hospital. Senior citizens and on-roll employees receive special privileges in treatment. only manufacturer in this country to have a crash test facility. Our ERC is adequately equipped with state of the art facilities to address specifically the issues of customer health and safety. It has For our contractual labour, we have undertaken a number of health awareness initiatives. A free eye facilities like the hemi anechoic chamber for NVH, a pedestrian safety testing facility, a pendulum check-up camp was organized for contractual employees in collaboration with H V Desai Eye impact test facility, a bus rollover test facility, and a modern crash test facility for testing our new Institute. 163 individuals were issued corrective glasses at subsidized rates. We also organized a products for passenger safety. We have a testing facility for developing vehicles with lower noise and vibration levels and an engine emissions testing facility to develop products meeting international standards. We do acknowledge that the health and safety impacts of our products are not studied Unit Number of members in Safety Committee in FY 2009-10 across the entire life cycle, but we are taking steps to address this gap. In future, we aim to do a life Non-management Management cycle analysis of the environmental, safety, health and social impacts of our products. Pune – PCBU 20 20 We have undertaken a comprehensive investigation related to the cause of fire in two Tata Nanos’. A Pune – CVBU 15 15 20-member internal team and an independent forensic expert studied the incidents thoroughly. The investigation revealed that the incidents were isolated instances and the reasons for each were Lucknow 14 14 unrelated and these inspections did not constitute a recall. The first incident was found to have Pantnagar 15 15 remnants of a foreign object on the hot exhaust system which most probably led to combustion. In the incident of the second car which was being delivered to a dealership, there was evidence of a Jamshedpur 7 7 ruptured fuel line. Taking all this into account, we have decided to make the car even more robust. We will do this by providing additional protection in the exhaust system and the electrical system. 16 Man days lost do not include 6000 man-days lost per fatality hurt are significantly reduced. Its sliding door with a child lock prevents children from opening it from the inside, and ensures that only adults can operate the door. Its independent front suspension makes ENSURING A SAFE JOURNEY the ride very smooth, and it has a twin door tailgate provision for emergency exit. Its small turning circle 43 diameter enables the vehicle to go into small lanes to pick up/drop children. Its low center of gravity ensures stability and an anti-roll bar in the front and rear makes the vehicle less prone to toppling. 44 Magic Tata Magic is India’s first 4-wheeled small commercial passenger vehicle used in public transportation. Tata Magic offers a significantly more comfortable and safer ride for its passengers compared to the 3-wheeler auto-rickshaws and this has been a major reason it has seen success all over India. The vehicle comes with safety features that are best in class and at par with larger Our customer satisfaction studies with current Tata Nano owners indicate that about 85% are satisfied LCV/ICV buses. Some of the features that translate into increased passenger safety are its high or very satisfied with the car, because of it being 'small yet spacious', its performance, strength steel body with tubular construction which ensures that the roof is even if the vehicle topples manoeuvrability, durability, low operating cost and safety. Some owners have taken their Nanos on and its vacuum assisted brakes for excellent braking performance. The Magic is roof crush and static country-wide trips or to altitudes like Khardungla, the world's highest motor able road. This adequately roll compliant and has door intrusion beams to minimize injury on any impact. It has large, powerful corroborates the Tata Nano's reliability and safety, as was seen during the validation of the car with halogen headlamps for all night and highway driving and high mounted rear brake lights with reverse about 300 prototypes which covered more than 2 million kilometres of safe operation before launch. lamps, reflex reflectors for all weather day and night driving. Its twin wipers with a windshield spray facilitate safer performance, and hazard warning lights and blinkers ensure safety in case of Our facilities enable development of products meeting safety and environmental regulations. break-down on highways. Examples of special features used in our products for preserving customer health and safety include: anti-skid braking systems, air bags, ergonomically designed seating systems with lumbar support, Venture Euro IV compliant engines and non-CFC based vehicle air conditioners. We have also obtained Meeting the frontal crash norms, the Tata Venture ensures the safety of the driver and the homologation certificates for export markets from authorized test agencies. Our products are labelled co-passenger with thick A-pillars and crumple zones along the three-stage collapsible steering for identification of parts as per EEC directives. column. Every passenger is secured by seat belts and side beams for side impact protection. The vehicle has also passed the tough SMV SS American regulations for roof crush, and tests for static Winger roll over. Further adding to the sense of safety is the reverse guide system, high illumination India’s first maxi van, the Winger is used extensively to transport children, and has special safety headlamps for night driving, fog lamps, high seating position for better visibility, and rear wash, wipe features for this purpose. Its low floor height helps in easy entry and exit and thus chances of getting and demister. The engine immobilizer completes the safety cover. 45 POWERED BY AN EFFICIENT 46 AND POWERFUL ENGINE The force with which a vehicle moves is determined by the engine that powers it. Together, our employees form an efficient and powerful engine that propels Tata Motors ahead, empowering us to spread our wings across the world. POWERED BY AN EFFICIENT Some of the focus areas in training during the last year were leadership, innovation management and internationalization besides programmes to drive a change in our employees’ outlook as we continue to develop as a global competitor. Developmental initiatives for our senior leadership were 47 undertaken through international programmes at various premier institutions around the world. The 48 AND POWERFUL ENGINE entire senior In order to emphasize the sharing of skills across our locations and functions extensive technical training programmes were organized in Pune, Jamshedpur and Lucknow. The technical exposure was enhanced further through international training and participation at international seminars. At Jamshedpur, Pune and Lucknow, we have established training divisions that impart basic skills in various trades like milling, grinding and welding to our young apprentices. This year we received the National Best Training Establishment award from the Government of India for the eighth time. At Tata Motors, our employees are our greatest asset, and we have taken concerted steps to ensure employee well being. We have developed a comprehensive human resource strategy which We prefer to hire people from the local community and contribute to the development of the local addresses key aspects of human resource development. Some of its key features are: economy. We also provide a number of benefits to our full time employees like gratuity, superannuation, Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana (BKY), post-retirement medicare scheme, provident fund, • A Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) and fair business practices, which covers both our passenger and compensated absences. cars business and commercial vehicles business. All our employees have signed the TCoC, which mandates that bribery, giving or receiving gifts or any other form of corruption would be We are an equal opportunity employer, and employ candidates only on the basis of merit. dealt with very firmly by the organisation, and misdemeanours might even lead to termination. In Remuneration is also paid purely on the basis of merit and rank, and no other factors like gender, the reporting period, there have been no incidents of corruption. caste, creed, marital status are given attention. All our non-management employees are members of • A fair and objective performance management system linked to the performance of the labour unions. Employee wages are paid in accordance with wage agreements that have varying businesses which identifies and differentiates high performers while offering separation avenues terms (typically three years) at different locations. We comply with all the legal requirements of wage for non-performers. All eligible employees undergo performance and career development payments. Any operational changes that are made are discussed with the union members. Permanent Employees reviews annually. (in numbers as on 31st March 2010) At Tata Motors, we respect Human Rights as enunciated by the International Labour Organisation and • Creation of a common pool of talented managers across Tata Motors with a view to increasing have drawn out a structured Human Rights policy. We do not engage anyone under the age of 18 15000 their mobility through inter-company job rotation years for any operations or services unless it is part of a government approved job training or 13,310 • Evolution of performance based compensation packages to attract and retain talent within Tata apprenticeship programme. We also do not allow any forced or compulsory labour. This year, there 12000 were no incidents of human rights violations across operations. Additionally, we expect our channel Sons and the Tata Sons promoted entities partners and contractors to adhere to business principles consistent to our own. • Development of comprehensive training programmes to impart and continuously upgrade the 9000 industry / function specific skills Innovation @ work 6,548 As on 31st March 2010, we had 24,310 permanent employees (including employees at Sanand and We have created a conducive environment for innovations by establishing a process framework and 6000 Singur). This year the attrition rate for management cadre employees was 3.82 percent at PCBU and conducting competitions like Imagineering, Innovision, Innomatix and Innovista (Tata group 2.69 percent at CVBU. The contract labour at any given point of time varies across operations. During programme). All these innovative ideas get captured in “Knowledge Through Learning” and are taken 3,047 3000 the year, a total 19,097,312 man-hours of contractual labour were employed across operations. up for replication. More than 5000 innovative ideas have been captured this year and key channel 740 partners and vendors have also contributed to it. 17 247 172 229 We are committed to building the competences of our employees and improving their performance 0 through training and development. Our focus is on identifying gaps in our employees’ competencies Our senior leadership has created a culture which fosters and drives innovation using a systematic Senior Middle Junior Workmen Management Management Management and preparing employees for changes in competitive environments, as well as to meet organizational approach. Teams and individuals are encouraged to explore new technologies, alternative methods (Grade: EG) (Grade: TM) (Executive, challenges. Our contractual and permanent workers were trained for over 440,580 man hours and processes, and to submit ideas. Employee innovation has yielded cost savings, enhanced Grade: ST) cumulatively17. Our management cadre employees underwent training for over 64,900 man hours. efficiencies and other performance improvements. Most of our innovations come from the market i.e. Female Male by listening to customers. 17 Does not include training of contract workers at Pune and Jamshedpur 49 CARING FOR 50 THE NEIGHBOURHOOD The ultimate responsibility of a driver is to take care to manoeuvre the vehicle in a way that creates no harm for anyone in the neighbourhood. We care for the communities we operate in, working hard to enhance their quality of life in aspects of employability, health, education and environment. CARING FOR identified for partnership across the country. Empowering women: Development of women plays an important role in the overall advancement of 51 a family. Keeping this in mind, we provide various skill development programmes such as stitching, 52 THE NEIGHBOURHOOD embroidery, charkha, food products, beautician training and manufacturing of utility items to women. These vocational training programmes have been organized for empowering women through Self Help Groups (SHG) and Mahila Mandals. The socially disadvantaged women of Murlipur village, Lucknow received an intensive six months training for sub-assembly work. They have now been employed by a co-operative society which does sub-assembly work. These women are now able to provide for their family and have become an inspiration to other women in the village. Community expectations Mrs Sarla Mandal, an Anganwadi Sevika from Bandih village, Potla Block, narrates how Tata Motors We envision the prosperity of the entire region in which we operate. It is from this standpoint that we (as percentage) Jamshedpur created livelihood opportunities in her community. initiate several developmental projects in the villages that we adopt around our manufacturing units. 16 20 We realize that development can truly be sustainable if people develop a sense of ownership and “Bandih is a small village close to Jamshedpur which is my home. As my house faces the main road, belongingness towards the projects. Hence we follow a rigorous process for designing, I can see the endless stream of villagers commuting daily, mostly on bicycles to and from the villages implementing, monitoring and evaluating our programmes. We believe that our financial performance to and from Jamshedpur town. There is also movement of tractors, small carry vans and trucks is not the only driver for our success and growth and hence we are committed to improving the bringing commercial goods from the town to the villages and taking items from the village like ‘kendu’ quality of life of communities, and till date, we have touched the lives of more than a million citizens. leaves and fruit, timber, paddy, hay, jaggery, fish and medicinal seeds collected from the forest. Our social responsibility initiatives are aimed at bridging distances – between the aspiration for a 21 better quality of life and its realisation. Our activities are focussed on four main thrust areas of Health, 17 Despite there being a huge market for village products in the town, the scale of production in the Education, Employability and Environment. villages was small and the lack of a fair price bargaining mechanism gave urban traders a powerful Photo: Mr. Naresh Kumar from Industrial Technical Institute, Assessing community perception hold over farmers. We could not rely solely on agriculture for income either because of the lack of Dineshpur, Uttarakhand gets industry relevant theoretical and irrigation. There was a lack of viable livelihood opportunities in the village. practical technical inputs 13 This year we conducted a community survey at Pune with a sample size of 300 individuals with a 13 motive of getting a better understanding of community perception and to comprehend the emerging It was Tata Motors, which first formed women’s self-help groups in my village. I became very active Look into the problem of needs of the community. The surveyed highlighted that a significant 43% of people benefited from the in the Bandih group and was nominated as President. Gradually, with accumulation of a corpus, we urban poor (especially women) infrastructure built by us. Also more than 50% agreed that we were committed towards social started a community enterprise making puffed rice, jaggery and ground gram powder for supply to Develop training institutes / responsibility and more than 45% agreed that we were environmentally responsible in comparison to ‘Anganwari Kendras’. With the help of Tata Motor’s officials, our SHG was linked to a Block’s scheme small scale industries our peers. The graphs below depicts the community expectations based on which we categorised through which we got a revolving fund of ` 25,000 which helped us scale up the enterprise and Create more employment them into four major categories namely employability, environment, education and health on which diversify. Like me, hundreds of women have benefitted from such SHGs which have been formed by opportunities our initiatives are based on. Tata Motors, promoting a variety of rural trades.” Build more schools / hospitals Enhancing Employability Nurturing Skills: We run several training programmes within the manufacturing units like the Awareness drives / Full-time Apprenticeship Programme (FTA), Job Trainee Apprenticeship Programme (JTA) and workshops Our actions on employability thrust areas are focused on youth and women. They run across the Technical Vocational Apprenticeship Programme (TVA) which have catered to the advancement of Photo: Women of Arpan Society, trained and supported by Make provisions to chain from technical education institutes to actual facilitation of income-generation. Women have students by significantly raising employment. Reservation of seats for SC/ST and OBC candidates in Tata Motors, working in sub-assembly work, Lucknow regulate traffic been trained in appropriate skills and facilitated to establish cooperative societies, manufacturing a these programmes are as per the Apprentice Act, 1995. In the last three years, more than 400 boys diverse range of items from traditional food items to components for our vehicles. Farm development from the reserved category have been trained. through enhancing irrigational facilities, introducing modern agricultural practices and supplementary activities like apiculture, pisciculture and vermi-composting has led to enhanced Affirmative Action: In line with the Tata Group initiative of Affirmative Action, the company is Suggestions for better environmental response system income levels of farmers. Vocational training in computers, rural BPO, mobile repairing and AC implementing initiatives across the 4 Es of Employment, Entrepreneurship, Employability and (as percentage) refrigeration has led to gainful employment of the village youth. Education, with a clear focus on the latter for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 16 12 We also encourage the formation of Self Help Groups (SHGs) in villages, provide them with guidance Mr. Yugraj of Muzaffar Mau village in Barabanki district in Uttar Pradesh is a scheduled caste who is in initial stages and trainings in areas such as basic book keeping and entrepreneurship skills. now an entrepreneur and the proud owner of Swastik Electric. Yugraj was earlier making his Vocational training is provided to women through these SHGs in computer education, beautician, livelihood through ad-hoc jobs and without any specific skills. The Samaj Vikas Kendra Society of tailoring, food processing and utility item making. Over 16,000 women have benefitted through more Tata Motors helped him train in maintenance of air-conditioning machines, refrigerators and such than 100 SHGs supported by us. appliances. Photo: Ms. Reshma Bano from village Goela was trained in Chikan Following are some of the initiatives adopted by us across operations: Environment work (local handicraft of Lucknow) by Samaj Vikas Kendra, a society 25 supported by Tata Motors Lucknow. The society has also provided market linkages for products carrying this traditional handicraft. Vocational Training: Training is provided to the socially and economically disadvantaged groups Under the thrust area of environment we focus on activities related to social forestry, sustainable Reshma thus works from home for time periods convenient to her 47 through the Mechanic Motor Vehicle Trade course in partnership with the Ramakrishna Mission, an farming practices, irrigation, water shed management, afforestation and biodiversity preservation. and earns labour charges for her chikankari work without having to pay to any middlemen. NGO, at Thane, Maharashtra. This course is aimed at training students primarily from the tribal belt Our activities have an impact on both rural and urban areas, ranging from wells and check-bunds in and has successfully trained seven batches of students. The result was an increase of placement rate remote villages to green belts and lakes in urban habitations. Following are some of the initiatives Awareness drives by 80%, employment in various service stations, while some have also started their own repair adopted by us across operations: Plant more trees shops. Use CNG / cleaner fuels / innovation Social Forestry: Social forestry is a very popular programme where Tata Motors raises more than We have set up an Institute of Automotive and Driving Skills, at Mahuana in the Muktsar district of 150,000 fruit and timber saplings in its own nurseries at Khakripara and Rangatarh Rural Sewage / waste management / civic amenities Punjab and intend to set up similar driving training institutes in other states in association with the Development Centres by involving villagers. Villagers gather a variety of seeds from forests and fruit respective state governments to create a skilled pool of drivers who have been trained on safe driving orchards. Under the guidance and supervision of an agriculturist and people experienced in forestry, techniques. species wise saplings are planted on the nursery beds by villagers. Once the saplings are big enough they are transplanted to pits in the waste lands in the village. A sizeable number of plants are Our focus is to improve the quality of technical education imparted in ITI through public-private distributed to school children under the slogan ‘one child one plant’. Employee volunteers of Tata partnership. The company provides inputs for infrastructural and facility upgradation, revamping the Motors along with the villagers participate in ‘Van Mahotsav’ to encourage tree plantation. course curriculum, train the trainer and student visits to manufacturing units. 21 ITI have been CARING FOR Health In health, our intervention is in both preventive and curative health care. We provide vehicle support 53 to relevant organizations. We also run our own programmes, through health centres and mobile 54 THE NEIGHBOURHOOD health clinics, for prenatal care for expectant mothers, immunization of children, and general health check-up. To ensure sustainability of the gains, health workers from the community are trained for continuous assistance. Safe water being key to health, permanent infrastructure is created where necessary. Tanker facilities are also deployed in summer months in remote and water parched villages. Sumant Moolgaokar Development Foundation, formed by matching contributions of Tata Motors and our employees, has undertaken a National Drinking Water project, Amrutdhara, under which 100 selected villages across Tree transplantation: At Pantnagar, we initiated a tree transplantation initiative wherein the trees that the country will receive safe and perennial drinking water by 2013. Under this scheme, hand pumps required to be cut were relocated and replanted at an appropriate location. This procedure of were installed in five villages near Lucknow in the reporting period. relocation was done taking safety measures like application of pesticides on the roots of the trees to Simultaneously, sanitation is being improved directly at the household level. More than 20 villages in avoid fungal infection and insect attack. Trees that were relocated were replanted with proper support the project area of Tata Motors have achieved 100% sanitation. Two panchayats and 3 villages have and balance and their growth was monitored. This resulted in saving 25 years of growing a new tree received the “Nirmal Gram Puruskar” from the Government of India. of the same size. Medical mobile vans have been deployed in several remote villages in Maharashtra. These mobile Helping farmers: Sushen Melgandi is happy farmer from the Khaiboni village of Jamshedpur. The vans are equipped with one doctor and nurse each. The doctors also spread awareness on hygiene reason for his happiness is that he can now sell his farm products directly to the market without and sanitation through various channels such as talks and publications. In addition, medical depending on the middlemen who made hefty profits out of his produce, thanks to the guidance of consultation is provided free of charge whereas medications are provided at a nominal rate for each Gram Vikas Kendra, a Tata Motorssupported society. Additionally his income has increased patient and laboratory tests are conducted at a subsidised cost. Furthermore, family planning multifold as Gram Vikas Kendra has developed irrigation in villages in regions receiving scanty consultations and cataract screenings are frequently conducted and the operations are carried out at rainfall. These villages now have a regular water supply around the year and water has enabled the the clinics supported by Tata Motors either free of charge or at an extremely subsidized rate. To farmers in the Khairboni village to cultivate crops throughout the year despite the unpredictable improve the overall health conditions in the villages, we have provided infrastructure such as hand rainfall. pumps and wells for safe perennial drinking water, roads, drainage systems and toilet blocks in schools. Education According to a survey by UNICEF, there are over 4000 malnourished children in the Singhbum district To contribute towards developing a sustainable society, and to fulfil our role as a corporate citizen, alone. Out of these, 500 children are severely malnourished. Keeping this in mind, we, at we lay a lot of emphasis on educational activities across India. Our support towards education runs Jamshedpur, in partnership with UNICEF, to establish a full 6 bedded Malnutrition Treatment Centre across the chain from supporting schools through upgrading existing infrastructure and facilities to (MTC). 4 trained doctors, 5 para-medical staff and 2 attendants provide personalized service and improving the quality of education through teacher’s training programmes and extra-curricular care to the children and their mothers, round the clock. The MTC is equipped with advanced activities for the children. We create school infrastructure, support teachers’ training, provide equipments and facilities. Our initiatives are in the areas of maternal and child health, nutrition scholarships and help organizations, working among the disadvantaged or special children. Apart support, sanitation and drinking water solution sets. With successful execution of 134 health camps, from many different scholarship programmes, we also facilitate provision of infrastructure support over 4,000 people belonging to backward classes in remote rural areas have been treated in the past in small and remote villages. In 2009-10 alone, more than 20,000 students have benefited from one year. The following table summarizes the overall impact of initiatives across Tata Motors infrastructure support and facilities provided. Apart from this, we also provide regular training undertaken this year. programmes for teachers and extracurricular activities for children Health Several scholarship programmes have been instituted by Tata Motors to improve the access of Number of beneficiaries from curative health services 85, 871 children to higher education. Vidyadhanam, one such scholarship programme, supports 289 Number of beneficiaries from preventive health services 13,694 students out of which 189 are from socially marginalized sections of the society. These students, Number of low-cost toilets built 1,571 belonging to more than 20 schools spread all across 50 villages, are not only a part of several skill building workshops, but are also provided with study material related to their education. Number of villagers provided with safe drinking water 5,400 DNA of Vidyadhanam Tata Motors has championed the cause of identifying, curing and rehabilitating the people afflicted • Address softer issues To organize and be a part of different workshops and training programmes with leprosy in the districts of east Singhbum, Ichagarh and Nimdhi blocks of Saraikela Kharsawan. that range from residential camps, personality development programmes, skill building exercises, We, in collaboration with NJMS (Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj) at Jamshedpur, are dedicated to the cause competitions, etc. of leprosy eradication and rehabilitation. This has resulted in the prevalence rate of leprosy coming down from 21 per 1,000 to less than 1 per 1,000 persons. During the last year, through house to • To strengthen the school To make sure that the focus is primarily on enhancing school house and school surveys, 111,140 people were examined and 106 new cases were detected and infrastructure like lighting provision in classrooms, toilet facilities, drinking water, library, etc. and brought for treatment. to organize school level co-curricular and extracurricular activities. • To have an organic link with the industry The employees from Tata Motors Ltd. mentor these children and work together to identify and mitigate problems through focused initiatives. As on today, 150 volunteers are mentoring the students by regular school and home visits. More than 5,000 volunteering hours have been invested for these children. “Coming here has induced a new Academic Year confidence in me. I have been able to Profile 2008-2009 2009-2010 overcome (partially) my phobia for English. Total Intake 111 117 It was not only focused on English but also Girls 53 65 on other vital information. The environment was very different from our regular school SC/ST 76 79 setting.” Kartika Sodase, Shivaji Schools 15 20 Vidyalaya, Dehane. 55 DISCLOSURE ON GRI CONTENT INDEX 56 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Economic Indicators Contents Page GRI Reference UNGC Remarks Principles Our economic performance has been steadily improving, and our aim is to spread our wings far beyond Reference India. We have consolidated our position as the market leader in commercial vehicles in India, and are among the top three in passenger vehicles in the country. We had a consolidated revenue of ` 925.19 Key features 2 2.1, 3.1, 3.6, 3.8, 3.2 – Our previous report can be accessed through our billion in 2009-10, and intend to grow further. Our economic policies are formulated based on a number website http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/pdf/GRI of factors, including market conditions, consumer preferences, our past performance, government -report-08-09.pdf regulations and our corporate governance ethics, amongst others. We have also made a commitment to spend generously on initiatives that uplift the community surrounding us, enhance the quality of life 3.3 – Reporting cycle is annual of our employees, supplies, partners and vendors and have a positive effect on the environment. 3.7 – Specific limitations (if any) pertaining the performance indicators reported have been detailed in the individual Environmental Indicators sections Our manufacturing divisions are certified for ISO 14001:2004 environmental management system. 3.9 – Relevant explanations have been provided in the We have laid emphasis on conservation initiatives, especially energy, waste management and water individual section where necessary conservation. We have also taken efforts to use materials that environmentally benign in our process 3.10 – Not Applicable and products. We are compliant with all the laws of countries to which we export our vehicles. The Tata 3.11 – Relevant explanations for changes in measurement Business Excellence Model for our commercial and passenger vehicles businesses outlines our methods have been included in the report, where necessary commitment to preserve the environment. 3.13 – External assurance has not been sought for the current Labour Practices Indicators year. We are developing robust sustainability management systems, and intend to seek external assurance in the future We have outlined a Health and Safety Policy, which specifies that safety and well being our employees is of utmost importance to us. All our manufacturing divisions are certified for OHSAS 18001:2007 View from the 3-6 1.1, 1.2 1.2 – Please refer to our SEC filing report for additional safety and occupational health management systems. Further, our accident and lost day rates are driver’s seat information at decreasing year on year, which is an indication of our strengthened safety systems. http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/sec-filing.php Human Rights Indicators Designed for global 7 10 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 2.6, Please refer our Annual Report 2009-10 for additional excellence 2.7, 2.9, 2.10, 4.13, information. It can be accessed through our corporate website The Tata Code of Conduct emphasises the importance of workplace ethics and every employee is SO5, SO8 http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/annual-report. expected to adhere to the Code. We have a whistle blower policy in place to detect and remedy any non php compliance to the Code or any laws or regulations. We have a strict policy against bribery and corruption, and take all steps to ensure that our operations are as transparent as possible. We respect 2.8 – Aspects of scale are addressed in relevant sections of human rights at the workplace as defined by the International Labour Organisation. We do not employ the report. any children or forced labour and all our partners, subsidiaries, dealers, etc. are expected to follow our SO8 We have not had any fines or sanctions imposed on us Human Rights Policy. for non compliance with laws and regulations Society Indicators Guided by a 11 – 12 4.8 clear vision Our social initiatives programme is in sync with the goals and vision of the organization. Our well defined CSR execution process demonstrates our approach towards the needs of communities. The Driving on a 13 – 16 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, Principle 1 Please refer our Annual Report 2009-10 for additional areas that we focus on are enhancing employability, conserving the environment, promoting healthcare robust chassis 4.7, 4.9, 4.10, LA13, Principle 2 information. It can be accessed through our corporate website and imparting education. As a responsible automobile manufacturer we have entered into a partnership SO2, SO3, SO4 http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/annual-report. Principle 3 with the Government of Punjab to facilitate the promotion of safe driving and road safety. With respect php to agriculture, we partnered with the Government to provide fertilizers and pesticides, along with the Principle 4 4.3 – Not Applicable necessary training on their usage. With respect to health, our initiatives are on the lines of maternal and Principle 5 4.11 – Precautionary Principles are implicit child health, nutrition support, sanitation and drinking water solution sets. Our initiatives for imparting Principle 6 education range from providing scholarships, infrastructure support, training programmes for teachers 4.12 – TML also subscribes to United Nations Global Compact to extracurricular activities. Principle 10 Delivered by a skilled 17 – 21 3.5, 4.4, 4.6, 4.14, Product Responsibility Indicators assembly line 4.15, 4.16, 4.17, PR5 We have a dedicated research and development team, called the ERC team, which designs and develops superior products. We lay special emphasis on safety of our products and have invested Accelerating growth 23 – 28 EC1, EC6 EC3 – Please refer our Annual Report 2009-10 for additional heavily in developing facilities like a crash test facility and a hemi anechoic chamber, amongst others. information. It can be accessed through our corporate website Over 4 million of our vehicles are on the road, and they are a testimony of the quality of our products http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/annual-report. and of our sound policies. Our Tata Business Excellence Model reports for commercial and php passenger vehicles outline our commitment to pursue relentlessly our goal of developing products EC4 – We have not received any significant financial assistance that are extremely safe, for passengers, pedestrians and the environment alike. from the government 57 GRI CONTENT INDEX GLOSSARY 58 AGM – Annual General Body Meeting Environment R&D – Research and Development Contents Page GRI Reference UNGC Remarks AIDS – Acquired Immuno Deficiency HVAC – Heating, Ventilation and SAARC – South Asian Association for Principles Syndrome Air Conditioning Regional Cooperation Reference ARCH – Adolescent and Reproductive IC – Internal Combustion SC – Schedule Caste Cruising towards a 29 – 38 EC2, EN1, EN2, EN3, Principle 7 EN9 – None of our water sources are significantly affected by Child Health ICDS – Integrated Child Development SEBI – Securities and Exchange greener environment EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, Principle 8 our withdrawals BEE – Bureau of Energy Efficiency Services Board of India EN8, EN10, EN11, EN11 – None of our operations are located close to protected Principle 9 BKY – Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana ICV – Intermediate Commercial SEC – Securities and Exchange EN14, EN16, EN18, or reserved areas Vehicle Commission EN19, EN20, EN21, BS – Bharat Stage EN12, EN13, EN15 – Not Applicable IIT – Indian Institute of Technology SHE Safety, Health & Environment EN22, EN23, EN26, CEO – Chief Executive Officer EN27, EN30 EN17 – We are augmenting our capacities to monitor other CFC – Chlorofluorocarbon ISO – International Organization SHG – Self Help Group relevant GHG emissions. Other GHG emissions are not for Standardization CFL – Compact Fluorescent Lamp SIAM – Society of Indian Automobile reported for 2009-10 IT – Information Technology Manufacturers CII – Confederation of Indian EN24 – Not Applicable ITS – Intelligent Transportation SMS – Short Messaging Service Industry EN25 – No water body or habitat is significantly affected by our System CRM – Customer Relationship SOx – Oxides of Sulphur water discharge or runoff Management JTA – Job Trainee Apprenticeship SPCB – State Pollution Control Board EN27 – While we do not reclaim the packaging material of our CSR – Corporate Social Kgs – Kilograms ST – Schedule Tribe products sold, we do reuse packaging obtained from our Responsibility KL – Kilo Litres SUV – Sport Utility Vehicle suppliers CV – Commercial Vehicle KW – Kilowatt TBEM – Tata Business Excellence EN28 – We have not had any fines or sanctions imposed on us CVBU – Commercial Vehicles LCV – Light Commercial Vehicle Model for non compliance with environmental laws Business Unit LCV – Light Commercial Vehicle TCCI – Tata Council for Community Ensuring a safe journey 39 – 44 LA6, LA7, LA8, PR1, LA9 – We abide by all existing laws related to wage payments DICOR – Direct Injection Common Rail LDO – Light Diesel Oil Initiatives PR3, (partial) PR9 and wage agreements EEC – European Economic TCOC – Tata Code of Conduct LED – Light Emitting Diode PR6 – We adhere to all laws related to marketing, Community TDCL – TML Distribution Company LPG – Liquefied Petroleum Gas communications and advertising, as defined by Advertising ELV – End–of–Life Vehicle Limited Standards Council of India M&HCV – Medium and Heavy EMS – Environmental Management TDCV – Tata Daewoo Commercial Commercial Vehicle Powered by an efficient 45 – 48 EC5, EC7, LA1, LA2, Principle 1 LA3 – Please refer our Annual Report 2009-10 for additional Systems Vehicle Company Limited M.O.N.M – Modified Organic Natural and powerful engine LA4, LA5, LA10, Principle 2 information. It can be accessed through our corporate website ENCON – Energy Conservation Materials TMETC – Tata Motors European LA14, HR1, HR2, http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/annual-report. Technical Centre Principle 3 EPM – Enterprise Process Model MCV – Medium Commercial Vehicle HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7 php TMFL – Tata Motors Finance Limited Principle 4 ER – Eastern region MTC – Malnutrition Treatment Centre HR2 – While we do not have a structured program for screening TML – Tata Motors Limited Principle 5 ERC – Engineering Research Center our suppliers for human rights violations, we do have a Human NASSCOM – National Association of TPM – Total Particulate Matter Principle 6 Rights Policy that must be adhered to by all our suppliers ERM – Enterprise Risk Management Software and Services Companies TR – Tonnes of Refrigeration HR8 – We provide trainings to all our security regarding aspects ETP – Effluent Treatment Plant NGO – Non Governmental TTL – Tata Technologies Limited of human rights, including procedures to identify child workers FO – Furnace Oil Organization TVA – Technical Vocational HR9 – There have been no incidents of violations of rights of FTA – Full time Apprenticeship NJMS – Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj Apprenticeship indigenous people GHG – Green House Gas NOx – Oxides of Nitrogen UK – United Kingdom Caring for the 49 – 54 EC8, SO1 GJ – Gigajoule NPI – New Product Introduction UNGC – United Nations Global neighbourhood gm – Gram Compact NVH – Noise, Vibration and Disclosure on 55 DMA-EC, DMA-EN, GPS – Global Positioning System Harshness UNICEF – United Nations Children’s Management Approach DMA-LA, DMA-SO, GRI – Global Reporting Initiative Fund OBC – Other Backward Class DMA-HR, DMA-PR GVK – Gram Vikas Kendra OHSAS – Occupational Health and USA – United States of America GRI Content Index 56 57 3.12 GVW – Gross Vehicle Weight Safety Assessment Series UV – Utility Vehicle GWP – Global Warming Potential PCBU – Passenger Car Business Unit VOC – Volatile Organic Compound Glossary 58 HIL – Hardware in Loop PHC – Primary Health Centre WATSAN – Water and sanitation Back Cover 59 2.4, 3.4 HIV – Human Immunodeficiency PVC – Polyvinyl Chloride WTO – World Trade Organization Virus QFD – Quality Function Deployment HSD – High Speed Diesel QMS – Quality Management System HSE – Health, Safety and
