2010 SK energy Sustainability Report 2010 SK energy Sustainability Report 10 CEO’s Message 12 SK innovation Vision 14 Company Overview 16 Major Businesses 20 Sustainability Management 21 Corporate Governance 23 Business Ethics 25 Stakeholder Communication 26 Materiality Test Materiality Test Key Issues 28 Change Management after Spin-off 32 Stable Energy Supply 33 New Growth Drivers 34 Customer Happiness Management 35 Win-Win Cooperation 37 Climate Change Sustainability Performance 40 Economic Performance 44 Social Performance 58 Environmental Performance Appendix 68 Third Party’s Assurance Report 70 GRI Index This report was printed with soy-based ink on eco-friendly paper 76 Awards & Associations which is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). 77 About This Report 1970-1979 한국 경제 발전에 중추적 역할 수행 1970. 05 방향족 추출공장 가동(연산 216,000톤) 1970. 06 걸프사가 당사주식 50% 및 경영권 인수 About this Report 1972. 09 울산~대구간 장거리 송유관 부설공사 완공 1972. 10 제3상압증류시설 가동(현재 일산 170,000 배럴) 1973. 03 나프타 분해센터 가동(에틸렌 기준 연산 100,000톤) SK energy practices sustainability management as a means of enhancing 1962-1969 E  stablishment of Korea’s first oil 1974. 06 제2상압증류시설 확장(일산 110,000 배럴) corporate value and thereby creating a better society for its stakeholders. refining company 1978. 03 나프타 분해센터 확장(에틸렌 기준 연산 55,000톤) This sustainability report, which we have published every year since 2005, is Oct. 1962 Established SK energy designed to update stakeholders as to our progress and plans in regards to (previously called Korea Oil Corp.) Apr. 1964 Commenced operation of sustainability management activities. the No. 1 atmospheric distillation unit 1980-1989 종합에너지・종합화학회사로의 기반 구축 (daily output of 35,000 barrels of crude oil) 1980. This report covers our03 윤활유 배합공장 sustainability 확장(현재 일산 management 4,500 배럴) activities and performances May 1967 Expanded the No. 1 atmospheric 1980. 08 대한석유지주주식회사가 걸프사 소유주식 distillation unit to a daily output of at domestic business premises; Headquarters, Ulsan Complex, Incheon 55,000 barrels of crude oil 50% 인수 Complex and the Institute of Technology, from January to December 2010. Dec. 1968 Commenced operation of 1980. 12 정부의 민영화 방침에 따라 (주)선경이 경영권 인수 the lubricants oil blending plant The scope of coverage extends 유공’으로 1982. 07 ‘주식회사 to March 회사명 변경for information regarding 2011 (daily output of 550 barrels of crude oil) 1985. 05 activities the board of directors’ 대한석유지주 and the list 주식회사 합병of overseas subsidiaries and up Taking 1985. 11 상압증류시설 개조로 정유시설 생산능력 확대 branches. The contents of this report were constructed based on the SKMS (일산 345,000 배럴) (SK Management System), the underlying principle behind sustainability 1985. 12 신규 방향족 추출공장 가동(연산 40,000톤) w ne management at1987. SK energy. 05 그리스The first half 제조시설 가동(현재 연산report of this 10,000focuses 톤) on the six the na major issues identified 1988. 01to예멘 have the most 마리브 significant 광구 개발원유 도입 개시concern to stakeholders. m ei 1989. The latter part of the12 제2에틸렌 report 제조시설 continues details400,000 가동(연산 with 톤) the company’s regarding n2 011 What do you see , SK economic, social and environmental performances. Notably, the environment innovation is set to drive innovation acros s th eb oar d. in SK energy? section highlights the activities and performances of the Ulsan and Incheon complexes, our two production sites that have the greatest impact on the ecosystem. Diagrams and flowcharts of systems and frameworks that contain The aspiration for the nation’s energy independence was born with information unchanged from last year were taken from the previous report. the establishment of Korea’s first oil refining company, SK energy, in 1962. After 50 years, this aspiration is fully blossoming at 26 blocks 1990-1999 에너지・화학을 중심으로 세계 일류기업을 위한 재도약 This report uses the G3.1 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 1990. 08 제1합성수지 제조시설 가동(연산 345,000톤) in 14 countries where SK energy is developing and producing energy 2000Laying the foundation to become a globalized The GRI Content Index is attached at the end of the report. The reliability innovative marketing company 1991. 05 제4상압증류시설 가동(현재 일산 265,000 배럴) sources. Throughout the history of innovation and the resultant 1992. 11 and objectivity of the report content and its GRI compliance are verified by 제1중질유 탈황(일산 30,000 배럴) 분해시설(일산 30,000 배럴) Jan. 2000 Opened Korea’s largest hub for combined glories, tireless challenges and passion have been the driving mileage service providers called OKCashbag.com 1994. 06 한국이동통신(주) 주식 20.2% 및 경영권 인수 independent assurance from the Korea Management Association Registration May 2001 Verified feasibility of a crude oil development 1994. 11 이집트 북자파라나 광구 개발원유 도입 개시 (KMAR) with the statement located at the end of this report. energy that moved us forward. project at block 15-1 in Vietnam 1995. 09 제4등·경유 수첨 및 탈황시설 가동(일산 50,000 배럴) Nov. 2003 Commenced commercial oil production at Su Tu Den For more information about the company and its business activities, please 1996. 07 페루 8광구 개발원유 상업생산 개시 field at block 15-1 in Vietnam refer to the 2010 Business Report, available from the electronic disclosure Dec. 2003 Participated in LNG Thermal Power Plant construction 1996. 10 제5상압증류시설 가동(일산 200,000 배럴, 총생산량 일산 810,000 배럴) project with British Petroleum (BP) 1997. 01 제2중질유 탈황(일산 60,000 배럴)·분해시설(일산system 50,000 of 배럴) Financial Supervisory Service the가동 (http://dart.fss.or.kr), the 2010 Jan. 2004 Management decides to construct new reformer at aromatics 1997. 06 유전개발 현지법인(SK E&P Company) 설립 Annual Report of the company, which can be downloaded at our website plant (30,000 bpd) 1997. 10 ‘SK주식회사’로 회사명 변경 http://eng.skinnovation.com/ Aug. 2004 Commenced commercial production at Camisea oil and gas field 1999. 03 적립식 할인서비스 OKCashbag 서비스 개시 in Peru Nov. 2005 Announced the new corporate identity Jan. 2006 Acquired Incheon Oil and established SK Incheon Oil May 2006 Commenced operation of No. 2 Reformer July 2007 Split into a holding company (SK holdings Co., Ltd.) and an operating company (SK energy Co., Ltd.) Oct. 2007 Management decides to merge with SK Incheon Oil Feb. 2008 Merger with SK Incheon Oil completed Mar. 2008 Completed No. 2 RFCC Self-declaration of the GRI G3.1 Application Level Mar. 2008 Completed JV LBO plant in Indonesia This report was compiled based on the GRI G3.1 guidelines, meeting the requirements of June 2008 Completion ceremony at 1.4 BDO production plant level “A+” in the GRI G3.1 Application Table. As such, SK innovation has self declared that the Oct. 2009 SK lubricants is spun off from SK energy GRI G3.1 Application Level of the 2010 Sustainability Report is “A+.” This self-declaration has Jan. 2011 Divided into SK innovation, SK energy and SK global chemical been verified as appropriate by an independent assurance agency. 1970-1979 Major driver of Korea’s economic development May 1970 Commenced operation of an aromatics plant (annual capacity of 216,000 tons) June 1970 Gulf Oil Corp. acquired 50% equity share and management rights Sep. 1972 Completed construction of oil pipelines between Ulsan and Daegu Oct. 1972 Commenced operation of the No. 3 atmospheric distillation unit (170,000 bpd) Mar. 1973 Commenced operation of naphtha cracking center (annual capacity of 100,000 tons of ethylene) June 1974 Expanded the No. 2 atmospheric distillation unit to 110,000 bpd 1980-1989 Preparing to become a total energy Mar. 1978 Expanded the naphtha cracking center to an annual capacity of 55,000 tons of ethylene & petrochemical company Mar. 1980 Expanded the lubricant blending plant (4,500 bpd) Aug. 1980 Gulf’s 50% equity share and management rights acquired by Korea Petroleum Energy Dec. 1980 SunKyung Co., Ltd. acquires management rights in accordance with the government’s privatizing policy July 1982 Company name changed to Yukong Co., Ltd. May 1985 Merged with Korea Petroleum Energy Nov. 1985 Renovation of the atmospheric distillation plants, increased refining capacity to 345,000 bpd Dec. 1985 Commenced operation of new aromatics plant with an annual capacity of 40,000 tons May 1987 Established Yukong Elastomer Co., Ltd. (annual capacity of 10,000 tons) Jan. 1988 Commenced crude oil imports from Malibu continental shelf block, Yemen Dec. 1989 Commenced operation of No. 2 ethylene plant (annual capacity of 400,000 tons) 1990-1999 Becoming a top-tier global energy enterprise Aug. 1990 Commenced operation of No. 1 polypropylene plant (annual capacity of 345,000 tons) May 1991 Commenced operation of No. 4 atmospheric distillation plant (265,000 bpd) Nov. 1992 Commenced operation of No. 1 heavy oil desulfurization (capacity of 30,000 bpd) and cracking facility (capacity of 30,000 bpd) June 1994 Acquired 20.2% stake and management rights of Korea Mobile Telecom Nov. 1994 Began importing crude oil from North Zaafarana block in Gulf of Suez, Egypt Sep. 1995 Commenced operation of No. 4 middle distillation unit (capacity of 50,000 bpd) July 1996 Commenced commercial crude oil production at block 8 in Peru Oct. 1996 Commenced operation of No. 5 atmospheric distillation plant with capacity of 200,000 bpd, with gross capacity reaching 810,000 bpd Jan. 1997 Commenced operation of No. 2 heavy oil desulfurization (60,000 bpd) and cracking facilities (50,000 bpd) June 1997 Established local oil development subsidiary, SK E&P Company Oct. 1997 Changed company name to SK corporation Mar. 1999 Introduced OK Cashbag service, a loyalty cashback service CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY the promising future of an energy-independent Korea Do you see? Korea imports more than 97% of its energy. Dedicated to the stable supply of energy, SK energy is actively involved in numerous overseas resource development projects. As a result, it has secured access to 530 million barrels of oil reserves, with a daily output of 59,000 barrels of crude oil as of 2011. We take pride in the fact that we positively contribute to the enhanced stability of the nation’s energy supply. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY the power of this car that grows a thick forest Do you see? It takes 30 years for a pine tree to absorb the CO2 emitted from a car travelling from Seoul to Busan. From this fact, SK energy began looking at the idea of a world where pine trees and cars can live in harmony. This idea fed the development of the globally-competitive technology of producing lithium-ion batteries for electric cars. We dream of energy that powers a greener car driving down a road lined with thick forests. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY the hope for a happier society in SK energy Do you see? In Korea, disability unemployment stands at 2.5 times the national unemployment rate, with the income of families with a disabled member only 54% of the national average. At SK energy, we believe that everyone has the right to happiness, regardless of their physical or mental ability. Therefore, we have established various social enterprises since 2008. A total of three companies provide jobs for the disabled, giving them hope for a better life. We create the energy that makes everyone happy. 09 CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 10 CEO’s Message Under the core values of challenge, creativity and positive thinking, everyone at SK innovation is dedicated to building an innovative company that creates and shares happiness for all. President & CEO, SK innovation Koo Ja-Young 11 Dear stakeholders, I’d like to deliver our deepest appreciation for your ongoing support agreements with several leading global car manufacturers. As part and interest in SK innovation. of its business portfolio restructuring, SK innovation sold off its equity in the mining block in Brazil for KRW 2.7 trillion in order We publish this annual report to keep you updated of our progress to improve efficiency and value in the operation of its overseas in sustainability management over the previous 12 months, as well blocks. as reflect your invaluable feedback regarding our performances and plans in previous reports. The three subsidiaries focus on speeding up growth in their respective business areas, while actively exploring overseas In 2010, SK innovation focused on laying the groundwork for future markets. As the holding company, SK innovation gives its full growth, preparing for the spin-off, and reinforcing the core comsupport to these endeavors, while leading national initiatives that petitiveness of each business. As a result, overall sales increased deal with environmental issues such as global warming and climate 22% to KRW 43,864.6 billion from 2009, with each business change. realizing more than 20% growth in their respective sales. This remarkable growth was only possible thanks to your unwavering Throughout all these business activities, we remained vigilant to support and encouragement. our corporate social responsibilities. Especially committed to creating jobs for vulnerable groups, we assisted in the establishment Building on this incredible performance, we introduced significant of three social enterprises; Mezzanine i-Pack, Mezzanine Eco One, changes in corporate governance at the beginning of 2011. and Grateful Hands, and are planning to create more in the future. Changing the name of the company to SK innovation, we spun off Our social contribution initiatives go beyond national boundaries the three business divisions in order to establish three subsidiaries: and into the global communities where we operate, such as SK energy (oil refinery), SK global chemical (petrochemical) and projects to improve educational infrastructure in Peru and Vietnam. SK lubricants (base oil/lubricants). These social contribution programs help raise our corporate image and allow the company to grow alongside society. As a result, the improved transparency in corporate governance will enable faster and more flexible responses to changing market Looking ahead in 2011, we are faced with a challenging market environments. The three new subsidiaries will work to establish with skyrocketing oil prices and unstable international political their own corporate culture under enhanced self-regulation and developments. To meet such challenges, we will seek change and autonomy. With transparent corporate governance as an integral innovation in our human resources and corporate culture, as well part of SK innovation’s corporate social responsibility, we have as our enterprising spirit. Under the shared values of challenge, promised to fully support all such efforts. creativity and positive thinking, everyone at SK energy is dedicated to building an innovative company that creates and shares Meanwhile, SK innovation realized tangible results in its endeavors happiness for all. to secure new growth drivers, with the battery and information & electronics businesses becoming established as such areas for Heeding to the voices of our stakeholders, we will continue our the company. In particular, the FSEV battery business won supply endeavors return your continued support and encouragement. Thank you. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 12 Vision SK innovation Global energy enterprises are faced with challenges in the rapidly-changing market: the strategies of oil-producing countries to become oil refinery petrochemical production hubs; lagged recovery in global demand; global trends of eco-friendliness. In meeting these challenges, SK energy will take opportunities from such risks by securing core competitiveness, developing new growth engines and restructuring its business portfolio. -As of January 1, 2011, SK energy will be known as SK innovation. Ensuring core competitiveness Developing new growth engines Growth ‘10+10’ 10% growth in sales & 10% growth in operational profit ratio Aspiration Reinforcing core competencies Strengthening new growth strategy Bolstering globalization strategy SUPEX Co. Tech. Enabled Global Energy Company Image Biz. Model Innovation Tech. Driven New Growth Accelerating Globalization 13 Vision Technology Enabled Global Energy Company Superior Technology Disciplined Investment Operational Excellence Restructuring business portfolios Financial Integrity CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 14 CORPORATE OVERVIEW Company Company Profile Overview We are strengthening General Information (as of the end of 2010) our business Company Name SK energy Co., Ltd. operations and Date of Foundation October 13, 1962 Headquarters 99, Seorin-dong, Jongro-gu, Seoul, Korea developing new growth Ulsan Complex: 110, Gosa-dong, Nam-gu, Ulsan, Korea engines in order to Plants Incheon Complex: 100, Wonchang-dong, Seo-gu, Incheon, Korea grow as a leading Institute of Technology 140-1, Wonchon-dong, Yusung-gu, Daejeon, Korea global company. 5,457 (including headquarters, Incheon and Ulsan complexes and Number of Employees Institute of Technology) Petroleum, petrochemical, specialty petroleum products, Business Sectors E&P, green energy, R&D, etc. SK energy changed the company name to SK innovation as of January 1, 2011, after spinning off the refining, petrochemical and lubricants operations into independent companies; SK energy and SK global chemical (as of Jan. 1, 2011) and SK lubricants (as of Oct. 1, 2009). Financial Snapshot (as of the end of 2010) Sales KRW 43,863.6 billion Operating Income KRW 1,714.1 billion Net Income KRW 1,208.4 billion Total Assets KRW 26,331.0 billion Changes to Organization Reason for Spin-off SK energy spun off its oil refining and petrochemical operations as of January 1, 2011 with the aim of enhancing the specialty and competitiveness of each operation as well as flexibility in responding to changing management environments. The remaining SK innovation will be able to concentrate on resource development and creating new businesses in areas such as batteries, information & electronics, and green technology. The increased flexibility in the operation of our businesses will propel us forward to becoming a global leading company. ● Spin-off Snap-shot • D-day: January 1, 2011 • Spin-off approved by the BOD: September 30, 2010 • Newly-established companies: SK energy, SK global chemical 15 ● Organization Chart (as of January 1, 2011) SK innovation Office of the Board of Directors Management Supporting Office Internal Auditing Division E&P Information Battery Corporate Corporate Global Bussiness Biz Innovation & Electronics Bussiness Management Culture Technology Division Division Bussiness Division Division Division Group Division Spin-off Process SK energy spun off its refining (including oil purification business) and petrochemical (except LiBS business) operations into independent subsidiaries as of January 1, 2011. The process was simple, with the company acquiring all the shares issued by the new companies. Following the spin-off, SK energy will remain listed on the stock exchange, while the new subsidiaries shall be unlisted. The remaining company will be known as SK innovation as of January 1, 2011. Shareholders holding more than 5% ●  ● Major Subsidiaries of SK energy shares (as of March 31, 2011) SK innovation No. of shares SK holdings 30,883,788 Ownership 33.40% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% SK energy SK global SK lubricants chemical 44,686,311 48.33% 100.0% 100% 38.28% SK mobile Jeju United FC Daehan energy Oil Pipeline Corporation National Pension Funds 7,014,084 7.59% Templeton 6,788,439 50.0% 7.34% SK marketing & company CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 16 CORPORATE OVERVIEW Major Business Portfolio Businesses Petroleum Business While solidifying SK energy’s petroleum business successfully rose above the global financial crisis, realizing significant our market leadership results in 2010. By flexibly responding to the fluctuating market conditions of refining margins, we in various businesses, optimized our operational process and improved profit structure by expanding exports through overseas diversification. Furthermore, our quality assurance program efficiently intercepted the we continue to illegal pseudo-petroleum distribution, reinforcing the end-user credibility of our products. We also develop new offered differentiated CRM activities and services, such as the EnClean Bonus Card, Movie Plus, growth engines for and EnClean coupon. sustainable growth. SK energy will further reinforce its market leadership in the domestic refining market, while relentlessly engaging in overseas markets, particularly China and Southeast Asian, with the aim of growing into one of Asia-Pacific’s major energy companies. In the long run, we aim to become one of the world’s top energy companies and a market leader. ● Flagship Brands Gasoline brand, Premium gasoline, Reliable partner EnClean EnClean Solux for cargo transport business, Netruck Lubricant Business Taking on the new name of SK lubricants in October 2009, the lubricant business of SK energy sustained growth on the strength of its specialized business infrastructure as an independent business entity. The base oil business realized considerable year-on-year growth as a result of intensive efforts to increase production and improve profitability. The lubricant business has also gained a good reputation for its competitive brand products. In particular, its flagship brand ‘ZIC’ topped a brand power survey for the 12th consecutive year, while the company won the Grand Prize at the Korea Green Management Awards. Its products also earned the top grade in terms of quality from the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Lubricant Standardization and Approval Committee (ILSAC). In response to growing global demand for high-end base oil and lubricants, SK lubricants is strategically expanding its markets by preemptively responding to changing market conditions. Asphalt Business SK energy maintained the largest market share in the Korean asphalt market and the imported asphalt market of China. Annual sales totaled more than two million tons on the strength of advanced product quality and services. In 2010, we launched all-out marketing in overseas markets, particularly China, increasing sales volume by 110,000 tons, or 4%, from the previous year, to 2.62 million tons. 17 Furthermore, we became the first Korean refinery company to commercialize in-house developed polymer modified asphalt (SBS PMA). In the future, the asphalt business will continue to expand beyond the domestic market, especially in areas such as Southeast Asia and Oceania, and thus emerging as the number one market player. Petrochemical Business 1 LiBS business was transferred to In the petrochemical business, we are strengthening our product lineup by focusing on functionSK innovation following al chemical products such as special solvents and high value-added polypropylenes, as well the spin-off on January 1, 2011. as information & electronics such as LiBS-1 (Lithium ion Battery Separator), and the general purpose chemical business. Our official website (www.skchem.com) plays a key role in establishing ecommerce transactions and keeping our customers up to date by offering a one-stop service that allows them to track everything from orders to shipment. As a result, the business recorded KRW 12,448.1 billion in sales, and KRW 387.4 billion in operating profit. In the future, we will continue to supply best products and state-of-the-art technology through customer-oriented management practices, as well as proactively expanding the domestic market and diversifying export markets. Exploration and Production Business As of January 2011, we are participating in 26 oil and gas blocks in 14 countries and four overseas LNG projects. Total proven oil equivalent reserves stood at 530 million barrels as of the end of 2010, while in 2010, daily production reached 59,000 barrels. The completion of the LNG plant in Peru was particularly significant as it encompassed everything from development and production to gas transmission and final product. Boasting an annual LNG capacity of 4.4 million tons, equivalent to the national supply for two months, the Peru LNG plant will liquefy natural gas extracted from blocks 56 and 88. Located on the coast, the optimal location for shipment and transmission of LNG products, the plant’s geographical advantage helped in the signing of several agreements to export products to Mexico and North America. The coal and mineral businesses achieved considerable results amid the adverse business environment arising from unstable supplies in the international markets and the resultant price fluctuations. In the first half of 2010, a total of 3.4 million tons of quality soft coal was imported from Australia, China, and Indonesia to supply Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) and other cogeneration companies and cement companies. The successful completion of tripartite trading with Chinese and Australian partners further solidified the company’s market position as a leading global coal supplier. 2 The coal & minerals business Going forward, SK energy plans more prospective mining projects in China and Indonesia and will transferred to SK networks as of work to secure a stable supply of soft coal by developing low-rank coal upgrading technology and February 1, 2011. investing in coal infrastructure-2 . Furthermore, the company aims to branch out into the mineral resources development business. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 18 CORPORATE OVERVIEW UK 9/2b&c, 9/6 & 9/7b Kazakhstan zhambyl Algeria Libya Issaouane NC174 Egypt North Zaafarana Qatar Ras Laffan LNG Vietnam 15-1, 15-1/05, 123 Côte d’Ivoire CI-11, CI-01 Oman Oman LNG Indonesia Yemen North Madura I Yemen LNG Equatorial Guinea Block D, Block S Madagascar Majunga Australia WA34R, WA425-P, WA-431-P North America Oceania Houston: SK E&P Company Sydney: SK energy Australia Pty. Ltd. Los Angeles: SK E&P Company LA Office Asia South America Beijing: SK China Lima: SK energy Sucursal Peruana Singapore: SK energy International Pte. Ltd. Colombia: SK energy Bogota Office Hanoi: SK energy Hanoi Representative Office Europe Tokyo: SK energy Tokyo Branch London: SK energy Europe Limited Jakarta: SK energy Jakarta Representative Office Middle East Dubai: SK energy Middle East Office 19 US Iberia Dome North Colombia CPE-5, SSJN-5, CPO-4 Peru Block 8, Block 88(Camisea), Block 56, Z-46, Peru LNG Production Exploration LNG Project 2010 E&P Blocks held by SK innovation (as of January 2011) Country Block Blocks in Production 6 countries 8 blocks Blocks in Exploration 11 countries 18 blocks LNG 4 countries 4 Project CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 20 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT Sustainability SKMS Management SKMS and Sustainability Management SK energy established the SK Management System (SKMS) as the basic framework for its consistent push towards stability, growth and stakeholder value. Agreed with and shared by all SK People, the SKMS helps them better understand the true nature of sound corporate management and serves as the standard against which employees make decisions, thus convening the capabilities of employees and promoting the company’s competitiveness in the long run. The framework is comprised of the Management Perspective, Management Implementation and Business Management Factors. Management Perspective “The corporate enterprise should achieve its ultimate goal of sustained progress by maintaining 1 SUPEX SUPEX stands for Super Excellent stability and growth. Furthermore, it should create value for its customers, people and shareholders, Level, meaning the highest thereby contributing to social and economic development and human well-being.” Based on this performance level attainable. It is perspective, we regard the happiness of our stakeholders as the ultimate goal. Defining this happiness extremely difficult to reach this level as a sustainable and well-balanced relationship between the company and its stakeholders, SK straight away. Therefore, the company energy has set the goal of pursuing SUPEX-1 via human-oriented management and is exerting its has established immediate goals, best effort to accomplish this. exerting its best efforts to achieve these by utilizing available sources. By repeating this process over time, Management Implementation ● SKMS Framework the company aims to ultimately reach Principle and Business SUPEX. Management SK-Way to Management Factors Perspective Mission Our Value Achieve Our Value To strengthen employee implementation and emphasize ‘Pursuing SUPEX via HumanManagement Oriented Management’, the Management Implementation Principles of SK Management System Principle Implementation Principle advocates three Internal SUPEX Roles of core activities: SUPEX Goal/ Business Plan, Goal/ SK People and Environment for the SUPEX Business Plan Leaders Roles of SK People and Leaders and Internal Quest Environment for SUPEX Quest. Furthermore, Business SKMS not only suggests a philosophy and Management Static Factors Dynamic Factors Factors principles, but also contains static and Application of Implementation of dynamic factors that should be practiced Static Factors Dynamic Factors and utilized in order to conduct management Marketing Implementation by Production SK People effectively and efficiently and form an enResearch Implementation by & Development the Company vironment for pursuing SUPEX. This allows Strategic Planning Human ResourcesDynamic Factors all members to contribute to SK’s sustained Organization Volition, Accounting·Finance Work Capabilities, Coorprogress and ensures the happiness of Purchasing dination, CR(Corporate Communication, stakeholders. Relation) SK-Manship, etc. etc. 21 Corporate Board of Directors Governance BOD Structure 1 Special BOD resolutions require SK energy’s Board of Directors comprises of nine directors as of March 2011. With six of these outside votes from two thirds of all directors, SK energy maintains the highest proportion of outside directors among Korean companies. BOD members. These special This composition satisfies the requirements for special resolution-1 as prescribed in the BOD regulations, resolutions relate to changes rendering the BOD with the authority to pass special resolutions and monitor management. There are in the Articles of Incorporation, six subcommittees under the BOD. mergers, dissolution, goodwill transfers, decreases in capital and the submission of bills to Director Nomination Process dismiss directors. SK energy has in place an established process for nominating directors in a bid to ensure objectivity and fairness. In regards to nominating executive directors, the Human Resources Committee screens the qualifications of all potential candidates with the BOD, then recommending selected candidates at the General Shareholders’ Meeting (GSM). The nomination of candidates as outside directors is conducted separately by the Outside Director Nomination Advisory Panel. In compliance with related regulations, we do not allow family members or relatives of the largest shareholder, as well as those who have left the company less than two years previously, from becoming candidates for outside director positions in order to guarantee independence. ● Outside Director ● BOD Members (As of March, 2011/in a alphabetical order) Nomination Process Name Current Position Responsibilities Remark Nomination Establish Chairman & CEO of SK corporation Chey Tae-Won Chairman and CEO Executive Director Committee nomination plan and SK innovation Professor of Business Administration Nomination Committee, Strategic Independent Choe Hyuk of Seoul National University Planning Committee, CSR Committee Director Secure pool of Advisory Panel Audit Committee, Transparent Independent candidates Choi Myung-Hae Advisor to Kim & Chang Law Firm Management Committee Director Dean of KGSF Nomination Committee, Audit Independent Nomination Finalize Han Ingoo (KAIST Graduate School of Finance) Committee, HR Committee Director Committee candidates Advisor to Law Firm Transparent Management Independent Kim Young-Ju Shin & Kim Committee, CSR Committee Director Confirm agenda President & CEO & Head of Corporate Non-standing BOD Kim Young-Tae Human Resources Committee items for GSM Culture Division, SK corp VP Director Koo Ja-Young President & CEO of SK innovation President and CEO Executive Director Partner & Representative Lawyer HR Committee, CSR Committee, Independent Appoint outLee Hoon-Kyu GSM of The One Law Firm Transparent Management Committee Director side directors Associate Professor of Business Audit Committee, Independent Lee Jae-Han Administration of Dongguk University Strategic Planning Committee Director BOD Performance Evaluation and Compensation BOD activities and general operations are reviewed once a year, with the findings reported to the BOD and disclosed in the annual business report. The Human Resources Committee deliberates and determines compensation to directors fairly and in proportion to their performances. Although Article 10 of the company’s Articles of Incorporation stipulates stock option as a form of incentive, the company did not offer stock option incentives in 2010. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 22 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT Prevention of Conflict of Interests Article 14 of the bylaws stipulates that no director shall, without prior approval from the BOD, engage in any transaction that falls within the business of the company, nor become a partner or director of another company whose business purposes are similar to those of the company. Outside directors run their own independent meetings in an effort to secure independence and foster communication. Communication with Shareholders and Employees SK energy operates diverse channels for active communication between the BOD and stakeholders. For example, the corporate website has a separate page dedicated to disclosing BOD activities, and at which any stakeholder can express their opinion. The company’s intranet features a “BOD news” segment at which employees can also leave suggestions. Outside directors also conduct special lectures on their respective fields of expertise and visit worksites in order to listen to employees’ opinions. BOD Activities 2010 BOD Activities SK energy defines the basic functions of the BOD as making strategic decisions on management issues and advising and monitoring management activities. To build an ideal BOD that substantially leads, helps and checks management, we established “Working BOD” as the slogan for all BOD activities. The BOD appoints the CEO, sets the scope of authority of the CEO and advises management. In 2010, the BOD convened 13 meetings and deliberated on 57 agendas. The director attendance rate stood at 91.2% (with 88.4% for outside directors). Subcommittees held a total of 27 meetings to deliberate on 55 agendas, including 22 preliminary reviews of BOD meeting agenda. ● Subcommittee Activities in 2010 (as of the end of 2010) Agenda as reviewed Name Meetings Key Agendas (preliminary deliberation) Independent audit results of previous year’s business Audit Committee 6 20 results and internal audit results of consolidated financial statements Nomination Nomination of candidates for outside directors, review 3 4 Committee of outside director candidate nomination process, etc. Strategic Planning Approval of spin-off plan and review of 6 10 (9) Committee contribution plan to overseas subsidiaries, etc. Nomination of candidates for executive directors, Human Resources 3 7 (3) appointment and assignment of roles of major executive Committee members, review of director remuneration, etc. Transparent Transactions and contributions to and with Management 8 12 (9) subsidiaries, compliance with fair transaction Committee regulations, etc. Corporate Social Evaluation of BOD performance and business Responsibility 1 2 (1) ethics index, publication of sustainability report, etc. Committee Total 27 55 (22) 23 ● BOD Activities (unit: times) 2008 2009 2010 No. of BOD meetings 15 14 13 No. of subcommittee meetings 37 29 27 Briefings, discussions with the CEO and training sessions 9 10 5 Visits to worksites and participation in events 22 17 15 Total 83 70 60 Business Business Ethics Based on the SKMS management philosophy, everyone at SK energy practices business ethics in their Ethics daily duty with the aim of creating value for all stakeholders, thereby contributing to both social and economic development. To help our employees practice business ethics, we conduct ethics training for employees, promote business ethics to all stakeholders, and install the infrastructure needed to support the practices of business ethics. Through these efforts, SK energy secures global competitiveness and fulfills its corporate social responsibility. Infrastructure for Business Ethics Practices 1 Following the spin-off and SK energy operates an Ethics Consultation Center and separate webpage-1 on its corporate website in renaming of SK energy on January order to allow stakeholders to report or seek consultation regarding ethical issues via telephone, 1, 2011, the URL of the ethical fax or e-mail. This also helps the company prevent and detect unethical issues early. Furthermore, management website changed to these stakeholders are protected from any disadvantages that could arise from reporting such acts. http://ethics.skinnovation.com In a bid to correct unethical practices and internalize business ethics, we have operated a program offering rewards of up to KRW 20 million to people reporting ethics violations since November 2008. In 2010, a total of 39 cases had been received through the Ethics Consultation Center and reporting system. Of these, 17 were regarding unethical practices, two regarding consultations and 20 involved customer complaints. Employees found violating the code of business ethics are subject to discipline according to corporate bylaws. In 2010, one such violation was detected, with related personnel now facing disciplinary action. Continued Ethics Training for Employees SK energy gives training courses, on and off-line, on business ethics in order to raise ethical awareness among employees and motivate them to practice business ethics in their daily duties. In 2010, a total of 538 newly promoted team managers, senior assistant managers, senior staff and new employees received a total of 834 hours of ethics training. ● Ethics Training (as of the end of 2010) Online Offline No. of Trainee 132 persons 406 persons 538 persons Training Hours 264 hr 570 hr 834 hr CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 24 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT Spreading Business Ethics to Stakeholders SK energy encourages its partner firms to join its commitment to business ethics through the “Agreement on Fair and Transparent Transactions.” Under mutual trust and consent, any corruption or irregularity by partner firms is subject to sanctions in accordance with SK energy’s bylaws. There were no such violations in 2010. Fairness and transparency comes before everything in our relationship with partner firms. Furthermore, we will strive to spread and propagate the significance of business ethics to all our stakeholders in the future. Transparent Management Activities 1 Five Korean economic groups: SK energy has devoted itself to improving its corporate governance in order to build trust with its Federation of Korean Industries, stakeholders, while also enhancing transparency in management and fulfilling its corporate social Korea Employers Federation, responsibility. In recognition of this, the company was awarded an ‘Excellence’ grade in 2010’s corporate Korea Chamber of Commerce and governance evaluation. In February 2011, the company received the grand prize at the Transparent Industry, Korea International Trade Management Awards held by five Korean economic groups-1. Association, Korea Federation of Small and Medium Business ● SK innovation Business Ethics Website (http://ethics.skinnovation.com) Participation in Public Policy Development As the leader of the Korean petrochemical industry, SK energy is actively involved in the development of public policies related to the industry. The company is an active member of the Korean Petroleum Association (KPA), Korea Petrochemical Industry Association (KPIA), and Fair Competition Federation (FCF). These organizations represent the petrochemical industry in cooperating and discussing policies and regulations with the government. Committed to energy inclusion, SK energy moved to deal with the energy disparity arising from high oil prices. In 2008, it agreed to contribute KRW 100 billion to special funds to support low-income brackets and related industries, including low-carbon green energy funds. In 2010, these funds were spent on fostering clean energy sources and energy conservation campaigns. 25 Stakeholder Stakeholder Communication At SK energy, we define stakeholders as customers, employees, shareholders, partner firms and Communicommunities. The happiness of these stakeholders is the ultimate value pursued by SK energy. cation Accordingly, the company maintains active communication with these groups in order to reflect their voices in the company’s general business activities. Stakeholder Classification and Communication Channels We classify stakeholders into five groups (shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, communities) according to their impact on business and maintain communications channels with them so as to collect their opinions. Channels 2010 Activities Earnings conference (4 times), overseas ShareGeneral shareholders’ meeting, holders NDR (Non-Deal Roadshow, 5 times), business briefing, conference participation (6 times), conference participation, IR visit (45 times), one-on-one meetings one-on-one meeting, e-mail/phone (230 times), conference call, consultation, disclosure and notice e-mail/phone consultation Customer satisfaction survey (3 times), Customers Customer Care Center (call center), handling consumer complaints via customer website per product and service, service center (534,000 phone and customer satisfaction survey 34,000 online cases), online community “Happy Friends” Management Consultative Committee, Management Consultative Committee, Employees Labor-Management Committee, Labor-Management Committee, open Company Broadcasting, Vopen management management forum on intranet, ethical forum on intranet, Ethical counseling center, counseling center, SKMS execution review SKMS execution review via online survey and one-on-one interview Conferences with partner firm Meeting with SUPEX partners, Suppliers representatives, seminar for partner firm cooperation with maintenance partners CEOs, win-win workshop for CEOs of for their overseas expansion, partners to the Complexes and other win-win partnership activities Meeting with civic groups, participation in CommuniCommunication activities on ties community activities, social 832 occasions in Ulsan (3,152 participants contribution activities, participation during the year), advisor for in public policy via business groups Incheon Citizens’ Autonomy Committee, (Korea Petroleum Association, citizens’ health center, Korea Petrochemical Industry Association, support for cultural events Korea Fair Competition Federation) CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 26 MATERIALITY TEST Materiality Materiality Test Overview We conducted a materiality test in order to identify and prioritize key issues related to the company’s Test sustainability management. From a pool of raw data from internal and external sources, we reviewed 52 issues. These issues were prioritized using a five-step test: stakeholder engagement, We identified and internal policy, peer benchmarking, media search, and laws and regulations. prioritized issues of Materiality Test Results significant concern Of the total 52 issues related to SK energy’s Sustainability Management, the materiality test found as well as the impact 19 issues of high significance to internal and external stakeholders. Of these 19 issues, we identified 6 material issues, all of which are covered in a separate section called “Special Issue” found on the company and at the front of this report. In particular, issues found to have the highest significance included its stakeholders. the growing need for effective change management following the spin-off, efficient personnel We assigned special management, corporate culture, organizational activation and communication with employees. These issues mirror the rising demand by internal stakeholders for business normalization following sections in this report the recent spin-off. Accordingly, these issues are classified as short-term and are reported in the for these issues “Special Issue” section. and continue to apply ● Significance to Internal•External Stakeholders constant monitoring and management. General: Business ethics system & transparent corporate  governance, enhancing efficiency in energy production external stakeholders and E&P 32p, systematic management scheme, business environment and climate change risks Economy: New technology, new business 33p, financial  performance, improving facilities and infrastructure, corporate brand value General: long-term growth strategy Society: Social contributions, talent management, safety,  Society: labor-management welfare, enhancing services at customer contact points 34p,  collaboration, health, human development of communities, win-win cooperation 35p rights, readiness for customer Environment: Rising demand for an environmental  communication management system, low carbon emissions 37p, growing Environment: energy efficiency, demands for stricter environmental regulations and  water quality, toxic and hazardous compliance with global standards substances, air quality Economy: shareholder communication, General: Effective change   transparent accounting management following spin-off 28p Society: customer information security, Society: Effective personnel   product quality, readiness for community management, corporate culture, communication, provision of accurate organizational activation, employee product information, appropriate pricing communication, leadership, product policy, solution to customer complaints, stability, fair transactions, accessibility readiness for communication with to management information, partner firms, reflection of employee Environment: recycling opinions to management Environment: soil, wastes, oil leakage,  biodiversity internal stakeholders 27 ● Issues of Top Priority and Company Response Material Issue Shareholders Employees Customers Suppliers Communities Response Rising need for change in Proactive communication with stakeholders regarding corporate vision, management following spin-off goals, strategies, and attracting investment Business ethics system & Adopting business ethics principles, establishing infrastructure for transparent corporate governance business ethics practices, organizing BOD subcommittees Enhancing efficiency in energy Diversifying import sources, establishing strategic networks with oil production and E&P producing countries Systematic management Establishing SKMS (SK Management System) scheme Risks Arising from Business Reinforcing the core competencies by developing green business and Environment and Climate Change other future growth drivers Developing technologies in batteries, information & electronics, and New technology green technologies Pursuing new business opportunities in energy, petrochemical, New business and new materials Stable creation of shareholder value through preemptive risk Financial performances management and efficient internal control Continuously expanding capital expenditures to enhance operational Infrastructure Improvement efficiency and employee satisfaction Enhancing brand value through consistent stakeholder Corporate brand value communication activities Enhancing services at customer Practicing Customer Happiness Management, guided by Customer contact points Happiness Charter and Employees’ Code of Conduct Talent management Realizing SUPEX through management Implementing systematic safety and health management through the Safety SHE(Safety, Health & Environment) management system Implementing welfare programs customized to each stage of the life-cycle Welfare and service years Various win-win cooperation programs and fair transactions with Win-win cooperation partner firms Applying strategic social contributions that creates jobs and Social contributions supports the underprivileged Community development Supporting socially responsible businesses Registering greenhouse gas reduction records, ensuring carbon credits Low-carbon emissions by participating in CDM project, improving processes, participating in pilot projects for voluntary carbon reduction initiatives Practicing integrated management of safety, health and environment, Rising need for an environmental through the SHE Management System, preparing Environmental management system Management System Stricter environmental regulations and rising demand for compliance Maintaining below legal requirements with global standards M at Ke eria y lit Is y su TeCREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY es st Change Management after Spin-off Reinforcing Competitiveness and Future Growth Engines through Spin-off SK energy SK innovation R&M, Chemical, E&P, Information & E&P Division, Institute of Electronic, Technology, CMS Technology R&D SK energy SK global chemical SK lubricants (new unit as of Jan. 1, 2011) (new unit as of Jan. 1, 2011) (spun-off on Oct. 1, 2009) Oil Refinery Olefin, Aromatics, Lubricants/ Base Oil (Petroleum and Gas Petrochemical, Specialty Products) Polymer, EPDM 29 On January 1, 2011, Background & Purpose SK energy spun Maximizing efficiency in business and organizational operations off its refining and SK energy adopted a company-in-company (CIC) structure as early as 2008, organizing four CICs petrochemical Refining & Marketing (R&M), Chemical, Institute of Technology, Corporate Management Service businesses in a bid (CMS) and the Exploration & Production Division under the CEO. In regards to the fast changing global business environment and unstable energy supply, we found to reinforce global that the overgrown size of our organization made us slow to address such market changes or make competencies and timely decisions. Therefore, innovative and drastic change was required in order to secure sustainable future growth engines growth. In a bid to enhance efficiency, the company decided to spin off the two major CICs into independent through a specialized operational companies under an independent management system. Based on an analysis of growth and autonomous goals, financial conditions and market outlooks, this division will allow innovation, improve business management system. results and ensure the financial soundness of each business, thereby better preparing each for changes in external business environments. Following the spinoff, we are implementing effective change Plan & Procedures management strategies so as to Physical Division into Remaining and New Companies ensure the change to Division Plan  The company spun off the petroleum and petrochemical businesses into independent units under Paragraphs 2 and 12 of Article 530 of the Korean Commercial Act. The generate a positive company opted for a physical division, in which the remaining company takes over all outstanding impact for shares of each of the newly established subsidiaries. stakeholders. Following the division, the remaining company was renamed SK innovation. The new petroleum business unit has been given the name of the former parent company, benefiting from its high brand We will strive to recognition as Korea’s leading oil refiner and boasting a national network of gas and recharge make the spinoff stations. The new petrochemical business unit is to be known as SK global chemical. a new opportunity for The spin off did not change the number of shares in SK energy. As of January 1, 2011, total assets of SK innovation amounted to KRW 14,145.7 billion, while SK energy took KRW 17,269.4 billion and mutual growth with SK global chemical KRW 4,380.7 billion. Paid-in capital allocated to each of the new units stood at our stakeholders. KRW 300.0 billion for SK energy and KRW 130.0 billion for SK global chemical. Division Procedures  In preparation for the spin-off, SK energy established a Spin-off Task Force Team under its strategic planning office in May 2010. In September of the same year, the BOD approved the agenda of the restructuring plan, which was then approved at an Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting on November 26, 2010. All spin-off procedures were successfully completed on January 4, 2011. M at Ke eria y lit Is y su TeCREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY es st 30 Business Structure “We are impressed to see the new corporate governance Independent Management System for Future Growth  Following the spin-off, the requickly stabilize following maining parent company, SK innovation, will focus on future growth engines and resource developthe spin-off. The biggest concern ment, such as oil development, information & electronics, and R&D. The new SK energy will lead of employees was whether oil refining and technology businesses, while SK global chemical will focus on the petrochemical the reorganization would lead business. Prior to the latest separation, the lubricant business division was spun off to establish to any change in employment new subsidiary SK lubricants on October 1, 2009. or work process. Relieved by Expected Benefits the early stabilization, everyone at SK energy renewed their Enhanced competencies raise engagement to work and loyalty corporate value to the company.” “Enhancing Corporate Value in Pursuit of the Happiness of Stakeholders” Independency improves Shareholders Strengthening value chain competencies of each business rising corporate value through partnerships Employees job security/growth, etc. Change Management Effective Management of Change Issues  The spin-off of businesses, both directly and indirectly, influences a company’s stakeholders. While many of SK energy’s stakeholders placed high expectations on the spin-off, there were also some voices of concern. To allay such concerns, SK energy engaged in active communications through a number of IR activities, employee surveys and public relation activities in order to show stakeholders the significance of the change to the company’s long-term growth plan and to secure their cooperation. We will continue to communicate with stakeholders on various issues and develop effective solutions to these in order to ensure that the spin-off creates more innovative value for stakeholders in the long run. Change Management by Stakeholder Group Shareholders∙Investors: Independence enhances corporate value  Shareholders and investors showed significant interest in the changes that the spin-off would make to corporate value and the company’s growth momentum. They laid high expectations on the growth strategies and visions of the new subsidiaries—SK innovation, SK energy, and SK global chemical. Before the spin-off, the former SK energy had successfully operated the CIC (company in company) system since 2008. The CIC incubated each business division, which had enjoyed independency and self-determination in the majority of business decisions, until they were prepared to go independent. As we opted for a 100% physical division, the separation did not affect corporate value, brushing aside concerns over undermined corporate value. As proven in the case with SK lubricant, 31 “I should admit that I had which separated in September 2009, an improvement in the corporate value of new subsidiaries is jitters about how the spin-off highly expected to increase the corporate value of the remaining company. would affect employment. The improved specialty and decision-making process and flexibility in response to market changes However, I was surprised to see will further reinforce business competencies of subsidiaries, creating synergies among them. everything returning to normal quicker than I expected. Employees: Building Future-oriented Corporate Culture  Although many SK Free from care about energy People see these changes as positive, some uncertainties still remain. uncertainties, I am now focused The 2010 Survey on employees found that respondents were highly concerned about the impact of on my job. However, I think the spin-off would have on job security, morale, and inter-unit communications. They are making we need to continue monitoring concerted efforts to minimize any impact the spin-off may have and to quickly stabilize the units’ and managing changes in independence in order to allay concerns over changes to working conditions. the working environment arising The top priority issue of employees was job security. To ease these concerns, the company reached from the spin-off.” an agreement with the labor union regarding job security in May 2010, reassuring employees that there would be no restructuring stemming from the spin-off. Separately, the new independent subsidiaries agreed to keep the current status and welfare benefits of employees, including class, pay, IB, welfare programs, retirement benefits, and leave, as well as strive for improved working conditions. The new subsidiaries will concentrate on the early stabilization of independency, organizational activation, and morale in order to create new and strong corporate cultures, ones that all employees can work in with pride and passion. Customers∙Suppliers∙Communities: Customer Happiness Management & Win-Win Cooperation  We see no big changes arising from the spin-off in regards to customer relationship policy and win-win cooperation. We disclosed spin-off plans through Management Disclosures and press releases, as well as separately notifying clients and partner firms in advance. Except for possible fine-tuning by each of the new subsidiaries in regards to business characteristics, the main framework shall remain the same: customer happiness management, win-win cooperation with partner firms, and contribution to the development of communities. Goals & Strategies Independency Customized to Business Characteristics  SK innovation, SK energy and SK lubricants will each operate independent management systems and develop new visions and goals that best represent their respective business characteristics. In the mid to long-term, we have set the goal of achieving combined sales of the four companies’ of KRW 60 trillion and operating profits of KRW 4~5 trillion by 2015. By 2020, our sales goal is KRW 120 trillion and operating profits of KRW 11 trillion. To that effect, we will make concerted efforts to ensure that each unit realizes an average KRW 1 trillion in revenue annually. The remaining and new companies will remain faithful to their corporate social responsibilities, while practicing transparent management through disclosure and business ethics practices. Maintaining various communication channels, we will listen to the opinions and suggestions of our stakeholders and reflect them in the management of each subsidiary in order to achieve sustainable, mutual growth with them. M at Ke eria y lit Is y su TeCREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY es st 32 Stable ● Strategic Network & Import Diversification As the world’s fourth largest oil importer, Korea is seeing its role become more prominent in the Energy global oil market. Importing 300 million barrels of crude oil every year, SK energy is aggressively Supply building a strategic network by pursuing cooperation with overseas energy companies and strengthening ties with oil-producing nations. Furthermore, in order to be fully prepared for crisis situations, we are increasing our oil stockpile. Dedicated to the stable and affordable supply of SK energy has crude oil, we strategically maintain a competitive long-term based supply line, while seeking new supply lines in Europe and Africa. contributed to the development of ● Flexible Operation of Factories for Stable Supply Korean economy by Economic recovery in 2010 expanded domestic demand, with the company maintaining an average providing a stable capacity utilization rate of 70% at its central distillation unit (CDU), thus ensuring a stable supply of petrochemical products. The rates for polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP) and paraxylene (PX) supply of energy. stood at 91.7%, 94.8% and 100%, respectively. Our emphasis is on building the foundation ● Expanding the petroleum business for energy independency As Korea’s leading energy enterprise, SK energy is involved in a number of oil development projects for a steady supply of around the world. crude oil. Dedicated As of the end of 2010, we secured 530 million barrels of oil reserves, with an average daily output to making Korea of 59,000 barrels. In 2010, we completed the vertically integrated production line-up at the Peru LNG Project, encompassing the entire value chain of oil development, from drilling, production and an energy power, pipelining, to gas liquefaction and export. As part of the block portfolio restructuring plan, we sold we actively form off our Brazilian subsidiary to the Dennish Musk Oil Company, thereby enhancing the operational a strategic network efficiency of our oil development business. with oil-producing Capacity Utilization Rate Annual Import Volume by nations and diversify SK energy (Unit: million barrel) 2008 2009 2010 crude oil import CDU 77% 73% 78% HOU 100% 100% 100% 313.87 sources, while also 313.50 290.78 #1 RFCC 91% 100% 100% actively pursuing #2 RFCC 100% 100% 100% overseas E&P projects. PE 90% 97% 92% PP 89% 98% 95% PX 91% 89% 100% 2008 2009 2010 33 New ● Renewable Energy Battery for FSEV Featuring high energy-efficiency and high output power, lithium-ion batteries Growth are expected to play a key role in the development of future vehicles and energy storage systems. Drivers SK energy was selected to supply batteries for hybrid commercial cars to Mitsubishi Fuso, part of the German-based Daimler Group in 2009, and has supplied batteries for Hyundai-Kia Motors Group’s full-speed electric vehicle (FSEV) since 2010. Having completed a mass production line SK energy creates at the Global Technology complex in Daejeon, we are now constructing a mass production plant in new business Seosan, Chungnam. In addition, SK energy was selected to lead “Smart Transportation” one of five key areas under the Korean government’s smart grid pilot project, while SK energy is also part of the opportunities through national drive to build the world’s largest smart grid complex. its global-leading Clean Coal Technology SK energy is currently developing a new clean coal technology that will technologies in considerably reduce carbon and pollutant emissions, as well as investment costs. As an administrator of the national drive by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, SK energy serves to coordinate renewable energy, the industrial-academic-research project. With the pilot plant completed in 2010, R&D activities petrochemical and have gained momentum. new materials. Hydrogen Station SK energy is the only Korean company to secure the appropriate technology for hydrogen stations. SK energy’s hydrogen stations feature high efficiency and thermal durability, as well as being easy to operate. The first hydrogen station was installed at the Institute of Technology, with the second located at the World Cup Park in Sangam-dong, Seoul. ● Petrochemical CO2 Plastic (GreenPolTM) SK energy’s new technology, GreenPolTM, is an eco-friendly material that not only provides toxic free insulation but which is also transparent. Thanks to its high productivity, it is expected to replace plastic-based general purpose resins such as polyethylene and PVC. Encouraged by the success of the pilot plant in 2009, we are now focusing on developing technology for its mass production with the aim of commercializing it. ● New Materials R&D Expenses (Unit: KRW billion, %) LiBS (Lithium-ion Battery Separator) SK energy has successfully developed and commercialized R&D Expenses a Lithium-ion Battery Separator (LiBS) using its own technology and now produces high-perforR&D Expenses to Sales Ratio(%) mance products. In 2010, we developed a high heat-resistant separator for electric vehicles and an energy storage system, as well as completing a production line in Jeungpyeong, Chungbuk in order to meet demand. 1,073 Flexible Copper Clad Laminate (FCCL) SK energy has developed new technologies for the high-performance production of flexible copper clad laminate (FCCL) for FPCB and is currently 860 working to commercialize this technology. In 2010, we focused on diversifying our product line-up, 791 as well as obtained a certificate from our customer companies and commenced construction of a mass production site. Optic Film SK energy has developed technology for Tri Acetyle Cellulose (TAC) for Display 0.24% 0.24% Polarizer and is currently working towards commercialization. While continuing R&D in order to 0.17% expand product line-up, we are constructing a production line in Jeungpyeong, Chungbuk. 2008 2009 2010 M at Ke eria y lit Is y su TeCREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY es st 34 HIGHLIGHTS Customer ● Instill CS mindset in employees We encourage all our employees to visit gas stations, where they conduct marketing campaigns so Happiness as to raise their CS awareness and marketing capabilities. This provides employees with opportunities Management to listen to customer voices and use these in their daily work. ● On-site Compensation for Customer Losses SK energy practices In the event of customer losses, customer interface areas are authorized to provide on the spot customer happiness compensation for small amounts of losses. This helps us to instantly address customer complaints and enhance customer satisfaction. management in order to become a company ● Membership Service that is respected and We improved the service scope and quality of our steady-seller membership service “EnClean Bonus Card” and launched the “EnClean Plus+” service on top of conventional benefits. The new trusted by customers card offers an improved rate of point reserves or discounts to any cardholder using the card to pay with “Customer at SK gas stations at least once in the previous month. Cardholders are rewarded with OK Cashbag Happiness Charter” and points equal to 20% of their purchase or discounts at 40 membership merchants, including restaurants and movie theaters. a “Code of Conduct”. ● CS Consulting Program for Gas Stations We support our gas stations’ CS activities with CS consulting programs. Through surveys on owners, customers and defectors, we define key CS issues and suggest specific ways to handle such issues to station owners. C H us a t Ch ppi om ar ne er te ss r •We will listen to the voices of customers and create customer-oriented practices and systems. •We will present innovative customer value and delight customers with forwardlooking services. •We will uphold our promise to customers and repay them for their trust. •With a sense of pride in working for the best company in Korea, we will provide firstrate service for customers. 35 Win-Win ● Win-Win Cooperation Program for Competency-Building HRD Assistance Programs We run the SK Win-Win Academy and technical training proCooperation grams in order to assist our partner firms enhance their long-term competitiveness. SK Win-Win Academy offers CEO seminars for the CEOs and key leaders of partner firms, WinWin MDP (management development program) for managerial workers of partner firms and 100 Win-Win e-learning programs for all employees of partner firms. In 2010, a total of 220 CEOs Suppliers are and executives of partner firms received CEO seminars, while the managers of 23 partner firms received the Win-Win MDP, and a total of 1,130 employees from 525 partner firms received our partners for online courses regarding marketing, finance and technology. sustainable We conducted regular onsite training at our Ulsan and Incheon complexes and LiBS plant. development. At the Ulsan complex, we hold monthly meetings with the CEOs of partner firms, while the Incheon complex meets with the CEOs of partner firms once every quarter. In addition, these Through diverse worksites also offer evaluations, rewards, and case studies of good ideas for productivity, trainwin-win programs and ing for managers of partner firms, special lectures by external experts on safety health and fair transactions with environment, and safety reminders on potential work hazards. At the LiBS plant, we provide onsite training regarding operating production equipment, work skills, and safety. partner firms, we aim to achieve mutual Financial Assistance We made it our principle to pay all settlements to smalland midgrowth with them. sized enterprise (SME) partners in cash within seven days of delivery. In 2009, we funded a total of KRW 150.0 billion in SK Win-Win Fund to help cash-stripped SME partners at low interest rates. As of the end of 2010, eight firms had taken loans worth a total of KRW 2.75 billion. In 2007, SK energy and five other executive member companies of Korea Petrochemical Industry Association, funded KRW 10.0 billion for the Petrochemical·Plastic Businesses Win-Win Partnership in order to financially help suppliers in these industries. Since 2005, we have offered network loans in collaboration with IBK to our suppliers with good credit. As of the end of 2010, five of our partner firms had received network loans worth KRW 5.8 billion. Technological Assistance & Joint Technology Development We lay the foundation for winwin partnerships with partner firms through various programs that generate synergy between partner firms’ creative technologies and our business infrastructure. This includes assistance with technological development, the joint development of technologies, joint patent filing, and supporting partners with overseas market penetration. In response to strengthened government regulations regarding the discharging of hazardous substances, we provide hazardous substance reduction technologies to partner firms that deal with chemicals. In 2010, we provided technical support to nine partner firms. Since 2009, we have been collaborating with several Korean companies specialized in purifying polluted soil. In 2010, we entered the ‘Chromium VI Purifying Technology Development Project’, in preparation of penetrating the Chinese soil purifying market. In the same year, we concluded an MOU on “Global Environmental Technology Development” with ten companies of the Eco Science-Technology Advancement Research group, selected by the Ministry of Environment. Furthermore, we supported partner firms that maintain and repair facilities at the Ulsan complex with their advancement into the Vietnamese market. M at Ke eria y lit Is y su TeCREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY es st 36 HIGHLIGHTS Assistance to Productivity Enhancement We provide a wide array of support to partner firms, helping them enhance their fundamentals in facilities & equipment and management system. The Ulsan complex has constructed a separate building for the daily operations and training of its 39 partner firms in facilities maintenance and repair. Meanwhile, the Incheon complex also constructed a building for its maintenance and repair suppliers, which use the company’s facilities and equipment for all maintenance and repair work. We also provide uniforms to the employees of our transportation partner firms. In regards to management system, we support our partner firms’ material management, helping them efficiently manage inventories and reduce logistics costs. To that end, we consult with our partner firms for solutions and improvements to pending issues at regular meetings with the CEOs of partner firms and representatives from transportation partners. We also conduct various events for the employees of partner firms, such as invitations to baseball games, mountaineering, sports gatherings, and family picnics. In addition, we invite the employees of partner firms to participate in the volunteer activities of the company’s “1004 Volunteer Corps.” Win-Win Programs Productivity HRD Financial Aid Technical Programs Improvement -F  acilities & Equipment -S  ettlement in Cash Technical Support Support SK Win-Win Academy SK Win-Win Fund Joint Technology R&D -M  anagement System, Onsite Technology Petrochemical∙Plastic Joint Filing for Patent Material Management, Training Win-Win Fund Support of Overseas Regular Gatherings, Network Loan Expansion Various Events, and Volunteer Activities ● Fair Purchase Procedures & Systematic Management of Partner Firms Transparent Purchasing Procedures SK energy’s online purchasing system, SKBIOK.com, encompasses the entire procedures of purchasing, from supplier registry, purchasing requests, bidding and ordering to e-invoice and payment. Involving various parties, including supplier managers, purchase officers, actual users and technology assessment departments, these purchasing procedures have enhanced fairness. Systematic SRM Operation We introduced the supplier relationship management (SRM) system, operating a pool of competitive suppliers through the systematic controlling of registration, evaluation and management of suppliers. Before registration, all candidate suppliers are screened for business ethics, credit records, technology competitiveness and eco-friendliness. Even after registration, suppliers are subject to regular evaluations in management, technology, quality management and EHS(Environment, Health, Safety) management. This provides us the basis for strategic and sustainable partnerships with partner firms. 37 Climate Strategy for Mitigating Climate Change Change Phase Ⅰ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Phase Laying the foundation Establishing Implementing for low carbon low-carbon management GHG emission reduction management system system initiatives SK energy is • Constructing IT-based GHG introducing • Building calculation schemes control system Emission for GHG emissions • Implementing company-wide • Participating in international countermeasures Trading • Building internal emission integrated emission trading emission trading market to address the global System trading system system • Emission portfolio management • Simulating emission trading • Reviewing group-wide emission issue of climate trading system • Voluntary energy conservation change. We will take Carbon • Discovering and registering • Promoting energy conservation projects positive and Credits GHG emission reduction • Discovering and promoting overseas CDM projects with government effective measures to Eco• Technology commercialization tackle climate change Friendly • Developing eco-friendly technologies and projects and expansion of project Energies and protect SK energy is currently in Phase II the environment. ● Constructing GHG Management System As part of our commitment to a low-carbon business framework, we established a computerized system for calculating in-house greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions in 2007, and have completed calculating GHG emissions at our Ulsan and Incheon complexes. Including the Incheon complex that we acquired in 2008 and the newly-built production lines, we have expanded the computerized GHG management system so as to effectively control GHG emissions. ● Internal Emissions Trading SK energy was the first company in Korea to adopt the internal emissions trading scheme in 2007. Following this, we introduced the scheme to the Ulsan complex in 2008, and expanded the scheme company-wide in 2009. Learning from this experience, we outlined the framework for SK group’s emission trading scheme in 2010, operating demo trading with five affiliates and Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. In the future, we will phase the scheme in other affiliates in order to establish group-wide effective GHG emission reduction practices. ● Carbon Emissions Credits In order to obtain domestic CER (certified emission reduction), we have registered a total of eight greenhouse reduction projects, including the first project initiated by the Incheon Complex in 2008. We are also taking advantage of the first carbon fund in Korea in order to develop renewable energy sources and secure post-2012 CER. M at Ke eria y lit Is y su TeCREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY es st 38 ● Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Project 1-S  upporting Program for Developing SK energy received orders from the Korean government for Korea’s support program for three developing Countries Program led by the countries-1; Vietnam, Malaysia and Thailand, to cope with climate change and is implementing a renewable Korean government that entails energy project and developing new CDM projects-2. As part of the project, we have established a support for and cooperation with collaboration network with international organizations, research institutes and global companies, as developing nations. The purpose well as the governmental bodies of these countries. Drawing on these networks, we seek opportunities is to partake in the international for potential CDM projects and run feasibility tests on discovered projects, such as biogas. community’s response to climate change, boost negotiating power to ● GHG Emissions Control prepare for talks on greenhouse gas SK energy calculated GHG emissions based on the “SK energy GHG Calculation & Reporting Guidereduction, and help Korean firms enter developing markets. lines.” The calculation receives a third-party assurance in accordance with ISO 14064 for reliability. 2C  DM (Clean Development Since the acquisition of the Incheon Complex in 2008, the calculation has included GHG emissions Mechanism) is an arrangement from there. The 2009 GHG emission will receive the third-party assurance when the Korean government’s under the Kyoto Protocol allowing guidelines are finalized. We assign officers at each worksite to calculate GHG emissions based on fuel industrialized countries with consumption using the internal control system, which is also monitored by internal audits at each site. a greenhouse gas reduction commitment to invest in ● Future Plans projects that reduce emissions With the enactment of the enforcement decree of the “Low-Carbon Green Growth Basic Act” in 2010, in developing countries as an the GHG energy target management system and related regulations are to be enacted. Starting from alternative to more expensive 2012, companies are required to reduce GHG emissions. Consequently, there is rising demand for emission reductions in their own energy conservation projects and process technology developments. countries. Industrialized countries Against this backdrop, SK energy will continue to increase its carbon emissions credits through GHG can benefit from acquiring CER registry and CDM projects, while securing more business opportunities in overseas markets by and the developing countries can benefit from receiving participating in the government’s support programs for developing countries. technological and financial aid. Since 2005, developing countries GHG Emissions have also been allowed to invest in 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 CDM projects. Direct 6,675 6,483 6,540 6,551 6,752 6,806 7,007 7,305 8,568 8,571 Indirect 498 612 711 700 756 725 832 967 1,279 1,442 Total 7,173 7,095 7,251 7,251 7,508 7,531 7,839 8,272 9,847 10,013 -Direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases from Ulsan and Incheon complexes are included. The six GHG (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6) were converted to CO2 equivalent. -2009 emissions are internally calculated data. The figures are to be verified under the governmental guidelines when the GHG Energy Target Management guidelines are settled. SK energy brings about a happier and amicable world CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 40 ECONOMIC PERFORMENCE SK energy builds the future of Korea as an energy powerhouse. In 2010, SK energy spun off its business operations to independent entities in an effort to reinforce global competitiveness and create new growth drivers. The 2010 business results bear out our aspirations to expand in global markets. Vision & Strategic Direction Under the goal of “ensuring the continued existence and future growth drivers of the company,” SK energy invests in projects that explore overseas oil fields, develops renewable energy and improves facilities and infrastructure in order to increase the size of secured reserves. While creating financial value and distributing this equally to stakeholders, the company strives to raise its brand value, develop new business to ensure future growth, and contribute to Korea’s national competitiveness. Priority Issues • New technology • New business • Financial results • Improved facilities and infrastructure • Corporate brand value Major Achievements • With the aim of reinforcing global competencies and future growth drivers through independent and specialized management structure, the company spun off the oil refining and petrochemical businesses into independent subsidiaries on January 1, 2011, renaming the remaining concern SK innovation • Sales rose by 22.4% and operating profit surged 89% from the previous year • SK energy received the Iron Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit, while its Ulsan complex received the Presidential Award at the National Quality Management Awards for the 13th consecutive year. • Financial Results (Unit: KRW billion, %) 2008 2009 2010 Financial Results Total Assets 22,456 21,664 26,331 Sales 45,737 35,828 43,864 Net Income 888 680 1,208 Ratios Debt-to-Equity Ratio 207% 180% 144% 41 ( Creation & Distribution of Economic Value ) Financial Performance in 2010 Returning Shareholder Value Sales in 2010 increased 22% from the previous year, rising to KRW In 2010, SK energy maintained the same dividend payout ratio 43,863.6 billion. By business, petroleum sales rose by 25% from as the previous year KRW 2,100 for common shares and KRW 2009, totaling KRW 30,361.5 billion on oil price hikes and improved 2,150 for preferred shares. The company has steadily increased refining margin brought about by the economic recovery. Meanits dividend policy with the aim of increasing shareholder return. while, petrochemical sales increased 29% YoY to KRW 12,448.1 We will continue to strive to increase shareholder value through billion thanks to a strong market. Exploration & production (E&P) preemptive risk management and efficient internal control. Backed sales also realized 23% YoY growth, rising to KRW 783.0 billion in by stable business operations, we will strive to achieve business 2010. objectives through sustainable long-term growth strategies. Overall operating income surged 89% from 2009 to KRW 1,714.1 ● Sales and Operating Income by Business billion on a sharp surge in petroleum operating income and E&P. Petroleum operating income significantly increased thanks to an 2008 2009 2010 improved refining margin and a profitability optimization plan. Stock price(par value, KRW) 5,000 5,000 5,000 E&P realized a record-high operating income of KRW 415.5 billion Earnings per share(KRW) 9,555 7,311 12,990 thanks to rising oil prices and increased daily production volume. Dividend per share (common share, KRW) 2,100 2,100 2,100 However, petrochemicals, which realized record highs in 2009, saw operating income decline 38% YoY to KRW 387.4 billion. Dividend per share (preferred share, KRW) 2,150 2,150 2,150 Total dividends(KRW million) 195,289 195,289 195,767 ● Sales and Operating Income by Business (Unit: KRW billion) 2008 2009 2010 Government Grants Sales 32,252.7 24,265.2 30,361.5 SK energy was granted a KRW 1.24 billion Success Repayable Loan Petroleum Operating 1,242.5 42.9 983.5 by the Korea Resources Corporation for overseas resource developincome ment projects in 2010. This was spent on the Cree East uranium Sales 10,364.6 9,660.8 12,448.1 project in Saskatchewan, Canada, in 2010. Petrochemical Operating 132.5 623.4 387.4 income Sales 525.3 635.9 783.0 Risk Management E&P Operating The foreign exchange rate is one of the major risk factors to the 294.4 335.1 415.5 income petroleum and petrochemical businesses because of its significant influence on crude oil sales and imports. Characteristic of an all import-dependent structure, the business is exposed to ● Sales Breakdown foreign exchange liabilities in foreign currency. In order to Export minimize such risks, SK energy employs the Value-at-Risk methDomestic 40.38% od to hedge any excess through derivative products. Chaired by the director of the Business Management Unit, the Foreign 40.90% 40.90% Exchange Risk Management Committee oversees all foreign 2010 exchange risk management and reports to the Treasury Team on 2008 2009 a regular basis. 59.10% 59.10% 59.62% CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 42 ECONOMIC PERFORMENCE ( 2011 Business Plan ) ● 2011 Management Goals SK energy spun off its oil refining and petroleum businesses operating sales CAPEX into respective independent entities—SK energy and SK global profit chemical—on January 1, 2011 in order to establish an autonomous management system. The remaining company was renamed SK innovation. KRW 59.1 KRW 2.1 KRW 1.5 In 2011, SK innovation will focus on stabilizing existing business tril. tril. tril. and strategies for future growth by upgrading its business structure. SK innovation will continue investment in its core businesses of oil drilling, information & electronics, and batteries, while its subsidiaries pursue global expansion in their respective areas. The company expects the spin-off to enhance efficiency in the operation of plants, as well as streamline costs and the decision-making process. At the end of December 2010, the BOD resolved to sell its stake in SK do Brasil Ltd to Moller-Maersk, a Danish-based shipping and oil group, for $2.4 billion as part of its E&P business portfolio restructuring plan. Earnings from the sale will be invested in diverse areas, such as the purchase of oil fields and the acquisition of foreign oil companies. The company is planning further restructuring of its E&P business portfolios, as well as seeking more rights and stakes in overseas mining projects. Under the goal of taking the lead in the future of the energy industry, SK innovation will continue to reinforce its business competencies in “Green Growth” initiatives. Specifically, we will step up R&D efforts in order to develop lithium-ion battery production technologies, GreenPolTM, green coal and bio-butanol. 43 ( 2010 Summary Financial Statements ) ● Sales (Unit: KRW million) ● Summary Income Statement (Unit: KRW million) 2008 2009 2010 45,737,326 43,863,585 Sales 45,737,326 35,827,544 43,863,585 Cost of sales 42,420,666 33,599,321 40,799,366 35,827,544 Gross income 3,316,660 2,228,223 3,064,219 SG&A expenses 1,425,163 1,320,470 1,350,158 Operating income 1,891,497 907,753 1,714,061 Non-operating income 5,137,345 3,207,463 2,242,766 2008 2009 2010 Non-operating expenses 6,070,504 3,295,561 2,475,919 ● Net income (Unit: KRW million) Income before income taxes 958,338 819,655 1,480,908 1,208,404 Income taxes 70,253 139,893 272,504 Net income 888,085 679,762 1,208,404 888,085 679,762 ● Summary Balance Sheet (Unit: KRW million) 2008 2009 2010 Current assets 10,701,519 9,672,695 11,561,038 2008 2009 2010 Non-current assets 11,754,045 11,991,056 14,769,930 ● Total assets (Unit: KRW million) Total assets 22,455,564 21,663,751 26,330,968 26,330,968 Current liabilities 9,038,720 8,721,107 9,961,703 22,455,564 21,663,751 Non-current liabilities 6,101,237 5,197,344 5,572,697 Total liabilities 15,139,957 13,918,451 15,534,400 Paid-in capital 468,570 468,570 468,570 Capital surplus 5,876,620 5,884,667 5,872,918 Capital adjustment (-)202,663 (-)202,663 (-)143,182 Accumulated other comprehensive income 172,709 111,866 2,102,287 2008 2009 2010 Retained earnings 1,000,371 1,482,860 2,495,975 ● Total shareholders’ equity Total shareholders’ equity 7,315,607 7,745,300 10,796,568 10,796,568 (Unit: KRW million) 7,745,300 7,315,607 2008 2009 2010 CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 44 SOCIAL PERFORMENCE SK energy delivers happiness to all. We aspire to a happier world for everyone. Our commitment to people’s happiness continued with our communication with stakeholders in 2010. Their feedback helps in our endeavors to realize the true sense of happiness management. Vision & Strategic Direction In response to society’s expectations, and in order to deliver happiness to stakeholders, we pursue “Happiness Management,” guided by SKMS, so as to meet our obligations as a responsible corporate citizen. Priority Issues • Human resources development, welfare benefits • Enhancing quality of services at customer contact points • Social contribution activities, development of communities • Win-Win cooperation Major Achievements • Introduced the EnClean Plus+ card, which offers differentiated services, thus expanding the scope of benefits from oil supply to those encompassing lifestyle through a vast network of franchises. • Signed agreements with ten environment-technology businesses for the ‘Large Enterprise-SME win-win cooperation for global green environment projects’ initiative. 2008 2009 2010 Accident rate (%)-1 0.11 0.30 0.23 Customer Satisfaction (on a scale of 5 points)-2 4.17 4.15 4.14 Social Contribution Spending (KRW billion) 38.5 37.1 31.2 1Average accident rate of 2010 by the Ministry of Labor overall industries: 0.69, manufacturing: 1.07 2Internal survey results of customer satisfaction (on a scale of 5.0 point) 45 ( Customer Satisfaction ) Policy and System | Customer Satisfaction System | | Customer-Oriented System | SK energy has established a customer-oriented system so as to ● VOC Feedback Process enhance customer happiness as well as continues to make strenuSK energy ensures a real-time process in regards to customer comous efforts to improve customer services. In particular, the process plaints and inquiries. The weekly and quarterly analysis of collected is designed to maximize customer satisfaction through the systemVOC is shared with all related departments in order to improve the atic and efficient division of roles. company’s CS level. | Customer Satisfaction Promotion Organization | ● CCS (Customer Care System) ● Customer Care Center The CCS is an online-based customer satisfaction improvement SK energy Customer Care Center addresses customer counseling mechanism that provides customers with technical support and on and offline through its 50 specialized counselors. The center consulting regarding oil products and services. Through the CCS, collects voice of customers (VOC) regarding the company’s busiSK energy deals with customer grievances, keeps records of techness activities and uses this as the benchmark for all its customer nical reviews, provides customer counseling and technical advice satisfaction activities. regarding products, conducts quality check-ups, releases information and knowledge regarding oil products and their standards, and ● CR (Customer Relations) Community handles defective products. As part of its customer-oriented service mechanism, SK energy created the CR Community, a virtual team consisting of people in | Customer Satisfaction Survey | charge of CS tasks from each of the customer interface areas. The SK energy carries out the ACE (Appearance & Cleanliness Evaluacommunity does its utmost to realize customer-oriented services tion) on a regular basis. Initiated in 1998, ACE is a self-evaluation through on-spot CS activities and regular workshops. system designed to elevate customer service at gas stations. Furthermore, we conduct e-mail surveys regarding customer satisfaction three or four times every year. These results are shared with all relevant departments so as to help them improve their work Gas Station Owners processes and CS levels. Rewards are given to personnel showing excellence at customer contact points through the Customer OK Thanks System. As a result of our ceaseless endeavors toward betCreate oneness and ter customer service, we ranked first in the gas station category of Technical Support the Korean Standard-Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) conducted by CS Coordinators unity in “Virtual Team” Center Effective handling of the Korea Standards Association. customer complaints and customer-focused services ● Customer Satisfaction Level Sales/CS Staffs Call Center (Surveyed by SK energy, on a scale of 5.0 points) 2008 2009 2010 Customer Satisfaction Level 4.17 4.15 4.14 CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 46 SOCIAL PERFORMENCE ( Workforce Diversity and ) Competence-Building Responsibility to Customers Workforce and Diversity | Protection of Customer Information | | Human Resources Management | SK energy introduced a certification program for employees with Guided by the management principle, SK energy strives to form a access to customer data to remind them of the importance of great workplace, one in which employees can concentrate on their protecting customer information. In order to ensure strict compliance jobs and which helps guide them to build global competences. We with customer privacy regulations, we run regular inspections and advocate the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and put our maintain the secure transmission and storage of customer inforutmost efforts into protecting employees’ human rights and labor mation. To bolster technical and physical security, we use customer rights. We run various programs to protect human rights, while data encryption technology, as well as operate a separate Security striving to observe all labor laws. Operation Center (SOC) that is subject to strict rules. As a result of our strenuous efforts towards customer privacy, we have experienced no incidence of leakage, theft or loss of customer information Equal Opportunities and Diversity to date. To this end, SK energy enforces rules and guidelines to protect customer information and applies strict principles imposed SK energy strictly prohibits the discrimination of any employee and by SK group. In the future, we will continue to maintain air-tight strives to ensure fair and rational opportunities for all based on control in order to stop any leakage of customer information. their individual performances and competences. In the process of recruitment and employment, we abide by labor laws such as the | Product and Service Liability | Labor Standard Act and Act on Gender Neutral Employment, in Every SK energy employee is fully aware of the importance of product order to ensure fair procedures. Working conditions are determined safety. We ensure the prompt addressing of consumer claims fairly in the form of collective agreements, job disciplines, and through our Quality Service Centers in six regions across the nation. employment contracts. In consideration of the human rights of our The Quality Guarantee Program further enhances customer reliance in female workers, who accounted for 10.1% of our total workforce in our products by instantly addressing quality claims and providing 2010, we comply with the Act on Gender Neutral Employment and appropriate compensation. We also observe governing laws, such the Act on the Ban on Gender Discrimination and Relief, as well as the Broadcasting Advertisement Law, the Outdoor Advertisement as provide sexual harassment prevention training every year. Law and the Consumer Protection Law. In 2010, we experienced Furthermore, we are committed to ensuring adequate gender balno breach of laws or regulations regarding products and services. ance and equal opportunities. Male and female employees that perform the same duties are subject to the same salaries. ● Product Safety Control In addition, we have committed ourselves to the disabled employment quota of 2% by signing an agreement with the Korea Providing MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) on all products Employment Promotion Agency for the Disabled (KEPAD). Evaluation and elimination of hazards and defective factors of products in its life cycle Compliance with relevant laws Product safety committee Training for employees and partner firms Regular product safety audits 47 ●  orkforce at Worksites W 2008 2009 2010 (as of the end of 2010, 1,769 1,706 1,755 Unit: persons) Headquarters numbers 2,929 2,774 2,675 include employees of overseas and domestic branches, but excludes those 504 379 474 working at Ulsan and Incheon 321 502 553 complexes and the Institute of Headquarters Ulsan Complex Incheon Complex Institute of Technology technology ● P  ercentage of Regular Employees (as of the end of 2010, 5,435 5,276 5,382 Unit: persons, %) 98.4% 98.4% 98.6% 2008 2009 2010 ● N  umber of Retirees 2008 2009 2010 by Worksite 289 208 (as of the end of 2010, 25 10 Unit: persons) 8 121 16 30 7 Headquarters Ulsan Complex Incheon Complex Institute of Technology ● N  umber of 2008 2009 2010 Retirees by Gender 55 89 239 311 (Unit: persons) Female Male ● Workforce By By Minority (Unit: persons) Male Under 30 Gender Age Group-1 30 to 50 Female 1The Minority Group 5,039 Over 50 here refers to 2008 83 the disabled. 484 4,602 4,491 74 74 4,290 4,884 2009 576 477 526 543 4,945 495 424 2010 395 512 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 48 SOCIAL PERFORMENCE Education and Training | Education and Training | SK energy’s education system is programmed to cultivate in our Foreign Language Training Program Our language programs employees the four competences of SUPEX leaders, so as to deal include in-house classes, camp programs, online courses and with changing business environments. In promotion of workforce telephone classes in English and Chinese. All employees are diversity, the company also supports club activities at all worksites. provided with necessary education programs in consideration of their service years. Furthermore, individual employees are ● SK Values encouraged to develop and execute individual development Education programs on SKMS and SUPEX enhance employees’ plans (IDP) in line with the team development plans (TDP) of understanding and execution of SK Values. their own teams. The improved individual capabilities will help strengthen overall team capabilities. ● Leadership Leadership programs reinforce competences required to become | Other Educational Supports | SUPEX leaders at each level of job class, such as cultivating Program Descriptions a business perspective, strategic thinking and leading changes in corporate culture. As a supplementary to the offline courses, a Online wide array of online program is in place including ● Job Competence Training approximately 20 web-based training (WBT) and SK Academy courses. Systematic education programs are in place for individual job duties, such as planning, finance, marketing, production, R&D and The SK MBA is an annual program, where highsafety & environment. Industryprofile figures from universities and consulting Short-term Outside Training Program We support employees’ Academia firms give lectures on business administration. self-learning plans based on the team development plan (TDP) Collaboration In addition, industry-academia collaboration and individual development plan (IDP) to pick up the skills Course courses include the Energy Management course in collaboration with universities. required for their job. We also encourage them to participate in external training sessions and overseas seminars and conferences. Various more programs include post-doctor Overseas Training Program We select employees every year courses, follow-up training and Community of Others for MBA, fellowship programs, and master/doctorate courses in Practices, and support programs for retiree-to-be job-specific disciplines at overseas institutions. for academic purposes. Graduate School Program Every year we send selected employees to prominent Korean graduate schools, subsidizing full tuition fees for master/doctorate courses. ● Annual Education Hours Per Capita (unit: time) ● Global Competence 54 Education programs focus on nurturing global leaders and regional experts, especially in China and Southeast Asia, to become the 40 35 main force in the company’s global business initiatives. Globalization Training Program Employees are dispatched < to foreign countries for six months to one year. They learn about Based on data of educations conducted by the local languages, special practices, culture and regional economy, team in charge of company-wide education 2008 2009 2010 thus acquiring expertise in local markets. 49 Performance Evaluation and Compensation We adopted the CIC (Company in Company) system in 2008 so | Retirement Policy | as to establish a performance-based management system. We offer direct and indirect compensation, including retirement By collecting employee opinions regarding performance evaluation allowances, to employees in proportion to their contribution to the improvements and cooperation among business units, we will company. In the case of death or retirement due to disability, we make strenuous efforts to successfully establish the system. provide additional retirement allowances in a bid to contribute to the bereaved family. | Evaluation System | At SK energy, all evaluations are made from the perspective of SK Values, competences, and performance. By evaluating employees’ competences, potential and performances on a regular basis, we ( Employee Satisfaction ) are able to use the results as a benchmark for promotions, transfers, education, training and compensation. According to their job position and class, the evaluation criteria and procedures vary: Human Rights executives and team leaders (6.2%), employees on annual salary system (35.2%) and employees on merit-based system (64.8%). SK energy promotes the interests of both management and labor through the Labor-Management Council, which comprises of an | Compensation System | equal number of representatives from both sides. A labor union To ensure fair compensation in scale with competency, potential protected by labor rights laws is organized to represent employees and the performances of individual employees, we adopt annual within the company. In particular, collective agreements are salary contracts and special incentive schemes. Special incentives applied, in principle, to employees at junior managerial level and are determined based on EVA (Economic Value Added) and KPI below, and we are striving to expand this to the entire workforce. (Key Performance Indicator), and in consideration of the performances of individuals and their departments. ● Labor Union at SK energy (as of the end of 2010) Annual Salary Merit-based No. of members 2,848 persons Category System System Full-time members 5 persons Business, Engineer, Supervisors, Target R&D, Management Technicians, Umbrella Federation of Korean Trade Unions (FKTU) support Administration support organization Chemical Labor Union Division Compensation Based on Based on years in adjustment performance service Adjustment date | Child Labor and Forced Labor | January 1st March 1st SK energy does not engage in business involving child labor or forced labor and strictly bans any illegal practices within its premises. | Promotion Scheme | All SK energy employees are hired of their own free will and subject SK energy takes the competences, qualifications and perforto appropriate levels of compensation and promotion based on mances of all employees into consideration in order to ensure a their performance and competence. fair and reasonable promotion scheme. Our fair promotion scheme motivates employees to voluntarily and positively engage in their job fulfillment and self-directed competence-building. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 50 SOCIAL PERFORMENCE | Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining | In October 2010, we conducted an online survey of all employees At SK energy, all labor union members have the freedom of associain order to evaluate their practice of SKMS, with 73.4% of the tion and can form or join any organization. When deemed to have entire workforce answering questions. The findings showed that a significant impact on an employee’s interests, the agenda in the major concerns of employees included strategic directions, question is submitted before the Labor-Management Committee company-wide efficient allocation and KPI, and performance-based for deliberation. Furthermore, the company is obliged to quickly evaluation compensation. In particular, respondents answered that inform the labor union of any results related to changes in corporate procedures and processes have significantly improved in regards governance, personnel management, and rewards and punishments, to reporting, meetings, overtime work and leave. while also sharing developments in business management with the labor union upon request. ● Improvements to Management Consultative Committee in 2010 Current Future Employee Satisfaction Initiatives Management Name M2M-1 Board Consultative Committee | Grievances Committee | At the Ulsan complex, we operate a Grievances Committee. Comprised Non-union members: SKI non-union Management of six members, three each from labor and management, the members: M2M Board Consultative Committee committee works to improve working conditions for all employees. Basis (headquarters) * Quarterly meetings for SKI union members It receives and resolves grievances by employees via online and Union members: ( by the Institute of Labor-Management offline channels. Technology) Committee (Ulsan) | Employee Engagement and Satisfaction | Welfare Welfare suggestions and grievances In addition to official communications channels, such as the Agenda and grievances received Ideas for improvement Management Consultative Committee and the Labor-Management from employees to management and Committee, SK energy operates numerous other channels in order system to listen to the voices of employees, including the annual SKMS Selected from among execution review, Open Management Forum and Ethical Counseling Researchers excluded all non-union members Labor from being candidates Selected by groups of Center. In 2010, we sought ways to improve how the Management representatives Selected by HR-related employees Consultative Committee serves as a practical communication organizations Elections held when channel in order to promote employee engagement following necessary changes in labor-management relations brought about by the Bolstering role spin-off. Accordingly, we renamed the Committee “M2M Board” and recognition as and made it a channel for employees who are not labor union representative of labor Lack of recognition as Status Serving as members. Following the spin-off, the majority of employees of the labor representative communications remaining entity were not members of a labor union. Therefore, a channel between separate channel will be established, such as regular meetings, for CEO and employees these employees. 1Mind to Mind 51 Safety & Health | Employee Safety & Health Management | ● Industrial Safety and Health Education SK energy is committed to raising safety awareness among top SK energy provides regular industrial disaster prevention training management, senior managers and the entire workforce, and under the Industrial Safety and Health Law. The programs, customized encourages them to take the initiative in various accident prevention according to job, maximize the effectiveness of this education. We activities. Based on the SHE (Safety·Health·Environment) Managealso give comparable training to employees of partner firms that ment System, we enacted safety and health policies and guidelines as install and maintain our factory equipment and facilities. well as missions, such as safety and health must-dos, risk prevention Having established an education system, we use it for the efficient activities, safety and health internalization, employee participation management of the entire education process, from education to programs and SHE visual programs. evaluation. ● 2010 OSH Education Performance (Ulsan Complex) Subject No. of Eligible Employees No. of Sessions Education Hours CLX supervisors 421 persons 12 times 5,052 persons Legal CLX office workers 715 persons 12 times 8,580 persons quota of Safety Supervisors at logistics center 81 persons 12 times 972 persons & Supervisors at Daedok Institute of Technology 32 persons 12 times 384 persons Health General affairs staff at Daedok Institute of Technology 495 persons 12 times 5,940 persons Education (Cyber Supervisors at SK lubricants 18 persons 12 times 216 persons course) Office workers at SK lubricants 32 persons 12 times 384 persons Subtotal 1,794 persons 84 times 21,528 persons New employees 1 times 6 persons Collective safety education on employees on worksites 13 times 573 persons Resuscitation education 2 times 24 persons Subtotal 16 times 603 persons ● Process Safety Management (PSM) System ● Performance Measurement of Safety Management SK energy adopted the PSM system recommended by the Korean Activities Ministry of Labor in order to prevent industrial accidents and establish SK energy applies diverse safety management systems and controls. safe workplaces. We have in place a system to track each of the As a result, plant availability (days of operation minus days for regular 12 PSM factors. As of 2010, seven out of a total eight plants at maintenance and repair) remained at 99.71% at the Ulsan Complex our Ulsan complex had maintained the highest “P” grade, with our and 99.92% at the Incheon Complex in 2010. Only one incident Incheon complex also maintaining a “P” grade. involving an employee suffering a physical injury occurred in 2010. Furthermore, there have been no incidences of occupational disease for the past three years. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 52 SOCIAL PERFORMENCE Fair Trade | Fair Trade Compliance | ● Accident Rate by Worksite (unit: %) SK energy was the first in the industry to adopt the compliance program (CP). CP activities and future plans are reported to the 2008 2009 2010 Remarks Board of Directors on a regular basis. In 2010, we received one Headquarters -1 0.06 0.23 0.00 Remarks request for corrective action from the Fair Trade Commission in Average regards to unfair trade practices. Ulsan CLX 0.14 0.33 0.29 accident rate Incheon CLX 0.00 0.40 0.21 measured by ● SK energy CP System the Ministry Institute 0.00 of Labor -2 0.31 0.53 Seven Key Elements Operational Status of Technology All industries: 0.69 Declaration of commitment to Company-wide 0.11 0.30 0.23 Manufacturing: 1.07 Determination ●  compliance and adoption of and interest of CEO  1Headquarters figures include the rates of logistics centers and overseas CP norms branches. Appointing ●  Head of Ethics  2Accident rate according to the announcement by the Ministry of Labor on Appointment Management Office as Chief January 25, 2011. (as of 2010) of Chief Compliance Compliance Officer and disclosing Officer ● Industrial Safety and Health Committee the appointment (Jan. 2008) SK energy operates an Industrial Safety and Health Committee in Publication ●  of compliance accordance with the Industrial Safety and Health Law. Major agenda Publication of guidebook compliance guidebook include an industrial accident prevention plan, safety and health Publication ●  of fair trade guideline education for employees, and the inspections and improvements CP seminars ●  for employees of work environments. Article 53 of the Collective Agreement (the Education programs specific to ●  CP education organization and operation of the Industrial Safety and Health position (Fair trade expert course/ Committee) stipulates the organization and operation of the Industrial Special course for each position) Safety and Health Committee, as well as its limits and counteractions. Operation ●  of compliance committee Labor and management reached an agreement in February 2003 to and CP regulations Internal control system enact the Guidelines on the Operation of the Industrial Safety and Operation ●  of dedicated team Health Committee, allowing the committee to function more easily. (Fair Trade Team) Disciplinary Disciplinary ●  measures for violators ● Health Care Facilities & Programs program Committed to its employees’ health management, SK energy Document Systematic ●  management of operates regular health check-ups. At its Ulsan complex, where management system CP-related documents most of its production staff are located, is a healthcare center manned by eight professional employees, including a doctor. In addition to a clinic, the center is equipped with medical equipment, as well as dedicated areas for physical therapy, fitness assessment, and fitness instruction. Sports centers at our headquarters and the Ulsan complex are designed to improve the health management of our employees and their families. Furthermore, we strive to protect employees from harmful elements by applying strict standards regarding the control of hazardous materials. 53 Social Contribution CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 54 SOCIAL PERFORMENCE Social Contribution Direction SK energy is committed to its social contribution mission of “improving SK energy operates social contribution teams at both its headquarters corporate value by promoting happiness in communities. With a focus and its Ulsan complex. Employees organized the company-wide on poverty, education and the environment, we develop specific, volunteer group “SK energy Angels” in July 2004 and have since clear missions and goals in order to become a company that delivers participated in numerous volunteer activities. happiness to people. ● Missions ● SK energy Angels First, We develop social contribution programs that meet social Mission: Improving corporate value by delivering happiness needs and our business acumen to communities Second, We implement green initiatives in the global community Focus: Poverty, Education, Environment Third, We engage in volunteer activities that contribute to the Activities: Biz. & Social Mix, Green & Global, Fun Volunteer happiness of our employees Organization: Headquarters, Ulsan Complex, Social Contribution Team SK energy Social Contributions Timeline 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Lunch subsidies to undernourished children (2000~) Poverty Ulsan Grand Park (1997~2006) Environment SK energy Environmental Composition Contest (1994~) Industrial-Academic cooperation scholarship (1992~) Education Culture Art Sports Global volunteerism 55 Employee Volunteerism SK energy runs a Released-Time program in order to incorporate Based on such systematic support, our employees have organized volunteerism into corporate culture and encourage volunteer several volunteer teams on their own will, providing differentiated activities by employees. The Released-Time program counts the services and activities to various vulnerable groups. volunteer hours as working hours. Other programs to encourage Since 2006, we have provided the children of our employees with volunteerism include providing volunteer corps coordinators with opportunities to volunteer. We believe this will awaken our next benefits tantamount to those of regular employees, workshops for generation to the value of caring and living alongside the undercoordinators, and the “Volunteer Champion” awards program. privileged and therefore grow as decent members of society. In addition, we operate a dedicated website for volunteer corps, at which employees can share information and experiences and exchange opinions. 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 EnClean Supports Teen Head of Households (2003~2006) Contribution to charity marathon (2004~) 10,000 minute club (2004~) Sharing kimchi (2004~) 5,223 64,453 Delivering briquettes of love (2005~) One person One patronage (2005~) 56,787 Walker Hill Hotel Happiness Sharing Event (2004~2010) 55,500 Agaya—part-time daycare center (2005~2008) 4,966 Establishment & support of Mezzanine i-Pack (2008) Establishment of the Grateful Hands (2009) 4,492 Support of Mezzanine Eco One (2008) Volunteering to clean Seoul Forest (2005~) Cleaning the vicinity of Taehwa River (2004~) Teaching at a local children’s community center (2005~2007) SK Wings of Happiness Scholarship (2006~2010) Social Contribution Festival (2008~) Youth soccer club for multi-cultural children (2010) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Jeju Soccer King project (2006~) Library for Vietnamese children (2010~) Volunteers Volunteer hours School and education infrastructure-building in Peru (2007) (persons) (hours) Korea-China Friendship Green Growth Project (2006~) Medical service in Nepal (2008~) CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 56 HIGHLIGHTS SOCIAL PERFORMENCE Social Contribution Programs in Korea SK energy cooperates with various non-profit organizations (NPO) and governmental bodies in order to enhance the quality of life in communities. Our focus is on the three pending issues: poverty, education and environment. Social Enterprises We see income disparity as the main culprit behind social disparity. ● Preparing for a Warm Winter In addressing this issue, we have collaborated with related organizaEvery year, from October to February of the following year, we declare tions in order to create jobs for the underprivileged. Committed the “Happiness Sharing Season” to help the underprivileged secure to creating stable employment for them, we have supported the their houses against the cold winter. During the season, everyone at establishment of Agaya, Mezzanine I-Pack, Mezzanine Eco One SK energy joins hands to help those in need. In 2010, we delivered and Grateful Hands. In 2010, we planned a social enterprise that approximately eight million briquettes to 2,800 households as part of tapped into our R&C capacity and secured a landsite for farming the “Briquette Sharing” program and in collaboration with the “Love in collaboration with the regional government. On the landsite, we Coal” NPO. We also made and delivered 100,000 heads of kimchi in employed people from vulnerable groups to garden and sell hercooperation with Korea YMCA volunteers to the 450 charities and baceous flowers. We also plan shelters for communities in near 12,000 underprivileged households. future. ● Communities SK energy conducts various social contribution programs for the underprivileged living near the Ulsan Complex. As part of our community engagement initiatives, we support low-income brackets and the disabled to become financially independent, sponsor lowincome single-parents, and give scholarships to underprivileged teenagers. In addition, we run activity programs, such as a summer camp for underprivileged teenagers, IT training courses for social workers, cultural festivals for elderly citizens, and mountaineering trips for the disabled. Furthermore, we have provided free lunches to 1,000 undernourished children from the communities of our Ulsan Complex, Incheon Complex and logistics centers for the past 20 years. ● Fund-raising & Donations Since 2007, approximately 2,000 employees have been donating part of their salaries through the “one-person one-donation account” program. Our marathon club members also participate in charity marathons. The funds raised through these activities are delivered to the underprivileged in communities. 57 Education Program ● Environmental Composition Contest Held for elementary students nationwide since 1994, the SK energy ● Scholarships for Children from Low-Income Families Environmental Composition Contest marked its 18th anniversary in Since 2006, we have subsidized school uniforms and provided 2010. We take pride in the fact that it has established itself as living, health and cultural scholarships to children of residents Korea’s largest environmental writing contest. In 2010, approximately evicted in Bansong-dong, Haeundae-gu, Busan. We also provide 88,087 students participated. Furthermore, we have committed to scholarships to the offspring of parents with Hansen’s disease, early environmental education through various programs, such as who suffer deep-rooted social bias and poverty. field trips to environmental facilities at our Ulsan Complex. ● S  ponsoring Sports Activities of Underprivileged Children In partnership with Jeju United FC, we operate soccer classes for children of local child centers. In 2010, we sponsored a youth soccer team, consisting of children from multi-cultural families in Goyang City, helping their physical and mental development, as well as conducted various family events. We also mounted campaigns to raise social awareness of multi-cultural families. Global Social We also sponsor the Korea Foundation for Advanced Studies and the EBS Janghak Quiz TV program, as well as being an active member of the “one company-one school sponsorship” campaign. Contribution Programs SK energy does everything in its power to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities around the globe. We began social contribution programs in Peru as early as 2007 and in Vietnam in 2010. We plan to expand the scope of our activities to more countries. ● Vietnam In 2010, we renovated elementary school buildings, mended toilets and built libraries in Binh Son City, where our BSR refinery plant is operating. SK energy is now exporting its oil refinery and petrochemical technologies to the plant. We also paved roads in the community. During these activities, 30 selected volunteers from SK energy joined hands with the 500 local residents and students in Environmental Program order for both groups to better understand each other. ● C  reating a Beautiful Culture & Environment ● Peru SK energy constructed and donated Ulsan Grand Park to Ulsan City Since 2007, we have been involved in community development in 2006. Since then, the park has become the regional center for programs in the vicinity of our operations in Peru. We have rebuilt a culture, hosting a variety of social contribution activities and corpototal of 50 schools and helped over 40 schools create green zones rate Mecenat events. In 2010, a total of 240,000 citizens enjoyed in Ica Province, which suffered from a destructive earthquake in the Rose Festival. Other activities include the special hosting of 2007. We spent a total of KRW 1.5 billion for the restoration of medthe Happy Village Festival for underprivileged children, as well as ical facilities, donation of medical supplies and teacher training established programs, such as giving arts and crafts programs to programs, as well as a microfinance program to help local farming youths, and the operation of a mobile library. communities raise their income. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 58 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMENCE SK energy builds a greener society for the planet. Dedicated to making the planet as green and clean as possible, we actively engage in investments and R&D for eco-friendly technologies, while striving to minimize any environmental impact. Vision & Strategic Direction SK energy is committed to the Group’s environmental vision of “contributing to sustainable development and the happiness of society through eco-friendly management practices.” To this end, we developed our own “Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) Integrated Management System” in 2004, creating the infrastructure needed for the comprehensive management of SHE activities. Beginning 2011, we will engage in a campaign to establish an advanced SHE culture within the company. Furthermore, we will continue to strive to minimize any environmental impact by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and through other initiatives. Priority Issues • Rising social calls for an environmental management system • Low-carbon emissions • Stricter environmental regulations and rising demand for compliance with international standards Major Achievements • Our efforts to minimize environmental impact 2008 2009 2010 Environmental Investment costs 394.6 172.3 42.8 investments -1 (KRW billion) Direct 7,138 6,906 6,518 Low-carbon emissions -2 (Volume of GHG Indirect 2,121 2,314 2,342 emission(1,000 tCO2) Total 9,259 9,220 8,860 1See following chapter for more details 2Include direct and indirect emissions of GHG at Ulsan and Incheon complexes, by converting six main culprits (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6 ) into CO2 equivalent. 59 ( Environmental Management ) ( Environmental Activities and ) System Performances SHE Management Vision and Strategy Strengthening Environmental Capabilities Under the philosophy “respect for humanity and the preser| Environmental Management System | vation of the environment,” SK energy places its top priority as SK energy acquired the ISO 14001 certification for its Ulsan and Safety·Health·Environment (SHE). Upholding our philosophy and Incheon complexes in 1996 and has maintained the certification value, we developed four guidelines for all employees in line with through annual follow-up audits and recertification evaluations the basic principle “pursuing sustainable growth through accidentevery three years. Furthermore, each complex conducts an annual free and eco-friendly management.” audit of all legal compliances as well as regular internal audits in order to ensure the systematic and efficient operation of EMS. We also continue to monitor the implementation of environmental SHE Management System management so as to reinforce our environmental management capabilities. SK energy developed and put in place its own “Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) Integrated Management System” so as to com| Evaluation of Environmental Impact | prehensively control such issues at production sites. Consisting of SK energy makes it a rule to conduct environmental impact evalu11 management factors and operating processes, the system ations that satisfy EMS requirements for any activity with the satisfies the requirements of the Process Safety Management potential to have an environmental impact, such as plant construc(PSM) and Environment Management System (EMS). tion, expansion and alteration. For plant construction and expanThe Ulsan complex operates its own SHE Management System, sion, all materials purchase activities are evaluated in advance. In comprised of four components; system, implementation, accident regards to a change to process or working method, we conduct control, legal compliance. As for implementation, the system the evaluation on demand, with it performed every two years for sets forth the practical items of implementation, measuring production processes. and controlling the overall system and accident-prevention level Although the business premises of SK energy are located in petroat each unit of the organization and their respective accident chemical industry complexes and therefore unable to serve as prevention activities every month. Following the acquisition, the animal habitats, we care deeply about protecting local ecosystems Incheon complex devised a SHE master plan and had completed all and therefore promote greenery in the vicinity of all our operations. infrastructure investment by 2010. In 2011, we will continue efforts According to a report on the current status of a wild fauna and to raise employee awareness. flora sanctuary designated by the Ministry of Environment, the areas at which SK energy’s production activities are conducted do ● 2010 Ulsan complex SHE Performance Indicators not include any area with a high biodiversity value that could be Category (proportion) Performance Indicators influenced by the company’s business activities. System Operational PSM ratings, EMS evaluation results and | Legal Compliance | Indicators (30%) other system operational factors SK energy applies stricter internal standards than legally required SHE training program completion rate, No. in regards to air and water pollutants, hazardous substances and of SHE meetings, No. of SHE check-ups, Leading Index (70%) other waste. As a result, we have remained clear of any environNear-miss, SHE proposals, Emergency mental regulation violation for the past five years. drills, and other SHE activities Although we received public complaints regarding noise arising No. of accidents, Accident rates, No. of from the initial operation of the upgrade facilities at the Ulsan Lagging Index environmental accidents, No. of legal complex, we solved the issue immediately. In the future, we aim to (plus/minus) violations, Overspeed control, Public communicate with communities more actively in order to positively discount cases, No. of rewards, etc. address any complaints. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 60 ENVIRONMENT PERFORMENCE Saving Energy and Resources | Environmental Investments | SK energy engages in diverse energy conservation initiatives so SK energy is dedicated to minimizing pollutants generated at as to enhance the energy efficiency of each of its processes. its Ulsan and Incheon complexes. To that effect, we consistently Leveraging its 40 years experience in facility operations, the invest in the development of environmentally friendly products in company is building a database of the best energy-saving practices. order to contribute to environmental preservation. However, total Furthermore, we continue to strive to improve facility efficiency investment dropped in 2010, particularly in regards to waterand minimize losses in the energy supply system in order to optimize pollution control facilities. the operation of all our power facilities. | Energy Conservation Activities and Performances | ● Annual Environmental Expenses At our Ulsan complex, where the majority of production is conCategory Amount (KRW million) centrated, an independent Energy Control Committee and its Air 23,626 subcommittee, the Steering Committee, have controlled all energy VOC 725 conservation initiatives since 2008. The committee set the midterm goal of saving KRW 300 billion in energy expenses between Odor 2,945 2008 and 2010, and embarked on a campaign to raise employee Water 4,011 awareness. The committee also established guidelines regarding Noise 445 indoor temperature, identified and removed anything that resulted Waste 90 in a loss of energy during all processes, and discovered energyToxic Chemicals 355 saving points through process innovation. Soil 385 The energy management system is in place to select KOPs (key Afforestation 766 operation parameters) in order to minimize energy consumption Energy saving 3,320 and costs for real-time monitoring. In 2009, we launched the “Colum Optimization” campaign in order to increase the energy R&D 2,300 efficiency of the production process by identifying energy-saving Safety 3,800 points at each plant. In response to stricter environmental Total 42,768 regulations that lowered the legal emission of NOx from 250ppm to 150ppm in 2010, we installed denitrification equipment in all major boilers and process heaters. In 2010, we were selected to participate in a government-driven energy target management ● Annual Environmental Expenses (Unit: KRW billion) pilot system conducted by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, and engaged in diverse efforts to achieve the program’s energy206.7 saving goal. At our Incheon complex, we successfully reduced energy consumption in the kerosene and diesel desulphurization processes in 2007. Furthermore, we stepped up efforts to install an energy-saving mindset in employees and energy conservation initiatives at the 96.6 complex. < 44.3 Excluding investment expenses for new processes 2008 2009 2010 61 ● Energy Management System ● Employee Awareness and Implementation We have developed a computerized energy control program called SK energy employs in-house media, such as special broadcasting the Operation Information System (OIS) in order to ensure the and the Ulsan complexes in-house magazine, in order to raise reliability of our energy use data. At the Ulsan complex, a separate employees’ energy-consciousness in their daily lives. In addition, Visualized Operation Intelligence System (VOIS) was established the Energy Management Center also receives reports regarding in 2008. Under the VOIS, the Energy Management System (EMS) energy loss points within the company and rewards employees effectively monitors energy use and key process factors. who provide great ideas regarding how to reduce energy losses. ● External Energy Saving Initiatives The Ulsan complex utilizes its surplus facilities to provide a stable supply of steam energy at affordable prices to small companies operating in communities as part of the community energy supply (CES) project. In 2009, the complex imported waste steam from Aekyung Petrochemical and is currently seeking additional steam suppliers. At the same time, it is proceeding with a project to capture landfill gas at the Seongam landfill site in Ulsan gas and convert it to fuel energy. Gas emissions from the landfill between 2002 and 2013 are estimated to total approximately 64,000Nm3, per day. ● Energy Use (fuel/electricity) 2008 2009 2010 Fuel(TOE) Electricity(MWH) Fuel(TOE) Electricity(MWH) Fuel(TOE) Electricity(MWH) Ulsan CLX 2,753,587 2,322,822 2,577,584 2,510,539 2,660,690 2,671,871 Incheon CLX 321,393 332,646 365,831 370,428 366,394 388,015 Total 3,074,980 2,655,468 2,943,415 2,880,967 3,027,084 3,059,886 SK energy uses Bunker-C, Fuel Gas(process by-product gas) as the main source of fuel. ● Energy Sale (Steam) through the CES ● Water Sources and Volume ● Crude Oil Process Volume Project (Ulsan CLX, Unit: ton) Wondong Water Intake Watershed at the (Unit: 1,000 barrels) at the Nakdong River Han River (Ulsan CLX) (Incheon CLX) 2008 2009 2010 122,560 37,929,296 Ulsan 273,654 254,824 277,407 37,510,806 < CLX 36,347,278 < SK energy gets water 432,915 542,041 -1 Figures restated from supply from the Korea Incheon 41,262 42,199 39,158 CLX 2,851,266 3,020,614 2,734,057 previous reports Water Resources following new Corporation (K-Water), Total 314,916 297,023 316,565 calculation standards and its water intake 1In 2009, imported does not have any Figures for 2006 and 2007 restated from the volume exceeded environmental impact previous reports according to the changed 2008 2009 2010 sales volume 2008 2009 2010 on the water sources. calculation formula in 2008. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 62 ENVIRONMENT PERFORMENCE Pollutant and Waste Control | Air Pollutant Control | | Ozone Depleting Substances | SK energy applies stricter standards on air pollutant controls SK energy does not use, produce or sell any substances defined than legally required. Employing a TMS (Tele-Metering System) as harmful to the ozone layer by the Montreal Protocol. The for all major emission sources, we monitor all emissions from purchase and use of fire extinguishers that use halon have been our facilities around the clock. In addition, we conduct regular banned according to internal safety regulations since 2008. patrols and checkups of these facilities. Dedicated to reducing Accordingly, all extinguishers located on our premises have pollutants, we replaced our fuel energy to low-sulfur oils, installed been replaced with new and modified ones that use new agents. denitrification and desulfurization facilities, as well as ultra-low Fire extinguisher: HCFC (hydro chloro fluoro carbons) NOx burners, and facilities preventing volatile organic compounds Fixed: FM200, FS125 (penta fluoro pentan) (VOCs) and odor. In preparation for stricter regulations regarding air pollutant emissions, we also operate a Selective NonCatalytic Reduction (SNCR) system, a Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) system, and an Ultra-Low NOx Burner (ULNB) at some of our facilities. < ● Air Pollutant Concentration Figures for SOx and NOx Legal Company Average Emission Concentration are for burners and dust Pollutant Site Limit standard 2008 2009 2010 is for boilers. Average emission concentration SOx Ulsan CLX 180 160 44.1 37.8 35.3 represents the entire (ppm) Incheon CLX 180 160 94 60 66 process at the Ulsan NOx Ulsan CLX 250 230 87.7 83.2 76.9 complex (ppm) Incheon CLX 250 235 164 103 103 < SOx and NOx are for Dust Ulsan CLX 50 40 6.7 10.5 6.3 burners and dust is for (mg/m2) Incheon CLX 50 35 7.6 5.1 7.5 boilers ● Air Pollutant Emission Amount (Unit: ton) | Environmental Index Vegetation Management | By participating in the “Air Pollution Indicating Environmental Emission Amount Pollutant Site Index Planting Project” being conducted by Ulsan City, SK 2008년 2009년 2010년 energy designates and manages “Environmental Hills,” at which Ulsan CLX 6,042 5,207 4,962 SOx it plants “Environmental Index Plants”. The company also cooperates Incheon CLX 631 539 579 with the municipal government by observing plant conditions Ulsan CLX 8,605 8,256 7,682 and indirectly controlling air pollution factors. NOx Incheon CLX 1,193 926 970 Ulsan CLX 326 526 316 | VOC and Odor Control | Dust SK energy operates regenerative thermal oxidizers (RTO), bio Incheon CLX 27 27 28 filters and VOC recovery facilities at its environmental facilities, product shipping and storage facilities and process areas, so as to insulate VOCs and odors. 63 Water Pollutant Control Committed to controlling the concentration of effluents, SK which contains corrosive substances, is being reprocessed to energy maintains a level below 10% to 40% of the legal requirements be reused as desalter feed water, thus considerably reducing the through consistent water pollutant reduction initiatives. Since July discharge of wastewater and the use of water at the same time. 2009, companies have been legally obliged to operate TMS Some of the treated water is also reused for extinguishing fires and and report concentration data to authorities regarding effluents watering plants. Furthermore, we installed wet air oxidation (WAO) directly discharged into public water. Therefore, the wastewater facilities in November 2009 in order to treat waste caustic soda. In treatment plant at the Ulsan complex strengthened its water preparation of new regulations regarding effluents that came into pollutant emission controls and added a membrane bio reactor effect in January, we have also strengthened the separation of high(MBR). Sour water, a byproduct from the production process and concentration wastewater from the production process. ● Wastewater Treatment ● Wastewater Discharge Volume (Unit: 1,000 tons) Ulsan CLX 13,333 Site Wastewater Treatment Facilities Treatment Method Discharge Place Incheon CLX Ulsan CLX Biological + Public sea 12,225 wastewater treatment plant advanced treatment (East Sea) 12,130 Ulsan PE/PP wastewater treatment plant Physiochemical treatment Yongyeon sewage CLX treatment plant EPDM wastewater treatment plant Biological No.2 FCC wastewater treatment plant Biological 1,710 1,525 1,469 Incheon Incheon CLX Biological + Gajwoa sewage CLX wastewater treatment plant advanced treatment treatment plant 2008 2009 2010 ● Average Concentration of Water Pollutants (Unit: ppm) Legal Company Average Concentration Pollutant Site standard standard 2008 2009 2010 Ulsan CLX 40 20 7.60 9.1 8.12 COD PE/PP & No.2FCC 90 70 11.80 12.37 12.26 Incheon CLX 90 40 13.40 14.5 18.5 Ulsan CLX 10 8 3.60 3.05 2.02 SS PE/PP & No.2FCC 80 60 10.65 16.06 21.59 Incheon CLX 80 30 7.20 8.3 8.2 Ulsan CLX 5 1 0.62 0.49 0.41 Oil PE/PP & No.2FCC 5 3.7 0.46 0.72 1.08 Incheon CLX 5 3 0.67 No.2FCC wastewater treatment plant was installed in June 2008 CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 64 ENVIRONMENT PERFORMENCE Waste Control SK energy applies its own procedures for controlling waste generated | Treatment Method by Waste Type | at its worksites. In order to minimize such waste, it is separated General waste is usually recycled in order to minimize volume. before being discharged, while we continue to strive to improve the Among designated waste, waste oils are sent to renewable fuel recycling ratio. In addition, we pay regular visits to waste handling plants so as to produce renewable fuel. Metal wastes are reprocessed subcontractors in order to check their treatment capacities and to recycle all metal substances. ensure the appropriate management of waste, as well as conduct As for waste caustic soda, the company developed in-house techperiodic educational sessions for both SK employees and those of nologies in November 2009 and built the WAO (wet air oxidization) partner firms so as to remind them to separate waste at source, facility, significantly reducing the generation of pollutants and and conduct regular on-site check-ups. Not a single case applicable to greenhouse gases. the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes occurred in 2010. | Waste Management System | Hazardous Chemical Substance Control SK energy operates waste management systems at its wastegenerating and waste-treating departments and shares all relevant SK energy has established a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) information with employees, leading to an improvement in voluntary system, shares information, provides training and conduct regular waste management. check-ups at worksites in order to preemptively prevent employees and customers from any hazardous factors and accidents arising ● Waste Discharge Volume (Unit: ton) from chemical substances. Signing a voluntary agreement with the government to lower chemical discharges, we strive to reduce Discharge Volume and Percentage emissions. As a result, we outperformed our target by 69%. For this Type Site accomplishment, we were designated “Best Practice” during an 2008 2009 2010 evaluation of emission reduction performances. Designated Ulsan CLX 45,711 34,794 27,895 waste Incheon CLX 2,103 3,164 2,839 | MSDS(Material Safety Data Sheet) | Ulsan CLX 55,378 55,247 48,699 SK energy bases the operation of SK e-MSDS on the international General waste standards of the globally harmonized system (GHS) in order to control Incheon CLX 4,569 1,979 1,901 and share information regarding toxic chemicals. Classified into Total Discharge Volume 107,761 95,184 81,334 16 categories, including producers, hazard identification and first Waste Recycling Rate (%) 59.9 54.4 63.8 aid details, the information is provided through ordinary training courses and extraordinary MSDS training courses in the event of new employment, the adoption of new chemical substances and ● Waste Discharge Volume by Treatment Method (Unit: ton) the transferring of job duties. MSDS information regarding products SelfSubcontracted Volume that SK energy produces and sells is available by product at our Recycling Type Treatment Incineration/ rate websites; www.e-SK.com for oil products, www.SKchem.com for (landfill) Recycled landfill chemical products, www.SKzic.com for lubricants, and www.yubase. 2008 31 64,541 43,189 59.9% com for base oil products. There were no violations of regulations regarding product information and labeling in 2010. 2009 3,845 51,811 39,528 54.4% 2010 0.5 48,888 27,706 63.8% 65 ● Performance Related to Voluntary Agreement to Reduce Chemical Substance Discharge Site Base Year (Kg/year) Target Accomplishment Agreement Year 2007 2009 2009 emissions: 179 tons 2010 reduction Ulsan CLX 578,317 (2001 emission) 2004 30% 50% amount to be calculated in April, 2011 2010 2012 Incheon CLX 803 (2006 emission) Interim assessment scheduled after 2010 2006 30% 50% Voluntary agreement terminated in 2009 but the company continues reduction. Soil and Underground Water Management SK energy enacted and applied its own work process for the syssoil containment” with the government, we are actively working tematic management of soil and underground water. We have to prevent leaks and restore contaminated soil, investigating soil established an organizational structure, duties and procedures, contamination annually. and provide regular training to employees, thus enabling a quick In 2010, our findings showed that soil around the Ulsan and response in the event of contamination, followed by effective Incheon complexes met legal requirements. Testing three sample containment and the swift restoration of any damage. As part of points within the newly established underground water contamithe “Voluntary Agreement regarding the survey and restoration of nation facilities, all points were found to meet legal requirements. ● 2010 Soil Contamination Investigation Result Site No. of TPH -1 BTEX -2 TCE-3  Total Petroleum 1TPH: Hydrocarbon sampling spots No. of spots Results No. of spots Results No. of spots Results  Benzene, 2BTEX: Ulsan CLX 479 233 Normal 246 Normal NA NA Toluene, Ethyl benzene, Xylene Incheon CLX 307 202 Normal 105 Normal 3TCE: Tri-Chloro Ethylene Eco-friendly Products and Services Product Quality and Eco-Friendliness Improvement We make tireless efforts to minimize any environmental impact our products and services may have. In particular, we continue prodIn response to stricter regulations regarding sulfur content, we uct innovation in order to enhance the eco-friendliness of major ensure that all gasoline and diesel products contain 5ppm to products such as gasoline, diesel, and kerosene. Furthermore, we 6ppm of sulfur, lower than legal requirements. As a result, our continue to invest in developing environmentally-friendly technoloproducts earned high quality levels during an evaluation by the gies and businesses. Ministry of Environment (MOE). We have also entered into a voluntary agreement with the government to supply biodiesel, and raised the biodiesel blend ratio from 0.5% in 2007 to 2.0% in 2010 for all our diesel products. We will continue to strive to raise crude oil dependence and continue endeavors to improve environmental conditions. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 66 ENVIRONMENT PERFORMENCE ● Findings of the Sulfur Content and Quality Grade for Gasoline by the MOE 2008 2009 2010 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H Sulfur content (ppm) 14 11 4 4 6 6 Quality grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ is the international best grade. ● Findings of the Sulfur Content and Quality Grade for Diesel by the MOE 2008 2009 2010 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H Sulfur content (ppm) 7 8 6 5 6 5 Quality grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ is the international best grade. Eco-Friendly Businesses | SCR Catalyst | SK energy initiated R&D activities in 1996 and succeeded to develop and commercialize the Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR)-1 catalyst technology in 2001. In 2009, we signed an agreement with Huatuo, an environmental engineering affiliate of the Huadian Group, to supply the technology to a subsidiary of the state-run electricity company, one that ranks among the top five utility service providers in China. We are in cooperation with this Chinese partner under the technology export agreement. The technology has earned a good reputation at more than 100 sites both domestically and overseas, including Germany, France and China.  (selective catalytic reduction) technology: reduces NOx gases generated 1SCR from fixed sources of pollution, such as power generation stations, and Recently, we participated in the GAIA Project introduced by the incineration, boiler, and chemical processes. Ministry of Environment to develop technologies that help purify polluted soil and underground water, successfully developing | Soil Environmental Project | technology to purify non-degradable polluted underground SK energy is accumulating technologies and business know-how water, thus solidifying our position as a total solution provider in soil containment purification through several soil remediation in soil and underground water purification. Furthermore, we are projects. The Land Partnership Lan (LPP) soil remediation currently working to commercialize a pilot hydrogen fueling staproject, a government-led project introduced in 2008 involving the tion that we operated at Seoul’s World Cup Park that supplies purifying of contaminated soil at a former U.S. military base, is hydrogen produced from landfill gas. Based on our accumulated slated to be completed in 2011. The Trans-Korea Pipeline (TKP) experience and technologies, we aim to become an Asian-Paarea remediation project SK energy won in 2009 is also proceeding cific leader in the remediation of hazardous substances, waste according to schedule. management and new and renewable energy businesses. 67 Appendix Third Party’s Assurance Report | GRI Index | Awards & Associations CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 68 APPENDIX Third Party’s Foreword The Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) had been engaged Assurance by SK energy to verify the contents of its 2010 Sustainability Report (the Report). SK energy is Report responsible for the collection and presentation of information within the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out assurance activities on specific information in the verification scope stipulated below. Dear Readers of SK energy Our independence 2010 Sustainability With the exception of providing third party verification services, KMAR is not involved in any other Report SK energy business operations that are aimed at making profits in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. Verification scope SK energy described its efforts and achievements of its sustainability activities in the Report. The verification process was designed to provide readers with the following information; ● Verification of the economic section: Review whether financial performance data has been extracted appropriately from SK energy’s 2010 Financial Statements Audit Report and Annual Report as defined in the Report’s performances and conclusion sectors ● Verification of environmental and social section: Review whether environmental and social information included in the Report is presented appropriately. “Appropriately Presented” means that the actual data and the original information are appropriately reflected in the contents of the Report with consistency and reliability. For the economic sector, we based our evidence gathering procedures on reasonable assurance. It is a higher level of assurance than the limited verification in terms of characteristics and the extent of performed tasks. Verification standards KMAR performed the review based on our own verification. We also used the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board-issued “International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” as additional guidelines. 69 Verification process and conclusion In order to form our conclusion, KMAR undertook the steps outlined below to assess SK energy’s internal processes for reviewing the sustainability reporting practices. ● Surveyed SK energy’s sustainability related media information during the reporting period ● Reviewed systems and processes used in producing data ● Assessed internal documents and materials ● Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, related department visits and interviews, we held several discussions with SK energy on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm whether our recommendations for improvement and revisions have been reflected. ● Economic performance We compared the Report with SK energy’s 2010 Financial Statements and found that the financial data presented in the Report has been appropriately derived from 2010 Financial Statements. ● Environmental and social performance We observed that the information contained in the environmental and social sections has been appropriately presented. We did not discover any significant errors. Recommendation for improvement We hope SK energy’s publication of the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. ● Engage more stakeholders on the material issues in improving sustainability performance. April 25, 2011 Korea Management Association Registrations & Assessments Inc. CEO Ki Ho Park CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 70 HIGHLIGHTS APPENDIX ● Reported ◐ Not Reported ○ Not Applicable ◇ Partially Reported GRI(G3.1) Index GRI Index GRI Index Page ReporSupplementary ting No. details Level Explanation Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 10~11 ● 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 10~11 ● Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 14 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 16~17 ● 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 14~15 ● companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 14 ● 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries 18~19 ● with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 14~15 ● 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types 16~17 ● of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 14 ● 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, 14, 28~31 ● or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Appendix ● Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Cover ● 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Cover ● 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Cover ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Cover ● 3.5 Process for defining report content. Cover ● 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Cover ● joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Cover ● (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Cover ● outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Cover ● assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in Not Applicable ◇ earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Not Applicable ◇ measurement methods applied in the report. 71 GRI Index GRI Index Page ReporSupplementary ting No. details Level Explanation 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures Appendix ● in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the 66~67 ● report. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under 21 ● the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also 21~22 ● an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of 21 ● members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 22 ● direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 21 ◐ senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of 22 ◐ interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the 21 ◐ highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and 20 ● principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's Not Reported ○ No procedures available identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, Not Reported ○ No procedures available particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 41, 57 ● addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, Appendix ● or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Appendix ● national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 25 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 25 ◐ 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 25 ◐ by type and by stakeholder group. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 72 HIGHLIGHTS APPENDIX ● Reported ◐ Not Reported ○ Not Applicable ◇ Partially Reported GRI Index GRI Index Page ReporSupplementary ting No. details Level Explanation 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 27 ● engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. EC_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach EC 40 ● PR_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach PR 44, 45 ● LA_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach LA 44, 46 ● SO_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach SO 44, 45 ● EN_DMA Disclosure on Management Approach EN 58 ● Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, 41, 55 ◐ operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's 37~38 ● activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 49, 52 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 41 ● EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage ○ SK energy thinks the level of newly-recruitat significant locations of operation. ed employees’ salaries is not a major issue as the company honors laws on minimum wage. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at 36 ◐ significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from Not Applicable ◇ It is not a significant concern as the the community at significant locations of operation. portion of employees at SK energy’s overseas operates is very low and each site employs local residents EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 44, 54~56 ◐ provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, 54~55 ● Community investment & including the extent of impacts. engagement programs Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 59 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not Applicable ◇ EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 59 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 59 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 58~59 ● EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and 58~59 ● services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 58~59 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 59 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 59 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Reported ○ SK energy does not yet have a system to manage reused and recycled water at plants. 73 GRI Index GRI Index Page ReporSupplementary ting No. details Level Explanation EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 57 ● areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 57 ● biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 57 ● EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on 57 ● biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with 57 ◐ habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 38 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not Reported ○ SK energy does not yet have a system to calculate other indirect green house gas emissions from commuting, business trips and so on. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 37~38 ● EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 60 ● EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 60 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 61 ● EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 62 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 63 ● EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed 62 ● hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and 61 ● related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and 57 ● extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Not Applicable ◇ by category. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 57 ● sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Not Reported ○ SK energy does not yet have a manageand materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting memment system to check environmental bers of the workforce. impact of transportation of products and raw materials and moves of employees. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 58 ● Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 46 ● LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 47 ● LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 46~47 ● part-time employees, by major operations. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 50 ● LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including 50 ● whether it is specified in collective agreements. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 74 APPENDIX HIGHLIGHTS ● Reported ◐ Not Reported ○ Not Applicable ◇ Partially Reported GRI Index GRI Index Page ReporSupplementary ting No. details Level Explanation LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker 52 ● health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of 51 ● work-related fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place 51 ● to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 50 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. 48 ● LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 48 ● employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 49 ● reviews. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 21 ● according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and renumeration of women to men by employee category, 47 ● by significant locations of operation. Social: Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that Not Reported ○ Among SK energy’s important investment include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. agreements, no agreement has a clause on human right protection. The company does not have a separate procedure to review human rights when signing an agreement. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone 52 ● Business partners’ pledge to business screening on human rights and actions taken. ethics practices HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning 51 ● aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 47 ● HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 50 ● collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 50 ● measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 50 ● compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or pro51~52 ● cedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Not Applicable ◇ No such case of incidents and actions taken. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human 50 ◐ rights reviews and/or impact assessments. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved 50 ◐ through formal grievance mechanisms. 75 GRI Index GRI Index Page ReporSupplementary ting No. details Level Explanation Social: Society SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess 54~55 ● and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Not Reported ○ SK energy has a process on prevention corruption. of corruption and counter measures against corruption cases. But it does not additionally analyze corruption risks by business divisions. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and 23 ● procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 23 ● SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and 24 ● lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, Not Reported ◇ and related institutions by country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 52 ● monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 52 ● sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on Not Reported ○ SK energy does not yet have defined any communities. adverse impact of its business activities on communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with Not Reported ○ SK energy does not yet have a measure to significant potential or actual negative impacts on communities. prevent or mitigate any adverse impact of its business activities on communities. Social: Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services Not Reported ○ SK energy assesses health and safety are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and effects of products but does not assess services categories subject to such procedures. products for improvement. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 63 ● codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and 63 ● percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 46 ● codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 45~46 ● measuring customer satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related 46 ● to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 46 ● codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer 46 ● privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 46 ● regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. CREATING HAPPINESS THRU OUR ENERGY 76 APPENDIX HIGHLIGHTS Awards Award & Award Organization Associations Commendation by the Minster of Education, Ministry of Education, Science & Technology at the Award of Science & Science & Technology, Technology Promotion Merit Korea Industrial Technology Association Minister of Education, Science & Ministry of Education, Science & Technology, Technology Prize at the Jangyeongsil Awards Korea Industrial Technology Association Mayor’s prize at the Seoul City Environmental Awards Seoul Metropolitan City NET Minister of Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Knowledge Economy prize Korea Industrial Technology Association Commendation by the Minister of Knowledge Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Economy for the Merit on the Chemistry Day Korea Petrochemical Industry Association Commendation by the Minister of Knowledge Ministry of Economy for the merit of the Jeju Smart Grid Project Knowledge Economy 9th World 3D-VR Simulation Contest Megruo Gajoen Commendation by the Minster of Knowledge Economy for Ministry of Knowledge Economy, the merit of the Industrial Technology Promotion Korea Industrial Technology Association Knowledge Economy Ministry prize Ministry of Knowledge Economy, at the National Green Tech Awards Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea’s Top 100 Technologies and the Leaders The National Academy of Engineering of Korea Associations The Federation of Korean Industries (FKI) Red Cross Korea Korea Employers Federation CACCI Korea-U.S. Economic Council, Inc. Seoul International Forum Korea Management Association Korea-U.S. Friendship Association Korea-U.S. Financial Council Korea Commission Institute for Global Economics Korea-U.S. Association Fair Competition Federation The American Chamber of Commerce in Korea The UN Association of the Republic of Korea Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Korea Business Council for the Arts
