CSR REPORT 2011 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Activities IEditorial Policy IEye-friendliness and Readability Toppan is disclosing information in the hopes of encouraging dialogues on social This report considers eye-friendliness and readability in accordance with Toppan’s and environmental activities with more people, especially people who have an in-house guidelines. It also incorporates universal-design displays for as many interest or stake in Toppan’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. From different types of people as possible, regardless of individual differences in color this year, the Company has begun to edit the CSR report in line with the seven perception. The universal design in this report has been reviewed and certified by core subjects set under ISO 26000, a guidance standard on social responsibilthe Color Universal Design Organization (CUDO), a nonprofit organization, on ity. Detailed information such as environmental data is posted on the Toppan entrustment by Toppan. website. IPeriod Covered IURLs for Relevant Information This report mainly covers activities in fiscal 2010 (from April 2010 to March 2011), • CSR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/ though information on prior and later years is also included in parts. This site posts details on CSR activities (CSR Report 2011: Detailed Data), the IScope and Boundary of this Report latest information on ISO 14001 certification, the GRI content index, the CSR In principle, this report covers the social and environmental activities of Toppan Procurement Guidelines, and other forms of CSR information. If erroneous entries Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) and Group entities consolidated for accounting or misprints are found after CSR reports are issued, the related information will purposes. Most of the information on personnel applies to personnel within Toppan be shown here. Printing Co., Ltd., the parent company. The scope of the environmental perfor• IR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ir/ mance data is presented on P. 32. Details on corporate governance can be found at the following URLs. ISelecting the Information for this Report Corporate governance reports: http://www.tse.or.jp/listing/corpgov/ (in Japanese) In choosing the information to present in this CSR report, Toppan assessed the Financial statements: http://info.edinet-fsa.go.jp/ (in Japanese) “materiality” of the information for society and the Company itself. To assess whether information can be considered material for society, Toppan IPublication Dates holds in-house discussions on the following points: comments from an independent assurance provider and third-party opinions, questionnaire responses to CSR Previous report: October 2010 reports from inside and outside the Company, other opinions gleaned from diaCurrent report: December 2011 logues inside and outside the Company, the content of various guidelines (such Next report: October 2012 (planned) as the Environmental Reporting Guidelines [fiscal year 2007 version] from the Ministry of the Environment of Japan and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines IContact Information 2006 from the Global Reporting Initiative [GRI]), questionnaire items from thirdCSR Promotion Department, Legal Affairs Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. party organizations, and CSR-related information from media and news agen(Tokyo, Japan) cies. Email: csr@toppan.co.jp IGuidelines Observed This report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 at an application level B+ as defined by the GRI. IReliability KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. provides independent assurance for this report. As a testament to the reliability of the sustainability information presented in the report, Toppan is authorized to attach the following mark. Any report bearing this mark meets the standards for sustainability report assurance and registration established by The Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (http://www.j-sus.org/). The United Nations Global Compact sets forth 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. Toppan supports and implements the 10 principles as a socially responsible corporation. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Contents Executive Message 2 Group Business Outline 4 Special Report: Community Involvement and Cooperation 6 Results for Fiscal 2010 and Future Measures 8 Toppan’s CSR Activities 10 Initiatives at Toppan and Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 12 Organizational Governance 13 Human Rights 16 Labor Practices 18 Fair Operating Practices 22 Consumer Issues 26 Community Involvement and Development 30 Environment Toppan’s Environmental Activities 32 Environmental Targets and Results (for the Medium-and-long-term and Fiscal 2010) 33 New Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets and Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2011 35 Toppan’s Environmental Burden 36 Environmental Management Activities 38 Eco-protection Activities (Mitigating global warming, building a recyclingoriented society, preventing pollution, controlling chemical substances, conserving biodiversity) 40 Eco-creativity Activities 45 Environmental Communication Activities 46 Independent Assurance 47 Independent Assurance Report 48 Group Business Structure 49 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 1 Executive Message Contributing to Fulfilling Lifestyles To begin, allow me to offer my deepest condolences to the profit in the future. The third is to accelerate global business families and friends of those who perished in the Great East expansion with an eye to alliances and M&As with goodJapan Earthquake of March 2011. I also would like to standing companies in the growing markets of emerging extend my sympathies to all people affected by the ­disaster, countries mainly in Asia. and to express my strong hopes for restoration without In creating new businesses and markets, we will focus delay. on solar cell back sheets, lithium-ion battery-related components, and other clean energy systems by applying the The buildings and facilities of the Toppan Group were damtechnologies we have acquired in the printing business. aged at three plants: one in Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, one This will lead to the implementation of CSR activities in our in Ishinomaki, Miyagi Prefecture, and one in Mito, Ibaraki primary lines of business. Prefecture. Production had to be suspended at these To enhance compliance with laws and regulations, we plants for safety verification and restoration. While normal reviewed and extensively revised the Conduct Guidelines, operations are currently restored at almost all buildings and an integral part of our Corporate Structure, in November facilities, our business results have been considerably 2010. Toppan has implemented the revised Conduct affected. Reduced shipments from disaster-affected raw Guidelines into all Group companies in and outside Japan material suppliers in the printing industry forced us to cut to further improve compliance across the Group. production, and restraint in sales promotion activities Through these efforts, we are able to develop socially resulted in declines in orders received. and environmentally balanced corporate activities in paralWe are building a more robust supply system by restruclel with operations in pursuit of economic profits. We would turing our business continuity plans (BCPs) into more like to press ahead as a robust group of companies that is ­effective ones based on lessons learned from this earthtrusted and respected broadly by society. quake disaster. The severe economic environment is likely to persist for some time to come in Japan. All employees Towards a Sustainable Society of the Toppan Group will work together to surmount the Fiscal 2010 was the final year for the completion of the difficulties. Mediumand Long-term Environmental Targets we set in fiscal 2001. For the mitigation of global warming, we tarTo Be a Robust Group of Companies geted a reduction of CO2 emissions per unit of sales by Trusted and Respected by Society 10% by fiscal 2010, compared to the fiscal 2000 level, TOPPAN VISION 21 is positioned as the foundation for all and undertook wide-ranging energy-saving measures. As of our corporate activities. This vision consists of a Corpoit turned out, CO2 emissions per unit of sales in fiscal 2010 rate Structure (the Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate actually increased by 10.6% compared with fiscal 2000. Creed, and a set of Conduct Guidelines defining the values Changing economic conditions and business expansion and standards we should respect) and five Business Fields during the decade caused us to miss this target by a based on the Corporate Structure. significant margin. Last fiscal year we formulated new I will be taking three measures to make TOPPAN VISION medium-and-long-term targets to be pursued from fiscal 21 a reality. The first measure is to advance our Group-wide 2011 to 2020. The calculation basis for the target on CO 2 structural reform by reorganizing our manufacturing and emissions has been shifted from emissions per unit of planning departments in pursuit of enhanced productivity sales to total emissions. The target set for fiscal 2020 is and reduced costs and by promoting business operations a total reduction of CO2 emissions by 11% compared with that respond to customer needs more promptly and accufiscal 2008. We at the Toppan Group will work together rately. The second is to create new businesses and new with positive intent to strengthen our efforts to attain markets by intensively devoting managerial resources to this target. growth fields expected to become important sources of The Printing Museum, Tokyo and Toppan Hall, facilities 2 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 established in 2000 as projects to mark Toppan’s 100th the social responsibilities we should fulfill. As a first step in anniversary, celebrated their 10th anniversary in 2010. Over this direction, we have closely aligned this CSR report, a their first decade, these facilities have welcomed about valuable social communication tool, with the seven core 730,000 visitors on a cumulative basis. The Printing subjects addressed in ISO 26000. I am eager to hear your Museum received a Printing Culture Promotion Award in candid opinions about this report. the Mécénat Grand Prize category at the Japan Mécénat We will keep up our work to create fulfilling lifestyles in Awards 2010 in recognition of the social significance of its a sustainable world. We rely on your ongoing support and activities to popularize printing culture and to collect and guidance. conserve precious print-related technologies and materials that have been vanishing in today’s rapidly changing printSeptember 2011 ing world. In addition to researching and disseminating information on printing culture, the museum organizes activities placing importance on communication with neighboring communities. Since opening in 2000, it has supported a number of programs for extracurricular study, work experience education, and integrated learning by elementary and junior high school students in Bunkyo Ward, Tokyo. Besides these projects at schools, the museum holds courses as part of a lifelong learning program for community members hosted by Bunkyo Ward. It will continue these collaborative activities in educational fields for the community in the years to come. To a New Stage of CSR Management Toppan has been participating in the United Nations Global Compact and supporting the 10 principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment, and anticorruption since September 2006. For the fulfillment of our social responsibility, I will continue to espouse the United Nations Global Compact as an invaluable guideline for shaping our CSR activities. In November 2010, ISO 26000 was issued as an international standard on social responsibility for organizations. Many developing countries took part in the formulation of ISO 26000 from the early stages, along with multiple stakeholders such as consumers, governments, industries, labor unions, NGOs, and experts. The standard condenses various social issues to be solved. From my perspective, it can also serve as an instrument for implementing the United Nations Global Compact. We will incorporate ISO Shingo Kaneko 26000 in our CSR management, reconsider our CSR iniPresident & tiatives, and push forward with activities after ascertaining Representative Director a clearer picture of the social issues we should solve and Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 3 Group Business Outline Corporate Profile Group Profile Corporate name Number of employees The Toppan Group comprises Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and 191 related Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (nonconsolidated) companies (163 subsidiaries and 28 affiliates) engaged in manifold busiHead office 8,633 (as of the end of March 2011) nesses in three main fields: Information & Networks, Living Environment, and 1, Kanda Izumi-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Number of employees Electronics. Tokyo 101-0024 Japan (consolidated) The positioning of Toppan and related companies in these fields is outPhone +81-3-3835-5111 48,197 (as of the end of March 2011) lined on P. 49. Established Capital (nonconsolidated) January 17, 1900 104.9 billion yen President & Representative Director Shingo Kaneko Business Fields Information & Networks Providing solutions to increase the value of information and effectively deliver information for customers who require smooth communication Securities and Cards Commercial Printing Publications Printing Living Environment Providing customers around the world with products and services optimal for creating fulfilling lifestyles in fields such as medicine, food, and housing Packaging Functional Product and Energy Related Industrial Materials Electronics Personal Service Next-generation Products Display Related Semiconductor Related Shufoo!—an online mall for Hydrogen sensor digital flyers (in Japanese) Working with leading-edge technologies to provide electronic components Providing consumers with TopProviding high-performance in­ with strong potential to be adopted as de facto standards pan’s original brand of innovadustrial materials with links to tive information services and the next generation by developing devices to enrich the links befields of business with growth tween people and goods potential 4 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Net Sales Operating Income Net Income or Loss (Billion yen) QConsolidated Q Nonconsolidated (Billion yen) QConsolidated Q Nonconsolidated (Billion yen) QConsolidated Q Nonconsolidated 2,000 80 40 38.5 69.3 72.1 1,670.3 1,617.3 1,557.8 30 1,500 1,506.7 1,556.4 60 26.0 25.2 20 20.2 45.0 1,000 1,022.9 967.6 40 38.2 948.7 885.9 895.5 11.7 12.4 12.1 30.3 31.6 29.1 10 5.8 500 20 0.5 15.3 0 7.8 6.6 0 0 –10 –7.7 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) Number of Employees Number of Employees by Business Field (Consolidated) (Employees) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated (Employees) 50,000 Electronics Company-wide 47,522 47,650 48,197 6,958 positions 868 40,000 38,570 38570 36,757 30,000 20,000 10,000 10,899 11,181 11,548 8,769 8,633 0 Living Environment Information & Networks 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 11,693 28,678 (Fiscal year) Net Sales by Business Field Capital Expenditure Total Assets & Return on Assets (ROA) (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (%) Electronics 150 2,000 3.0 286.3 (18%) 133.7 1,837.7 1,787.4 1,694.3 120 2.1 1,681.7 1,665.6 1,500 2.0 1.5 90 92.0 72.9 1,000 1.0 68.0 65.0 0.7 0.7 60 500 0 30 0 0 –0.4 –1.0 Living Environment Information & Networks 375.3 (24%) 894.7 (58%) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) Net Sales by Region R&D Expenses Net Assets & Return on Equity (ROE) (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (%) Asia, excluding Other regions 35 1,000 8.0 Japan 48.5 (3%) 918.0 940.3 9,403 29.7 867.7 874.0 864.0 167.0 (11%) 29.1 28.7 28 800 6.0 24.4 4.8 23.4 21 600 4.0 3.2 14 400 1.6 1.6 2.0 −1.0 7 200 0 0 0 –2.0 Japan 1,340.8 (86%) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) Notes: 1. Net sales do not include consumption taxes. 2. The number of employees is the number of employees working at the Group. The number of non-regular employees for fiscal 2010 stood at 9,215 on a consolidated basis (the average number of employees throughout the fiscal year, including part-time workers but excluding temporary staff). TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 5 Swimming class is really good fun at School play every other year!! Kanatomi Elementary School! Picture postcards created by fifth graders in a special class called “Let’s present first graders with picture postcards showing good and fun things about our school” (see the opposite page). Special Report Community Involvement and Cooperation Collaborative Activities in Educational Fields Toppan, a company running dozens of operational sites across Japan, wishes to fulfill its responsibility as a member of the community where each operational site operates, through devoted involvement and cooperation with the community. This special report describes how Toppan contributes to educational programs for today’s children, a generation that soon will be sustaining and enriching local industries and communities. You can pal up with the kids You can make a lot of friends!! in different grades! We’re pumped up for an athletic meet! 6 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 show new students various fun things about the school. This Collaborative Learning Project with puts the newcomers at ease on their first day, a time of Kanatomi Elementary School mingled hopes and concerns. Bunkyo Ward’s Kanatomi Elementary School is located in Exploiting the Features of the Printing Tokyo near the Toppan Koishikawa Building, the building to Industry for Communities which the Printing Museum and Toppan Hall, a symphonic concert hall, are annexed. A good many publishingand printing-related companies Toppan has been hosting this project for a decade now. The based in Bunkyo Ward give the neighborhoods a tone of young children who took part in the first year are already their own. Toppan has been supporting learning programs about to join the working world. Some of the graduates still at Kanatomi Elementary School since 2001, the year followgreet the museum curators with hellos around town. ing the completion of the Toppan Koishikawa Building. Toppan organizes sundry programs apart from this Students gain a deeper understanding of local industries project. The Company holds a printing workshop for neighby attending classes organized by the museum curators at borhood children and the general public during summer their schools and by taking part in tours and printing workvacation; supports regional studies by college students; and shops held at the Printing Museum. Toppan also encourages gives volunteer sightseeing guides registered in Bunkyo students to learn printing-related knowledge and technoloWard opportunities to learn about the mechanisms of printgies for the creation of various communication tools. ing and the role of printing as a local industry. One of Toppan’s chief goals in designing these programs Toppan’s operational sites will contribute to the developis to spark the interest of children in local industries such ment of the communities, making best use of the features as publishing and printing. When these children grow, their of the printing industry. interest may attract them to the very same industries as valuable human resources. Grade-appropriate Classes Printing House, a printing I For second graders: Adventure of discovery: let’s workshop in the Printing Museum, organizes tours explore town (one-hour program) and hands-on programs Staying at school, the students learn about the Printing for general visitors, along Museum in detail and gain hands-on experience in the fundawith the printing classes for students. mentals of printing by making mini-calendars with stamps. I For fourth graders: Let’s print together with friends Offering a Valuable Experience for (two-hour program). Elementary School Students Touring the museum, the students study printing history, the Printing Class at Kanatomi Elementary School roles of printing, and techniques such as letterpress printing I teach a printing class at Kanatomi Elementary School. When I with type. After the tour, they set their own names in type ask the fifth graders, “Is there a printing company in your neighborhood?” they cheerfully wave their hands in the affirmative. Printand print them on postcards. ing has a well-established presence as a local industry in Tokyo. Publishers, printers, and printing agencies are clustered together I For fifth graders: Let’s present first graders with picin many neighborhoods of Bunkyo Ward, where the Toppan Koishikawa Building is located. I tell the fifth graders that Kanatomi ture postcards showing good and fun things about our Elementary School and the Printing Museum are both in an area school (ten-hour program) strongly related to publishing and printing. The fifth graders study ideas and methods for communicaDuring the class I explain that the task of printing is to give out information. Then I have the students discuss what techniques tion via printing from various printed materials such as they can apply to accomplish this task. A PC or printer will never magazines, books, leaflets, and posters. By reviewing actual convey the experience of actually picking up pieces of type, setworks in print, they examine the most effective ways to ting them, and printing manually, page by page, with a letterpress printing press. visually deliver messages and information. Which is more The Printing Museum will continue to contribute to the com­ appropriate, pictures or letters? What colors attract the most munity through educational programs designed to convey the role attention? What words or phrases will people keep close to and fun of printing. their hearts? (And so on.). Shotaro Kawai In the next stage they gather as a group to discuss the Curator messages and pictures for their own postcards and work Printing Museum out the layouts and designs. Finally, they set their messages in type and print them with a letterpress printing press. See “Community Involvement and The picture postcards the fifth graders prepare in this Development” on page 30 for details class are presented to new first graders at an entrance cerabout other activities for communities. emony and posted on a bulletin board at school. The cards TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 7 Results for Fiscal 2010 and Future Measures Stakeholders Topics Action Points Targets Complying with laws, regulations, and Heightening awareness of laws, regulations, and the Conduct Guidelines through — corporate ethics compliance promotion activities Establishing an information security Reinforcing information risk management structure towards the All stakeholders complete elimination of information-related — management accidents Formulating business continuity plans Formulating effective, optimal BCPs across (BCPs) and facilitating business the Group to enhance corporate value • Selecting model businesses for BCPs and formulating BCPs individually continuity management (BCM) (See PP. 33–35 for the results of Conserving the global environment environmental activities and future measures) — • Preventing accidents relevant to the Product Liability Act and the revised Ensuring product safety Consumer Product Safety Act of Japan • Enhancing customer satisfaction (analyzing the degree of customer satisfaction under the ISO 9001 QMSs and applying the results to Securing quality assurance and business operations) enhancement • Preventing serious quality-related accidents concerning the performance and functions of products Assuring product safety and quality; • Embarking on energy-related businesses Customers providing products and services to help solve social issues • Expanding businesses in the life sciences Providing products and services to help • Helping to realize a society where a diversity of people can enjoy fulfilling solve social issues lifestyles (spreading universal designs) • Passing down cultural assets as virtual reality (VR) reproductions Promoting CSR procurement centered • Facilitating closer communication with business partners around communication with suppliers Business partners Establishing a trusted supply chain Enhancing chemical substance management • Informing business partners of the Standards for the Chemical through strengthened cooperation with Components of Raw Materials (Ver. 2.0) designated by Toppan suppliers • Continually arranging social contribution programs to help solve social Social contributions issues • Expanding opportunities to communicate with communities and making Community contributions contributions responsive to community needs Contributing to society, community, Communities • Contributing to society through the provision of high-quality information and culture and elevating the roles of printing and related industries Cultural contributions • Strengthening cooperation with communities and cultural facilities across the world • Contributing to communities and supporting educational institutions Disclosing information in a fair and Shareholders and open manner and improving IR activities • Enhancing IR activities investors transparency Merit-based personnel policies • Operating personnel treatment systems properly • Respecting basic human rights • Ensuring occupational safety and health • Reinforcing countermeasures against fires and disasters • Promoting healthcare and health enhancement Realizing a safe and secure working environment • Supporting work-life balance by 1) shortening total working hours • Supporting work-life balance by 2) creating a working environment where employees can strike a balance between working and raising Respecting and leveraging human children Employees assets • Creating a better working environment through partnerships between labor and management • Proactively appointing female employees to higher positions • Supporting second careers for retired employees • Promoting employment of persons with disabilities Leveraging diverse human assets • Providing an open environment and information for recruitment • Supporting individual career development • Fostering self-reliant employees based on “conduct of high value,” a key Developing and fostering human assets concept in human asset development 8 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Main Activities and Achievements in Fiscal 2010 Self Evaluation Main Measures in Fiscal 2011 • Extensively revised the Conduct Guidelines on November 1 • Redesign tools to promote the Conduct Guidelines; implement the Conduct • Held 26 briefing sessions on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan for Guidelines in overseas Group subsidiaries employees in the planning and ordering departments (1,135 trainees) A • Ensure proper subcontract transactions; build proper relationships with partner • Arranged an e-learning-based educational program on compliance with the companies Subcontract Law of Japan for employees in the sales departments (2,950 trainees) • Reinforced management at manufacturing departments to eliminate vulnerabilities • Carried out audits on the handling of personal information and system asset audits • Strengthen quality control for information security in operations entrusted to Toppan from a quality control viewpoint • Establish rules on dealing with new media such as social media and smartphones A • Conducted a questionnaire survey on the actual conditions of information handling • Accelerate PDCA management with a focus on priority measures at Group (about 20,000 respondents) and face-to-face group training (283 sessions across companies Japan) • Organized BCP-related education and an earthquake disaster drill (in February) A • Reconstruct the BCPs and facilitate BCM at key divisions, etc. • Continue certification screenings of partner companies in the food container and • Revised the rules on product safety and informed all divisions of the revisions B filling/packing businesses by operational sites, and also perform regular audits • Organized education on product safety at five regional divisions in Japan • Strictly manage chemical substances in products • Made ranking evaluations of operational sites through QMS internal audits and provided feedback via audit reports • Carry out follow-up audits to prevent any recurrence of serious quality-related A • Proposed improvements using a corrective action check sheet in QMS internal accidents that occurred in fiscal 2010 audits • Prototyped a practical-sized electrolyte membrane with a catalytic layer for fuel cells B • Continue to prototype a practical-sized CCM and evaluate its performance and evaluated its performance • Proved the diagnosability of somatic cell mutagenesis and the parsability of prostate • Conduct experimental studies at medical institutes and companies around the world cancer through a collaborative study with medical institutes run by universities and A and consider developing overseas businesses other entities around the world • Supported an international conference held by the International Association for Universal Design (IAUD) from October 31 to November 3 and helped to put universal A • Incorporate color universal design into Toppan’s annual and CSR reports design into widespread use • Created and screened Todaiji-temple—The world of the Great Buddha and Kumamotojo: Unraveling the mystery of the invincible castle, two new virtual reality (VR) productions • Develop next-generation flagship VR content independently A • Presented Toppan VR productions to 1.64 million viewers (a cumulative total of 7.11 • Create VR content jointly with the Tokyo National Museum million viewers since fiscal 2000) • Monitored compliance in procurement operations at Toppan by having 19 major business partners complete a questionnaire; issued instructions for improvements • Continue monitoring compliance in procurement operations at Toppan to Company procurement departments that received lower survey ratings A • Verify and reassess improvements at business partners who have received lower • Expanded the boundaries of CSR procurement initiatives (to cover 192 business ratings in the questionnaire survey on the current status of their CSR activities partners involved in the provision of equipment for the Group) • Organized training on CSR procurement for about 340 business partners at seven • Hold briefings for business partners in the Information & Networks field to fully inform operational sites in the Living Environment field and gave briefings on the need to A them of the details of chemical substance management in products manage chemical substances in products • Held the Toppan Charity Concerts, shortening the original two-day program to one • Carry out medium-and-long-term recovery assistance measures for the areas B day because of the Great East Japan Earthquake stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake • Extended community contributions at operational sites through environmental • Maintain various contributions responsive to community needs at operational sites beautification activities, blood donation drives, plant tours, hands-on training A across Japan sessions, disasterand crime-prevention activities, etc. <Printing Museum, Tokyo> <Printing Museum, Tokyo> • Received a Printing Culture Promotion Award in the Mécénat Grand Prize category • Create original content and broadly disseminate information at the Japan Mécénat Awards 2010 A • Reinforce educational and promotional activities and press ahead with cultural • Welcomed the 300,000th visitor to set foot in the Printing Museum over the decade alliances since the museum was opened (cumulative total) <Toppan Hall> <Toppan Hall> • Sponsored or co-sponsored 31 concerts and held six special performances to • Continue to sponsor more special performances for the discovery and fosterage of discover and foster talented young musicians; welcomed the 410,000th audience B talented young musicians member to visit Toppan Hall over the decade since the hall was opened (cumulative total) • Allow elementary schools in Tokyo’s Bunkyo and Chiyoda Wards to use the hall • Redesigned Toppan Story, a shareholder newsletter, to enrich both the quality and quantity of its content • Facilitate communication with capital markets by announcing medium-and-longA term management strategies • Held more than 200 individual consultations with institutional investors and analysts • Continue to examine the Company’s comprehensive personnel policies • Considered comprehensive personnel policies covering every stage of employment A • Consider personnel treatment systems with an eye to leveraging the abilities and from hiring to retiring skills of human assets throughout the Group • Organize education on the concept of respect for people in rank-based training, • Launched labor management training for managerial staff (325 participants) A Company-wide basic education, and so on • Formulated the Company-wide Basic Policy on Safety and Health; issued the • Promote measures to attain strict safety concerning equipment operation; expand declaration on safety by the President & Representative Director at the business Anzen Dojo at the Kawaguchi Training Center; enrich safety-related education council A content • Opened Anzen Dojo, a safety training facility, at the Kawaguchi Training Center in • Run Anzen Dojo at operational sites across Japan; continue to hold safety and August; held 122 safety training sessions by the end of March 2011 (2,830 health meetings participants) • Effectively used emergency stockpiles (water and food) after the Great East Japan • Take countermeasures against large-scale disasters across the Group as initial BCP B Earthquake struck actions • Offer systematic healthcare guidance for employees in need of lifestyle improvements • Increased the rate of employees examined in the regular health checkups to 100% A (actions to preempt lifestyle-related health problems, etc.) • Duplicated last year’s progress in decreasing the number of employees working long • Impose managerial working-hour controls to limit overtime work to 60 hours a month hours through various initiatives such as strict working-hour control by managerial A • Consider structuring a new working management system to realize more appropriate staff, the operation of various working systems, and measures determined by labor-management committees at divisions to shorten working hours control of working hours • Reviewed and extended the childcare-leave systems to enable employees to use the systems longer. With the extension, the revised systems remain in effect until an employee’s child finishes the third year of elementary school, regardless of the • Keep every employee informed of childcare-leave-related systems employee’s gender (for more flexible working styles during the period of childrearing) A • Continue to hold the Parent-child Art Workshop • Held the Parent-child Art Workshop in Summer Vacation at an in-house facility to enhance family communication for employees and their families • Reached a labor-management agreement on the promotion of Company-wide safety and health activities to eliminate occupational accidents, at labor• Continue to hold routine business councils and convene labor-management management committees for the creation of a working environment amenable to committees for the creation of a working environment amenable to enhanced job enhanced job satisfaction A satisfaction • Held a recreational sports event for employees and their families jointly arranged by • Ginger up recreational events jointly held by labor and management labor and management on September 5 (4,400 participants) • Attained a 4.4% ratio of females among managerial and supervisory staff (as of April A • Leverage female talent through positive action 1, 2011) • Maintain the Senior Reemployment System as a tool for leveraging the experience • Reemployed 66 retired employees as senior workers or part-timers A and specialized knowledge of veteran employees • Diligently facilitate the hiring of persons with disabilities in cooperation with local • Facilitated information sharing with local public job-placement offices in Japan to public job-placement offices in Japan diligently hire persons with disabilities; attained a 1.97% ratio of employees with A disabilities in the total workforce (as of June 1, 2011) • Maintain a 1.8% ratio of employees with disabilities in the total workforce, as designated by the applicable law in Japan • Participate in joint company orientation sessions and seminars in universities and • Welcomed about 2,700 students on a cumulative basis to internship programs with colleges; increase opportunities to meet students via OB and OG recruiters A workshops, practical training sessions, and online training courses • Strengthen public relations for global and Group recruiting activities • Expanded report items in the Challenging Job System (for self-determination on the • Maintain the Challenging Job System and leverage it for the appointment of A career path) employees • Rolled out various measures further across the Group and strove to improve the • Establish and upgrade various programs and infrastructures, and deploy them A quality of Group-wide human assets across the Group Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets; A, Targets achieved; B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved; C, Activities insufficient TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 9 Toppan’s CSR Activities Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” C  orporate Philosophy, Corporate Creed, TOPPAN VISION 21 sets forth the basic concept and direcand Conduct Guidelines tionality for the sustainable development of the Group in harThe Corporate Structure is made up of three elements: mony with society and the global environment. ­Toppan’s Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate Creed, and the The vision consists of a “Corporate Structure” and a set of Conduct Guidelines. These elements specify a complete set “Business Fields.” The Corporate Structure specifies ideals of values, standards, and guidelines for the operations of the and important values and concepts for the Toppan Group. Toppan Group. The Group believes that endeavors to realize the Corporate Toppan established the Corporate Philosophy, the top-level Structure will support the sustainable development of Toppan concept underpinning all of Toppan’s corporate activities, to and society as a whole. promote Toppan’s continual development as a socially valuable corporation. The Corporate Creed expresses the standards to be kept foremost in mind when performing business operations. Built on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed, the Conduct Guidelines set out the basic concepts and behavioral norms for Toppan employees both as businesspeople and as members of society. Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” Corporate Philosophy Corporate Creed Conduct Guidelines Each of us shall To build our customers’ trust though Chapter 1: Basic Principles sincerity, enthusiasm, and creativity in 1. Respecting basic human rights reciprocate our customers’ all our corporate endeavors. 2. Having high ethical standards continued trust, and acting as a responsible member of society create dedicated products by To strive for total innovation from a 3. Complying with laws and harnessing our vibrant knowledge global perspective by conducting company rules and conducting marketing and technological fair business operations and technology, development rich in originality. 4. Avoiding all links with antisocial and contribute to a fulfilling lifestyle as groups 5. S triving to improve quality and a mainstay of information and culture. To conduct fair and open business providing creations that operations while acknowledging our contribute to customer satisfaction social responsibilities and aspiring for 6. R ecognizing the importance of Established in June 2000 harmony with our global environment. information related to business and managing it appropriately To create a positive working 7. P roactively undertaking conservation of the global environment by maximizing our environment individual talents and strengths 8. Embracing change and taking as a team. on new challenges 9. B uilding trust from society through social contribution TOPPAN VISION 21 To enhance our corporate activities and appropriate http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ standing and promote the continual disclosure of information corporateinfo/vision/corp_image/rinen.html development of the Toppan Group 10. Bringing together individual through the exploration of new strengths to fully exploit the integrated strength of the group possibilities. Established in June 2000; revised in November 2010 See page 25 for Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Established in June 2000 Guidelines. 10 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Dialogue with Stakeholders Commitment to ISO 26000 Toppan has links with various stakeholders when conducting ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility was issued in its corporate activities. The Company has defined five categoNovember 2010. This standard provides guidance on the prinries of stakeholders who are either vital for its business operciples of social responsibility—what it means and how it applies ations or potentially impacted by them: customers (client to organizations. Any type of organization of any size can use companies, consumers), business partners, communities, it. Unlike other standards on quality or environmental manageshareholders/investors, and employees. ment, this standard focuses on stakeholder opinions: no cerTo realize its ideal “Corporate Structure,” Toppan must contification is granted by third-party organizations. tinually engage stakeholders in dialogue and reflect their opinISO 26000 has been formulated through the consensus of ions in the shaping of corporate activities satisfactory to all various stakeholders. Governments and various types of stakeholders. organizations and entities from all over the world engage in Stakeholder dialogues are a very effective way to grasp the standard-making process. This standard therefore typifies social needs. Toppan has promoted and upgraded its CSR social demands. As such, ­Toppan believes that sincerely activities by incorporating stakeholder dialogues into the PDCA responding to these demands will be vital for Toppan’s efforts cycle. In addition to regular dialogues with the five categories to realize the Corporate Structure. of stakeholders in the course of daily business, Toppan holds As a first step to accommodating ISO 26000, Toppan has meetings with representatives from each stakeholder category edited this CSR report to summarize CSR activities undertaken and with experts and organizations deeply knowledgeable on in fiscal 2010 in line with the seven core subjects of social social issues. These meetings began in fiscal 2004 and have responsibility defined under the standard. In fiscal 2011, continued into fiscal 2010, reaping valuable ideas on ways to ­Toppan will crosscheck with ISO 26000 to identify how the facilitate Toppan’s CSR activities. Company can best upgrade its CSR activities. Toppan’s Stakeholders Seven Core Subjects Customers (client companies, consumers) Holistic approach Community involvement and Human rights development Organizational governance Labour Shareholders and Business partners Consumer ORGANIZATION practices investors TOPPAN issues Fair operating The environment practices Interdependence Employees Communities Source: Chart from the ISO 26000 English/Japanese bilingual version (Japanese Standards Association), with partial revisions TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 11 Initiatives at Toppan and Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Seven Core Subjects Issues For Details Pages Organizational Organizational governance ICorporate Governance P. 13− ICSR Initiatives governance IRisk Management Structure IBusiness Continuity Management (BCM) Human rights Issue 1: Due diligence IRespecting Basic Human Rights and Setting Up a Reporting System P. 16− Issue 2: Human rights risk situations Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity ICollective Labor Agreement Issue 4: Resolving grievances IWorking for Equal Opportunity and Eliminating Discrimination Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups Issue 6: Civil and political rights Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights Issue 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work Labour practices Issue 1: Employment and employment relationships IBasic Concept of Human Assets P. 18− Issue 2: Conditions of work and social protection ILabor-Management Partnership Issue 3: Social dialogue ISupporting Work-Life Balance Issue 4: Health and safety at work IOccupational Safety and Health / Healthcare Issue 5: Human development and training in the and Health Enhancement workplace IMeasures for Mental Healthcare IDeveloping and Fostering Human Assets The environment Issue 1: Prevention of pollution IToppan’s Environmental Activities P. 32− Issue 2: Sustainable resource use IEnvironmental Targets and Results (for the Issue 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation Medium-and-long-term and Fiscal 2010) Issue 4: Protection of the environment, biodiversity and INew Medium-and-long-term Environmental restoration of natural habitats Targets and Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2011 IToppan’s Environmental Burden IEnvironmental Management Activities IEco-protection Activities IEco-creativity Activities IEnvironmental Communication Activities Fair operating Issue 1: Anti-corruption IDisseminating the Conduct Guidelines P. 22− Issue 2: Responsible political involvement IToppan Group Helpline practices Issue 3: Fair competition IImplementing the Conduct Guidelines in Issue 4: Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Overseas Group Companies Issue 5: Respect for property rights ICompliance Education IEducation on Compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan IPromoting CSR Procurement IConduct Guidelines and Information Management Policy Consumer issues Issue 1: Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices IAssuring Product Safety and Quality P. 26− IChallenges in Universal Design Issue 2: Protecting consumers’ health and safety IProtecting Personal Information Issue 3: Sustainable consumption IContributing to Sustainable Consumption Issue 4: Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution Issue 5: Consumer data protection and privacy Issue 6: Access to essential services Issue 7: Education and awareness Community Issue 1: Community involvement IAssistance for the Areas Distressed by the Great East Japan Earthquake P. 30− Issue 2: Education and culture involvement and ICommunity Contribution and Involvement Issue 3: Employment creation and skills development development Issue 4: Technology development and access Issue 5: Wealth and income creation Issue 6: Health Issue 7: Social investment 12 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Organizational Governance  oppan has strengthened the governance structure through the establishment of a Management Audit Office, T Points Compliance Department, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board of Corporate Auditors according to the Companies Act of Japan. Toppan develops governance aimed at maximizing the corporate value of the entire Group under the Related Company Administration Regulations. Corporate Governance C  orporate Auditors, Board of Corporate Auditors, Corporate governance provides the foundation for addressing and Audit Firm the seven core subjects. As of the end of March 2011, Toppan has four corporate audiToppan has strengthened the governance structure through tors, including two external auditors, of whom one is an indethe establishment of a Management Audit Office, Compliance pendent director. Along with board meetings, the corporate Department, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors and Manof Corporate Auditors according to the Companies Act of agement Committee and important meetings on the environJapan. Toppan develops governance aimed at maximizing the ment. They systematically carry out audits for operational sites corporate value of the entire Group under the Related Comand related companies in close cooperation with the audit firm pany Administration Regulations prescribed for the advanceand internal audit-related departments in the Company. ment of fair management for the Group. Through these tasks, they audit and advise the Company from a preventive perspective to ensure the legality of the operations T  he Directors, Board of Directors, and Various of the directors and departments and smooth and appropriate Meetings corporate management in line with company policies and Toppan has 26 directors, including two outside directors, on regulations. They also regularly convene a board of corporate its board (as of the end of March 2011). Board meetings are auditors of related companies to improve the effectiveness of held monthly and whenever a pressing matter requires action the audits by the corporate auditors across the Group. or deliberation. Especially important management themes are Toppan has had KPMG AZSA LLC verify the propriety of the deliberated beforehand by the Management Committee, a Company’s accounts through audits to enhance the reliability body made up of directors selected by the President & Repand transparency of the Company’s financial information. resentative Director. The goal is to lay weight on managerial efficiency in business decision making. Organizational Governance Corporate Governance Structure Meeting of Shareholders Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Board of Directors Auditing Auditing Supervising Selecting or dismissing Special Committee (for Advising and defending against takeover bids) counseling Crisis Management Committee President & Representative Director Management Committee Responding to Considers issues prior to emergencies board of directors’ meetings (Board of) Corporate Auditors Directors in charge Auditing Investigates and audits the legality and Auditing Business Divisions Observing Management Audit Office appropriateness of operational activities and Audit firm guiding Promotes, monitors, and verifies strict Group companies observance of business-related laws Compliance Department Reporting Independently check, evaluate, and regulations and the establishment and make improvements of ethical business practices Corporate Auditors Office under the direction of departments responsible Ecology Center Coordinates, supervises, and verifies for laws and regulations Toppan’s environmental activities Guiding Instructing National Conduct Guidelines Assisting Promotion Supervisors Other organizations for control Chief information Safety and Health Committee security manager TPM National Conference National Eco-protection Committee Working together TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 13 Strengthening Audit Functions Remuneration to Directors and Corporate Auditors The Management Audit Office is a body established independIn fiscal 2010, the total annual remuneration to directors was ently from the business divisions. Working from legal and 1,088 million yen and the total annual remuneration to corporational viewpoints, the office conducts fair and objective audits rate auditors was 124 million yen. Please refer to the Status on the administrative and operational systems and practical of Corporate Governance, etc. in the financial statements for status of the Company’s management activities. The office details on the method used to determine remunerations and provides feedback to the relevant departments on problems, other remuneration-related information. proposes measures for improvement, and reports the audit results to the President & Representative Director, directors in CSR Initiatives charge of relevant departments, and corporate auditors. In Structure fiscal 2010, the office carried out 32 management audits and Under the President & Representative Director and the Direcoperation audits. It also conducted maintenance and operator in charge of CSR, the CSR management divisions of the tional evaluations of internal controls over financial reporting head office work in collaboration with each other to promote for all Company divisions and major subsidiaries. CSR activities. These divisions convene regular CSR promotion The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs Division department meetings to assess the progress of their activities spearheads the Company’s initiatives to ensure the strict and discuss ways to resolve related challenges. observance of laws and regulations and to firmly establish ethical business practices. The department facilitates the comMaterial Topics plete awareness of the Conduct Guidelines, organizes To help realize the Corporate Structure, Toppan has sought employee education on compliance with applicable laws, and out stakeholder views and established eight material topics to implements internal audits on information security (➞PP. 22, address through CSR activities. Action points and goals are 28). The Ecology Center in the Manufacturing & Technology set for every material topic, and achievement levels are conOrganizational Governance Division supervises environmental activities by conducting firmed in order to review every goal and action (➞P. 8). internal audits at operational sites and monitoring the progress After fiscal 2011, Toppan will review the existing topics and of improvements (➞P. 32). identify new areas on which to focus in light of the seven core subjects set under ISO 26000. CSR Promotion Structure Material Topics President & Representative Director Assuring product safety and quality / providing products Complying with laws, regulations, and corporate ethics Customers Director in charge of CSR and services to help solve social issues Reinforcing information risk management CSR promotion department meeting Conserving the global environment Administration Corporate Business Establishing a trusted Legal Affairs Division Structure partners supply chain Towards the Secretary Department realization of the Corporate Contributing to society, Public Relations Division Communities Philosophy, community, and culture Corporate Planning Corporate Division Creed, and Conduct Disclosing information in Personnel & Labor Shareholders Relations Division Guidelines a fair and open manner and and investors improving transparency Finance & Accounting Division Manufacturing & Technology Division Employees Respecting and leveraging human assets Business Development & Research Division Purchasing Division Stakeholders Eight Material Topics 14 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Risk Management Structure Business Continuity Management (BCM) Toppan manages risk comprehensively to avoid risk and minEarthquakes are more frequent in Japan than in almost every imize the losses incurred when events at risk of occurring other country in the world. To prepare for a possible operational actually occur. shutdown in the aftermath of a large-scale earthquake, Toppan The Rules on Risk Management have been established to has been consolidating a structure to resume business operresolve matters regarding risk avoidance and the minimization ations as rapidly as possible in a post-disaster environment. of loss when an event at risk of occurring actually occurs. In In fiscal 2010, the Group began to formulate business continuaccordance with these rules, the Company has set up a risk ity plans (BCPs) on a full-scale basis. Starting with the Tokyo management structure under which the responsibilities for risk metropolitan district, Toppan is laying down BCPs for the busimanagement are allotted to specific divisions in the head office ness fields of Information & Networks, Living Environment, and based on the types of risk involved. Under this structure, the Electronics, as well as for the departments handling informadirectors in charge of each relevant division are responsible tion systems. for taking measures to prevent, avoid, and correct each type of risk. After the Great East Japan Earthquake Toppan reviews risks to be managed once a year and examToppan was beset with various difficulties, including damage ines countermeasures to be taken in line with the rules. The at several plants, when the Great East Japan Earthquake Company also holds a regular Risk Management Liaison Meetstruck. The Group has managed to solve these difficulties in ing for the persons in charge of risk management in the head the post-quake period. To secure business sustainability, the office divisions in order to share information on a continuous lessons learned from the disaster will be fully reflected in the basis and respond to risk practically. BCPs the Group designs. Toppan will construct a Group-wide business continuity management structure through the swift implementation of BCPs across the Group and the ongoing Organizational Governance review and improvement of those plans. Risk to Be Managed and the Relevant Head Office Divisions in Charge Countermeasures against Disasters Risk to Be Managed Toppan has carried out comprehensive disAccidents involving products or aster-preparedness measures throughout its Accidents or complaints related to products (Manufacturing & Technology Div.) product liability operational sites under a basic plan for counAccidents related to main systems (Business System Div.) termeasures against disasters. Occupational accidents, traffic accidents, and other accidents involving The foremost aims of the countermeasemployees (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) ures against disasters at the Group are to ensure the safety of all Toppan employees Incidents related to notes or accounts receivable (Finance & Accounting Div.) and their families and to provide aid for afAccidents or disasters related Legal problems with orders received (Legal Affairs Div.) fected people in general. A safety confirmato company operations Leakage of personal information or internal confidential information (Legal tion system composed of multiple communiAffairs Div.) cation channels such as email and mobile Accidents or disasters related to fires or explosions (Manufacturing & phone has been in place since 2011 as a tool Technology Div.) to allow employees to immediately confirm Illegal activities related to the storage of solvents, management of dangerous their safety in the event of a wide-scale disaschemicals, etc. (Manufacturing & Technology Div.) ter such as an earthquake. All operational Damage to the company’s internal computer system due to cyber terrorism, sites reserve stockpiles of food and other illegal access or use of company information, and leakage of personal Defamation, slander, and other information or internal information (Business System Div.) requisites for commuters who have no means criminal damages to return to their homes. The Group has also Acts of violence against the company (threats, kidnapping, robbery) (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) been preparing procedures to minimize damRelationships with antisocial Unreasonable demands from antisocial organizations, transactions conductages to business operations, preserve comorganizations ed between business partners and antisocial organizations (Legal Affairs Div.) pany assets, and provide assistance to cusMaterial losses or personal accidents suffered by customers or the company tomers and disaster-affected people and Natural disasters due to earthquakes, wind or water damage, lightning, etc. (Personnel & areas in cooperation with companies and Labor Relations Div.) residents in the community as a socially reRisk in business management Shareholder derivative lawsuits, hostile takeovers (Legal Affairs Div.) sponsible corporation. In parallel with these Unlawful activities related to Violations of the Subcontract Law of Japan, illegal transactions with disaster-preparedness measures, measures external contracts business partners (Manufacturing & Technology Div.) are also being taken to raise awareness of Infringement of intellectual disaster-mitigation procedures among indiInfringements of patents, trademarks, copyrights (Legal Affairs Div.) property vidual employees. Through the regular repetiEnvironmental problems Violations of environmental laws or standards, illegal disposal of industrial tion of evacuation drills and other various waste (Manufacturing & Technology Div.) drills in fireand disaster-preparedness, every Product accidents, environmental problems, fires or natural disasters, employee will have the know-how to deal with Risk in overseas business damage to human or physical resources caused by international conflicts or emergency situations quickly and properly. activities terrorism, etc. (Corporate Planning Div.) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 15 Human Rights B  ased on the concept of respect for people, Toppan is committed to respecting basic human rights inside and Points outside the Company and has prepared an environment and systems for this purpose. Inside the Company, Toppan concludes a collective labor agreement and promotes policies for equal opportunity and measures to eliminate discrimination. Respecting Basic Human Rights and Collective Labor Agreement Setting Up a Reporting System The Toppan Printing Labour Union and the management of Toppan places great value on the concept of respect for peothe Company have concluded a collective labor agreement in ple. This is a universal value for the Company. The Conduct order to stabilize labor-management relations, maintain and Guidelines call for the recognition of the diverse values of indiimprove working conditions, and secure the corporate conviduals and respect for individuality. The guidelines prohibit cord. The agreement sets forth a fundamental policy between any violation of basic human rights through discrimination labor and management, the rules governing union activities based on race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, gender, age, and labor-management negotiations, and employment condiphysical characteristics, or any other attribute. tions such as wages and working hours. Toppan has been promoting awareness-raising activities in As a fundamental policy between labor and management, rank-based training for employees to raise esteem for basic Article 1 of the collective labor agreement, the General Prinhuman rights. One such activity is to protect the working enviciples, stipulates that the Company and union shall contribute ronment from the influences of sexual and power harassment to society through business operations and collectively work and another is to develop prompt solutions for any harassment for the benefit of the Company and long-term stability of that may occur. employees’ livelihood. Labor and management both uphold To resolve and prevent troubles with sexual harassment, these as common goals. Article 2 of the agreement specifies inappropriate employee conduct is reprimanded under employthat the Company shall respect the union’s rights to organize ment regulations based on the Basic Policy on Sexual Harassand collectively bargain and act. It clearly states that the union ment at the Workplace established in 1999. Sexual harassment has all the rights established by law. The effective period of counselors are also deployed. the collective labor agreement is two years. When neither the No instances of child, forced, or compulsory labor have union nor the Company indicates its intention to revise or ever occurred in the Company. ­terminate the agreement at least thirty days before its expiraHuman Rights tion, the agreement will remain in effect for no more than another six months after the expiration date. Initiatives for Respecting Basic Human Rights Participating in the United Nations Global Compact Toppan participates in the global policy initiative and respects basic human rights in a proactive manner with other business participants. Establishing and disseminating the Working for equal opportunity and Conduct Guidelines (PP. 22, 25) eliminating discrimination In the Conduct Guidelines, Toppan’s listing of Toppan respects personal qualities and behavioral norms for employees, Toppan individuality, and hires and treats employees specifies respect for basic human rights and Respect for without discrimination of any kind. disseminates this principle across the Group. people Promoting CSR procurement ( P. 24) Organizing training and education Toppan specifies respect for basic human rights in Toppan organizes training sessions for new its CSR Procurement Guidelines and requires its employees to educate them about respect for business partners to comply with the guidelines. basic human rights in easy-to-understand lessons. Setting up a reporting system Contributing to society ( PP. 22, 24) ( P. 30) Toppan operates a hotline via which Toppan supports people’s livelihood through educational employees and business partners can cooperation in developing countries and donations and report inappropriate actions. the supply of goods throughout the world. 16 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Working for Equal Opportunity and Employment of Persons with Disabilities Eliminating Discrimination Toppan promotes the hiring of persons with disabilities mainly Positive Action via Tokyo Metropolitan Government (T.M.G.) Prepress Toppan Toppan has promoted positive action aiming at the creation Co., Ltd., a special subsidiary that employs persons with disof new services and businesses. To better respond to cusabilities. As of June 1, 2011, persons with disabilities accounted tomer and social needs, the Company needs to develop new for 1.97% of the total workforce at Toppan. products and services from feminine perspectives. Toppan has 161 female managerial and supervisory staff (as of April Providing an Open Environment for Recruitment 2011). Toppan offers various employment opportunities for persons of both genders and persons of many nationalities, ages, and levS  elf-determination on the Career Path / els of physical ability. Recruitment takes mainly three forms: Second Careers regular hiring of new graduates from universities and high Toppan has established the Challenging Job System, a program schools; mid-career hiring of experienced personnel year round; to encourage employees to consider their own work experiand hiring of persons with disabilities year round. To hire new ences, official qualifications, and the departments and divisions graduates from universities, Toppan conducts screenings in to which they would like to be transferred. Employees think seven geographical areas across Japan. The Company also sets carefully about their own medium-to-long-term career developby-job-type screenings in Japan and recruitment screenings ment and the skill-enhancement plans necessary to move them outside of Japan. All graduates screened are given the chance on track. The system cultivates a problem-solving, can-do to choose in accordance with their own aspirations and vocamindset that kicks in when employees reach the new positions tional aptitudes. Before the screenings, Toppan determines the to which they aspire. For retired employees in their second talent requirements based on the results of employee consciouscareers in company life, the system offers working options ness surveys and a review of the behavioral characteristics of Human Rights matched to their career aspirations and the knowledge, expeoutstanding achievers in the Company. During the screening, rience, and skills they have acquired through long years of Toppan tries to estimate if the recruits have suitable competenservice. Seventy-eight of 89 employees who retired in fiscal cies and potentialities. The Company also runs internship pro2010 were reemployed and now remain with the Company. grams to boost student awareness about work. A cumulative total of about 2,700 students participated in workshops, practical training sessions, and online training courses in fiscal 2010. Female Managerial and Supervisory Staff Number of Recruits*1 (Staff) Female supervisory staff Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Female managerial staff (as of April) 160 161 Male 136 57 51 149 Regular Sales, 136 140 recruitment of administration, etc. Female 72 20 23 120 new university graduates and Male 150 56 83 post-graduates Technical 124 Female 36 21 22 80 115 110 110 New graduates from high schools and Male 155 0 3 National Colleges of Technology Female 24 9 13 40 573 163 195 34 37 Total number of regular recruits (percent female) 26 30 (23.0%) (30.7%) (29.7%) 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) Mid-career recruitment of experienced 13 18 — personnel Employment of Persons with *1 The number of employees presented for fiscal 2009 includes employees who are now working at Disabilities subsidiaries that were spun off on April 1, 2009. 2009 2010 2011 Employees 160 183 199 Percentage of total 1.90% 1.89% 1.97% workforce*2 *2 The percentage is calculated based on the total number of regular employees (as of June 1) as a denominator. The total number was presented in the Disabled Persons Em­ ploy­ment Report in accordance with Article 8 of the Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of the Disabled of Japan. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 17 Labor Practices  oppan recognizes how deeply it depends on employees and encourages them to work vigorously and T earnestly with strong motivation. Points Toppan establishes labor-management relationships in which labor and management stand on equal footing and trust and respect each other. Toppan has been implementing initiatives to support better work-life balance and has substantially decreased the average hours of overtime worked. Basic Concept of Human Assets Labor-Management Partnership Toppan values its employees as precious company assets As partners in shared ideals, Toppan’s labor union and man(“human assets”) and recognizes how deeply it depends on agement have trust in each other and respect for each other’s them. From this perspective, the Company supports the motipositions. The two parties work on various issues together on vated, vigorous, and earnest work of the Toppan workforce. an equal footing and hold events of various sorts, including The Company keenly understands the importance of the motirecreational activities for employees. Placing safety and health vation to take on new challenges, the drive to work vigorously activities as a top priority for both labor and management in with a healthy body and mind, and earnest commitment to fiscal 2010, Toppan opened Anzen Dojo, a safety training facilfollow through on tasks to completion. When employees are ity outfitted to simulate occupational accidents for enhanced vigorous, earnest, and have strong motivation, Toppan is consafety awareness. Labor and management cosponsored vinced that they show their true abilities to the full. ­Toppan Sports Festival 2010 at the Seibu Dome in Saitama Toppan strives to improve the abilities and draw out the Prefecture and welcomed 4,400 participants, including the organizational powers of every employee through the stages employees and their families from Group companies in the of hiring, appointment, training, and treatment. To do so, it Tokyo metropolitan area. places high priority on communication in a spirit of mutual Business councils are convened as Company-wide and trust, career progress in the directions in which employees operational site forums to discuss wide-ranging managerial envision, clearly defined rewards and penalties, and the estabissues. Several types of special committees to deliberate indilishment of an open and fair environment. At the beginning of vidual issues are also convened. Standing committees meet fiscal 2011, ­Toppan reinforced its function to control human to discuss issues such as working hour reductions, wages, resource development throughout the Group. The Company welfare, and safety and health. Likewise, individual committees plans to develop the Group further by fostering more people meet when necessary to discuss specially designated subwho can create new businesses and markets. jects, such as the creation of a working environment amenable Labor Practices to enhanced job satisfaction. Toppan has adopted a union shop system. In principle, all non-managerial employees belong to the labor union as members. Number of Employees (as of March 31) A spin-off of subsidiaries on April 1, 2009 substantially altered the number of employees. Management Total Average Sum Total Part-time Temporary Directors Supervisors Average Age Class Employees Tenure Employees Workers Staff Fiscal Male 28 1,836 2,244 10,437 15.3 39.2 11,548 1,208 1,666 2008 Female 1 26 108 1,111 9.0 31.7 Fiscal Male 27 1,670 1,853 7,672 14.4 40.0 8,769 541 144 2009 Female 1 30 104 1,097 8.5 31.5 Fiscal Male 26 1,686 1,800 7,512 14.4 40.7 8,633 647 47 2010 Female 0 33 114 1,121 8.7 32.2 Reasons for Leaving*1 Annual Paid Leave Used Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Personal reasons 218 (40) 110 (40) 116 (38) Average paid 8.1 7.7 7.8 leave used (days) Retirement 144 ( 3) 118 ( 0) 89 ( 0) Requested by the Average ratio*2 43.5% 40.8% 40.7% 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) company *2 Average ratio = average paid leave used / average paid leave granted Other 33 ( 1) 50 ( 4) 60 ( 2) Total 395 (44) 278 (44) 265 (40) Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Turnover rate 3.4% 3.1% 3.0% Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Employees taking *1 T he number of female employees who left the company is shown in 42 45 72 maternity leave ­parentheses. Employees taking 74 (2) 72 (0) 94 (1) childcare leave*3 Average Annual Salary *3 The number of male employees who took childcare leave is shown in Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 ­parentheses. Total 6,561,080 yen 6,442,189 yen 6,680,897 yen 18 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Supporting Work-Life Balance Efforts to Foster the Next Generation  fforts to Shorten Working Hours E Toppan has striven to create a working environment in which Excessive overtime is a longstanding issue for Toppan. Every employees can achieve better work-life balance. It does so by operational site has examined and implemented measures to providing systems for childcare and nursing care leave, for control the numbers of hours worked. For the time being, reduced working hours, and for a higher family allowance for however, the Company has yet to achieve fundamental soludependents. A rehiring system for employees who resign from tions, due to characteristics of the printing industry and other the Company to deliver and bring up children has been in place factors. In October 2008, Toppan launched a Company-wide since fiscal 2006. Now, in the fifth year of system operation, effort to eradicate extended overtime work as a means of 17 resigning employees have registered for future rehiring. achieving better work-life balance and maintaining employee Toppan has made other institutional improvements, as well. health. For example, the eligibility period for reduced working hours Senior management, managers, and employees jointly for employees with childcare responsibilities is now extended undertake initiatives to improve operating effectiveness by to the end of the child’s third year of elementary school, a point reviewing the ways individuals work and the ways management in time beyond the requirements of the applicable law in Japan. administrates; to equalize overtime hours by adjusting operaA staggered working-hour system for expectant mothers and tions within the departments; and to introduce new working childrearing parents has also been introduced. systems such as flextime and irregular working schedules. In fiscal 2010, Toppan extended the period of childcare At the ongoing business councils and labor-management leave up until the first March 31 after the employee’s child committees, senior management and labor exchange opinions reaches the age of 12 months. This change satisfies the and deliberate on measures to further shorten overtime workrequirements of the revised “Act on the Welfare of Workers ing hours and to comply with the revised Labor Standards Act Who Take Care of Children or Other Family Members Including of Japan. They also analyze the actual overtime practices and Child Care and Family Care Leave” of Japan. It also addresses Labor Practices review the use of the newly introduced working systems. difficulties that parents face in Japan, where entry to daycare As a result of these initiatives, the number of employees services is often impossible midway through the year. With a who worked long hours was reduced by about 95% in fiscal new extension of the Company’s systems for reduced working 2010 compared with fiscal 2007, the year before the measures hours and other childcare supports, these systems now remain were introduced. The average hours of overtime worked also in effect up until an employee’s child finishes the third year of decreased by more than 15%. elementary school, even in cases where the employee’s spouse has time to devote to childcare. Main Leave Systems / Measures to Support Work-Life Balance and Foster the Next Generation Stock Leave Employees can accumulate up to 50 days of annual paid leave (exercisable within two years from the date they are granted). Employees are eligible to use their stock leave for treatments for themselves or their dependents, healthcare for their families, or recovery from unexpected disasters. Childcare Leave Both mothers and fathers are eligible for fulltime childcare leave consecutively up until the first March 31 after their child reaches the age of 12 months (Eleven male employees have taken childcare leave so far, on a cumulative basis). Employees on leave receive 10% of their regular salaries from the Company (until their child reaches the age of 18 months) and subsidies of 30,000 yen a month from the Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society. They can also work for shorter hours (maximum reduction of two hours per day) or select a flextime or irregular working schedule from the date of their return to the job until their child completes the third year of elementary school. The Company subsidizes certain childcare costs and provides childcare-related information through a consultation office. Rehiring of Employees Rehiring is guaranteed for an employee who resigns to deliver and raise a child, provided that the employee has worked for who Leave the Company Toppan for more than three consecutive years up to the date of resignation. A resigned employee who meets these conditions to Raise Children will remain eligible for rehiring until May 1 of the year when the child enters elementary school. Nursing Care Leave Employees are entitled to take leave for nursing care. The maximum consecutive leave and maximum reduction in a working day are one year and two hours, respectively, for every family member requiring the nursing care. The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society pays a 30,000-yen subsidy per month as assistance during the nursing care leave. The Company subsidizes certain nursing care costs and provides nursing care-related information. Leave for Child Employees can take up to 10 days of leave a year, regardless of the number of children they are raising. These days can be Healthcare taken in half-day allotments when necessary. Volunteer Leave In principle, employees can take volunteer leave to engage in socially beneficial activities for a maximum of one year. Employees on volunteer leave receive an allowance. Staggered Work-hours An employee can adjust daily working hours upward or downward by up to one hour to avoid rush-hour commutes during pregnancy and by up to two hours for childcare (until his or her child completes the third year of elementary school). Dependent Family The Company pays every employee with children a monthly allowance of 20,000 yen for each child. This allowance is Allowance discontinued on the first April 1 to arrive after the child’s 18th birthday. (No limit for the number of children is applied.) Partial Subsidization of The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society subsidizes 50% of babysitter expenses (up to a 5,000-yen limit per day) for up to Babysitter Expenses 90 days a year. Other Systems The Toppan Group Health Insurance Union offers a supplementary allowance in addition to a lump-sum allowance for childbearing and childrearing. It also provides one-year free subscriptions to the monthly childrearing magazine Baby and Mommy and runs a consultation office for employees with questions about the health of the body and mind. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 19 Occupational Safety and Health / Measures for Mental Healthcare Healthcare and Health Enhancement Labor and management regard the maintenance of employee Labor and management at Toppan have integrally propelled health as a shared mission vital for the corporate activities at activities to enhance occupational safety and health. The Toppan and have regularly met to exchange frank views on Safety and Health Committee of each operational site plays a mental healthcare measures. central role in these activities with the goal of completely elimIn fiscal 2008, several rules were appended to the employinating occupational accidents. While occupational accidents ment regulations to help the Company provide a working envihave yet to be completely eliminated, these efforts have ronment to which employees can more readily return from reduced both the frequency and severity rates to low levels. mental healthcare leave. These rules define a clear set of criToppan formulated the Company-wide Basic Policy on teria for deciding when an employee should return to work, Safety and Health in June 2010. These policies strictly affirm measures to prevent the recurrence of leave, and programs that business operations should place top priority on safety to support employees once they return to work. Toppan also and clearly spell out the actions all operational sites should holds regular mental health checks for all employees to prevent carry out. The Company is working to enhance the safety and promptly care for mental problems. awareness of individual employees by organizing education In a fiscal 2009 project conducted with the Institute of the throughout the operational sites. Danger simulation programs Formative Art Co., Ltd. within the Toppan Group, the Company are also arranged using specialized hardware to simulate acciintroduced Art Salon, an art session to refresh employee minds dents involving fire, explosion, and the jamming of body parts and bodies through the creative work of painting. Sessions in machines. In parallel, Toppan established the Health and have been held at operational sites across Japan from fiscal Safety Promotion Department at the head office in October 2010 onward, delighting many of the employees who have 2010. This department supports the safety and health promotaken part. Employees are also encouraged to freely consult tion activities at all operational sites, quickly and proactively with counselors in counseling rooms in all regions where Labor Practices provides necessary information, and implements various safety ­Toppan sites operate. In addition, the Company has concluded and health measures across the Company. All operational sites advisory agreements with mental healthcare specialists to in the Company work in a concerted manner to completely secure a ready source of instruction and advice from profeseliminate occupational accidents. sional viewpoints. Occupational Safety and Health Overview of the Mental Healthcare System 2008 2009 2010 Steps to Prevent Primary Secondary Medical Recurrence: Deaths from Prevention: Prevention: Treatment: Support for returning 0 0 0 Proactive measures Early detection Early cure occupational accidents employees (fresh starts) Frequency rate*1 0.19 0.09 0.00 Severity rate*2 0.001 0.003 0.00 Regular mental health checks, Contracts with mental healthcare specialists including stress checks *1 Number of occupational accidents requiring employee leave, per million working hours Mental health Cooperation with medical and counseling institutions outside Toppan (reflects the frequency of occupational training ­accidents) I In rank-based Guidance and information about consultants •A clear set of criteria *2 Number of workdays lost as a consequence outside Toppan (contracted with the for deciding when training an employee on of occupational accidents, per thousand I Incorporation Toppan Group Health Insurance Union) leave should return working hours (reflects the severity of occuinto optional •Rules for preventing (group) training the recurrence of pational accidents) mental healthcare leave Programs to support employees returning from mental healthcare leave Counseling rooms Art Salon, an art session for employees Appointment Steps to allay and deployment anxiety after of a person to resignation take charge of Financial assistance mental health from the Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit enhancement Society and other at every sources for fixed operational site periods after resignation Danger simulator at Anzen Dojo 20 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Developing and Fostering Human Assets and the Challenge School (correspondence learning courses).  oncept of Human Asset Development and Fosterage C Employees also have ready access to basic, Company-wide Toppan’s rank-based training helps employees understand the education via Toppan’s e-learning system. roles and responsibilities of each rank and appreciate and practice “conduct of high value.” The Company offers a wide Fostering New Employees variety of training programs to encourage employees to acquire Toppan regards the first three years after recruitment as the the “abilities and skills” required by each workplace. Informafosterage period for new employees and establishes an early tion on individuals and organizations is consolidated into a career planning system to help new employees learn about database as basic data used at each workplace for the susthemselves and achieve individually affirmed career ideals. A tainable growth of the business. senior associate in the employee’s workplace is appointed as Toppan rotates employees systematically to foster human a “Brother” or “Sister” responsible for training and fostering assets, help employees advance in their careers, and optimize new employees mainly through on-the-job training (OJT). With personnel positioning across the Group. help from the employee’s immediate superior, the Brother or Sister prepares a “design sheet for ability and skill development”  rganizing Rank-based Training and Various O and regularly checks the employee’s progress. Education Systems A cumulative total of 2,380 employees participated in rankFostering Human Assets Active in Global Businesses based training held by the head office in fiscal 2010. The head Toppan has set up an assortment of systems to support overoffice welcomes Group company employees to the sessions. seas study for human assets who can play active roles in In addition to the department-based training planned out by global businesses. The Company’s globalization training course the relevant divisions of the head office, divisional training is has supported a cumulative total of 151 candidates for overprovided to equip employees with practical skills essential for seas assignments as trainees from the launch of the program Labor Practices performing tasks in each business field. in 1996 up to the first half of fiscal 2010. To expand this trainThe Toppan Business School, meanwhile, offered selfing, the Company opened the course to all who wanted to development training to a cumulative total of 10,171 employapply in the second half of fiscal 2010 and invited a broader ees in fiscal 2010. The programs at the school are customizrange of employees to participate. As a result, 52 employees able to employee career designs with optional (group) courses completed the new training course in the first year. Systematic Human Asset Development Programs “Conduct of High Value” Based on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed Earning the trust of Strengthening business Fulfilling corporate Strengthening Improving corporate value customers foundations social responsibility organization “Abilities and Skills” for “Conduct of High Value” Knowledge and Ability to identify and Ability to Techniques and Skills in communication and information skills formulate tasks accomplish tasks know-how fostering subordinates Rank-based Training Department-based Training INew division manager training INew employee Company-wide ISelected training for section ITraining for employees in production INew department manager training training managers in sales departments control departments INew manager training IEarly career planning ISelected training for mid-level staff in ITraining for new supervisors in INew supervisor training IOJT brother/sister training sales departments technology departments ITraining for new section managers in IIndividual department-based training technology and manufacturing (Purchasing, Secretary, Personnel & departments Labor Relations, Technology & Research, and other divisions) Basic Company-wide Education (e-learning) Training for Globalized Businesses Training by the Divisions Toppan Business School IBasic education on CSR IMBA abroad training ITraining in each division and at each IOptional training IBasic education on TOPPAN VISION 21 IStudy abroad program for engineers workplace IChallenge School IBasic education on the environment IIT training in India IVideo library IEducation on profit creation in IShort-term overseas study Selective Training business IGlobalization training IBasic education on globalization IExecutive business school ITraining to nurture industry-leading talent *Operated together with Toppan Mind Wellness Co., Ltd. (in the Toppan Group), an education consultation company entrusted with training projects inside and outside the Company. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 21 Fair Operating Practices Toppan revised the Conduct Guidelines in the 10th year after their establishment. Points Toppan organized education on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan and checked how subcontract transactions were being handled. T  oppan expanded the boundaries of its CSR procurement initiatives. Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines  issemination Activities by Conduct Guidelines D In June of 2000, the year of its 100th anniversary, Toppan Promotion Leaders established the Conduct Guidelines to express the behavioral The Leaders formulate plans to disseminate the Conduct norms by which every employee in the Group should comply Guidelines and devote themselves to developing activities with laws, regulations, and corporate ethics. Toppan revised based on the plan. Their plans are tailored to the details of the Conduct Guidelines in 2010, the 10th year of their existbusiness operations, staff compositions, and other individual ence, to position them as a cornerstone for the further develfactors at the workplaces where the Leaders serve. opment of the Group. The revised guidelines are designed to be shared by all Tools to Promote the Conduct Guidelines Group companies around the world as an instrument for the Toppan gives every employee a Conduct Guidelines Casebook, assurance of full compliance. a Q&A style casebook describing actual situations that can arise in daily work. The Leaders make good use of the caseConduct Guidelines Promotion Leader System book to disseminate the guidelines and the Company uses it Toppan has introduced a Conduct Guidelines Promotion in rank-based compliance education. The Conduct Guideline Leader system to disseminate the Conduct Guidelines in the Notifications posted on the Company intranet heighten workplace and ensure full compliance with them. Conduct employee awareness and call attention to compliance-related Guidelines Promotion Supervisors (the “Supervisors”) and issues. The notifications published in fiscal 2010 provided Leaders (the “Leaders”) are deployed at every Toppan operainformation on topics such as information leakage, health and tional site, including the manufacturing subsidiaries. The cursafety, quality problems, and improper conduct. rent tally for Leaders across the Group stands at 751. Seven point five percent of these Leaders (56 in total) are female, and Toppan Group Helpline Toppan will resolutely continue to increase this rate by fosterThe Toppan Group Helpline, the Group’s internal reporting Fair Operating Practices ing more female Leaders. A cumulative total of 3,794 employsystem set up in 2003, complies with the Whistleblower Proees have worked as Leaders since the system was launched tection Act enforced in Japan from April 2006. The Helpline in 2004. was extended to cover all Group companies in 2008. When an employee discovers a legal violation or improper conduct, he or she is to report it to his/her superiors for deliberation. When the employee’s superiors fail to settle the problem, the Structure to Promote the Conduct Guidelines President & Representative Director Director in charge of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Compliance Department, Legal Affairs Division Divisions in the Company Divisions of the head office Division heads Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor Senior General Manager Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors of Legal Affairs Division Person in charge of management: Business Strategy Department GM Person in charge of education: General Affairs Department GM Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders in in sales and planning in manufacturing Promotion Leaders administrative departments departments departments Sales promotion Managers or supervisors Educational leaders Managers or supervisors managers, etc. from each department from each department Employees Employees 22 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 employee is encouraged to call the Helpline to report the matacross Japan, from May to September 2010. In the second, ter with his or her real name. The Helpline is kept open for use 520 Leaders were trained in 31 sessions, from November 2010 by all directors and employees, including temporary staff and to February 2011. part-time workers. Toppan also held ongoing compliance education in various The Helpline was used in five cases in fiscal 2010. The rank-based programs, including a training course for new incidents reported involved sexual and power harassment and employees. other inappropriate actions. All five cases were strictly investigated and properly handled, and necessary countermeasures Education on Compliance with the were taken to prevent recurrence. Subcontract Law of Japan Toppan has organized education on compliance with the SubImplementing the Conduct Guidelines in contract Law of Japan to attain full compliance with the law Overseas Group Companies in transactions with subcontractors. In fiscal 2010, 26 sessions By fiscal 2009, the Toppan Group had introduced and dismainly for employees in the planning and sales promotion seminated the Conduct Guidelines at Group companies in departments and manufacturing subsidiaries were held in Japan eastern Asia. In fiscal 2010, the Group began to revise the from October 2010, with 1,135 participants. In a separate guidelines already implemented in these companies, based effort, the Company checked how subcontract transactions on revised Conduct Guidelines designed to be shared by the were being handled in 47 sections throughout the country. entire Group. As soon as these revisions are completed, the Toppan also launched an e-learning-based educational Group holds briefing sessions in every country and region to program for sales departments on compliance with the law in ensure full compliance at these overseas Group c­ ompanies. November 2010. In total, 2,950 employees took part in fiscal 2010. Compliance Education Fair Operating Practices Compliance Education Briefing on Compliance As in the previous fiscal year, Toppan held the semi-annual Toppan was not involved in any violations of laws or regulations specialist training series for Conduct Guidelines Promotion with major impacts on society in fiscal 2010. The Company Leaders in fiscal 2010. The series were scheduled in two received no criminal punishments, administrative penalties, or phases. In the first, 575 Leaders were trained in 33 sessions administrative guidance. Toppan Group Helpline Approach to Intellectual Property Communicator When a problem is Protection and management of intellectual property is a crucial issue for not settled Toppan, a company engaged in planning and development in diverse All Group employees business fields such as Information & Networks, Living Environment, Electronics, Personal Service, and Next-generation Products. The ComReporting and pany devotes strict attention to measures to prevent the infringement of consultation copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights of third parties while obtaining patents for its own technologies and business Reporting on models. progress and As one measure, Toppan regularly holds training sessions for busiSuperior results, follow-up ness partners of the planning departments, in addition to the sessions for communication employees. Participants in these sessions acquire basic knowledge of Internal reporting laws on intellectual property rights by reviewing actual cases involving (emails or sealed documents sent troubles in design work and the like. with the employees’ real names) Receiver President & Representative Director or Senior Corporate Auditor Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Instructions Reporting Department responsible for investigation and countermeasures TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 23 Promoting CSR Procurement This database serves as a valuable information resource for The Toppan Group implements CSR initiatives in cooperation establishing a trusted supply chain between Toppan and its with business partners throughout the entire supply chain to business partners. enhance corporate value for every counterpart. Towards this In fiscal 2010, Toppan expanded the boundaries of its CSR end, the Group has established a set of CSR Procurement procurement initiatives and collected memorandums and Guidelines. questionnaires from 192 major business partners involved in These guidelines consist of the Basic Procurement Policy the provision of equipment for the Group. and the CSR Procurement Standards. The Basic Procurement The Group also held briefing sessions at seven operational Policy is a conceptual framework to be closely observed by sites for about 340 business partners involved in the producevery Toppan employee involved in procurement operations. tion. The briefings were designed to deepen the understandThe CSR Procurement Standards stipulate the requirements ing of the business partners and encourage them to fully impleto be satisfied by every business partner. At the same time, all ment measures addressing issues such as occupational safety employees in the Toppan Group are required to adhere to the and the management of waste, chemical substances, and standards. information security.  omplying with the CSR Procurement Standards and C Promoting Compliance in Procurement Departments Enhancing CSR Interactively The Toppan Group has established a Supplier Hotline, a The Toppan Group launched CSR procurement initiatives in portal for receiving reports from business partners, on its fiscal 2007. Since then, every business partner willing to coopwebsite. The Group regularly conducts Business Partner erate with the Group’s CSR endeavors has submitted a memMonitoring, a system surveying business partner satisfaction orandum of cooperation and reported the current status of its by questionnaire. CSR activities in a questionnaire. In fiscal 2010, the Group asked 19 business partners to fill Fair Operating Practices Toppan compiles the information written up in the memoin the questionnaire. Toppan analyzed the results and devised randums and questionnaires into a Business Partner Database. countermeasures for issues that came to light in the surveys. Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (revised from the Procurement Guidelines in May 2007) Basic Procurement Policy IWe give full consideration to impacts on the environment. IWe impartially offer opportunities to all suppliers. IWe pursue QCD (Quality, Cost, Delivery) in order to meet the needs of the IWe comply with all domestic and overseas legislation and perform fair busimarket. ness dealings based on corporate ethics. IWe implement CSR initiatives throughout the entire supply chain. IWe strictly control the information obtained through our procurement activities. CSR Procurement Standards (11) The company strives to make timely and appropriate disclosure of in1. Basic human rights formation relating to matters such as the details of business activities, (1) The company respects basic human rights. quality, and product safety. (2) The company does not carry out unjust discrimination in the treatment 4. The environment and safety and employment of employees. (12) The company strives to use raw materials and components with a low 2. Public order, compliance with laws, fair business activities impact on the environment. (3) The company does not carry out inappropriate profit sharing or re(13) The company strives to devise processes with a low impact on the ceipts. environment for manufacturing and processing. (4) The company does not have dealings with any antisocial individual or (14) The company carries out appropriate management of chemical subgroup. stances specified by Toppan. (5) The company complies with laws, regulations, and government notices (15) The company carries out appropriate disposal of industrial waste. applicable to business activities, such as company laws, antitrust laws, (16) The company strives to prevent work-related accidents and create a subcontracting laws, labor-related legislation, and environment-related safe and clean workplace, and also works to ensure the safety of legislation. employees in an emergency. (6) The company complies with laws protecting those who disclose infor5. Improving quality mation in the public interest, and it protects the rights of those who re(17) The company meets the standards for quality required by Toppan and port internally. strives to improve quality. (7) The company complies with legislation related to exports and with the 6. Appropriate pricing laws of the countries and regions in which it operates. (18) The company provides products or services at a price that is com(8) The company does not allow child labor or forced labor. petitive in the market. (9) The company does not infringe intellectual property rights such as pat7. Stable supply ents, copyrights, and trademarks. (19) The company meets stipulated delivery dates and supplies items 3. Management and disclosure of information safely and reliably. (10) The company carries out appropriate management of confidential in8. Social contributions formation and personal information obtained through its dealings. (20) The company engages in contributions to society. 24 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Conduct Guidelines and Information Management Policy Conduct Guidelines Here are the specific conduct guidelines presented after Chapter 1 of the Conduct Guidelines (described on page 10). Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Guidelines Chapter 2 defines the specific conduct practices that we should undertake based on the Basic Principles provided in Chapter 1. Basic Principle 1: Respecting basic human rights 1. R  ecognizing the diverse values of individuals and respecting personal Basic Principle 4: Avoiding all links with antisocial groups qualities and individuality 1. Prohibition of any dealings with antisocial groups 2. Prohibition of discrimination of any kind 2. Prohibition of involvement in antisocial activities 3. Prohibition of sexual and power harassment 3. Prohibition of provision of unjust benefits Basic Principle 2: H  aving high ethical standards and acting as Basic Principle 5: S  triving to improve quality and providing creations a responsible member of society that contribute to customer satisfaction In the conduct of business 1. M  aking our best efforts for the customer and building a relationship of 1. Acting with pride as a member of the Toppan Group trust 2. Prohibition of tacit approval of illegal conduct and rule violations 2. Striving to improve quality in every process 3. Respect for foreign cultures and customs 3. Fully ensuring the safety and security of products and services 4. Prohibition of the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others In our private lives 4. Prohibition of conduct that causes distress to other people Basic Principle 6: R  ecognizing the importance of information related 5. Prohibition of drink-driving to business and managing it appropriately 6. Prohibition of the possession and use of illegal drugs 7. Prohibition of gambling 1. Protecting information regarding customers 2. Protecting the company’s confidential information Basic Principle 3: C  omplying with laws and company rules and 3. Appropriate handling of personal information conducting fair business operations 4. Striving for the appropriate management of information and records Legal compliance Basic Principle 7: P  roactively undertaking conservation of the global 1. Prohibition of collusion and cartels environment 2. Prohibition of improper conduct in dealings with business partner companies 1. Striving to reduce the environmental burden of business activities 3. Prohibition of improper conduct against competitors Fair Operating Practices 2. Promoting businesses with consideration for the environment 4. Prohibition of false transactions 5. Respecting business partners’ standpoints and building appropriate relaBasic Principle 8: Embracing change and taking on new challenges tionships with customers 6. Prohibition of bribery and inappropriate entertainment practices 1. Making proposals that embrace change to customers 7. Prohibition of illegal political contributions or donations 2. Advancing technical development that meets the needs of customers 8. Prohibition of insider trading 3. Having an awareness of problems and striving to improve the status quo 9. Prohibition of illicit import and export transactions 4. Striving to enhance one’s knowledge, skills and techniques 10. Prohibition of child labor and forced labor 5. Securing and using intellectual property 11. Compliance with international rules and local laws in overseas business Basic Principle 9: B  uilding trust from society through social contribution Compliance with company rules activities and appropriate disclosure of information 12. Maintaining discipline and order in the workplace 13. Prohibition of other work without the company’s permission 1. P roactively participating in the company’s activities to contribute to society 14. Prohibition of conduct that causes a conflict of interests with the comand local communities pany 2. Contributing to the development and passing on of skills and culture 15. Prohibition of receipt or provision for personal gain or rebate 3. Disclosing information appropriately and enhancing the transparency of 16. A ppropriate management of assets entrusted to the company by business activities ­customers 17. Appropriate management and use of company assets Basic Principle 10: B  ringing together individual strengths to fully 18. Prohibition of prejudicial treatment of persons that have reported problems exploit the integrated strength of the group via the appropriate procedure 1. Striving to create a lively and vibrant workplace 19. Fulfilling duties with integrity 2. Striving to create a safe and clean workplace 20. Reporting promptly and appropriately 3. Taking pride in the Toppan Brand and striving to cultivate it 4. Group companies working together to maximize integrated strength Established in June 2000 Revised in November 2010 Information Management Policy 1. Employees shall comply with all internal rules on information management and manage information appropriately in full observance of the law and social order. 2. Employees shall collect information for appropriate purposes using appropriate methods. 3. Employees shall recognize the value of information as an asset and use information safely and efficiently for the stated purpose of use. 4. Employees shall safely manage information handled on behalf of customers to secure customer trust. 5. To ensure the appropriate management of information at all times, the Company and its employees shall improve its information management system based on periodic reviews of social circumstances, technology trends, and the latest revisions in information systems. Established on April 1, 2001 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 25 Consumer Issues Toppan has been proactively fostering human assets responsible for product safety management. Points Toppan has redesigned its universal design (UD) initiatives. Toppan handles personal information with the utmost care to guarantee security. Assuring Product Safety and Quality  Certified Approval System for Manufacturing in Quality assurance for products at Toppan is a concern for Food Packaging every department, not only the departments directly responFood packaging requires exacting quality assurance for safety sible for production. The departments involved in marketing, and sanitation. Toppan has adopted a certified approval sysR&D, planning, design, sales, and delivery all contribute to tem to ensure that the operational sites of Toppan and partner quality. This is why Toppan describes quality assurance in procompanies can manufacture containers and packages only duction as a total activity (“Total Quality Assurance”) and strives after receiving the required ratings in the audits. The audits to improve product quality and control product safety. are conducted based on the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging using a checklist. In fiscal 2010, Toppan carProduct Safety ried out 34 audits at operational sites inside and outside the Toppan has established its Basic Stance on Product Safety Company. Management and Basic Guidelines on Product Safety Management to strengthen product safety management. The latter Management of Chemical Substances in Products provides guidelines for the following measures: namely, the Toppan intensively promotes product safety management in establishment of a structure to secure product safety by idenall manufacturing processes, from material procurement to tifying and evaluating the risk of improper use or other productproduct shipment, by controlling various chemical substances related mishaps and complying with laws and regulations whose use is prohibited or restricted. While adhering to green relevant to products manufactured by each division; informaprocurement standards prescribed by customers, the Comtion collection and provision and actual measures in the case pany has established a set of Green Procurement Standards of product-related accidents or problems; and product recall attuned to the features of products manufactured by every procedures. division in the business fields of Electronics, Living ­Environment, To support product safety management, Toppan strives to and Information & Networks. Toppan manages chemical subConsumer Issues improve product quality on an ongoing basis. Every operational stances in products throughout the whole supply chain. site has acquired the ISO 9001 certification for its quality management system (QMS) and works to update it. In fiscal 2010, a total of 255 employees took part in Toppan’s training sessions for internal auditors at operational sites. Basic Stance on Product Safety Audits for the Food Container Management and Filling/Packing Businesses We promote product safety Audit Points management throughout •Agreement with customers the Group by securing safety and •Quality assurance system •Management of equipment and improving the quality of our products inspection devices based on the Basic Principles of •Management of safety and sanitation Conduct Guidelines and •Steps to prevent the admixture of the principles of corporate social different products responsibility as a protector of •Steps to prevent the admixture of foreign substances user safety and health. •Steps to prevent the outflow of defective products •Steps to prevent contamination Operational site audit •Traceability •Security •Education and training •Maintenance of systems and frameworks Operational Sites Audited Food containers •12 operational sites at divisions and manufacturing subsidiaries Filling/packing business •5 operational sites at manufacturing subsidiaries •16 operational sites at production business partners Training session for internal auditors 26 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Challenges in Universal Design Examples of Universal Design As Toppan sees it, universal design is a corporate social In parallel with their work to develop packaging materials with responsibility for every company. Toppan strives to realize the higher understandability and usability, packaging departments fulfilling lifestyles enunciated in its Corporate Philosophy by are now pressing ahead in the planning and development of producing attractive, easier-to-use products and services suitmaterials with enhanced comfort. One example has been the able for users in various scenes of life. commercialization of a sound-making package. Departments in the Information & Networks field, mean oppan Declaration on Universal Design and T while, are gearing up their work to plan and develop attractive Toppan’s Seven Principles on Universal Design printed materials with higher readability and understandability. The roles of universal design (UD) have been growing in imporRecent examples of their development efforts include easily tance in parallel with social trends such as enhanced social assembled point-of-purchase (POP) displays for enhanced ethics among consumers, a shift towards consumption with work efficiency and easier-to-understand application forms that an emphasis on comfort and sensory values, and declining prevent incomplete or erroneous entries. birthrates and population ageing. Toppan has also been offering various survey and analysis In April 2010, Toppan established the Toppan Declaration services to help users resolve their problems scientifically. on Universal Design, a statement of the Company’s purpose These activities put momentum behind Toppan’s drive for user and stance in the creation of universal designs, and revised collaboration in universal designs through the solicitation of Toppan’s Principles on Universal Design (first enacted in widespread user participation in the development of UD prod2001). ucts and services. Based on the declaration and principles, Toppan has redesigned its UD initiatives to assign greater weight to sensory values and customization while maintaining emphasis on funcConsumer Issues tions such as understandability and usability. Toppan Declaration on Universal Design The starting point of our Universal Design is the provision of dedicated products and services realized through compassionate consideration of users. By engaging in repeated dialogues with people from all walks of life and consistently incorporating the ideas of each person, we will create dedicated products that are comfortable, easier-to-use, and environmentand human-friendly. Eco-POP display (2009 product) As a corporation extensively involved in human life, we will help realize a society with a high appreciation of diversity through approaches to Universal Design. Established in April 2010 Toppan’s Seven Principles on Universal Design 1. Design products and services that are more responsive to people with different physical abilities Soundand perceptions. making 2. Facilitate communication using multiple channels for communication, including visual, aural, and package tactile channels. 3. Make products easier to use by making them easier to understand. 4. Make products that are easier to move, easier to approach, and require less strength (remove the physical burdens). 5. Design products that are safe to use procedurally, functionally, structurally, materially, and environInternational mentally. conference 6. Provide products at a reasonable price and in the amounts required by society. held by the 7. Engage in design that appeals to the senses with consideration for comfort, enjoyment, and beauty. International Association Established in 2001 Revised in April 2010 for Universal Design (IAUD) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 27 Protecting Personal Information C  onducting Audits on Personal Information Handling Toppan handles a great deal of personal information entrusted and System Assets to the Company by customers, in the course of arranging and Toppan conducts various special audits independently from sending direct mail, issuing and processing cards, and conthe internal audits carried out within divisions. These audits ducting campaign secretariat affairs and web-related operainclude a technical-oriented audit on servers essential to protions. Toppan treats all personal information with the utmost duction, and a quality-oriented audit to prevent accidents by care in the belief that the trust and confidence of customers assuring the propriety of procedures in all operational prochinge on Toppan’s responsible management of the information esses involving the handling of personal information. entrusted by customers. C  ontinuing Actual Condition Surveys and  einforcing Management at Manufacturing R Face-to-face Group Education ­Departments The prevention of personal information leakage depends on Toppan recognizes the risk of personal information leaks in not only established information-protection systems, but also every business operation. In response, the Company has a high level of employee awareness. To maintain this awarelaunched a special cross-sectional project to eliminate vulnerness, Toppan takes strident steps to disseminate the related abilities in the procedures of hardware management, software rules to all employees and encourage vigilant mindsets. development and installation, and service operation and I Surveying Actual Conditions to Confirm that Rules ­maintenance. are Being Followed I Shoring up Vulnerabilities in Production Systems in Toppan sends out anonymous questionnaires to assess how the Information & Networks Field information and devices are handled in actual practice on a The Company has sequentially upgraded systems for managday-to-day basis. In fiscal 2010, the Company collected ing non-functional requirements such as multiplexing, data 20,074 responses and analyzed the data to clarify department Consumer Issues backup, and maintenance in an effort to eradicate potential trends. The survey results are used for the internal audits and weakness in the hardware and networks used to handle peras an informational tool for improving practices. sonal information. I Arranging Face-to-face Group Education to I Building a Diagnostic System for Detecting Website Enhance Awareness Vulnerabilities Toppan considers group education in a face-to-face lecture Toppan has built a new diagnostic system to enable specialty style to be the most effective approach to encourage heightdepartments to detect website vulnerabilities and prevent perened awareness in employees. In fiscal 2010, the Company sonal information leaks caused by illegal attacks. With this held 283 briefing sessions in this style across Japan. system, the Company has started to review its existing website I Issuing Educational Booklets for Read-throughs at systems and perform pre-launch diagnoses of new projects the Workplace entrusted to the Company. In addition to group education in a face-to-face setting, Toppan I Shoring up Vulnerabilities in Operational Processes also publishes educational booklets with details on relevant Among operations involving the use of personal information, issues employees can check whenever necessary. Toppan has laid down a set of guidelines applicable to the Two such publications were issued in fiscal 2010: the Inforproduction of mail magazines and important goods to be mation Security Management Guidebook (2010 additional posted, in an effort to prevent operational accidents. The edition) and Close Calls on the Job, Vol. 4. guidelines have been disseminated across the Company. Activities in Fiscal 2010 Meetings of Information Security Managers: May 2010, March 2011 Projects for reinforced management at manufacturing departments: from April 2010 to February 2011; once a month Various surveys IAudits on the handling of personal information: from April 2010 to February 2011 ISystem asset audits: from September to November 2010 ISurvey of the actual conditions of information security management: August 2010 Education IRegular training for information security: from June to December 2010 Information Security IInternal auditor training: from October to November 2010 Management IIssuance of Information Security Management Guidebook Guidebook Close Calls on the Job, Vol. 4 (on potential mistakes (2010 additional edition) booklet: June 2010 (2010 additional and mishaps at production sites and in the handling IIssuance of Close Calls on the Job, Vol. 4 booklet: September 2010 ­edition; in Japanese) of manuscripts and artwork; in Japanese) 28 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Contributing to Sustainable Consumption Reporting Carbon Footprint Toppan produces a host of environmentally friendly products A carbon footprint is a measure of CO2 emissions associated designed to contribute to a sustainable society. with a product or service. It is a single number anyone can Toppan Material Wood from Toppan Cosmo, Inc. is a recyunderstand. Within the framework of carbon footprint reportcled industrial material, a molded compound of waste plastic ing, an individual consumer is expected to switch to more and powdered waste wood discharged from plants and eco-friendly products as a purchaser. ­construction sites. This industrial material is made almost Toppan has been participating in the Carbon Footprint Pilot exclusively from recycled waste and can be recycled again Program undertaken by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and after use. Industry of Japan. The Company has collaborated with the Toppan also manufactures and sells electronic paper. ministry in the formulation of Product Category Rules (PCRs) Uniquely, electronic paper saves the image on the display even for publication and commercial printed materials (intermediate when the power is turned off. This reduces power consumpgoods), containers and packaging, and printed materials for tion, as the display works without constant power. Better still, advertisement and business. Toppan established an in-house electronic paper can be used to display different images again structure responsive to the calculation requirements under the and again. Thanks to these features, electronic paper is PCRs and trained persons in charge from fiscal 2008 to 2010. expected to be used for sundry industrial applications such In fiscal 2011, the Company is applying for approval to put the as inventory tags, electronic labels, and displays for home carbon footprint label on its pamphlets and the Japanese electric appliances, in addition to consumer application in e-book ­version of this CSR report (637 g-CO2 emitted per copy). terminals. Data on manufacturing processes collected for carbon Toppan will strengthen its efforts to develop more sustainfootprint calculations will help Toppan visualize its energy conable, environmentally friendly products. sumption and thereby implement more effective activities to save energy and reduce CO2 emissions. Meanwhile, paper Consumer Issues accounts for a large part of the CO2 emissions associated with the manufacturing of printed products. Toppan is therefore seeking productivity enhancements to reduce the amounts of paper wasted. CO2 Emissions Associated with the Ratio by Life Cycle Stage ­Manufacturing of the Japanese Version Use, maintenance/ Disposal, recycling 2% of the CSR Report (15,000 copies) management 0% Distribution 11% Raw-material procurement Paper, ink, CTP Production 7,155 kg-CO2 12% plates, etc. Production Prepress, printing, 1,143 kg-CO2 binding, etc. Distribution Toppan Material Wood Transport, etc. 1,098 kg-CO2 Use, maintenance/management Raw-material procurement 75% Reading, etc. 0 kg-CO2 Disposal, recycling Transport, treatment, 161 kg-CO2 etc. Emitted 9,557 kg-CO2 Total in total Products using electronic paper (637 g-CO2 per copy) *In April 2011, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. agreed *This calculation covers the printed version in to collaborate in an electronic paper project Japanese only. The PDF, digital catalogue, and with Chi Lin Technology Co., Ltd., a core comEnglish-language versions are excluded from pany of the Chi Mei Group in Taiwan. the calculation. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 29 Community Involvement and Development The entire Toppan Group has assisted the areas distressed by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Points The Group supports educational programs for children in the communities where Toppan operational sites are located. The Group eagerly cooperates with and participates in community organizations. Assistance for the Areas Distressed by the Community Contribution and Involvement Great East Japan Earthquake  upporting Educational Programs for Elementary S The Tohoku-Pacific Ocean Earthquake of March 11, 2011 School Students in Nagoya caused unparalleled damage to eastern Japan. The Toppan The Chubu Division of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. in Nagoya, Group promptly supported the people in the disaster-stricken Aichi Prefecture produced learning materials for career educaareas. tion in collaboration with Nagoya City Hirata Elementary School In addition to money contributions, the Group donated and a nonprofit organization called the Crossover Education many thousands of school textbooks, picture books, sketchNetwork, “Everyone is a Hero.” books, and puzzles to make up for shortages in affected This social contribution project is the fruit of the combined schools and towns. It also donated LCD TVs to the evacuation enthusiasm of the NPO and Toppan employees, crystallized centers for disaster victims established in Saitama Prefecwith various concepts on social contribution brainstormed by ture. young employees. The Higashinihon Division of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. in To attain its purpose of cultivating human resources of the Izumi Ward of Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture called upon likefuture, these learning materials describe real-life working minded employees to take part in volunteer activities such as scenes that enlighten children on job satisfaction and the dirt removal and cleanup in Ishinomaki and surrounding areas importance of hard work. Toppan first asked teachers about on weekends. the learning content they wished to convey to their classes, The Toppan Group will offer medium-and-long-term assistthen provided related information on products manufactured ance for the distressed areas. Employees of the Group operat ­Toppan plants, detailed descriptions of jobs in sales, proate the Book Wagons, mobile libraries traveling around areas duction, and other operations, and the mindsets and viewwith temporary housing for disaster victims. The employees points of employees working in these operations. will also continue to collect in-house contributions, and the In fiscal 2011, the Company will begin collaborating with Community Involvement and Development management at these companies match the contributions with Nagoya City Ukino Elementary School in a project to offer the companies’ own funds. learning programs for students of all ages, from first grade to Book Wagon: http://bookwagon.jp/ (in Japanese) sixth. Volunteer activities in the areas distressed by Book Wagon Learning materials for career education in colla­bo­ the Great East Japan Earthquake ra­tion with Hirata Elementary School in Nagoya Toppan Group Relief Activities for the Great East Japan Earthquake (excerpted) All Group companies: Operate the Book Wagons, mobile libraries traveling around froebel-kan co., ltd.: Plans to donate 1% of the sales proceeds from the picture areas with temporary housing for disaster victims; have prepared and distributed books and storybooks it publishes and releases from April to December 2011. calendars in partnership with Japan Graphic Designers Association Inc. Bitway Co., Ltd.: Has donated funds raised through Handy Comic, a mobile Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.: Provides information delivery capacity to stores in the phone website. disaster-stricken areas via the service of Shufoo!, an online mall for digital flyers. Mapion Co., Ltd.: Donates proceeds from the sale of charity avatars for a mobile Toyo Ink SC Holdings Co., Ltd.: Has made donations. phone game, matched by funds from the company. Tosho Printing Co., Ltd.: Has donated everyday commodities to the affected areas. Institute of the Formative Art Co., Ltd.: Has distributed 2,000 sets of stationery to Tokyo Shoseki Co., Ltd.: Has replaced about 220,000 school textbooks lost in the people staying in evacuation centers and disaster-affected students (via Tohoku disaster. Fukushi University). Toppan Forms Co., Ltd.: Has donated proceeds from the sale of creative works. Toppan Leefung Pte. Ltd. (overseas subsidiary): Has donated contributions from employees matched in equal amounts with company funds. Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd.: Has produced “Ganbappe (hang in there), Fukushima!” stickers as a rallying cheer for Fukushima Prefecture, where the company’s plant is See http://www.toppan.co.jp/oshirase/oshirase20110627.html (in Japanese) located. for further details on the relief activities. 30 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011  articipating in and Communicating with Community P Helping Developing Nations Raise Literacy Rates Organizations In fiscal 2010, Toppan sponsored the fourth series of Toppan Toppan runs many offices and plants across Japan. All of them Charity Concerts, annual concerts to help raise literacy rates engage in residents’ associations and other community organacross the world. On March 10 in 2011, violinist Rina Matsuda izations in order to hold dialogues and sound out the needs gave a recital. Toppan brought in approximately one million of members of the communities. yen in donations for the Asia-Pacific Cultural Centre for In fiscal 2010, Toppan cosponsored local events at the UNESCO (ACCU). request of the communities, took part in local fire-response ACCU uses these funds for educational assistance to squads, and provided meeting venues for the events held by improve the literacy of females, especially child-rearing mothresidents’ associations. ers, in developing nations in Asia. Functional literacy helps mothers better protect the health and safety of their families Supporting Educational Programs and Job Hunting and sets them on track to having their own children receive Toppan organizes tours and internships at operational sites literacy education. across Japan to nurture human resources and provide work experience opportunities to students. C  ontributing to Communities at Overseas In fiscal 2010, Toppan plants in Sendai, Niigata, Itabashi, Operational Sites Fukuoka, and many other locations welcomed students from Toppan’s overseas operational sites in China, Thailand, the elementary and other schools for plant tours. The Kashiwa U.S., Australia, and other locations also support their comand Shiga Plants gave students the chance to actually expemunities. The operational site in Thailand gave scholarships rience work at the plants. and stationery to elementary school students living in the vicinTo foster awareness about work, the Toyama, Kumamoto, ity of the industrial complex. An operational site in China conand Takino Plants offered internships and held plant tours for tributed to local environmental improvement through seacoast Community Involvement and Development high school students about to enter the business world. cleanup and afforestation projects in and around villages along the mountains. Work experience program (Kashiwa Plant) Toppan Charity Concert Tree-planting program (Toppan Leefung Pte. Ltd. in Hong Kong) Work experience program (Shiga Plant) Donation to a local elementary school (Siam Toppan Packaging Co., Ltd. in Thailand) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 31 Toppan’s Environmental Activities  oppan proactively promotes environmental initiatives based on The Toppan Group Declaration on the T Points Global Environment. Toppan operates environmental activities in four areas: environmental management, Eco-protection, Eco-creativity, and environmental communication. Overview of Environmental Activities coming decade and concrete targets are set for each current Toppan established the Ecology Center in 1991 and promulfiscal year based on individual environmental objectives. This gated Toppan’s Declaration on the Global Environment, a basic methodical approach to goal setting enables Toppan to clarify philosophy for environmental conservation activities, in 1992. the activities to be taken and the criteria for assessing achieveToppan has promoted environmental initiatives based on the ments (➞PP. 33–35 for the environmental targets). declaration ever since. In April 2009, the Company revised Toppan’s environmental activities are divided into four Toppan’s Declaration on the Global Environment into The areas—environmental management, Eco-protection, Eco­Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment, a new creativity, and environmental communication. To intensify the basic philosophy for environmental activities for the entire Eco-protection Activities, the Company enacted a set of five Group. The revised declaration reflects Toppan’s desire to help bylaws: the Bylaw on Global Warming Mitigation, the Bylaw realize a sustainable society by taking a more assertive on the Building of a Recycling-oriented Society, the Bylaw on approach to the conservation of the global environment. The Chemical Substance Management, the Bylaw on Pollution Company specifies environmental objectives for the realization Control, and the Bylaw on Biodiversity. Toppan has taken steps of the goals of the Declaration on the Global Environment. to conserve the global environment in each of four activity Medium-and-long-term environmental targets are set for the areas based on the five bylaws. Scope of Environmental Performance Data The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment 163 consolidated subsidiaries As responsible members of international society, we who work within the Toppan Group 20 domestic manufacturing Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) subsidiaries*1 within the strive to realize a sustainable society scope of the Company’s through forward looking corporate activities with consideration environmental targets Environment for the conservation of the global environment. 28 affiliated companies Basic Principles 19 domestic subsidiaries*2 1. We observe all laws, regulations and in-company rules relating to the outside the scope of the environment. Company’s environmental targets 2. For the future of the Earth, we strive for the effective utilization of limited resources and the reduction of all types of environmental ­burden. 29 overseas subsidiaries 3. W ith foresight, we promote the development and widespread use of products that show consideration for the environment, and contrib*1 Manufacturing subsidiaries that share ute to the environmental activities of customers. important roles in the Company’s 4. We engage in communication related to the environment with a wide environmental conservation are range of peoples both inside and outside the company, and strive for included within the scope. mutual understanding. *2 The subsidiaries to be included within 5. We also take a proactive approach to environmental conservation in the scope are selected based on the corporate activities in international society. autonomy and independency of their environmental activities. Established in April 1992 Revised in April 2009 192 Group entities in all Scope Environmental management activities PP. 33–35 Environmental targets: 21 companies ( , ) Activities for systematically managing environmental initiatives P. 36 “Major Environmental Burdens by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/ OUTPUT data):” 21 companies ( , ) P. 37 “Ratio of Domestic and Overseas Environmental Burdens:” Eco-protection Activities 69 companies ( – ) Activities to minimize CO2, waste, chemical substances, Domestic (within the scope of the environmental targets): 21 companies ( , ) and other environmental burdens associated with Domestic (outside the scope of the environmental targets): 19 corporate operations companies ( ) Overseas: 29 companies ( ) Eco-creativity Activities “Environmental Impact and Environmental Efficiency:” 21 companies ( , ) Activities to proactively promote the development, “Environmental Impacts by Business Field:” 21 companies ( , ) assessment, and sales of environmentally friendly products and technical services PP. 40–42 All the charts: 21 companies ( , ), but; “Improving Transport Efficiency in Logistics” on P. 40: Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd. only Environmental communication activities P. 45 Total sales of the environment-related businesses: 8 companies Activities for sharing environmental awareness ( , Toppan Forms Co., Ltd., Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd., Tamapoly Co., Ltd., Tokyo Shoseki Co., Ltd., Tosho Printing Co., Ltd., Toppan with stakeholders Cosmo, Inc., and froebel-kan co., ltd.) 32 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Environmental Targets and Results (for the Medium-and-long-term and Fiscal 2010) Toppan’s carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions per unit of sales increased by 11% compared to the fiscal 2000 level. Points Toppan reduced final landfill waste disposal by 97% compared to the fiscal 2000 level. Toppan reduced volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions into the atmosphere by 81% compared to the fiscal 2000 level. Evaluating Achievement of the Mediumtrend in the portion of highly recyclable paper among the total and-long-term Environmental Targets waste discharged, along with the lower recycling volume of As the medium-and-long-term environmental targets were non-industrial waste, the main waste discharged at Toppan scheduled to be achieved by fiscal 2010, Toppan evaluated offices. The Company will continue to promote waste reduction the results for the last decade based on the results for fiscal and recycling through the strict separation of waste. 2010. The Company has achieved eight targets out of the 12 medium-and-long-term targets over the period from fiscal Evaluating Achievement of the 2001 to fiscal 2010. Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2010 The Company has succeeded in recording an 81% reducDuring the last fiscal year, Toppan undertook various activities tion in VOC emissions into the atmosphere compared to the to achieve the 15 environmental targets set for fiscal 2010. fiscal 2000 level, significantly surpassing the targeted reduction Nine of the targets were reached. of 70% (➞P. 34). The Company has reduced final landfill waste disposal by Meanwhile, Toppan’s CO2 emissions per unit of sales have 31% compared with fiscal 2009, substantially surpassing the taken an upward turn. The effects of energy-saving activities 16% reduction targeted for the year. have not been sufficient to offset the factors that push CO2 Toppan has also established an in-house structure to conemissions up. duct life cycle assessments (LCAs) and calculate carbon footIn addition, Toppan has not attained three of the wasteprints (CFPs) in line with the growing expectations of society related targets set under the medium-and-long-term targets— (➞P. 34). for example, those that relate to the expansion of material recyToppan’s CO2 emissions per unit of sales, meanwhile, cling and the increase of the number of certified zero-emission increased by 0.1% compared with the previous year. The Comsites—though it has come closer to reaching the targets. pany will institute every measure necessary to reduce CO2 Progress in waste reduction was held back by the declining emissions further into the future. Environment Environmental Objectives and MediumEnvironmental Targets for For Results Evaluation Results Evaluation and-long-term Environmental Targets Fiscal 2010 Details 1. Mitigation of global warming through the development of energy-saving measures Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of sales by Reduce by 1% compared to the 10% by fiscal 2010 (compared to the fiscal Increased by 11% B Increased by 0.1% B P. 40 fiscal 2009 level 2000 level) 2. Promotion of waste reduction and recycling Reduce waste discharge per unit of Reduce by 7% compared to the production value by 25% by fiscal 2010 Reduced by 24% B Reduced by 6% B fiscal 2009 level (compared to the fiscal 2000 level) The material recycling rate decreased by 2 points compared Expand the material recycling of waste*1 B Material recycling rate: 94% 92% B with fiscal 2008; the expansion target was not achieved P. 41 Reduce final landfill waste disposal*2 by Reduce by 16% compared to the 95%*3 by fiscal 2010 (compared to the fiscal Reduced by 97% S Reduced by 31% S fiscal 2009 level 2000 level) Efficiently use the industrial waste materials generated in the manufacturing stage and 51 sites out of B 51 domestic sites 51 domestic sites A have all domestic sites certified as zero58 domestic sites emission sites*4 by fiscal 2010 *1 Established in fiscal 2007; calculation method revised in fiscal 2008 *2 Final landfill waste disposal: Direct landfill disposal + landfill disposal of residues from intermediate treatment *3 Target revised (because the medium-and-long-term target at the time, a 90% reduction compared with the fiscal 2000 level, was achieved in fiscal 2006) *4 Certified zero-emission site: Operational site with a recycling rate of 98% or over (subject to approval by the Ecology Center) Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets; A, Targets achieved; B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved; C, Activities insufficient TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 33 Environmental Objectives and MediumEnvironmental Targets for For Results Evaluation Results Evaluation and-long-term Environmental Targets Fiscal 2010 Details 3. Prevention of atmospheric pollution via VOC emission restraints Reduce VOC emissions into the atmosphere Reduce by 30% compared to by 70% by fiscal 2010 (compared to the fiscal Reduced by 81% S Reduced by 35% A P. 42 the fiscal 2009 level 2000 level) 4. Control of risks from chemicals IAscertained the handling amount IComplied with the revisions of the “Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Reduced by 20% Ascertain the handling amount of Reduce the handling of chemical substances Environment and compared with fiscal A chemical substances newly A P. 42 designated under the PRTR law*5, *6 Promotion of 2006*7 designated under the PRTR law Improvements to the Management Thereof” and the “Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc.” of Japan 5. Environmental contribution via the development and marketing of eco products Total sales of registered IReview the criteria for environIConsidered new environmentally friendly Promote the sales of environmentally friendly mentally friendly products criteria products increased by A B P. 45 products IExamine designs for an LCIA*8 IConducted product 271% compared with method LCAs fiscal 2000 ITook measures to The total number of meet the requireIEstablish an in-house structure registered environmenments for calculating for reporting Toppan’s “carbon P. 29 Reinforce efforts to develop, manufacture, tally friendly products CFPs A footprints (CFPs)” A and assess environmentally friendly products increased by 140% IConducted traceabilP. 44 IPromote conservation and the compared with fiscal ity surveys on raw sustainable use of biodiversity 2000 materials used by Environment paper manufacturers Provide information through Exhibited at TOKYO 6. P romotion of environmental —*9 — exhibitions, lectures, and other PACK 2010 and A P. 46 ­communication presentations Eco-Products 2010 7. Avoidance of environmental risk Conducted internal environmental audits to Establish and observe appropriate in-house Observe in-house management confirm the observance management guidelines that embrace Built an audit system A guidelines at the Group producof the reference values A P. 38 regulatory controls tion sites established under the in-house management guidelines Monitored and Monitor the operational sites, Investigated, inspectReduce the risk of soil contamination remedied soil contamiA including the vacant lots of ed, and repaired buried A P. 43 nation reconditioned sites equipment Publish a CSR Report (in JapaIssued a CSR Report Shifted from an nese) in August; expand the (in Japanese) in August; Maintain adequate communication with Environmental Report A number of operational sites that issued Site Eco Reports B P. 46 stakeholders to a CSR Report issue Site Eco Reports to 38 at 37 domestic sites domestic sites (30 reports in total) (29 reports in total) IConduct environmental IConducted in April education on a regular basis and June 8. Enhancement of environmental (new employee and optional ­education and the environmental — — A P. 39 training) and an as-needed basis awareness of all employees IConduct environmental IConducted in education via e-learning October IConduct internal environmental audits at overseas production 9. Upgrading of environmental Conducted internal sites: Eastern Asia ­management systems at our — — environ­mental audits B P. 39 IObserve local regulatory overseas production sites at seven sites in PRC standards and collect monthly environment-related data *5 P  RTR is an acronym for Pollutant Release and Transfer Register; chemical substances designated under the PRTR law refer to chemical substances designated under the “Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof” of Japan. *6 Established in fiscal 2007 *7 Based on formerly designated chemical substances *8 Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) *9 The mark “—” indicates that no medium-and-long-term target was set under the relevant environmental objective (only the target for fiscal 2010 was set). Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets; A, Targets achieved; B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved; C, Activities insufficient 34 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 New Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets and Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2011 T  oppan has established medium-and-long-term environmental targets for fiscal 2020 on CO2 emissions, Points final landfill waste disposal, and VOC emissions into the atmosphere. Toppan has shifted the CO2 emission target from a per-unit-of-sales basis to a total-emission basis. Establishing Medium-and-long-term Establishing Environmental Targets for Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2011 To move closer to the realization of the goals of The Toppan Fiscal 2011 is the first year in Toppan’s journey to attain the Group Declaration on the Global Environment, Toppan has goals of the new medium-and-long-term targets. Toppan has established a new set of medium-and-long-term environmenestablished 11 targets for the year, with three related to the tal targets for fiscal 2020 based on achievements under the above-mentioned medium-and-long-term targets and eight former medium-and-long-term targets (➞PP. 33–34). The set under in-house environmental management rules and Company has set a total-emission target for mitigation of globylaws. bal warming and determined to boost efficiency in energy use. The focus for the Company in fiscal 2011 will be to prevent In view of the current conditions facing society, Toppan environmental risk. Specifically, every operational site will seek assumes that the mitigation of global warming is a material to preempt risk by reviewing how it sets its own control standissue for the global community. ards. Toppan will also go ahead with biodiversity conservation Taking environmental impacts specific to the printing indusinitiatives for paper procurement and land use. try into account, Toppan has also set two new targets to promote the building of a recycling-oriented society and conservation of the atmospheric environment. These two targets are specified as items in the voluntary action plan of the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI). Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2020 1. M  itigation of global warming 2. Action for building a recycling3. Conservation of the atmospheric (Target for fiscal 2020) oriented society environment (Target for fiscal 2020) Environment I Reduce CO2 emissions by 11% compared (Target for fiscal 2020) I Reduce VOC emissions into the to the fiscal 2008 level I Reduce final landfill waste disposal by 87% ­atmosphere by 70% compared to the (751 kilotons ➞ 669 kilotons: –82 kilotons) compared to the fiscal 2008 level fiscal 2008 level (1,584 tons ➞ 206 tons: –1,378 tons) (7,326 tons ➞ 2,198 tons: –5,128 tons) Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2011 Environmental Targets Management Indicators Target Values 1. Mitigation of global warming IReduce CO2 emissions ICO2 emissions 740 kilotons 2. Action for building a recycling-oriented society IReduce final landfill waste disposal IFinal landfill waste disposal 639 tons 3. Conservation of the atmospheric environment IReduce VOC emissions into the atmosphere IVOC emissions into the atmosphere 5,500 tons 4. Waste reduction IReduce waste generation per unit of production value IWaste generation per unit of production value 0.656 tons/million yen IImprove material recycling rate IMaterial recycling rate 92.7% 5. Chemical substance management IHandling amount of chemical substances designated under the PRTR law 9,236 tons 6. Initiatives to conserve biodiversity IUsage rate of certified paper and recycled paper; land use Continuous improvement I Paper procurement; conservation at operational sites assessment IOperational sites for biodiversity conservation One site 7. Environmental contribution through products ID  evelop and expand the sales of environmentally friendly ISales of environmentally friendly products (Cartocan, etc.) 230 billion yen products 8. Facilitation of environmental communication I Maintain adequate communication IIssuance rate for Site Eco Reports 95% 9. Prevention of environmental risk I Establish and observe new in-house control standards IRate of establishment of new in-house control standards 100% 10. Enrichment of environmental education IParticipation rate in e-learning-based programs 100% 11. E  nvironmental conservation at overseas production IEstablishment of in-house standards In-house standards to be sites examined TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 35 Toppan’s Environmental Burden A  s one step in reducing environmental burden, Toppan assesses the environmental impact of the Company’s overall Points business activities. Paper accounts for the greater portion of material input and total waste discharge at Toppan, while activities in the Electronics field account for the greater portion of water consumption and effluent discharge. Major Environmental Burdens by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) INPUT Material Input Total Energy Consumption Total Water Consumption Total PRTR Handling Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks 853,977 (58.9%) 4,285 (25.8%) 1,122 (8.1%) 1,289 (14.9%) Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment 551,988 (38.0%) 5,371 (32.4%) 1,876 (13.6%) 2,680 (30.9%) Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics 44,467 (3.1%) 6,241 (37.6%) 10,479 (75.8%) 4,709 (54.2%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 0 (0%) 692 (4.2%) 347 (2.5%) 3 (0%) Total 1,450,432 (Unit: tons) Total 16,589 (Unit: 1,000 GJ) Total 13,824 (Unit: 1,000 m3) Total 8,681 (Unit: tons) Environment Information & Networks Living Environment Electronics OUTPUT Total Waste Discharge CO2 Emissions Total Effluent Discharge Total PRTR Release Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks 143,386 (51.6%) 184,556 (25.5%) 718 (5.8%) 64 (16.1%) Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment 100,156 (36.0%) 255,675 (35.4%) 1,342 (10.9%) 321 (80.5%) Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics 32,475 (11.7%) 254,010 (35.2%) 9,986 (81.0%) 13 (3.3%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 1,828 (0.7%) 27,949 (3.9%) 279 (2.3%) 1 (0.1%) Total 277,845 (Unit: tons) Total 722,190 (Unit: t-CO2) Total 12,325 (Unit: 1,000 m3) Total 399 (Unit: tons) I Paper used in Information & Networks and Living Environment accounts for 81% of material input and 74% of total waste discharge at the Company, while ­water consumption and effluent discharge in Electronics account for 76% of total water consumption and 81% of total effluent discharge. I “Waste” in this report includes industrial waste of no value and materials of value sold or transferred as resources, both generated from business activities. I Total energy consumption, i.e., the quantity of electricity and fuels consumed, is about the same in each business field. Note: Energy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Law ­Concerning the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The calorific value of the primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated ­uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. Some of the material inputs are calculated from estimated values based on production values. 36 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Environmental Burden and Environmental of Toppan’s overseas environmental burden is expected to rise Impact as the Company accelerates its global operations. Toppan will Every operational site at Toppan aggregates its environmental continue to control environmental burden overseas as strictly burden via data on INPUT (materials and energy used) and as it does in Japan. data on OUTPUT (materials discharged as a result of production), then assesses its impacts from various environmental LIME for Assessing Environmental Impact standpoints. Toppan establishes environmental targets and LIME*1 is a method for producing an environmental impact priorities in activities based on the results of these assessments index. Multiple factors with impacts on the environment, includand verifies the results of the environmental activities. Toppan ing resources (such as paper) and energies (such as electricclassifies its environmental burden data (on domestic Group ity) input into operations and waste and VOCs output from entities within the scope of the Company’s environmental tarmanufacturing, are weighted based on scientific and statistical gets) into the three business fields of Information & Networks, findings, and integrated into a single index as an environmenLiving Environment, and Electronics. The assessments of envital impact. ronmental burden by business field are shown on the opposite To comprehend and reduce the integrated environmental page. Activities in Information & Networks and Living Environimpact of its operations, Toppan regularly discloses the enviment account for 97% of material input at the Company. Paper ronmental impact of its business operations and its environaccounts for 81% of the material input and 74% of the total mental efficiency (net sales per unit of environmental impact). waste discharge. Water consumption in Electronics, meanIn fiscal 2010, the Company lowered its environmental impact while, accounts for 76% of the total water consumption and by 20% compared to the fiscal 2006 level. This reduction was 81% of the total effluent discharge, making up a significant attained by the reduction of VOC emissions through the instalportion of the total. lation of solvent treatment equipment in the Living Environment The environmental burden associated with domestic activfield and reduced energy consumption in the fields of InformaEnvironment ities is more significant than that associated with overseas tion & Networks and Electronics. activities, as shown in the chart below. Henceforth, the ratio Ratio of Domestic and Overseas Environmental Burdens Environmental Impacts by Business Field Overseas 23% Domestic Overseas 32% Domestic (within the scope of (within the scope of 100% the environmental targets) the environmental targets) Other Other Other 63% 56% 80% Photochemical oxidants Environmental impact 60% Global warming Global INPUT data OUTPUT data warming 40% Global Energy CO2 Emissions warming 20% Biological Biological Biological Domestic Domestic resources 0% resources resources (outside the scope of (outside the scope of the environmental targets) the environmental targets) Information & Networks Living Environment Electronics 14% 12% IIn Living Environment, the chart shows a significant impact from photochemical oxidants, pollutants formed by reactions between sunlight and Environmental Impact and Environmental Efficiency VOCs released into the atmosphere. This underlines the importance of ­installing solvent treatment equipment. QEnvironmental impact*2 Environmental efficiency*3 IIn Electronics, the chart shows a high impact of energy consumption on 100 100 97.7 270 global warming. This underlines the importance of energy saving in clean 90.7 rooms and other facilities with high energy-loads. 85.3 80 79.5 245 *1 L ife-cycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling 60 220 (LIME): A Japanese version of the damage-oriented environmental im202 206 pact assessment method, developed based on the environmental back218 40 195 ground of Japan. Damages derived from impact categories are quantified 201 for each part of the environment to be protected (e.g., human health, bi20 183 170 odiversity, etc.). Once the damages are quantified, the environmental impacts of multiple factors are integrated into a single index. 0 0 *2 The value in fiscal 2006 = 100 (baseline) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) *3 Net sales / environmental impact TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 37 Environmental Management Activities T  oppan operates an established environmental management system (EMS) at every operational site and Points continues to upgrade these systems. Toppan conducted internal environmental audits at 57 domestic sites and seven overseas sites. Structure to Promote Environmental arising problems are resolved as quickly as possible. Management Activities Every operational site sends the Ecology Center reports on Toppan’s environmental management relies on the operation major environmental performance data periodically. Results of established environmental management systems (EMSs) on energy are sent monthly, for example, while those on waste based on the Company’s environmental management rules. are sent every half-year. Toppan prepares an effective system The Company continues to upgrade these systems by practicfor evaluating achievement of its environmental targets and ing the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle. To ensure the effecreviewing the targets whenever necessary. tiveness of the PDCA cycle, top management conducts ongoing environmental management reviews. The Ecology Center Environmental Audit System regularly collects environmental performance data. Each time Toppan’s environmental audit follows a three-stage screening it does, the Director in charge of the Center evaluates and process: a management system audit by an ISO 14001 regverifies the data and reports the evaluation and verification istrar, an internal audit by the Ecology Center, and another results to the Board of Directors and other management bodinternal audit at the individual site. ies. Improvements to the EMSs are proposed and implemented At the internal audits by the Ecology Center, internally certhroughout the entire C ­ ompany. tified environmental auditors and assistant auditors appointed to oversee the environmental management system (EMS) F  eatures of Toppan’s Environmental Management inspect and evaluate the status of the EMSs, compliance with Systems environment-related laws, regulations, and in-house standards, Toppan’s EMSs are uniquely managed. The PDCA cycle is environmental impact on water and the atmosphere, and daily put into practice at every operational site, irrespective of the control of energy and waste at all of the operational sites ISO 14001 certification. Fifty-seven domestic sites have been audited. Every site audited prepares a Plan for the Improvepressing ahead with their environmental activities to achieve ment of Specified Issues (Improvement Plan) pointed out Environment the targets set under the Eco-protection Activity Plan. ­during its audit and works to correct the deficiencies. At sites The Eco-protection Promotion Committees check the where the Ecology Center deems it to be necessary, the progress of the activities every month to ensure that any newly ­auditors conduct an additional Review of the Internal EnvironOverview of Environmental Management Action Plan Management review IIssue instructions for evaluating and IAscertain environmental factors improving the EMSs (task for top IIdentify legal requirements and other management) relevant requirements and determine applicable procedures IEstablish objects and targets and formulate a detailed implementation plan Environmental Management IContinuous improvement via the PDCA cycle Check Do Monitoring and measuring Implementation and operation IAssess compliance status IDetermine resources, roles, IConfirm nonconformity and take responsibilities, and authorities corrective and preventive measures ICultivate capacity, organize education IManage records and training, and encourage awareness IConduct audits (system audit, internal IStimulate communication environmental audit by the Ecology IManage documents Center, internal environmental audits at IControl operations individual sites) IPrepare and respond to emergencies 38 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 mental Audit to assess the progress towards the required Environmental Education improvements. Toppan provides environmental education through comprehensive e-learning-based programs for all employees. It also organResults of Fiscal 2010 Internal Audits izes specialized training sessions for employees of every rank, The internal environmental auditors identified 596 issues in including new employees and newly appointed managers. need of improvement at 57 domestic sites in fiscal 2010. To In fiscal 2010, the Company arranged e-learning programs correct the deficiencies pointed out, each operational site covering the impacts of environmental accidents and methods ­follows an Improvement Plan with a detailed list of required of accident prevention. improvements and target dates for completion. Toppan has Personnel from the Ecology Center lecture trainees in sesconfirmed the progress of improvement measures on 28 issues sions of the optional courses at the Toppan Business School at two operational sites through the Reviews of the Internal held each year. Lecture topics include an introduction to Environmental Audit. The progress and effects of counter­environment-related laws, an introduction to ISO 14001, and measures against the remaining 568 specified issues are to methods to enhance the skills of internal ISO 14001 auditors be reviewed during the internal environmental audits for fiscal presented in a seminar form. 2011. Meanwhile, the correspondence learning Challenge School Onsite interviews and inspections are also carried out for offers 14 courses related to the environment. overseas production sites every other year, in principle. Toppan uses these education activities as opportunities to Seven sites in China were reviewed for local environmental enhance the environmental knowledge and awareness of audits in fiscal 2010. The audits identified 43 issues in need employees, and maintain and improve the level of the Comof improvement. The overseas production sites have followed pany’s environmental activities on a continuous basis. the example of the domestic sites by taking necessary procedures to achieve better operational conditions under improveEnvironment ment plans. Internal environmental audit interview Internal environmental audit inspection “Introduction to environment-related laws,” presented by Toppan personnel Fiscal 2010 Results of Environmental Education Number of Education or Training Trainees New employee training: General environmental education (introductory level) 159 Training for newly appointed managers: General environmental education 180 (intermediate level) E-learning: Basic education on the environment 22,976 Toppan Business School 34 Challenge School: 14 courses related to the environment 93 Internal environmental auditor training program 113 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 39 Eco-protection Activities T  oppan defines its Eco-protection Activities as activities to minimize the environmental burden associated with Points corporate operations. Toppan undertakes initiatives aimed at mitigating global warming, building a recycling-oriented society, preventing pollution, controlling chemical substances, and conserving biodiversity. Mitigating Global Warming existing air conditioners, refrigerating machines, boilers, and In consideration of social conditions today, Toppan has shifted other machines with high-efficiency alternatives, and to install its target on CO2 emission control from a per-unit-of-sales more LED lights, light-blocking window films, heat-shield coatbasis to a total-emission basis in fiscal 2011. This target will ings, and equipment for renewable energy generation such as guide Toppan’s future efforts to reduce the emissions of CO2 solar panels. and other greenhouse gases. Improving Transport Efficiency in Logistics Developing Energy-saving Activities Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd., the logistics specialist for the Toppan extensively reviewed equipment operation in fiscal ­Toppan Group, is reducing the energy consumption per unit 2010, continuing initiatives adopted in the previous fiscal year. of transport volume by company vehicles and the volume of Prominent adjustments were a suspension of unnecessary CO2 emitted from these vehicles in a coordinated effort with air-conditioning, fans, and pumps, reductions in the number its shippers, Toppan Group companies. of operated machines, and a review of preset baselines for Energy consumption per unit of transport volume in fiscal temperature, pressure, and other conditions. Despite these 2010 was 65.1 kL/million ton-kilometers, a 1.4% reduction efforts, CO2 emissions per unit of sales in fiscal 2010 increased compared with fiscal 2009 (exceeding the targeted reduction by 0.1% compared with fiscal 2009, missing the targeted of 1% for the year). CO2 emissions were 33,419 tons, or 0.04% reduction of 1% for the year. (When rounded off, the fiscal lower than the fiscal 2009 level. Key factors behind this suc2010 result stands at 0.74 t-CO2/million yen, more or less cess were the promotion of modal shifts, the reduced use of unchanged from fiscal 2009 [see the chart below]). Toppan air transportation, and enhancements in transportation effiwill reinforce its energy-saving activities to reliably accomplish ciency by truck through adjustments of load capacities, numthe targets. bers of shipments, and truck sizes. In fiscal 2011, Toppan In fiscal 2011, the Company will streamline equipment Logistics will improve transportation efficiency by further optiEnvironment operations to reduce loss and waste as a means of further mizing conditions. reducing CO2 emissions. Efforts will also be taken to replace Energy Consumption Note: E  nergy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated (1,000 GJ) QEnergy consumption Energy consumption (GJ/million yen) using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of per unit of sales the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The energy con28,000 20 sumption associated with electricity consumption, however, is calcu17.04 16.40 16.98 17.03 lated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. 16.30 14.47 CO 2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the 21,000 15 18,348 Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business17,796 17,182 16,390 16,589 es (2003) from the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) of Japan. The 14,000 14,023 10 CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption, however, are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh. CO2 emissions in fiscal 2010 amounted to 725,612 t-CO2 when 7,000 5 calculated by another MOE method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 0 0 from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amend2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) ment on March 31, 2010). CO2 Emissions (1,000 t-CO2) QCO2 emissions CO2 emissions (t-CO2/million yen) per unit of sales 1,500 1.00 1,200 0.75 0.74 0.74 0.80 0.72 0.71 0.67 900 0.60 785 805 751 715 722 650 600 0.40 300 0.20 0 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 40 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Building a Recycling-oriented Society Toppan sites. This is followed by waste plastics from plants in In an ongoing drive to use limited resources more effectively, the Living Environment field and waste acids and alkalis such operational sites at Toppan have striven to reduce the disas waste etchant from plants in the Electronics field. Toppan charge of waste and other types of environmental burden, has worked to increase the recycling rate for waste plastics press ahead with recycling, and conduct appropriate waste by separating refuse and processing composite plastic into treatment. As a result of these efforts, the Ecology Center of RPF*3 and to reduce the discharge of waste acids and alkalis the head office has certified and registered 51 sites as “zeroby applying internal chemical treatments. emission sites*1” out of 58 domestic sites in total. The Company intends to reduce the discharge of nonindustrial waste through more intensified waste separation at Reducing and Recycling Waste offices and other non-production sites. It also seeks to optimize Waste paper derived from operational sites primarily in the waste treatment by searching for new external recycling partInformation & Networks and Living Environment fields makes ners and sharing information via in-house systems. up the largest portion (74%) of the total waste discharged at Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate*2 Fiscal 2010 Results of Waste Discharge and Recycling (%) Recycling rate (recycling / total waste discharge) Waste Material recycling rate Type of Recycling discharged Ratio Primary Reusage 100 Waste Rate 99.0 99.3 (tons) 98.2 98.8 98 98.0 Waste 204,527 73.6% 99.8% Recycled paper Environment paper 96 Waste Plastic materials, 26,619 9.6% 98.8% plastic RPF 94 Waste acid 13,940 5.0% 99.3% Neutralizer 93.0 92.4 92 92.9 91.5 Waste oil 7,841 2.8% 99.1% Recycled oil, fuel 0 Roadbed Sludge 7,524 2.7% 97.9% 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) materials Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal Waste alkali 6,639 2.4% 97.1% Neutralizer (1,000 tons) QTotal waste discharge QFinal landfill waste disposal (1,000 tons) Waste 5,346 1.9% 97.2% Metal materials metal 350 337.2 24.0 25 330.9 333.6 Wood Chip, 313.8 2,269 0.8% 98.5% waste paper materials 280 281.5 277.8 20 Roadbed Cinder 1,749 0.6% 76.1% materials 210 15 Other 691 0.3% 77.7% — 140 10 Glass chip 567 0.2% 93.5% Glass materials 70 5 2.0 1.8 1.6 Food waste 133 0.1% 99.0% Feed 0.9 0.6 0 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) Total 277,845 100% 99.3%*4 — Waste Discharge Per Unit of Production Value (tons/million yen) 1.0 0.879 *1 Certified zero-emission site: Operational site with a recycling rate of 98% or over (subject to approval by the Ecology Center) 0.8 0.751 0.696 0.719 0.709 *2 M aterial recycling: Defined by Toppan as “the reuse of waste as raw 0.665 ­materials” (refers to recycling methods other than thermal recycling) 0.6 *3 Refuse Paper & Plastic Fuel (RPF): Solid fuel primarily made from refuse paper and plastic waste 0.4 *4 Recycling rate versus total waste discharge at Toppan 0.2 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 41 Preventing Pollution Preventing Water and Soil Pollution Every Toppan site ascertains actual conditions by measuring To prevent water pollution, Toppan has installed wastewater its environmental burden. The Eco-protection Promotion Comtreatment facilities designed to cope with specific conditions mittee at each site sets in-house control standards at levels of water consumption and pollutants at individual plants. even more stringent than the regulatory standards require. Wastewater recycling systems have been introduced at plants By complying with these standards, Toppan sites work vigorin the Electronics field that discharge effluents in significant ously to reduce environmental burden and prevent pollution amounts. By recovering and reusing wastewater via these at the sites. systems, the plants have been reducing the levels of water consumption and effluent discharge.  reventing Atmospheric Pollution and Protecting P For the prevention of soil pollution, Toppan has surrounded the Ozone Layer storage facilities for chemical solvents with barriers to halt the To prevent atmospheric pollution, Toppan controls boilers and leakage and outflow of fluids. The Company also regularly other equipment responsible for smoke and soot by switching inspects tanks, pipes, and other relevant equipment to prevent fuels and managing operations under appropriate combustion soil pollution from fluid leakage. conditions. In fiscal 2010, the Company installed VOC effluentgas treatment equipment at facilities subject to the requireControlling Chemical Substances ments stipulated under the Air Pollution Control Law of Japan. Under the revised Pollutant Release and Transfer Register As a result, VOC emissions into the atmosphere in fiscal 2010 (PRTR) law of Japan enforced from 2009, the number of deswere reduced by 35% compared with fiscal 2009. The Comignated chemical substances to be reported increased from pany will continue to thoroughly control atmospheric pollutants 354 to 462. In its calculation of the fiscal 2010 results, Toppan in the coming years. quantified the data of chemical substances designated under For ozone-layer protection, all equipment that uses specithe revised law. The figure for fiscal 2010 in the chart below Environment fied chlorofluorocarbons at Toppan plants is controlled in conshows a year-on-year reduction in the total release of the forformance with the applicable laws and regulations. merly designated chemical substances into the atmosphere and water and soil environments. Toppan will pursue consistent reductions in the release of chemical substances designated under the PRTR law in the years to come. VOC and Toluene Emissions into the NOx and SOx*2 Emissions*3 Chemical Substances Designated under Atmosphere*1 the PRTR Law (Formerly Designated Chemical Substances)*4, *6 (tons) VOCs Toluene (tons) NOx SOx (tons) Total Total Total handling transfer release 24,000 250 8,000 20,549 208 6,893 200 6,035 18,000 174 6,000 5,547 5,479 150 143 150 12,000 1,000 8,140 100 726 748 7,326 678 633 6,159 6,000 5,320 500 50 44 32 31 31 526 408 463 395 362 412 377 0 0 0 2000 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) Fiscal 2010 Results of Chemical *1 Emissions into the atmosphere are calculated in conformance with the standards established by the Substances Designated under the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology PRTR Law (Currently Designated Industries Association (JEITA). *2 NOx: Nitrogen oxides; SOx: Sulfur oxides Chemical Substances)*5, *6 *3 Calculated based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (fiscal year 2007 version) and the EnviTotal handling (tons) 8,681 ronmental Activities Evaluation Program (April 2002) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. *4 Calculated based on data on the handling, release, and transfer of chemical substances formerly Total transfer (tons) 3,119 designated under the PRTR law at each operational site (fiscal 2010 results are reference values). Total release (tons) 399 *5 Calculated based on data on chemical substances designated under the revised PRTR law at each operational site. *6 Dioxins are excluded because of a difference in the counting unit. 42 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Approach to Environmental Compliance To mitigate noise, Toppan has suspended the use of facilCompliance with Regulatory Standards in Fiscal 2010 ities and equipment responsible for noise and reviewed checkFour production sites in Japan recorded odor levels exceeding lists for preventing equipment malfunctions. To mitigate odors, the regulatory standards set under the Offensive Odor Control the Company has reviewed methods for operating and controlLaw. Seven production sites, meanwhile, recorded excessive ling effluent-gas treatment equipment and deodorizing equipwater temperatures or excessive levels of BOD, n-hexane ment, and has properly managed the routine operation of the extractable material, and suspended solids relative to the same. The Company has also stepped up comprehensive regulatory standards set for water contaminants under the routine inspections and other measures to prevent the recurWater Pollution Control Law and Sewerage Law. Toppan rence of odorand noise-related problems. immediately took corrective measures for every case, includToppan will continue to engage in environmental manageing steps to revise the control methods for equipment. After ment through dedicated communications with residents in implementing these corrective measures, the Company surrounding communities. reviewed control procedures and took necessary actions to ensure that recurrences are reliably prevented. Emergency Responses Regarding the pollution of soil and groundwater environAt every production site, chemical solvents are conveyed into ments, Toppan has taken the countermeasures shown in the the premises in tank trucks and transferred to storage tanks table below and has continuously monitored groundwater on a daily basis. Leakage accidents during the operations pose since the measures were completed. the risk of soil and water pollution. Toppan has therefore prepared oil absorbents, sandbags, Communication with Surrounding Communities and other necessary safeguards to prevent the outflow of solCommunities around Toppan’s plants filed nine complaints and vents in the event of an emergency or accident during producinquiries at seven domestic sites in fiscal 2010, indicating that tion operations. Emergency-preparedness drills have also been Environment many stakeholders were inconvenienced. The complaints held regularly. The Company formulates procedures to prevent mainly had to do with noise and foul odors. While most of the environmental pollution during emergencies. The effectiveness noise-related problems were promptly solved, the Company of the procedures is verified during the drills and defective has had to continuously implement measures for the remepoints are corrected. diation of odor-related problems at two operational sites. Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Soil Pollution at Kansai Division Operational Site Detail Progress in Fiscal 2010 in Ebie Groundwater pollution by VOCs In advance of groundbreaking, Toppan Printing Asaka Plant (Voluntary investigation of well water Continuously monitored Co., Ltd. conducted a soil investigation (Niiza City, Saitama) on the plant premises) required by applicable laws and regulations at the site where it plans to construct the Ebie Toppan Electronics, Inc. Plant (tentative name) in Osaka. The Company (TEI) Miramar Plant Soil pollution by heavy metals detected hexavalent chromium and lead at Remediation work completed (San Diego County, (lead, etc.) and VOCs levels in excess of the regulatory standards in a California, USA) part of the surface-layer ground. The relevant local authority received Toppan’s report on the Itabashi Plant Groundwater pollution by hexavaGroundwater pumped and purified; data in October 2010. (Itabashi Ward, Tokyo) lent chromium and toluene continuously monitored After due consultation with the regulating authority, Toppan went on to investigate groundwater contamination and to measure the depth and horizontal distribution of soil pollution. The additional investigations verified the absence of groundwater contamination and precisely quantified the extent of soil pollution. Before beginning construction, Toppan excavated and removed contaminated soil and took other antipollution measures according to the countermeasure plan submitted to the authority. Emergency-preparedness drill to cope with a Inspection of effluent-gas treatment equipment hypothetical leakage scenario TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 43 Promoting the Conservation of Biodiversity  ctively Utilizing Lumber Harvested from A Verifying the Legality of Paper Materials Forest-thinning Operations To consider biodiversity in paper procurement, Toppan uses Toppan encourages the conservation of forests in Japan by paper made with lumber derived from responsibly managed actively utilizing lumber harvested from forest-thinning operaforests. In fiscal 2010, the Company carried out traceability tions. Thinning is a process to keep spaces between trees by surveys for 60 paper manufacturers around the world on the clearing out poorly grown trees. The ecological benefits of the use of wood chip and pulp as raw materials for paper. These thinning operation help to nurture sound forests and conserve surveys proved the legality of the paper materials. Toppan will biodiversity. conduct the same surveys every year and strive to enhance Cartocan, Toppan’s paper-based beverage container, is the accuracy of traceability further. produced from pulp using more than 30% domestic lumber, including lumber harvested from forest-tinning operations. Expanding Forest-certified Fields ­Toppan is authorized to display the forest-thinning product Toppan has engaged in green purchasing and green procurelogo on its Cartocan and has been contributing to the sound ment via various approaches, including the use of paper types maintenance of forest resources in Japan. produced by sustainability-conscious processes, such as recySince 2007, the Takino Plant has endorsed a pallet project cled paper, forest-certified paper, and paper made with pulp operated by FoE Japan, an international environmental NGO. from forest-thinning operations. Regarding the forest manageMany of the pallets used at the plant are made with lumber ment certification scheme in particular, Toppan became the harvested from forest-thinning operations. first company in Japan to acquire the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC™) Chain of Custody (COC*) certification in the Promoting Pro-Green Activities field of commercial printing (certified in May 2002). More Since fiscal 2008, Toppan operational sites across Japan have recently, Toppan acquired FSC COC certifications in securities promoted Pro-Green Activities, a series of solutions and Environment printing, publications printing, and décor materials, as well. In improvements in response to environmental challenges, as a March 2011, the Sagamihara Plant acquired COC certifications means of augmenting improvements throughout the Company. in the field of containers and packaging from the FSC and the Initiatives have been launched in fiscal 2011 to promote activProgramme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification ities for the consideration of biodiversity as a common goal for Schemes (PEFC*). The Company will endeavor to expand the all of the operational sites, including activities to encourage sales of printed materials using these types of certified paper. biodiversity consciousness in land use. Logo for forest-thinning Joining in a Hands-on Satoyama Event products A logo designated by the Toppan employees and their families took part in an event called the “Exciting Projects for Kids: National Federation of CoopSpring potato harvest and work & play with erative Associations for Forest bamboo in Miwa satoyama*” in Kanagawa PreOwners under the guidance of fecture, Japan. Participants enjoyed close conthe Forest Agency and Ministact with nature under the guidance of the event try of Agriculture, Forestry and host, the Environmental NPO “SHU,” a specified nonprofit corporation. The event enhanced Fisheries in Japan. The logo is displayed on prodCartocan ucts developed with the sundry aims of spreading awareness of the great significance of nature. awareness and wider proliferation of forest-thinning operations, promoting the use of lumber harvested from forest-thinning operations, and offering consumers a wider choice of eco-options. Forest Stewardship Programme for the Council™ (FSC) Endorsement of Forest forest management Certification Schemes certification (PEFC) forest certification A scheme for approving A forest certification scheme *Satoyama: A richly biodiverse habitat within a responsible forest managecovering the world’s largest landscape carefully managed by humans for mixed uses such as forestry, rice paddles, resment under the principles certified forest area, manervoirs, grasslands, and so on. and standards established aged by the PEFC council by the FSC™. (international headquarters based in Switzerland). *Chain of Custody (COC) certification: A scheme for approving comprehensive product management to effectively prevent the admixture of pulpwood from responsibly managed forests with pulpwood from noncontrolled sources during any part of the production process from manufacturing to distribution. 44 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Eco-creativity Activities  oppan has registered a total of 103 environmentally friendly products. T Points Toppan has assessed the environmental impact of products based on LIME. Developing and Certifying Environmentally Life Cycle Assessment of Products Friendly Products From fiscal 2008, Toppan has been making environmental Toppan develops eco-friendly products in accordance with impact assessments based on LIME*1 under the guidance of Toppan’s 14 Environmental Points based on ISO 14021 and Mr. Norihiro Itsubo, Associate Professor of Tokyo City Univereach division’s own set of criteria. Newly developed products sity. LIME quantitatively assesses the environmental impact meeting the criteria are certified and registered as “environassociated with activities for producing individual products. mentally friendly products.” Three products were registered in The Company aims to formulate a model in which a comprefiscal 2010, bringing the total up to 103 as of the end of March hensive environmental impact assessment of production 2011. Toppan will press on with environmental conservation activities (➞P. 37) and a life cycle assessment*2 (LCA) of prodactivities through the development and sales of environmentally ucts can be made. friendly products. In fiscal 2010, Toppan assessed two of its environmentally friendly products: Cartocan, a paper-based beverage container Environment-related Businesses at Group and KAMICARD, a paper-based IC card. The assessment of Companies Cartocan indicated that lumber, a raw material of paper, The companies of the Toppan Group, like Toppan itself, have accounted for the larger portion of the environmental impact forged ahead with corporate activities geared to conserving of the product and that the use of lumber harvested from the global environment. Each company develops, produces, forest-thinning operations reduced the impact by about 20% and markets eco-friendly products in line with its own Ecoversus the impact in the case of no use (shown in the chart product Standards formulated in consideration of products, below). services, and social demands. The total sales of products In fiscal 2011, the Company will expand the scope of satisfying the criteria of individual Group companies and assessment to cover containers, packages, publications, and ­Toppan itself in environment-related businesses stood at 239.4 commercial printed materials in order to establish a method Environment billion yen in fiscal 2010. by which to quantitatively assess the environmental impact of Toppan’s environmentally friendly products. Toppan’s 14 Environmental Points and LCA of Cartocan based on LIME Environmental Considerations 100% Toppan’s 14 Environmental Life Cycle ISO 14021 Environmental Points for Environmentally Stage Labeling Type II 80% Environmental impact Friendly Products Production 1. Use of safe materials 60% Lumber and distribution Recycling rate 2. Use of recycled materials Lumber 40% Resource reduction 3. Resource-saving 4. Reduced energy 20% Other than lumber Other than lumber ­consumption in production (CO2, etc.) (CO2, etc.) Recovered energy 5. Use of recovered energy 0% In the case of no-use of In the case of 30% Reduced solid waste 6. Reduced solid waste lumber harvested from use of domestic lumber, Use Energy-saving 7. Energy-saving forest-thinning operations including lumber harvested (Assuming 100% from forest-thinning 8. Reduced release of use of natural wood) operations in Japan chemical substances Long-life products 9. Long product life After use Reusable/refillable 10. Reusability *1 LIME: See P. 37 for details. *2 Life Cycle Assessment (LCA): An assessment method for quantifying Recyclable 11. Recyclability ­resources input to a product and emissions and discharges associated 12. Suitability for disposal with the product, at all stages of the product life cycle, from raw material procurement through to manufacturing, distribution, use, disposal, and 13. Easy separation and Easy detachment design recycling. disassembly Degradability 14. Biodegradability TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 45 Environmental Communication Activities Toppan sites in Japan issue Site Eco Reports to facilitate communication with stakeholders. Points Toppan presented its eco-friendly products at Tokyo International Packaging Exhibition 2010 (TOKYO PACK 2010) and Eco-Products 2010. T  he Higashinihon Division received an Outstanding Energy-Efficient Factory Award 2010 from the Director General of the Tohoku Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. Communication outside the Company Presenting at Various Exhibitions Issuing Site Eco Reports In fiscal 2010, Toppan exhibited at TOKYO PACK 2010 held Toppan’s ISO 14001-certified sites in Japan have been issuing at Tokyo Big Sight. At Eco-Products 2010, the Company preSite Eco Reports to disclose environmental burden data and sented eco-friendly products in an exhibit entitled “Tuning into the details of their environmental activities since fiscal 2000. the voice of society—eco-Monozukuri at Toppan.” As periodic communications directed towards local municipalities and residents in surrounding communities, 29 reports Major Environment-related Awards from 37 sites were issued in fiscal 2010. The Higashinihon Division of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. received an Outstanding Energy-Efficient Factory Award 2010 from the Meeting Residents to Report Environmental Activities Director General of the Tohoku Bureau of Economy, Trade and The Kawaguchi Plant invites residents from surrounding comIndustry of Japan. The award was conferred in recognition of munities every year to brief them on its environmental efforts the division’s various energy-saving activities, including, promand take them on plant tours. inently, the application of inverter control for air-conditioner In a meeting held to report its environmental activities in fans and fuel saving through the installation of heat exchangAugust 2010, the plant passed out copies of the Site Eco ers for the exhaust air of drying devices. Report to participant residents and presented products manAs an outstanding role model for energy-saving manageufactured at the plant and examples of environmental efforts, ment in a factory setting, the division will intensify its energyincluding works to install environment-oriented equipment. The saving efforts by focusing on efficiency improvements for plant intends to foster dedicated communication with residents equipment with high power loads, applying outstanding from surrounding communities by continuing these activities energy-saving measures throughout the division, reducing in the years ahead. energy consumption per unit of production value through ­productivity enhancements, and undertaking various other Environment measures. Site Eco Reports (in Japanese) TOKYO PACK 2010 Commendation ceremony for the Award from the Director General of the Tohoku Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan Meeting to report environmental activities Eco-Products 2010 46 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Independent Assurance The conclusions of our assurance engagement are stated in strengthened head office control over environmental performour Independent Assurance Report. The following summarizes ance data from overseas subsidiaries. improvements from the previous year and recommendations There are still limits, however, in the disclosure of environfor further improvements, as identified in the course of our mental and personnel indicators. These data generally cover assurance procedures. only Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and several domestic subsidiarToppan has downsized its CSR report by about 30 pages ies. Now that the Company has developed business operations from last year’s edition, mainly by posting detailed supplemenglobally, it seems that we can no longer overlook its overseas tary data on its website. By rearranging the report to align with subsidiaries. We assume that henceforth, stakeholders and the seven core subjects addressed in ISO 26000, we believe society at large will increasingly require Toppan to disclose the Company has enhanced the readability of the report withperformance data covering all domestic and overseas conout sacrificing the quantity of data or level of conformance with solidated subsidiaries, along with the Company itself. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Reliability of the data disclosed in the report was also KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. improved through various developments, most notably, the (KPMG AZSA & Co. group) Shinichiro Akasaka Indicators in this Report Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Pages Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider 17 Human Rights Number of Recruits; Female Managerial and Supervisory Staff; Employment of Persons with Disabilities Number of Employees; Reasons for Leaving; Average Annual Salary; Annual Paid Leave Used; Employees Taking 18 Maternity or Childcare Leave Rate of decrease in the average hours of overtime worked (in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2010); number of employees who have 19 resigned from the Company and registered to join the rehiring system for employees who resign from the Company for Labor Practices the delivery and upbringing of children 20 Occupational Safety and Health Number of employees who participated in rank-based training sessions; number of employees who participated in the 21 Toppan Business School; number of employees who participated in the globalization-training course 22 Number of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders; ratio of female Leaders Number of employees who participated in the specialist training series for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders; 23 number of employees who participated in the e-learning-based education program on compliance with the Subcontract Fair Operating Practices Law of Japan Number of companies that submitted memorandums of cooperation and reported the current status of their CSR 24 activities in questionnaires, in cooperation with the Toppan Group’s CSR procurement initiatives Number of employees who participated in training sessions for internal auditors; results of the audits conducted using 26 Consumer Issues a quality audit checklist 33 Environmental Targets and Results (for Results of the progress towards the medium-and-long-term environmental targets for fiscal 2010; results of the progress the Medium-and-long-term and Fiscal towards the environmental targets for fiscal 2010 34 2010) *Only the numerical results are assured. 36 Major Environmental Burdens by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) Toppan’s Environmental Burden 37 Ratio of Domestic and Overseas Environmental Burdens; Environmental Impact and Environmental Efficiency 39 Environmental Management Activities Number of internal environmental audits conducted; Fiscal 2010 Results of Environmental Education 40 Energy Consumption; CO2 Emissions; energy consumption per unit of transport volume and CO2 emissions in logistics Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate; Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal; Waste Discharge 41 Per Unit of Production Value; Fiscal 2010 Results of Waste Discharge and Recycling; total number of registered zeroemission sites VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere; NOx and SOx Emissions; Chemical Substances Designated under the Eco-protection Activities 42 PRTR Law (Formerly Designated Chemical Substances); Fiscal 2010 Results of Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR Law (Currently Designated Chemical Substances) Compliance with Regulatory Standards in Fiscal 2010; number of complaints and inquiries from communities around 43 Toppan’s plants; Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution 44 Number of companies subject to Toppan’s traceability surveys 45 Eco-creativity Activities Number of newly registered environmentally friendly products; total sales of environment-related businesses Some data in the CSR Report 2011: Detailed Data (on the Toppan website) are also assured by the assurance provider. Level of Conformance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 This report is at an application level B+ as Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ defined by the GRI Sustainability Reporting Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement Guidelines 2006 (G3 Guidelines). 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B OUTPUT G3 Profile 2.1-2.10 1.2 Disclosures 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 *Please access http://www.toppan.co.jp/ 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured english/csr/ for the GRI content index. Not Required Management Management Standard Disclosures Approach Disclosures Approach disclosed OUTPUT G3 Management Approach for each Indicator for each Indicator Disclosures Category Category Report on a minimum Report on a minimum of Report on each core of 10 Performance 20 Performance G3 and Sector Indicators, including Indicators, at least one Supplement* G3 Performance OUTPUT at least one from each from each of: economic, indicator with due Indicators & Sector of: social, economic, environment, human regard to the Supplement and environment. rights, labor, society, materiality Principle Performance Indicators product responsibility. by either: a) reporting on the indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission. *Sector supplement in final version TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 47 Independent Assurance Report 48 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 Group Business Structure Customers Toppan Group Structure Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Sales Companies Companies Toppan Communication Products froebel-kan co., ltd. Information & Networks 58% Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Co., Ltd. Total Media Development Institute Toppan Graphic Communications Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. 8 other companies 3 other companies Toppan Travel Service Corp. Toppan Printing Co. (America), Inc. Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. (USA) Toppan System Solutions Co., Ltd. 11 other companies Toppan Printing Co., (H.K.) Ltd. Tokyo Shoseki Co., Ltd. T.F. Company, Ltd. (PRC) (PRC) 26 other companies 8 other companies Toppan Printing Co., (Shenzhen) Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (Manufacturing and sales company) Ltd. (PRC) 11 other companies *Toppan M&I Co., Ltd. *Data Products Toppan Forms Ltd. 8 other companies (Thailand) 9 other companies *Toppan Leefung Changcheng Toppan Leefung Pte. Ltd. Printing (Beijing) Co., Ltd. (PRC) (Singapore) 2 other companies 28 other companies Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Sales Companies Companies Toppan Packaging Products Toppan Cosmo, Inc. Co., Ltd. Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd. Living Environment 24% Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd. Toppan Containers Co., Ltd. Toppan Packs Co., Ltd. Tamapoly Co., Ltd. 8 other companies Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd. Toppan Yau Yue Paper Products 1 other company Ltd. (PRC) *Toyo Ink Mfg. Co., Ltd. 2 other companies (Currently Toyo Ink SC Holdings Co., Ltd.) 3 other companies P.T. Toppan Printing Indonesia (Indonesia) Toppan Interamerica Inc. (USA) 7 other companies Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Sales Companies Companies Toppan Electronics Products Toppan Electronics (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. NEC Toppan Circuit Solutions, Inc. Co., Ltd. 3 other companies Toppan Seimitsu Kako Co., Ltd. Toppan CFI (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Electronics 18% 6 other companies Toppan Photomasks, Inc. (USA) 9 other companies *Advanced Mask Technology Center GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) 1 other company Products Materials Service Notes: INo symbol: subsidiary—163 companies *: affiliates—28 companies (as of the end of March 2011) IToppan Group’s business activities are usually divided into five fields. Here, however, they are divided into three fields based on the current sizes of the ­businesses and other factors. IThe composition ratios given under each business field are percentages of overall sales contributed. (“Net Sales by Business Field” are shown on P. 5.) IToppan Forms Co., Ltd., Tosho Printing Co., Ltd., and Toyo Ink Mfg. Co., Ltd. (currently Toyo Ink SC Holdings Co., Ltd.) are listed on the first section of the ­Tokyo Stock Exchange. IToppan operational sites span 15 countries and regions, including Japan. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2011 49 As a member of GPN, we incorporate Green Purchasing in our printing services. This report incorporates eye-friendly displays as a consideration for as many different types of people as possible, regardless of individual differences in color perception. Monitors from the Color Universal Design Organization (CUDO), a nonprofit organization, have reviewed and certified this report for its universal design. http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ © TOPPAN 2011.12 K I Printed in Japan
