SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg Report in the field of Sustainable Development (Annual Report) Table of Contents Director General’s Address 2 Calendar of Events 2010 4 About the company 8 Vodokanal Today 20 Risk management 26 Participation in external initiatives 30 Interaction with stakeholders 36 Results of Activities in 2010 46 Water Supply 46 Wastewater Disposal 58 Customer service 68 City Fountains 78 Public Toilets 80 Innovations 82 Implementation of new technologies in the field of water supply and wastewater disposal 82 Patent work 88 IT infrastructure development 90 Social responsibility 96 Awareness building 96 Environment protection and safety 102 Personnel policy 106 Social Policy 112 Tariff policy 120 Financial Statements 124 The main financial indicators of SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg 124 Balance sheet 125 Audit report on financial statements 131 Contact Information 133 2 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 3 Director General’s Address Tarja Halonen mentioned at the meeting with the Russian President Dmitry MedDear Ladies and Gentlemen, vedev that wastewater treatment in Petersburg was “a world-class achievement”. Of course, we are pleased to hear such a high appraisal of our work. However, it Continuous improvement is one of the basic principles determining the activities of is not only Vodokanal that should take credit for the results achieved. They would Vodokanal St. Petersburg. Therefore, we are trying to improve our public reports. have been unreachable without the support of the city administration and federal They are published annually by our company, however, this year’s report incorgovernment, without close cooperation with foreign partners, primarily, Finnish porated recommendations on reporting in the field of sustainable development experts. And we keep working. There is still a great deal of work for us to do in (GRI). In this way, we could give a more in-depth and full description of Vodokanal order to improve the condition of the Neva and the Baltic Sea. business-related and social activities for all interested parties. “A great deal of work” means not only implementation of new technologies and Vodokanal is striving to become the Europe’s best water company. We study and commissioning of new plants. It is very important to change the people’s mentalanalyze customer expectations on a continuous basis and use the results to adjust ity. Therefore, Vodokanal did its best to develop its educational and awarenessour operations. We implement innovative production technologies. We create the building programs in 2010. Our museum complex “The Universe of Water” was environment where all Vodokanal employees could make maximum use of their visited by over 200,000 people in one year. It is an absolute record over the life of intellectual and business potential. And all that leads us to success. the museum. Furthermore, the web-portal da-voda.com was created in 2010 with The previous year 2010 abounded with important events. the support of Vodokanal where different articles and videos devoted to water in We have made a significant step to creation of innovative water supply system all its manifestations can be found. By the way, this website won the Runet Award in Petersburg. Over two previous years, we have been working on a pilot project last year. aimed to set up a water supply management system, and in 2010 we summed up Any educational and awareness-building activities are time-consuming. They do the results of this experiment. You can read more about the work and the results not give quick results. However, we can see that the society is gradually changing achieved in this report, but I would like to note that the results were impressive. its behaviour towards water. People begin to treat water carefully. It is evidenced They showed that we were moving in the right direction. On the one hand, we by the trend to lower water consumption. More and more people now use meters could improve significantly the quality of water supply services and, on the other to measure their water consumption; water saving technologies are being wider hand, achieve a notable reduction of energy costs. Basing on the experience acapplied in everyday life. And we rejoice at that. quired during the pilot project implementation, Vodokanal began to implement the water supply management system throughout Petersburg. Felix V. Karmazinov In parallel, we started up the new water treatment block at the city’s biggest water SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” treatment plant — Southern WTP. It was an extremely important event not only for Director General Vodokanal, but also for all Petersburg: the new treatment block enabled us to reach a new level of potable water production and, at the same time, minimize negative impact on the environment. Construction of the new block was one component of the Southern WTP reconstruction project. In the coming years, new advanced water treatment blocks will also appear at Northern and Main WTPs. However, Vodokanal’s objective is not limited to the supply of clean potable water to the citizens. We must, and do give as much attention to conservation of clean Baltic Sea. Over the recent years, Vodokanal has implemented a large-scale environmental program — The Neva Untreated Wastewater Discharge Closure Program. Let me remind you that before 1978 municipal sewage was not treated at all in the former Leningrad. All dirt produced by the city industries, dwelling houses, hospitals and institutions was discharged directly into the Neva and other watercourses. Today, we treat 93 per cent of sewage. By 2015, we want to reach the 98% level. And I have no doubts that these plans can come true. Implementation of the unique project — Extension of the Main Sewage Collector in the northern part of the city — is progressing in strict compliance with the time schedule and will be completed by the end of 2012. In 2010, the construction of Collector caused some inconveniences for the citizens: the traffic along two Neva embankments had to be officially restricted last spring. But we kept to the schedule and, as we had promised, the traffic was resumed in full by the end of December. Reduction of untreated water discharge in combination with the implementation of enhanced phosphorus and nitrogen removal technologies at wastewater treatment plants have already benefitted the condition of the Baltic Sea. Our Finnish colleagues noted that, in summer 2010, the quantity of blue-green algae in the Baltic Sea diminished obviously despite very hot weather. And the Finnish President 4 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 5 Calendar of Events 2010 January February March April May June • The HELCOM (Baltic Marine Environ• The Herrenknecht tunneling machine • The official ceremony devoted to the • SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” • SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” • Vodokanal St. Petersburg participatment Protection Commission) Landbegan tunneling works in the last completion of the South-West Sludge became the Russia’s first water won the contest “100 Best Russian ed in the International Water Forum Based Pollution Group excluded the section of the Main Sewage Collector Incineration Plant Construction Projcompany to obtain the Recognized Organizations. Science. Innovations. EQUATEC 2010 and the conference sub-spot “Vodokanal’s Central WWTP Extension’s second line at the depth ect implemented with active particiFor Excellence Certificate, 5 stars, of Scientific Research” in the nomina“Water Sector Development Prosin St. Petersburg” from the list of hot of 70 metres below the ground level. pation of the European Commission the European Foundation for Quality tion “Russia’s best companies and pects up to 2020” organized by the spots. • The Director General of SUE “Vowas held at the South-West WWTP. Management (EFQM). organizations for innovations and National Union of Vodokanals. • The new exhibit — “Communicating dokanal of St. Petersburg” Felix V. The final acceptance certificate was • Vodokanal opened the season of scientific research”. • The geoinformation system “Baltika” vessels” was added to The Universe Karmazinov took part in the Baltic executed upon the expiration of the fountains: the fountain in front of • Vodokanal St. Petersburg particidesigned by Vodokanal won the Rusof Water museum collection. Sea Action Summit 2010 (Helsinki, incineration plant warranty period. Kazansky Cathedral was the first to pated in the Third International Envisian Geoinformation Projects 2009Finland). It was announced that Vo• The round table dedicated to enviopen. ronmental Congress; one of the Con2010 Competition in the nomination dokanal St. Petersburg intends to seronmental cooperation between Pe• Vodokanal’s Northern Water Treatgress round tables — “Environment, “The Brightest Corporate Project”. lect and use chemicals in compliance tersburg and Finland and attended by ment Plant (Northern WTP) celebratWater and Healthy Lifestyle” was • Vodokanal actively participated in with the European standard REACH. the Finnish President Tarja Halonen, ed its 40th anniversary. held at the Information and Training the city festival “Red Sails”. • The Universe of Water museum the Governor of St. Petersburg Val• The final competition of comic magCentre. • A new web-portal — www.da-voda. complex (Water Museum) opened entina Matvienko and Director Genazines and animated videos “United • “The Universe of Water” museum com — was created with the support its own website: www.vodokanaleral of Vodokanal Felix Karmazinov, by Water” was held at Vodokanal’s took part in the international event of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. museum.ru. was held at SUE “Vodokanal of Youth Environmental Centre (YEC). “The Night of Museums 2010”. The web-portal was launched on the • Under the Russian-British Climatic St. Petersburg”. • Light-musical fountain complexes eve of the International EnvironmenTimeout Program, Vodokanal’s Youth • Under the “The Young Think of the in Lenina Square and Moskovskaya tal Day — Ecologist Day. Environmental Centre (YEC) preBaltic Sea” Program timed to the Square opened a new season. • “The Universe of Water” museum sented some mini-projects dedicated World Water and Baltic Sea Day, Vocomplex housed Alexander Raichto the climate change theme and dokanal’s Youth Environmental Censtein’s (Helsinki) installation-exhibiimplemented by Petersburg school tre organized interactive classes “Big tion “Pablo and Alexander — Games students at their schools. Little Sea” and the environmental with Picasso”. awareness project “One Drop Saves Another”. • SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” participated in the International Environmental Forum “Ecology of Big City” (St. Petersburg). • Vodokanal supported the creation of informational web-portal “Leningrad. Victory” (www.Leninigradpobeda.ru) under a charity program. • Vodokanal’s official website (www. vodokanal.spb.ru) won the All-Russian Contest “Best Corporate Media 2010” in the nomination “Web-Portal”. 6 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 7 Calendar of events 2010 July August September October November December • A new 350,000 m3/day cold water • The St. Petersburg Government ap• The first Russian language edition • Vodokanal St. Petersburg won the • Excursion to Vodokanal’s facilities • The third stage of the Main Sewage treatment block was put into operaproved the long-term target program of the book “Water Supply Practice” Sixth International Quality Competiwas organized for a group of MosCollector Extension was completed tion at Southern WTP. “On Energy Saving and Improving Enissued by Vodokanal St. Petersburg tion of Central and Eastern Europe cow-based popular bloggers. making it possible to lift traffic restric• Vodokanal presented the results of ergy Efficiency of Water Supply Sysin cooperation with the German As(CEE). For the first time ever a Rus• Vodokanal hosted the round table tions for two Neva embankments. its pilot project aimed to create a tems in the Southern Zone of St. Pesociation for Gas and Water (DVGW) sian public utility got such award. organized by the International AcadThe percentage of wastewater treatwater supply management system tersburg up to 2012”. was presented in the framework of • SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” emy of Sciences on Ecology, Human ment in Petersburg grew to 93%. in Uritskaya Pumping Station service • Vodokanal launched an open tender IFAT — Trade Fair for Water, Sewage participated in the Second InternaSafety and Nature, where the Com• The inaugural issue of LLC Vodokanzone. for organizing LLC Vodokanal-Finance and Waste (Munich, Germany). tional Clean Water Forum in Moscow. pany specialists presented fundaal-Finance’s five-year bonds was • SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” bond issue aimed to raise funds for • SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” • In the framework of the Clean Wamental provisions of the draft federal placed in full. won the contest “100 Best Russian the project “Main Sewage Collector obtained the Confidence in Employter Forum, Vodokanal St. Petersburg law “On Water Supply and Sanita• Vodokanal won the Grand-Prix at the Organizations. Environment and OcExtension in the Northern Part of St. er Certificate (the Certificate is bepresented a new guidebook “Potable tion”. All-Russian Contest “Conscientious cupational Safety”. Petersburg from Finlandsky Bridge to stowed by the State Labour InspecWater Quality Benchmarking” (au• The Federal Financial Markets SerSupplier 2010” in the nomination Kantemirovskaya Street”. tion in St. Petersburg, Trade Union thors: Head of Russian Rospotrebvice registered the issue of LLC Vo“For Production Efficiency and Prod• Vodokanal participated in the Third Federation of St. Petersburg and nadzor G.G. Onischenko, Director of dokanal-Finance bonds (2 million seuct Competitiveness, Compliance International Tea and Coffee Festival. Leningrad Region, and Regional AsHuman Ecology and Environmental curities for the face value of 2 billion with International Management and sociation of Employers “St. PetersHygiene Research Institute Yu. A. RaRoubles in total). Quality Regulations”. burg Union of Industrialists and Unkhmanin, Director General of SUE • Vodokanal obtained the Certificate • The Director General of Vodokanal dertakers”). “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” of Membership in the European St. Petersburg F.V. Karmazinov was • Vodokanal St. Petersburg entered into F. V. Karmazinov, et al.) which proFoundation for Quality Management awarded the National Prize “Man a MEUR 5 loan agreement with the poses new approaches to supply of (EFQM) — one of the world’s most of the Year 2010” in the nomination Nordic Environment Finance Corporagood-quality potable water to citihonoured and prestigious organiza“Environmental Protection”. tion (NEFCO) and a MEUR 3.75 agreezens based on the national and fortions dealing with quality issues. • Wastewater Treatment Plant in Kroment of non-refundable assistance eign best practice. • The web-portal www.da-voda.com nstadt celebrated its 30th anniverwith the Northern Dimension Envi• Vodokanal St. Petersburg signed the created with the support of Vodosary. ronmental Partnership (NDEP) under Memorandum of Cooperation with kanal St. Petersburg got the Runet • Vodokanal validated a new collective the project “Reconstruction and ModLahti Science and Business Park Award in the nomination “Health and agreement for 2011—2013. ernization of Small Wastewater Treat(Finland) regarding establishment Recreation”. ment Plants in St. Petersburg”. of Water Excellency Centre in St. Pe• The Festival of Knowledge was held tersburg. at Vodokanal’s Information and Train• The open tender for LLC Vodokaning Centre on 1 September. al-Finance bond issue organization services was completed. The tender winner was OAO “Bank St. Petersburg”. • The Director General of Vodokanal St. Petersburg F.V. Karmazinov became the winner of IV Independent Business Award “Chief of the Year” in the nomination “Honoured Chief”. • Vodokanal organized the first “Welcome to Vodokanal” party for new company employees. 8 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 9 About the company Vodokanal History It was only by 1935 that the pre-revokm) had lasted for 10 years. Vasileostrolution level of water supply to the city vskaya sewage pumping station was The history of the city’s centralized water supply goes back to 10 October, 1858, network had been reached. However, completed by 1930. Wastewater was when the Charter of “St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company” was apthere were also some achievements at discharged to the Neva Bay without any proved by the Russian Emperor Alexander II. that time. treatment. Among the founders of the Joint-Stock Company were engineers, such as A. N. ErFirst of all, construction of the Southern In the 1930s more and more sewers were akov, P. I. Palibin, E. I. Okel, A. A. Peretz, and big businessmen — I. I. Glazunov, Waterworks (stage I was put into opbuilt in other city districts. The length of M. I. Yakunchikov, I. N. Kushinnikov. eration in 1933, a part of stage II — in sewer networks in Leningrad reached 1940) and modernization of the Main 1130 km which exceeded twice the pre1858–1917 годы Waterworks treatment facilities should revolution level. In 1940 a new sewerage The JSC faced huge financial and technical problems at the initial stage. In early be mentioned. scheme of Leningrad was adopted. It was 1863, the construction of water networks was, practically, suspended. By then, the In 1923–1924 construction of sewer netalso based on a separate sewerage syswater tower in Shpalernaya st. (architects I. A. Merz and E. Shubersky) has been works was resumed. In 1925 the city autem. The scheme envisaged mechanical built and several kilometers of water distribution networks have been laid. The thorities approved the major sewerage treatment and precipitation followed by JSC’s registered capital was spent, the shares sold badly, and even the government plans for Leningrad (separate system discharge to four channels of the Neva subsidy could not alter the situation. In March 1863, the 1 Guild merchant A. I. Kron with four independent sewer basins). Bay. Stormwater was to be discharged from St. Petersburg joined the JSC, contributed the lacking sum (approximately, Vasilyevsky Island was selected as exto all watercourses in the city. It was 900,000 Roubles) and took up completion of the long-drawn works. perimental district for the construction planned to use the tunneling method to of a new sewerage system. Construcbuild the main sewers. Water supply to the first customers started by the end of 1863. tion of sewers in Vasilyevsky Island A special page in Vodokanal’s history is Some modifications were made to the initial design during the construction period. (total length of street networks – 153.3 related to World War II and the blockade At first, it was decided to take water from a sort of a “ladle” — the artificial water body near Tavrichesky Palace connected with the Neva. However, the “ladle” proved to be unsuitable for this purpose, and the JSC had to arrange water intake from the Neva. Before mid-1870es, the water network was only used by the citizens on the leftbank side. The new joint-stock company (Partnership) was established in 1873 (to be managed by English contractors) to supply water to Peterburgskaya (Petrogradskaya) and Vyborgskaya areas. In 1890 the State Duma took a decision to buy out the assets owned by the St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company, and in 1892 — to buy out also the assets of the New Water Networks Partnership. The City Executive Commission for water supply of St. Petersburg was established to manage the water networks and was subordinated to the city administration. The manager of city water networks was appointed on a submission from the chairman of the Executive Commission. During the first decades of the centralized water supply operation in St. Petersburg all customers received water which passed only coarse mechanical treatment. In 1889 sand filters were put into operation at the Main Waterworks (the filters had been built by the St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company as strongly demanded by the city authorities. In 1911 the filtration station with water ozonation was built in Peterburgskaya (Petrogradskaya) area. Chlorine disinfection of drinking water was implemented at the Main Waterworks (the first chlorination experiments were made in Kronstadt in 1909). The Executive Commission for sewerage construction and water supply rehabilitation in St. Petersburg established by the City Duma had worked since 1911 and took over most of the functions in relation to water supply development. The Soviet Period World War I and the Civil War had a negative impact on the technical condition of the city’s water supply system, including its plants, equipment and networks. In 1920s-early 1930s wood pipes were sometimes used for construction of water networks due to the lack of more suitable materials 10 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 11 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg of Leningrad. The waterworks and faciliplanning of the public utilities’ financial Northern WTP marked Vodokanal’s decision to stop using liquid chlorine for water ties, clean water tanks, treatment plants, operations and business. Creation of A special page in Vodokanal’s disinfection and to use hazard-free sodium hypochlorite as a substitute. In 2008 Vodokanal St. Petersburg water networks and sewers were suba management system based on the history is related to World War In December 2009, the second stage of the Main Sewage Collector Extension was celebrated its 150th anniverject to intensive bombings and shelling. corporate development planning was II and the blockade of Leninput into operation to ensure treatment of 91% of all wastewater in St. Petersburg. sary. One of the most important As many as 955 shells exploded within a crucial step to implementation of this grad. The personnel of the most events of the jubilee year was the area of the Southern WTP alone. The concept in the company. important facilities were put on a the startup of the Main Sewage personnel of the most important faciliIt is the implementation of the strategic war footing. Both the city water Collector Stage 1 ties were put on a war footing. planning concept that ensured sustainnetworks and the sewerage Destruction of networks caused the able development of SUE “Vodokanal system were working without flooding of basements, streets and of St. Petersburg”. In 1992 the compainterruption except 25-26 January squares and sometimes even the whole ny was able to become self-sufficient 1942 when the electricity supply city districts. Nevertheless, both the city and raise the necessary investments was cut off water networks and the sewerage sysfor reconstruction and development. tem were working without interruption In 2004, the St. Petersburg Water and except 25-26 January 1942 when the Wastewater Systems Reconstrucelectricity supply was cut off. tion and Development Programme for Over the period between 1950 and 1970 2004-2011 was worked out. On 22 Septhe annual average water supply to tember 2005, the South-West WWTP the city has grown more than twice — was inaugurated in the presence of from 912,800 m3 to 2,057,600 m3. The the President of the Russian FederaSouthern WTP stage II was put into option V.V. Putin, the President of Finland eration in 1948, Volkovskaya WTP — in Tarja Halonen and the Swedish Prime1964, and the Northern WTP stage I — in Minister Göran Persson. 1971. Wide-scale construction of water Alongside with the construction of new pumping stations was underway too. In facilities using the cutting-edge tech1952 the State Committee of the Council nologies, wide-scale reconstruction of In July 2010, the new 350,000 m3/day potable water treatment block at Southern of Ministers of the USSR approved the the existing WWTPs was implemented. WTP was put into operation (it began to supply water to the city in January 2011). project of sewerage construction in the By 2006, three “hot spots” in the Baltic In 2010, Vodokanal summed up the results of its pilot project aimed at implementacentral part of Leningrad where a comSea catchment basin have been elimition of water supply management system, and started to implement the system in bined sewerage system was proposed nated. the southern districts of the city. instead of separate sewerage. The first The reconstruction of the Central By the end of 2010, the next stage of the Main Collector Extension Project has been stage of sewerage in the city centre inWWTP in 2007 made it possible to completed, and the connection of the next 12 direct discharges to the Collector was cluding the Main Pumping Station was meet, and even surpass the HELCOM marked by an official ceremony in January 2011. As a result, the level of wastewaput into operation in 1958. standards of nutrient concentrations. ter treatment in the city increased to 93%. In 1966 the General Scheme of LeninBy commissioning two sludge incingrad Sewerage was approved which eration plants — at the Northern WWTP included, among other things, three and South-West WWTP — in 2007, St. Mission and values big complexes of wastewater treatPetersburg became the first megapolis ment facilities. The first one — Central to fully solve the problem of sewage Mission WWTP – was put into operation in 1978 sludge utilization. Provision of high-quality water and sanitation services ensuring good quality of (stage I). Before that, all city wastewaIn 2008 Vodokanal St. Petersburg celelife for customers, sustainable development of the megapolis, creation of water ter was discharged to the water bodbrated its 150th anniversary. One of the consumption culture and conservation of the Baltic Sea water environment. ies almost without any treatment. The most important events of the jubilee Central WWTP, stage II, was put into year was the startup of the Main SewVision operation in 1984, and the Northern age Collector Stage 1. We see Vodokanal among the world’s best providers of water and sanitation serWWTP, stage I, — in 1987. The construcIn 2009 Vodokanal celebrated its 20vices due to the quality of its services and environmental awareness. tion of the South-West WWTP started year cooperation with the Ministry of in 1986. the Environment of Finland. “The Baltic Values Sea. Common Sea. Common Concern” • Responsibility before future generations — careful and efficient use of natural Contemporary History Conference was dedicated to the anniresources including water, energy, forests, etc. In the 1990s, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peversary. • Responsibility before the customers — continuous studies of the customers’ extersburg” developed and implemented In June 2009, the ceremonial removal pectations and requirements, improvement of customer interaction procedures a novel-for-Russia concept of strategic of the last chlorine container from the to raise the level of satisfaction with the water and sanitation services. 12 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 13 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg • Responsibility before the staff — tivities — that is the only way to reach Overview of management approaches continuous improvement of labour success and to be a leading company. safety, good salaries and wages, • Openness to the public and responsiThe following management approaches are used by SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg social security for the company embility before the society — transparto improve its operations: ployees and their families, and for ency of the company activities, access the retired employees. to reliable information on the com• strategic planning, • Innovative approach — incorporation pany work and history, close contacts • self-assessment according to the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Manageof international best practice in the with the mass media, educational inment) Excellence Model, company management, the use of stitutions and public and environmen• re-engineering of processes, advanced technologies and creation tal organizations — all that constitutes • assessment of customer / personnel satisfaction, of know-how in different fields of acthe basis of our information policy. • process-based approach, • independent audits of ISO 9001, 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management systems, • benchmarking and comparison with the best European water companies, Corporate Management System • sociological studies of public awareness and expectations, annual public reports. Corporate management system building philosophy Corporate management of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is based on the folIn 2004, Vodokanal implemented a process-based approach under the managelowing principles: ment systems: ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System, EMS), 9001 (Quality Management System, QMS) and OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Accountability The company’s executive body shall be acSystem). The systems were integrated after certification in 2006. All three systems countable to the owner (City of St. Peterspass successfully the inspections and a two-level internal audit — at the branch burg), the state authorities and control bodlevel and the company level. In 2007, the data recording and analytical functions of ies in compliance with the applicable law. the integrated system were automated by creating the information management system for quality, environment and occupational health and safety — IS ECOT. Transparency The company shall ensure timely discloFurther upgrading of the management system is performed in compliance with the sure of reliable information on any material Standardization Concept. facts in relation to its activities, including its In September 2007, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” was awarded the Russian financial standing, social and environmenGovernment’s Quality Prize 2006 at the official ceremony. This prize is the national tal performance and operating results, as analog of prestigious European EFQM Quality Award. well as provide free access to such inforIn 2009, Vodokanal made a self-assessment of its operations according to the mation for all stakeholders in compliance EFQM criteria and submitted the materials for participation in the competition for with the law of the Russian Federation the European Quality Award. Following the on-site assessment by EFQM assessors Vodokanal St. Petersburg got a certificate acknowledging that its corporate manResponsibility The company shall acknowledge the rights agement system complies with the Recognized for Excellence level according to of all stakeholders as provided by the apthe EFQM criteria. This result was confirmed in 2010. plicable law and seek collaboration with the Furthermore, in 2010, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” took part in the Internastakeholders to reach the company goals tional Quality Contest of Central and Eastern Europe where it became a winner. and to maintain financial sustainability and The Total Quality Management (TQM) and re-engineering approaches are used social stability. by Vodokanal to improve its management of business-processes. The improvements are implemented by a special project task force. They use a functional Efficiency The company will only reach its goal probusiness-process simulation methodology and DMAIC approach to implement imvided that each employee — from director provements. The key processes — Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal — are general to ordinary officer — works effistructured. Following the re-engineering results, the organizational structure and ciently. headcount were optimized and the number of management levels was reduced from 6 to 4. Some processes were outsourced, in particular, sewage sludge incineration, sewer cleaning by multi-purpose combined vehicles, car service for the Vodokanal has its scientific technical council being an advisory body. The council personnel, security guards for company facilities, and some others. scrutinizes various matters in relation to the development of water and sanitaSince late 1990s, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has made benchmarking studtion systems in St. Petersburg, issues relevant recommendations and reviews ies. Later, the benchmarking was followed up, primarily, in the framework of coopthe results of research and development. eration with the Baltic Sea Region water companies and exchange of best practice Vodokanal’s corporate management system is continuously developing and imwith Russian public utilities. proving due to strategic initiatives of the company management and the owner – In parallel with the process improvement Vodokanal is upgrading its set of indicaCity of St. Petersburg. tors for strategic and on-line monitoring of processes. The assessment tools are: 14 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 15 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg internal and external audit of management systems; self-assessment according to The performance management process for water supply and sanitation services is excellence models and corporate management rating criteria. Performance indicabased on Deming-Shewhart-Tailor cycle: Following the on-site assessment tors are monitored by means of special indicator sets. The process performance by EFQM assessors Vodokanal monitoring by (strategic, tactical and real-time) indicators is performed at different Plan target process indicators are planned for the St. Petersburg got a certificate management levels (site, district or branch). next year before it begins, on the basis of acknowledging that its corporate the strategic indicators, required resources management system complies Key processes aimed at performance management. and result analysis of the previous year. The with the Recognized for ExcelVodokanal has two key (major) processes: water supply service process and sanicause-and-effect relationships between the lence level according to the EFQM tation service process. The company developed a system of process performance approaches applied and the results we want criteria indicators at all levels to ensure better performance of the key processes. to achieve are determined at this phase. The key performance indicators of the water supply service process are: Do the service is provided; daily operational indicators are monitored at all process lev• Compliance of potable water quality in the water distribution networks with the physels. At this phase, management is limited ical and chemical parameters set out in the current regulatory documents, expressed to ensuring the achievement of tactical as percentage; (monthly) targets. • Reduction of breakdown rate per 10 km of networks; • Reduction of the number of complaints about low water head; Check the progress of achieving performance • Percentage of emergency repairs on the networks made on schedule; indicators is checked using the daily and • Percentage of planned maintenance on the networks made on schedule; weekly data • Percentage of water distribution losses. Act the progress of achieving tactical targets The key performance indicators of the sanitation service process are: and the reasons for deviation from targets are analyzed, and the necessary corrective • Compliance of wastewater treatment quality with the regulatory target values, expressed actions are worked out at weekly working as percentage; meetings. Such actions help adjust the ex• Total number of sewer blockages (clogging) per 10 km of sewer networks per year. isting approaches to achieve the targets. Following the results of internal audits under EMS and QMS, the areas for process management improvement are identified. Annually, the EMS and QMS manager issues an analytical report about the functioning of EMS and QMS for the top management, this report being one of the tools to analyze the performance of processes by the company management. Moreover, the analysis of process performance is on the agenda of quarterly Board meetings where the progress towards the achievement of targets is scrutinized. Likewise, the management systems are analyzed at the levels of production branches and other company units. The results of analysis are used to identify areas for improvement, work out the necessary corrective measures and actions to improve the existing approaches for the purpose of achieving strategic targets. Main provisions of corporate culture The main provisions of corporate culture adopted by SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” are set out in the company standard “Code of Corporate Ethics”. The Code contains compulsory rules of conduct to be observed by all company employees, their positions or responsibilities notwithstanding. The Code of Corporate Ethics also gives a definition of potential conflict between personal and corporate interests. The objectives of the Code of Corporate Ethics are: • Determine the Company mission and values. • Establish the standards of ethical conduct and the general principles which underlie relations among the company employees, relations with customers, partners, state authorities, local administration bodies and the society in general. 16 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 17 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg • Nurture favorable environment for the development of corporate culture based on lofty ethical principles. • Make the company employees aware of their personal responsibility for the performance of their duties. The company has also introduced the standards “Public Relations”, “Information Policy Provisions”, etc. pertinent to the corporate culture. Working in accordance with the above standards in 2010, Vodokanal could improve the company image among the customers and raise their satisfaction with the services provided. Improvement of business processes in 2010 In 2010, Vodokanal continued improving its business processes. Primarily, it refers to the customer service process. For the purpose of optimizing this process in the course of performing contractual obligations and improving the quality of customer service, district-based units were established at the Company’s production branches, St. Petersburg Water Supply and St. Petersburg Wastewater Disposal, instead of the unified customer service centre to take over the customer service function within relevant service areas. Company structure SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is headed by its Director General — Felix. V. Karmazinov. In 2010, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” comprised 9 branches: 1 St. Petersburg Water Supply 2 St. Petersburg Wastewater Disposal 3 South-West Vodokanal 4 Transport and Logistics 5 Customer Service Centre 6 Investment Programs Implementation Centre 7 Socio-Economic Programs Implementation Centre 8 Information and Training Centre 9 Medical Centre 18 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 19 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg Organizational Chart since 01.01.2011 First Deputy Connection Terms Preparation Director General’s Consumer Contracts Directorate Accruals Directorate Environmental Management Department Customer Service Centre Branch Director General and Implementation Directorate Office Legal Directorate Development Projects Directorate Organizational Consulting Directorate Claim Processing Department South-West Vodokanal Branch OHSAS and Production Inspection Civil Defense, Extra-Ordinary Situations and Economic Security Security Directorate Information & Training Centre Branch Deputy Director General Department Company Mobilization Dept Department Medical Centre Branch Director General Socio-Economic Programs Personnel Department Administrative Department Intellectual Property Department Implementation Centre Branch Online Control and Emergency St. Petersburg Water Information Policy Deputy Director General Water Supply Directorate IT Directorate Metrology Department Response Department Supply Branch Department for Production Transport & Logistics Branch Hydraulic Modeling and Network St. Petersburg WasteWastewater Disposal Directorate Engineering Support Department Transport & Logistics Department Development Department water Disposal Branch Sanitary Epidemiological Chief Project Wastewater Disposal Financial Directorate Internal Audit Directorate Supervision Department Manager Directorate Economy Directorate Quality Systems Department Investment Planning Department Deputy Director General for Capital Construction and Investment Programs Investments Implementation Centre Branch Construction Property Department Supervision Directorate Chief Accountant Chief Accountant 20 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 21 Vodokanal Today Company Profile Vodokanal’s assets are owned • The treatment plants in Petersburg have implemented the enhanced nutrient by the City of St. Petersburg (phosphorus and nitrogen) removal process to meet the HELCOM recommenThe State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” provides water and sanitarepresented by relevant public dations. The process helps reduce the biological burden on the Neva, Gulf of tion services to the City of St. Petersburg. It is the country’s biggest public utility and authorities Finland and Baltic Sea. one of the key municipal companies in St. Petersburg. Vodokanal has an effective customer feedback system. Since 2004, a round-theVodokanal’s assets are owned by the City of St. Petersburg represented by relevant clock “Hot Line” has been in operation where one can get any information about public authorities. Vodokanal activities. Vodokanal provides its services to the city inhabitants (approx 4.8 Mio. people) and many thousands of companies and organizations in St. Petersburg/ Vodokanal provides its services As of 31.12.2010, the staff of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” numbered 8,598 to the city inhabitants (approx Call the Hot Line: 305 09 09 people. 4.8 Mio. people) and many thousands of companies and organiVodokanal St. Petersburg has charge of the city fountains and public toilets. MoreThe water supply system comprises: zations in St. Petersburg over, Vodokanal gives much attention to education. It has its Information and Training Centre which comprises “The Universe of Water” museum complex and the Youth Environmental Centre. 6,518.4 km of water networks 200 boosting pumping stations As of 31.12.2010, the staff of SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg 9 water treatment plants (the biggest are Southern WTP, Northern WTP and Main WTP) numbered 8,598 people 2 sodium hypochlorite production plants The wastewater disposal system comprises: 8,099.4 km of sewer networks 229.12 km of tunnel collectors 134 sewage pumping stations 21 wastewater treatment plants (the biggest are Central WWTP, Northern WWTP and South-West WWTP) 3 sludge incineration plants Main achievements of SUE «Vodokanal of St. Petersburg» in the field of water treatment: • All potable water supplied to the city is UV-treated to ensure epidemiologic safety; • Liquid chlorine is no more used for water disinfection, it is replaced by hazardfree, non-toxic sodium hypochlorite; • Hazard-free and non-toxic ammonia sulfate is used for water ammonation instead of ammonia solutions; • Water condition in the Neva is checked by means of a biomonitoring system where crayfish act as chief inspectors; • PAC (powdered activated carbon) dosing is implemented to remove odors and oil. Main achievements of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in the field of wastewater treatment: • Around 93% of all wastewater was treated in St. Petersburg by the end of 2010; the percentage will be 98% by 2015; • Petersburg has solved the sludge disposal problem: three sludge incineration plants are in operation in the city; 22 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 23 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg / Vodokanal today The most important It is one of the Russia’s most adprox. 57,000 m3/day in total. The wastewater discharges were connected to vanced treatment blocks. It can the Main Collector and channeled to the Northern WWTP for treatment. The events in 2010 cope with any changes of water level of wastewater treatment reached 93%. quality in the Neva and provide ab4. Due to reduction of untreated wastewater discharge and implementation of 1. One of the most significant events solutely safe and harmless potable enhanced phosphorus and nitrogen removal technologies at wastewater treatin 2010 was the summing-up of the water. In particular, the treatment ment plants, fewer blue-green algae than before were observed in the eastern pilot-scale water supply manageblock has a pre-ozonation stage part of the Baltic Sea in summer 2010, according to the Finnish ecologists’ estiment system project implemented which facilitates greatly the downmates. in the service zone of Uritskaya stream water treatment process. And in November 2010, the Finnish President Tarja Halonen mentioned at the Pumping Station (the area with apThere is another characteristic feameeting with the Russian President Dmitry Medvedev that wastewater treatprox. 140,000 population). ture of the new block — it is enviment in Petersburg was “a world-class achievement”. The pumps and other process faronment-friendly: a closed water 5. In 2010, the specialists of Vodokanal St. Petersburg actively participated in the cilities were replaced by energy cycle is used for the backwashing development of the draft federal sectoral law “On Water Supply and Sanitaefficient equipment at Uritskaya of filters. The sediment produced in tion”. Station and at 11 boosting pumpthe water treatment process is also The draft law establishing a legal framework for effective functioning and susing stations. Automatic air release treated. tainable development of water sector in the Russian Federation was introduced valves and anti-shock valves were 3. The next stage of the Main Sewage in the Russian State Duma on 11 January 2011. installed in the pumping station and Collector Extension Project in the 6. Vodokanal won the Sixth International Quality Competition of Central and Easton the network. Moreover, metering northern part of the city has been ern Europe. checkpoints were installed: using completed by the end of 2010. The Competition was organized by the European Foundation for Quality Manthe pressure data transferred from This enabled Vodokanal to fulfil its agement (EFQM). Vodokanal is the Russia’s first public utility to achieve such the checkpoints the system sets aupromise and lift in December the result. In addition to its victory in the main competition, Vodokanal St. Peterstomatically operating regimes of all traffic restrictions in Pirogovskaya burg was also awarded a special diploma for its achievements in the sphere of plants. As a result, the monthly avand Arsenalnaya embankments corporate social responsibility. erage energy consumption reduced (the restrictions were imposed last 7. The web-portal www.da-voda.com created with the participation of Vodokanal St. by more than 42%, and unaccountspring because of construction of Petersburg won the Runet 2010 Award in the nomination “Recreation and Health”. ed-for water reduced by 39%. Collector shafts). This web-portal was created in the framework of Vodokanal’s awareness-build2. In 2010, the new 350,000 m3/day The works performed during the ing activities. It aims to provoke interest of active Internet community in the water treatment block was put into year resulted in elimination of 12 issues related to careful attitude to water. operation at Southern WTP. direct wastewater discharges — apInvestments in 2010 The amount of 14,252.7 Mio. Roubles was invested in the development and rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation systems in St. Petersburg in 2010. It is the sum of Vodokanal’s investment program and the cost of works ordered by GU “Employer’s Office for Construction and Capital Repairs of Engineering and Energy Facilities”. In 2010, Vodokanal’s investment program amounted to 8,870.3 Mio. Roubles. The program was funded from different sources, including: Federal budget 1,035.3 Mio. Roubles St. Petersburg budget 1,858.4 Mio. Roubles Vodokanal’s own funds 3,738.3 Mio. Roubles Raised funds 2,146.2 Mio. Roubles Connection fee 92.1 Mio. Roubles. 24 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 25 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg / Vodokanal today Under the investment program, Vodokanal invested 2,013.9 Mio. Roubles in the water supply system, namely: The cost of the design works pro• The Investment Program of SUE “Vonomination “For outstanding results in gram in 2010 amounted to 835.6 dokanal of St.Petersburg” for 2009management, contribution to the susMio. Roubles, that is 2.5 times 2011. tainable development of the country” in the development of bigger water treatment plants 212.9 Mio. Roubles more than in 2009 under the contest “Conscientious SupIn 2010, the Investment Program of SUE plier 2010” . in the rehabilitation and development of water distribution networks 532.8 Mio. Roubles “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” for 20092011 was revised and approved by the in the improvement of energy efficiency of water supply facilities 560.4 Mio. Roubles Tariff Committee of St. Petersburg. The amendments reflected the changes in in other needs (e.g. production bases, purchase of equipment, security the amount of financing made accordsystems) 707.8 Mio. Roubles. ing to the results of the annual tariff The amount of 6, 798.5 Mio. Roubles has been invested in the wastewater disposal and regulation exercise. treatment, namely: in the closure of untreated wastewater discharges 5, 369.0 Mio. Roubles Awards in 2010 Achievements of Vodokanal in the upgrading of wastewater treatment plants 605.2 Mio. Roubles St.Petersburg regularly receive recognition by Russian and foreign experts. in the rehabilitation and development of sewers 122.7 Mio. Roubles; In 2010, Vodokanal was awarded the in the improvement of energy efficiency of wastewater disposal following national and international facilities 500.3 Mio. Roubles; prizes: • All-Russian Economic Prize “Modernin other needs (e.g. production bases, purchase of equipment, ization Leaders”; security systems) 201.3 Mio. Roubles. • Gold medal “100 Best Russian Companies. Environment and Industry The amount of 57.9 Mio. Roubles has been invested in the development of the city Safety”; infrastructure (public toilets and fountains) and for the social needs. • Winner of the VI International Quality Much attention was paid to the preparation of design documentation and cost Tournament of the Central and Eastestimates. The cost of the design works program in 2010 amounted to 835.6 ern European Countries; Mio. Roubles, that is 2.5 times more than in 2009. This points to the fact that a • “Confidence in Employer” Certificate new stage of the Company investment activities aiming at the innovation-based (under the project “Report on Comdevelopment has begun. pany Activities in Implementation of The volume of water development works in St. Petersburg carried out in 2010 by Labour Rights of Employees and Emthe order of GU “Employer’s Office for Construction and Capital Repairs of Engiployers”); neering and Energy Facilities” amounted to 5,382.4 Mio. Roubles and was financed • Grand Prize in the Contest “Conscienfrom the St. Petersburg budget. Vodokanal personnel inspected the quality of contious Supplier 2010”; struction and installation throughout the year. • International award of the Foundation for Enterprise Development (title Generally, the investment activities of the Company in 2010 were based on a num“The Best Company of the Year” and ber of documents that provide systematic and integrated development of the en“The Company of High Quality Acgineering infrastructure in Saint-Petersburg: counting”). • Master Plan of Saint-Petersburg (approved by the Law of St.Petersburg No72899 dated 22.12.2005); In 2010, Felix V. Karmazinov, Director • General Water Supply Scheme and General Wastewater Disposal (Sewerage) General of SUE “Vodokanal of St. PeScheme of St. Petersburg for the period up to 2015 (approved by the Decree of tersburg”, was awarded the indepenthe Government of St.Petersburg No 1587 dated 11.12.2007 ); dent business prize “Chief of the Year” • “Integrated Public Utilities Infrastructure Development Program in St. Petersin the nomination “Honored Chief”, beburg, for Heat and Water Supply, Wastewater Disposal and Treatment up to came the winner of the national award 2015” (approved by the Decree of the Government of St. Petersburg No 1270, “Man of the Year” in the nomination 21.10.2008, as amended by the Decree of the Government of St.Petersburg No “The Environment Protection” and got 1384 dated 30.11.2009); the title “Manager of the Year” in the 26 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 27 Risk management ratios describing the Company’s finanthe quality management system based Financial risk management to reduce potential financial risks. cial stability and solvency at the proper on the International Standard ISO — Managing the environment polorganization When applying this mechanism, it is level. 9001 is improved continuously. Regular lution risks, Vodokanal enhances Vodokanal follows a balanced financial important to select a reliable counIn 2010, Vodokanal continued improvinteraction with customers through the the reliability of water supply policy based on the Strategic Plan and terpart to make the agreement of ining its financial model with the support Hot Line in combination with the Comand sewerage systems, improves long-term perspective. The basis of the terest/ currency risks hedging. The of Pöyry Oy — a well-known consultant pany’s information disclosure policy wastewater treatment and forecast is unconditional compliance counterpart was selected among the in the field of financial modelling for (including active communication with sludge utilization technologies with the key financial ratios (calculated bigger financial institutes that follow the European water sector. The output mass media) help mitigate this risk too. and raises the issues of environaccording to both Russian and Internaa rather conservative policy in the deof the model’s latest version is a packInternal and external audits as a part of mental friendliness of the existtional Financial Reporting Standards) rivative market. As a result, a package of financial statements prepared in the Environmental Management Sysing motor transport maintaining the values as recommendage of agreements was signed with compliance with the International Fitem and Quality Management System ed by International Financial Institutes. BNP Paribas. Under the agreements, nancial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The (EMS & QMS) quickly identify the manTo make a long-term forecast, the comVodokanal shall, until the end of 2011, improved model corresponds to the Euagement areas which need to be impany used its financial model calculated make payments of agreed amounts ropean level and allows to predict and proved and help improve the processes for the period up to 2030. It helps evaluin Russian Roubles to the counterpart analyze Vodokanal’s key financial indiat all stages of the service life cycle. ate Vodokanal’s financial capabilities in accordance with the approved time cators in accordance with IFRS. Managing the environment pollution taking into account the implementation schedule (which coincides with the Vodokanal policy in the field of finanrisks, Vodokanal enhances the reliability of big investment projects using its own international loan payment schedule). cial management and minimization of of water supply and sewerage systems, or borrowed funds. The model considIn return, the counterpart will transfer potential risks was appreciated by the improves wastewater treatment and ers macroeconomic factors and comto Vodokanal the payments in Euro at leading international rating agencies sludge utilization technologies and raispany development factors to identify a fixed exchange rate throughout the Standard&Poor’s and Moody’s, which es the issues of environmental friendpotential sources of investments and to effective period of the hedging agreegave Vodokanal the following investliness of the existing motor transport. project development options under difments — ca. 35 Roubles per 1 Euro. ment-grade credit ratings: Improvement of the environmental ferent scenarios. • S&P — BB+ . Stable outlook management leads to mitigation of the The model provides instruments for Risk Management in 2010 • Moody’s — Ваа3. Stable outlook risks associated with emergency situacomparative analysis and monitoring In 2010, Vodokanal continued using tions and consequently, to the improveof Vodokanal’s dynamically changing long-term forecasting and financial Non-financial risk management ment of service quality and mitigation results. Using the results of the monimodelling to minimize financial risks. By Segmentation of non-financial risks has of the environment pollution risks. toring and analysis made by means of continuous monitoring of the financial been made by Vodokanal. The key asTo alleviate the risks associated with the financial model, Vodokanal mansituation and assessing potential impects of the Company activities which undesirable changes in legislation, Voagement promptly make the necessary pacts of the current financial situation may lead to risks are identified. dokanal actively participates in develamendments to the Company’s producon the key financial indicators the ComThey include: opment of regulations, makes suggestion and investment programs. pany could promptly update its financial • Risks associated with the customtions and argues its position. Vodokanal uses a hedging mechanism policy and maintain the key financial er dissatisfaction with water and To prevent the risks associated with a wastewater service quality. decline in the culture of water use, Vo• Risks associated with the environdokanal implements awareness-buildmental pollution. ing programs, including environmental • Risks associated with changes in legeducation of children and teenagers. islation. The management of the risks associat• Risks associated with the general deed with potable water source contamicline in the culture of water use. nation is based on early prevention of • Risks associated with the potable such contaminations. In particular, Vowater source contamination. dokanal St. Petersburg has implement• Risks of industrial accidents. ed the biomonitoring of river water by • Risks associated with potential discrayfish at all its water intakes. And oil eases in hazardous working condispills in the river are detected by the tions. monitoring system installed on one of the bridges across the Neva, upstream The above risks are managed by the of the first city water intake. Company systematically, using a proTo mitigate the risks of industrial access-based approach. cidents, the OHSAS-18001 system has In particular, to minimize the risks assobeen functioning in Vodokanal since ciated with the customer dissatisfaction 2004. The main task of the occupational with water and wastewater services, health and safety management system 28 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 29 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg / Risk management is identification of hazards and risk asStatus of the non-financial risk sessment. Vodokanal has identified the management process in 2010 hazards and risks associated with the In 2010, the non-financial risk manageCompany core activities and those asment process was under constant control sociated with changes in its activities. based on ISO European Standards and Internal and external audits of this sysEFQM Business Excellence Model. tem allow to identify, in a timely manIn particular, the raw water quality bioner, the areas where the safety systems monitoring system at water intakes was should be improved. The accident rates upgraded to increase its reliability in 2010. in the Company have been maintained In accordance with the approved schedat a level below the industry average for ules of occupational health and safety many years. inspections, relevant activities were held Minimization of the risks associated with in branch divisions and administration. In potential diseases in hazardous working total, 61 inspections were carried out in conditions is achieved by regular heath the period under review. Corrective acchecks, medical surveys and preventive tions were worked out to eliminate all immunization. The Company has its own discrepancies. Corrective and preventive Medical Centre with high-qualified staff actions improve the performance of the and up-to-date equipment. That allows occupational health and safety system to timely diagnose any abnormalities and the corporate management of Vodoand provide timely medical treatment kanal St.Petersburg. All the above measures have significantly reduced the personnel disease incidence risks. In 2007-2010, the Company worked on implementation of the EFQM Business Excellence Model. Elements such as strategic planning, key activities results, consumer and employee satisfaction, partnership and relationship with the society, became an integral part of the Company management culture and helped mitigate the above risks. 30 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 31 Participation in external initiatives St. Petersburg’s largest Central Wastewater Treatment Plant. Alongside with the Russian technology “Kreal”, the European-type Johannesburg scheme with automated process control is being implemented there. Since 2008, the chemical phosCompliance with HELCOM (The Baltic Sea Protection phorus removal process has been used on a full scale there. In 2008, the Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant launched full-scale tests of the chemical precipitation Commission — Helsinki Commission) recommendations and currently the chemical is used on an industrial scale. The commissioning of the stationary chemical dosing system is planned for summer 2011. With the support In compliance with the commitments taken by the Russian Federation under the Helof the Swedish company SWECO the updated scheme of biological treatment with sinki Convention on the Baltic Marine Environment Protection, Vodokanal St. Petersburg chemical phosphorus precipitation is being implemented. strives to reduce untreated wastewater discharge and remove nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) from wastewater. The Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea (Helsinki Convention) was signed by all the Baltic Sea countries in 1974. Then, due 12 to the geopolitical changes (collapse of the USSR, unification of Germany) and development of the international environmental and maritime law, a new convention 10 9,6 10 9,3 9,5 was signed in 1992. 8,8 8,6 Nutrient concentration, mg/l The main purpose of the convention is to protect the marine environment of the 8 Baltic Sea, restore and preserve the environmental balance in the Baltic Sea region Total nitrogen and ensure sustainable use of its resources. 6 Total phosphorus Member-countries committed themselves to take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to prevent the Baltic Sea pollution and eliminate the 4 Nitrogen and phosphorus concenexisting pollution sources for the purpose of the Baltic Sea environment restoration. trations at the outlet of wastewater In October 1998, Russia approved 1992 Helsinki Convention (Decree of the Govern2 treatment plants of SUE “Vodokanal ment of the Russian Federation No 1202 dated 15.10.1998). 1,6 1,2 1,0 of St. Petersburg” in 2005-2010 0,8 0,6 0,5 Preventing pollution in the Baltic Sea Basin by nitrogen and phosphorus is an im0 perative environmental challenge for all countries in the Baltic Sea Region. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 With the adoption of new recommendations for municipal wastewater treatment by Helsinki Commission on 15 November 2007, the requirements to removal of nutrients from municipal wastewater drained into the sewerage system became The important milestone in fulfillment of HELCOM recommendations is the complemuch more stringent. When discharging municipal effluents it is necessary to tion of the extension of the main sewage collector in the northern part of the city. achieve the following values: total phosphorus — not more than 0.5 mg/l, total In late 2010, another stage was completed — 12 untreated wastewater discharges nitrogen — not more than 10 mg/l. with the total volume of 57,000 cubic meters per day were connected to the colVodokanal St. Petersburg is actively working to upgrade the biological wastewater lector and channeled to Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant for treatment. As a treatment process and, in particular, to improve the removal of phosphorus comresult, the level of wastewater treatment in St. Petersburg reached 93%. pounds. To meet these requirements and reach stable nutrient removal performance of wastewater treatment plants in St. Petersburg, enhanced biological treatment and chemical phosphorus precipitation processes have been used since 2005. Participation in the UN Global Compact For example, the South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant (SWTP) which has been in operation since 2005 operates the advanced biological treatment process of Since March 2007, SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” is a member of the United Cape Town University and uses a stationary chemical phosphorus removal facility. Nations Global Compact Modernization of aeration tanks for enhanced nutrient removal is underway at the The UN Global Compact is an initiative to enable the companies to ensure compliance of their activities and strategy with ten general principles in the field of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan first proposed an idea of the Global Compact to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on 31 January 1999. In July 2000, the Global Compact was officially presented at the UN headquarters in New York. Since then, the Global Compact with its thousands of members in more than 100 countries has evolved into the biggest voluntary initiative related to the social responsibility of business. The key principles of the Global Compact are as follows: • observance and protection of human rights declared by the international community; • provision of the right to conclude labour contracts; • elimination of discrimination in the sphere of labour and employment; • prevention of negative environmental impacts; • assistance in the development and distribution of green technologies • support of anti-corruption activities 32 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 33 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg / Participation in external initiatives SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” considers the implementation of the corporate develop the draft law together with Ministry of Regional Development of the Russian socially-oriented policy to be its priority task. The fact that SUE “Vodokanal Federation, Non-Commercial Partnership “The National Union of Vodokanals” (NUV), The corporate social policy of the Company is focused on the systemic growth of of St.Petersburg” joined the UN the Russian Association of Water and Wastewater and other stakeholders. Meetings labour efficiency and satisfaction and loyalty of employees by means of HRM rules Global Compact initiative conof the working group were held both on the premises of Vodokanal and in Moscow. and procedures in accordance with the world practice and international standards firms the Company commitment As a result, two draft federal laws — “On Water Supply and Sanitation” and “On based on the unity of purposes, values and corporate traditions of SUE “Vodokanal to improving sound business amending separate legislative acts of the Russian Federation in connection with of St.Petersburg”. practice in accordance with interthe adoption of the Federal Law “On Water Supply and Sanitation” wewe prepared. The fact that SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” joined the UN Global Compact ininational norms The content of these draft laws was discussed with scientific and public organizatiative confirms the Company commitment to improving sound business practice in tions, governmental authorities and other stakeholders. accordance with international norms. On 11 January 2011, the draft laws were submitted to the State Duma of the Russian In the course of the implementation of the Global Compact principles SUE “VodoFederation. It is planned to review and finalize them during 2011 in consideration of kanal of St.Petersburg” is developing and introducing various social programs aimed the submitted comments and proposals. to increase the level of social protection, motivation and efficiency of labour, staff The law “On Water Supply and Sanitation” is intended to become an integrated qualification, and to ensure the team spirit and healthy life-style of the personnel. regulatory act in the water and wastewater sector, which will ensure effective SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” executes its activity in the territory of the Rusfunctioning and development of the sector. All current departmental regulations sian Federation guided by international regulations on human rights. (which today often contradict one another) will be systemized in the new law. Its SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” cooperates with clients and partners regardless adoption should help solve current issues in the water supply and sanitation field, of their nationality and religion. including distinct division of liability for the discharge of pollutants into water bodSUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” employs full-time workers and part-time workies between water companies and customers. ers under civil contracts regardless of their nationality and religion. The Company established equal working conditions for men and women at various The law also regulates the issues concerning: levels of its activities. • property relations in the water supply and sanitation sphere, Every year SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” provides to the Global Compact Of• institutional framework of water companies, fice the necessary documents: Communication on Progress and Survey of the UN • potable water quality control, Global Compact Russian Network participant. • wastewater discharges into water bodies through centralized sewerage systems, SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” takes part in the activities aimed at supporting • prices (tariffs) in the water supply and sanitation sphere, the Global Compact principles, annual meetings of the Global Compact participants • planning and development of centralized water supply and sanitation systems, and in the process of the selection of candidates to the steering Committee of the • contractual relations in the water supply and sanitation sphere, Global Compact network. • and other aspects of water companies. Participation in the development of the draft federal Inclusion into the REACH European Regulation law On Water Supply and Sanitation REACH — Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of CHemicals — is In the second half of 2010, experts of Vodokanal St. Petersburg took an active part the European Union Regulation governing production and turnover of all chemiin the development of the federal law “On Water Supply and Sanitation”. This law cals including their compulsory registration. is intended to become the industry-specific regulation, which will pave the way to a new sphere of legislation — laws of water supply and sanitation. The basis of the REACH system consists of the following elements: To prepare this draft law, a special working group was established by Vodokanal to registration of chemicals; assessment of technical records and/or the substance; issuing permits for placement in the market and use; restrictions on production, placement in the market and use; harmonized classification and labeling; access to information. 34 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 35 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg / Participation in external initiatives In 2010, within the framework of The Baltic Sea Action Summit in compliance ment of chemical leasing. Chemical leasing is a new conception of relationships with the status of a subsequent consumer Vodokanal St. Petersburg undertook between chemical producers, suppliers and consumers, based on the transition the Commitment in respect of the Baltic Sea: “Introduction of improved measures from direct chemical sales to service-oriented joint work business models. Chemito provide environment-friendly selection and use of chemicals in Vodokanal cal leasing business models help build mutually beneficial relations between the St.Petersburg in accordance with the REACH standards . parties of production process based on optimization of chemical use (reduced volThe Commitment was undertaken to protect the Baltic Sea from the effects of umes, exclusion of highly toxic chemicals, substitution of less hazardous or natural hazardous substances by selecting environment-friendly chemicals to be applied components). in production processes and laboratories of Vodokanal St. Petersburg and provide In 2010, the UNIDO North-Western International Centre of Cleaner Production subsafe chemical handling. mitted a project (which was implemented by Vodokanal) of implementing safe, low-concentrated sodium hypochlorite for water disinfection to the first competiThis Commitment includes the following items: tion of the Global Chemical Leasing Award. 1. Informing potential suppliers (importers) about Vodokanal’s methods of using Vodokanal started the implementation of this project in 2006 at Southern Water chemicals; Treatment Plant (SWTP). That allowed to abandon the hazardous highly toxic sub2. Collection and review of existing safety data sheets; stance — liquid chlorine. Sodium hypochlorite is produced in cooperation with ZAO 3. Informing suppliers about the requirement to submit safety data sheets in ac“Aquatechservis” — a company engaged in the implementation and maintenance cordance with the REACH standards. of equipment. In summer 2007, a framework agreement on implementation of chemical leasing A mandatory and integral part of Vodokanal’s cooperation with external suppliers models in the water supply and sanitation sector was signed between Vodokanal is the submittal of existing safety data sheets for chemicals and substances by St. Petersburg and the UNIDO North-Western International Centre of Cleaner Prosuppliers. duction. Development of cooperation led to the signing of a tripartite agreement In the future, Vodokanal St. Petersburg plans to develop cooperation with The Bal(including ZAO “Aquatechservis”) in late 2009, which became the precondition to tic Sea Action Group (BSAG) within the framework of the undertaken Commitment study the possibility of introducing the chemical leasing concept in the production. to improve the condition of water resources in the Baltic Sea. The Global Chemical Leasing Award was established by UNIDO and the Austrian Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. The awarding ceremony for the winners of the first competition took place in Prague on 1 Participation in UNIDO programs March 2010 during the Pan-European conference on chemical control “ChemCon Europe-2010”. The UNIDO management acknowledged that Vodokanal’s chemical UNIDO is the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. It mobilizes leasing activities in the water supply and sanitation sphere were extremely imporknowledge, experience, information and technologies, thereby contributing to the tant and promising, because securing a human right to free access to clean water productive employment, development of a competitive economy and providing and sanitation and prevention of water contamination are among the main priorienvironmental sustainability. One of the UNIDO projects is related to the developties of the UN. 36 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 37 Interaction with stakeholders Partnership concept To bring the list of works in compliance conclusion of contracts, payments under with the changes to the current legiscontracts. Since water is a product and In 2010, Vodokanal St. Petersburg improved its partner relationship management lation, during 2010, Vodokanal intersewage collection — a service, Vodoapproaches. The partners were classified by types of activity and services, and relchanged twice its permit for the works kanal is implementing a new contract evance and importance of this partnership for the Company. The Company adheres which impact on the safety of capital policy in relation to formalization of to the concept of multilateral partnership support, including interaction on techconstruction facilities. contractual relations with its customers. nical, technological, financial, organizational and methodological aspects of work Since 2001, Vodokanal has been actively For this purpose, special customer serwith partners and suppliers. cooperating with the Tunnel Associavice units are set up in Vodokanal’s protion of Russia. This cooperation allows duction branches to communicate with As for its international partners, Vodokanal continued to successfully cooperate Vodokanal to widely use the Russian customers within their service areas in with such organizations as: and foreign experience of underground each administrative district of the city. • the Ministry of the Environment of Finland; works to create the urban infrastructure The reception rooms provide the neces• the John Nurminen Foundation; of St.Petersburg. sary information and document forms; • some foreign partners supplying equipment and technologies. there is always a portfolio to collect consumers’ wishes and complaints. The partnership with the Russian and European banking community, as well as Interaction with consumers Quick response to the consumers’ comwith different investors is successfully implemented in Vodokanal. Investments plaints of deficiencies in water and sewthrough the public-private partnership scheme are an example of sound and coOne of the most important aspects age networks operation is an important herent concept of Company partnership. Some years ago, this concept was used of Vodokanal activities is maintaining aspect. Since 2003, SUE “Vodokanal of for the construction of South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant, and moderndaily contacts with consumers. St.Petersburg” has been operating the Hot ization of Northern Water Treatment Plant is planned for the next years. The Company communicates with conLine which receives customer calls round The basic principle of the partnership concept adopted by Vodokanal: each partsumers in several ways: in the course the clock (tel.: +7 (812) 305-09-09). Bener fulfills its obligations in due time and at a good quality level. of services provision, in the course of sides, SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” Over decades of cooperation with foreign and domestic partners, Vodokanal has communication at Vodokanal’s initiative receives requests through the Internet never failed to fulfil its obligations which is highly appreciated by its partners. (interviews, focus groups), by discuss(there is a separate section “Feedback” ing various problems in the mass media, on the corporate website www.vodoby organizing different meetings with kanal.spb.ru). Membership in associations, unions and other entities citizens. All incoming requests are recorded in Consumers come to SUE “Vodokanal of the information system and forwarded Vodokanal St. Petersburg pays great attention to participation in professional asSt.Petersburg” with questions regardto the production division responsible sociations and unions. ing execution of authorizations for confor remediation of relevant section of In 2009, Vodokanal became a co-founder of the non-commercial partnership “The nection to water and sewage networks, network and informing the customers National Union of Vodokanals” (NUV), which consolidated companies of different ownership, whose share is 2/3 of the total water supply in Russia. The main activVodokanal-consumers interaction through calls ity of NUV is the improvement of interaction between water companies and governmental authorities for the purpose of introducing new operational standards, technical regulations and ensuring investment attractiveness of the sector. The Informing the consumer of the prostrategic goal of NUV is the creation of conditions for implementation of the selfA consumer calls the Hot Line cess and surveying consumer opinion regulation mechanism as the most effective tool for the water supply and sanitaConsumer on the quality of executed works tion sector management. (consumer satisfaction) Felix V. Karmazinov, Director General of Vodokanal St. Petersburg, was elected President of the National Union of Vodokanals. Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains partner relations with Russian water companies and in the framework of other professional associations. The Company is a Hot Line Every request is registered Follow-up control member of the Russian Association of Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal, participates in “Baltvod” association of north-western water companies. Vodokanal The request is forwarded to a relevant St. Petersburg is also a member of the Non-Commercial Partnership “The Russian Vodokanal’s division for processing Information about the works carried Water Society”. out in relation to the request Vodokanal St. Petersburg is a member of the Non-Commercial Partnership “AsWorks are carried out to solve the Production divisions of Vodokanal sociation of Builders of St. Petersburg”, which got the status of a self-regulaproblem until the request is satisfied tory organization in 2009. In the same year, this partnership granted to Vodokanal permits for the works which impact on the safety of capital construction facilities. 38 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 39 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg / Interaction with stakeholders of the works performed. All the request processing stages — from the call to Interaction with suppliers remediation — are under the control of a body independent from the production division which performs works. The monitoring of the request processing may Vodokanal St.Petersburg tends to build long-term and mutually beneficial relationonly be stopped after the consumer confirms that the works are completed. ships with suppliers. Thus, it is a consumer that evaluates the final results of works in relation to To use the Company’s funds in an effective way, Vodokanal makes procurements every call. using regulated procedures, including: Moreover, the described system enabled citizens, consumers and clients to use information and consultation services of the Hot Line operators directly. tender (open or closed) is a bid process where a customer can evalWhile developing the calls receiving system, the analysis of calls distribution over uate the bids not only by the price but also 24 hours was carried out. The results of the analyses ensured efficient arrangeby other criteria (warranty period, quality, ment of work involving proper quantity of skilled operators at any time in a 24duration of works, qualification, etc.); hour period. The process of managing customers’ requests includes also computer registration auction (open or closed) is a bid process where the only criterion by of all incoming calls. Codification of calls ensures efficient analysis of the quality of which the bids are evaluated is the contract services and possibility to determine the trends of improvement focused at preprice; ventive elimination of causes of complains. Processing of customers’ requests is based on the information obtained by request for quotation (only open proceis a procedure other than bidding; the parmeans of up-to-date technologies — in particular “Call-center” — the automated dure) ticipant which offers the lowest contract system of calls registration and distribution. The information obtained through price is considered to be the winner. The this system enables us to ensure receipt of all the incoming requests and optimaximum contract price in this procedure mize operations in terms of their handling time and time of a customer’s waiting is 500,000 Roubles, and the procedure may for an operator’s answer. only be launched once in three months for All these factors contribute to the improvement of the customer service quality. the same product for the whole Company including its branches. single supplier (performer, contractor) is a method of purchasing goods, works procurement and services where the customer sends an offer of contract only to one supplier (performer, contractor). This procedure is applied only in strictly defined cases where other procurement procedures are not feasible or reasonable. The most preferred procurement method is bidding (tender, auction). Calls for tenders, as well as all necessary tender documentation are placed on Vodokanal’s corporate website under the section “Procurements”. The published information on bidding and requests for quotations includes customer’s contact persons for tendering / technical issues. Persons wishing to submit their tenders (requests for quotations) can receive clarifications on various issues in relation to the preparation of tenders either orally, by contacting the contact person specified in documentation or in a written form by sending an inquiry. The Order Regulations Department is responsible for clarification of issues concerning preparation of applications; the initiator division is responsible for clarification of issues related to the Terms of Reference and provisions of draft contracts. To select suppliers (performers, contractors) in an effective way, the use of the bidders’ qualification evaluation criteria plays a significant role in the procurement procedures, and rather stringent qualifications requirements have to be set for the bidders in the event of procuring very complex goods (works, services). For the procurement of some goods, works or services, prequalification is held to determine the circle of bidders with a relevant experience. In the course of prequalification the following selection criteria are used: bidder’s experience in the area relevant to the subject of the tender, fixed assets, qualifications of managers and specialists, 40 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 41 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg / Interaction with stakeholders staff potential, equipment available, abilThe proceeds will be used to finance plied to young company workers, as well plans of work with personnel. ity to perform over 50% of works on its the project “the Northern Tunnel CollecThe most important result of as to trainees — students of vocational own (for civil works), financial resources, tor Extension from Finlyandsky Bridge interaction with financial insticolleges. Adaptation is organized for all company rating, certificates and diploto Kantemirovskaya Street”. The project tutions was the use of a newnewcomers. Hands-on training and the Interaction with Trade mas, bidder’s reputation. is financed with the St. Petersburg budfor-Vodokanal instrument for adaptation process are implemented in Unions With such approach, goods and services getary funds, from the federal budget, the financing of big investment accordance with individual plans develcan be procured on optimal terms and loans and non-refundable assistance of projects — the LLC “Vodokanaloped by tutors in consideration of the A trade union organization operates in conditions. international organizations, as well with Finance” (subsidiary of SUE young employee’s level of general and Vodokanal, its activities are aimed at the Vodokanal’s own funds. The untreated “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”) professional knowledge. In 2010, adapstrengthening of interaction and develwastewater discharges connection to bonded loan tation procedures were applied to 1794 opment of social partnership with the Interaction with financial the Collector will be fully completed by persons. employer in order to improve the living institutions the end of 2010, and in 2012 one of the “Welcome to Vodokanal” parties for standards of employee, ensure guaranmost complex collector elements will new employees are becoming a good teed salaries, occupational safety and In 2010, implementation of the loan be commissioned — the Pumping Stacorporate tradition. a social package. agreements signed in 2009 with the tion (URS) where the collector has the In 2010, the personnel satisfaction surThe employer determines the Company leading financial institutions, such as maximum depth — 90 m. vey was made based on the studies of remuneration system, sizes of salaries the European Bank for Reconstruction satisfaction, loyalty and commitment and forms of material and moral recand Development, the Nordic Investindices. A 10-score system for the asognition in consideration of the trade ment Bank, the European Investment Interaction with personnel sessment of personnel satisfaction inunion committees’ opinion. Bank, continued. The Neva untreated dices was introduced. Questionnaires In late 2010, the Vodokanal staff conferwastewater discharge closure project is The personnel is one of key stakeholder revealed a high degree of employee ence took place where a new Collective financed with these loan funds. groups, so Vodokanal St. Petersburg commitment, satisfaction with team Agreement for 2011-2013 was signed. The most important result of interacpays special attention to its interaction work and with manager. In that agreement the information on tion with financial institutions was the with the personnel. The results of studies are used to make a number of social issues is structured use of a new-for-Vodokanal instrument In January — March 2010, the personnel additional plans and update the basic and arranged. Now the collective agreefor the financing of big investment management policy was revised. The projects– the LLC “Vodokanal-Finance” goal of the policy is to ensure rational (subsidiary of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peand effective use of qualified human tersburg”).bonded loan. resources to improve the Company perPlacement of securities on the trading formance and consumer satisfaction. site of ZAO “MICEX Stock Exchange” beOne distinctive feature of this policy is gan on 15 December 2010 and ended in the establishment (in addition to the the evening on the same date. basic policy areas) of the basic princiThe overall demand exceeded the nomples in the field of personnel manageinal size of issue. ment which reflect the system-based Series 01 non-convertible interestapproach. bearing documentary bearer bonds of In 2010, the basic personnel manageLLC “Vodokanal-Finance”, with obligament processes were described and tory centralized care (state registration personnel services functions were stannumber 4-01-36398-R dated 16 Novemdardized. ber 2010), are placed in the amount of 2 Benchmarking of personnel managemillion bonds at the face value of 1,000 ment with the best Russian and EuropeRoubles each and with a maturity date an companies is organized and conducton the 1820th day from the starting date ed. As a result of these studies the best of the bonds placement. The placement personnel management techniques are method is public subscription. The transselected for subsequent implementaaction size is 2 billion roubles. tion at the Company. Series 01 first bond’s coupon rate was Fast adaptation of new Vodokanal emset at 8,8% per annum. ployees to their professional tasks and The manager of the LLC “Vodokanal-Fioptimization of their entry into the nance” bond issue was OAO “Bank SaintCompany’s social environment are imPetersburg”, the leading co-managers — portant aspects of work with the perOAO Bank “OTKRYTIYE” and ZAO “BFA”. sonnel. The tutorship procedure is ap42 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 43 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg / Interaction with stakeholders ment contains the rules of time record calculation, the new procedure of awarding ployees. the “Veteran of Vodokanal” rank, and some other updates. Vodokanal St. Petersburg actively interacts with schools of St. Petersburg, LeninThe trade unions are deeply involved in discussions of occupational safety issues, grad region and other Russian cities. The number of schools participating in proinspections of branches, workplace certification. Favorable sanitary conditions are grams and projects of the Youth Environmental Centre and museum complex “The created for the employees in all structural subdivisions. Universe of Water is constantly growing. The trade unions also participate in the arrangement of recreation for employees and their families, in the work with veterans and organization of sports events. Interaction with Environmental Organizations Interaction with Educational Institutions Environmental area is one of the most important activities of Vodokanal St. Petersburg, and the Company is closely cooperating with Russian and international In 2010, the cooperation between Vodokanal St. Petersburg and St. Petersburg environmental organizations in this sphere. State University of Water Communications reached a new level. In particular, representatives of Vodokanal take part in the activities, organized by The training for 41 employees of Vodokanal under the higher professional eduthe Russian department of the Baltic Sea Protection Commission (HELCOM), the cation programs with a specialization in “Balanced use and protection of water John Nurminen Foundation (Finland), the Baltic Sea Action Group (Finland). resources” was organized. In summer 2010, Felix V. Karmazinov, Director General of Vodokanal St. PetersThe training of Company employees on the premises of State University of Arburg, participated in the first meeting of the Baltic Sea Friendship Club in Helsinki, chitecture and Civil Engineering, Saint-Petersburg State Transport University, and Finland. other institutes of higher education continued. With the support of Vodokanal St. Petersburg, the environmental organization “The In 2010, 217 college and vocational schools students were trained (general course Green Cross” implemented a number of youth environmental projects and conand hands-on training) on Vodokanal’s premises. ducted several press tours for journalists of regional environmental periodicals. The social partnership of Vodokanal and Professional College No 89 continued — in the field of water specialists training. Within the framework of this partnership, a unified educational environment is created, joint educational process is arranged Interaction with federal and regional authorities and the consolidated management mechanism is used for the training of qualified personnel. On the premises of Professional College No 89 training facilities for SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg works in close interaction with the federal and emergency and recovery works including the training ground are installed; there regional authorities. are also training facilities for welding, sanitary, ventilation and electrical works, Representatives of Vodokanal St. Petersburg participated in the preparation of comsmall-size mechanical equipment, and laboratory testing equipment. Teachers and ments and proposals to draft regulatory and legal acts to be submitted to federal and masters of PC-89 are trained at production facilities of Vodokanal St. Petersburg, regional authorities for consideration, including the Governmental Clean Water Profieldwork is organized for students of the water and sanitation department, the gram, Rules of Service Provision to Citizens, federal law “On Amending the Federal students participate in professional skill contests together with Vodokanal’s emLaw “On Natural Monopolies”, federal law “On Amending the Housing Code of the Russian Federation and Some Legal Acts of the Russian Federation”, etc. The Company specialists participated in the events held under the aegis of the State Duma, Federation Council, Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Natural Resources, Ministry of Finance, and Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation, and also the events organized by the Government of St. Petersburg, city administration committees and the Legislative Assembly of St. Petersburg. Moreover, Vodokanal carries out its activities in close interaction with territorial bodies of Rospotrebnadzor, Rosprirodnadzor, Rostekhnadzor and Environmental Prosecutor’s Office of St. Petersburg. Interaction with the mass media Interaction with the mass media is a major part of Vodokanal’s information policy, and disclosure of information — one of the Company values. Vodokanal’s relations with the mass media are based on the principles of objectivity, reliability and efficient response. Vodokanal’s information policy aims to create a positive company image, improve mutual understanding between the company, its customers and the society, and to foster the culture of water use and responsible attitude towards the environment. 44 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 45 About SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg / Interaction with stakeholders The forms of interaction with the mass media are as follows: Participation in exhibitions and conferences One of the tools of Vodokanal’s interaction with the stakeholders is the participapreparation and distribution of press releases and information reports about the Company tion in Russian and international exhibitions and conferences. activities; In June 2010, Vodokanal together with colleagues from the non-commercial partnership “The National Union of Vodokanals” (NUV) took part in the international response to the mass media’s inquiries; water forum EQUATECH 2010 “Water: Ecology and Technology” (Moscow). In the framework of the forum, Vodokanal and NUV presented a joint booth and conarrangement of interviews of Vodokanal’s representatives in the mass media; ducted the conference “Strategy of Water Sector Development Up To 2010”. Under the aegis of the forum, Vodokanal held a number of interactive “water lessons” for press conferences, briefings, round tables; school children from Moscow, Kaluga and Tver. In September 2010, Vodokanal delegation visited the International Water and press-tours for journalists to Vodokanal’s facilities; Waste Exhibition IFAT-2010 (Munich, Germany), where, among other things, the first edition of the book “Water Supply Practices” was presented. The book issued initiating publications in printed and electronic media, and TV/radio items; with Vodokanal’s support generalizes experience of German experts in the sphere of water treatment, transportation and storage. design and maintenance of websites describing the Company activities. In October 2010, Vodokanal together with NUV became the main partner of the Second International Forum “Clean Water” (Moscow). In the framework of the foThe mass media’s interest in Vodokanal activities is growing every year. 6138 marum, NUV held the roundtable dedicated to the environmental regulations issues; terials about the Company activities were publicized (in printed media, Internet, Vodokanal presented the book “Potable Water Quality Benchmarking”. radio and TV) in 2010. In 2009, the number of such materials was 4364. Moreover, in 2010, Vodokanal took an active part in the work of the Neva EnviThe digests of Vodokanal activities-related materials are presented to the Comronmental Forum (the Company hosted one of the roundtables dedicated to water pany management on a daily basis. It helps give a quick response to publications, resources), exhibition “Ecology of the Big City”, conference “The Baltic Sea Day” provide the necessary comments and clarifications and pinpoint new themes for and other events. interaction with the mass media. Development of the Internet sphere was in Vodokanal’s special focus in 2010. The museum complex’s website www.vodokanal-museum.ru has been launched, where the information about new museum programs is placed regularly. Vodokanal’s official website www.vodokanal.spb.ru won the contest “Best Corporate Media 2010” in the nomination “Web-Portal”. Moreover, the web-portal www.da-voda.com was created with the support of Vodokanal in 2010. It is an awareness-raising website devoted to water in all its manifestations. At the end of 2010, this website won the Runet Award in the nomination “Health and Recreation”. 46 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 47 Results of Activities in 2010 Water Supply SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” provides potable water to the population of 4,848,000 people, as well as to dozens thousand of companies and organizations Daily average supply of potable water to the city in the city. 2008 2,168,900 m3 Vodokanal activities related to provision of water supply services include the following: 2009 2,028,200 m3 • Water intake and water treatment; • Water transportation. 2010 1,994,600 m3 St.Petersburg takes water from surface and underground sources. The main water source is the Neva River; Vodokanal takes more than 96% of water from it. Water losses on the networks amounted to 12.1% in 2010; the breakdown rate of water networks (number of damages per 10 km) — 3.6. St.Petersburg water supply system includes: There are 3 water supply zones in St. Petersburg — Southern, Northern and Central. 9 waterworks; The Southern water supply zone includes: 200 boosting pumping stations • The Southern WTP (first-elevation pumping stations, water treatment facilities, clean water tanks and second-elevation pumping stations). 6,518.4 km of water networks • Dudergofskaya WTP (first-elevation pumping stations, clean water tanks and second-elevation pumping stations). 2 low-concentration sodium hypochlorite plants • Kolpino WTP (first-elevation pumping stations, clean water tanks and secondelevation pumping stations). Pipeline diameters of the municipal water network in St. Petersburg range from • Kronshtadt WTP (first-elevation pumping stations, clean water tanks and sec50mm (house connections) to 1.4m (water pipelines). ond-elevation pumping stations). The bigger share (62%) of networks in the St. Petersburg water supply system are • Named boosting pumping stations of the third and forth elevation (Moskovskamade of cast iron. Recently, polyethylene pipes began to gain in popularity, they ya, Frunzenskaya, Uritskaya, South-Western, Rybatskaya, Kupchinskaya, Strelare especially widely used for major repairs and reconstruction of networks. ninskaya, Lomonosovskaya, LGU Petrodvortsovaya Waterworks, PetrodvortsoAbout 60% of water networks in St. Petersburg have been in operation for 20—50 vaya Waterworks, Pulkovskaya, Orlovskaya); years. The operating time of 22% of all networks is over 50 years, and such net• Boosting pumping stations of the third and forth elevation; works need reconstruction or replacement. • Water supply and distribution networks. The system supplies water to Moskovsky, Frunzensky, Krasnoselsky districts, the left-bank part of Nevsky, Kirovsky, Pushkinsky, Petrodvortsovy, Kolpinsky districts and the town of Kronstadt. Adjusted capacity of Water Treatment Plants: *Adjusted capacity of WTPs means capacity of waterworks calculated in consideration of raw water quality deterioration, technical Southern WTP 900,000 m3/day condition of water facilities and more stringent requirements to potable water quality Northern WTP 608,000 m /day 3 in compliance with the Resolution of the Government of Saint-Petersburg No. 1270 Main WTP 422,000 m3/day dated October 21, 2008 (as amended by the Resolution of the Government of SaintVolkovskaya WTP 211,000 m /day 3 Petersburg No. 1384 dated 30.11.2009). Kolpino WTP 151,000 m3/day Zelenogorsk WTP 7,000 m3/day Kronstadt WTP 18,000 m3/day 48 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 49 Results of activities in 2010/ Water supply Water treatment with ultraviolet which kills viruses efThe Northern water supply zone includes: fectively (while chemical disinfection • The Northern WTP (first-elevation pumping stations, water treatment facilities, technologies supresses microbes). clean water tanks and second-elevation pumping stations). • Zelenogorsk WTP (first-elevation pumping stations, water treatment facilities, Treatment of water from surface In 2010, a new water treatment block clean water tanks and second-elevation pumping stations). sources. was put into operation at the Southern • Sestroretsk WTP (first-elevation pumping stations, water treatment facilities, The water treatment process at the key WTP (K-6 block), with the capacity of clean water tanks and second-elevation pumping stations). Actually, this WTP WTPs taking water from St. Petersburg 350,000 m³/day. The water treatment is a tertiary treatment facility for the treated water from NWTP. In case of any surface sources (the Neva River and the technology used at this block includes faults in the water pipeline which delivers water from NWTP, the Plant takes Gulf of Finland) includes the following the following actions: water out of the Razliv Lake. stages: • Preliminary ozonation (is used to fa• Underground water sources of Kurortny district. • a two-stage water disinfection syscilitate further water treatment rath• Named boosting pumping stations of the third elevation: Murinskaya, Kushtem, er than to disinfect). elevskaya, Primorskaya, Severo-Primorskaya, Kolomyazhskaya, Ozero Dolgoe, • coagulation of pollutants (aluminium • Clarification: coagulation, flocculaMartynovskaya, Parnasskaya, Osinovaya Roscha, Gorskaya, Pesochenskaya, sulfate is used), tion, sedimentation in lamella sediNovoselovskaya, Shuvalovskaya); • flocculation (polyacrylamide-based mentation tank, sludge thickening, • Boosting pumping stations of the third and forth elevation; cationic flocculant is used) recirculation and removal. • Water supply and distribution networks. • sand filtration in the contact clarifiers • Filtration through dual media rapid (one-stage treatment scheme). gravity filters (sand/ activated granuThe Northern water supply zone supplies water to Vyborgsky, Kalininsky, Krasnogvar• sedimentation and sand filtration in lar carbon). deisky, Kurortny, Primorsky districts, and the right-bank part of Nevsky district. rapid filters (two-stage treatment • Air-water system of filter backscheme) washing. The Central water supply zone includes: • when necessary (if water quality in • System of backwash water equaliza• Main WTP (first-elevation pumping stations, water treatment facilities, clean the Neva becomes worse or for odor tion, treatment and utilization. water tanks and second-elevation pumping stations). and oil removal), the powdered acti• Sludge treatment. • Volkovskaya WTP (first-elevation pumping stations, water treatment facilities, vated carbon dosing system is used. • Chemical storage, preparation and clean water tanks and second-elevation pumping stations). dosing. • Named boosting pumping stations of the third and forth elevation (VasileostroThe two-stage integrated process of • Disinfection with sodium hypochlovskaya, Gavanskaya, Petrogradskaya); potable water disinfection guarantees rite and ammonium sulfate. • Boosting pumping stations of the third and forth elevation; epidemiological safety of water supply • Water supply and distribution networks. in of St. Petersburg, and full compliance Potable water is also UV treated of the microbiological parameters with before it goes to customers. The Central water supply zone supplies water to Central, Admiralteisky, Vasileostrothe current regulations. Zelenogorsk WTP takes raw water from vsky districts, part of Moskovsky, Kirovsky and Petrogradsky districts. The integrated disinfection process inunderground sources. The groundwater cludes, first of all, the chemical method treatment process in Zelenogorsk is as using non-hazardous chemicals — sofollows: dium hypochlorite (it should be noted • removal of excessive concentrations that Vodokanal has completely abanof iron and manganese by means of doned liquid chlorine — hazardous in aeration; storage and transportation) and am• removal of the sludge resulting from monium sulfate. The chloramines proair oxidation of ferric hydroxide (III) duced as a result of interaction between by means of filtration through the ammonium ions and hypochlorite ions gravel-sand media of the first-stage maintain the disinfecting effect not only rapid filters; in the process of water treatment at • catalytic oxidation of manganese waterworks, but also in the course of and its separation on second-stage water transportation in the water distripressure filters as dioxide. bution networks. At the secondary water disinfection Water is disinfected by sodium hypostage at WTPs (prior to water districhlorite solution. bution to the customers) the physical Oxidation of dissolved ferrous iron and method (UV disinfection of water) is blow-up of dissolved carbonic acid is used. St. Petersburg is the world’s first performed in the aerator. To provide megapolis to treat all potable water more enhanced oxidation of iron and 50 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 51 Results of activities in 2010/ Water supply manganese compounds, sodium hypoIn order to prevent corrosion of steel The Working Program of Production rate website in the section Water supchlorite solution is injected into water. pipes and reduce iron content in the The control points to be included Control of potable water quality of ply. Water quality”. The first-stage rapid filters apply TRIwater undergoing tertiary treatment at into the Production program St.Petersburg was developed in acThe Production program of water qualTON drainage system which represents Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk WTPs, anwere selected according to the cordance with SanPiN 2.1.4.1074-01 ity control covers 306 additional points the hemispheric channels located on ticorrosion treatment is performed infollowing principle based on sys“Potable water. Hygiene requirements and provides for more detailed assessthe bottom and covered by slotted elecluding addition of calcium chloride and tematic approach: waterworks — to potable water supplied by centralment of the water supply system. The ments. These elements are formed by soda ash to the treated water. water mains — city quarter ized systems. Quality control”; in 2007, control is performed according to the stainless steel wire winding and weldBoth plants have equipment for recepnetwork — customer it was approved by Rospotrebnadzor short list of 12 indicators of primary iming to a guide frame of the element. tion, dilution and dosing of 32% calci(Russian Federal Consumer Rights Proportance. The wire is profiled in such a way that um chloride solutions, and systems of tection and Human Health Control SerThe control points to be included into slots widening inwards are formed bepreparation and dosing of 10% soda ash vice) of St.Petersburg and adopted by the Production program were selected tween its rows. Such a solution ensures (sodium carbonate). Injection of calcium the Chairman of the Committee for Enaccording to the following principle high reliability of the drainage structure, salts and carbonic acid to the treated ergy and Engineering Support. based on systematic approach: waterand the widening form of the slots dewater which results in pH increase, alThe program includes 174 points where works — water mains — city quarter creases potential blockage of filtering lows to slow down the corrosion prothe water quality is checked for 83 panetwork — customer. elements and simplifies the backwashcess, and in some cases — to stop oxirameters. ing. After the reconstruction of open dation of iron in steel pipes thanks to The monitoring results enable us to: filters, TRITON drainage system allowed formation of calcium carbonate film Water quality is checked for the follow• trace the dynamics of changes of the use of dual-media bed without inwhich isolates steel from water and dising groups of parameters: qualitative characteristics of potable creasing its overall height. The bottom solved oxygen contained in it. • composite, water at all the stages of water profilter bed is made of quarts sand; the The measures taken resulted in reduc• organoleptic, duction and transportation, upper filter bed — of anthracite. tion of iron concentrations at Petrod• chemical (organic and non-organic), • identify “hot spots” and problem The second stage of Zelenogorsk WTP is vorets “check points” by 2-5 times on • microbiological, sections of water network, designed for further water treatment in the average in 2010 compared to the • parasitological (lamblia cysts), • prioritize investments into impleterms of iron and manganese removal same period in 2009. In comparison • virological (presence of hepatitis A mentation of technologies (selection and includes six Culligan pressure filters, with 2009 indicators, iron concentravirus antigen and rotavirus antigen), of water treatment technologies, reGгundfos supply pumps, flushing pumps tions in water from Sestroretsk water • hydro-biological (phyto — and zooconstruction of the existing facilities for pressure filters, damper tanks, sonetwork decreased as well. plankton), and capital repair of water networks, dium hypochlorite dosing equipment, • radiation safety. change of hydraulic modes of water flow meters, chlorine analyzers. Tertiary water treatment technologies system) The water treatment process manageused at boosting waterworks. The table of the main water quality in• evaluate the efficiency of corrective ment is fully automated. The plant opTo improve potable water quality at redicators for 2010 is placed on the corpoactions. eration data are displayed on the monimote sections of the network, tertiary tors of the plant dispatcher. treatment systems are constructed at the boosting pumping station. These faTertiary water treatment technologies cilities use specialized filter medium — used at Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk calcite, calcinated dolomite, etc. which WTP. ensure both removal of iron and reducAs a result of electrochemical corrosion tion of water corrosion aggressiveness. of steel water pipelines, secondary polBy using these systems we can simplify lution of potable water with iron may the operation of the tertiary treatment occur. facilities, as no chemicals are used. Previously, both Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk WTPs used own surface water sources — Nikolsky pond and the Razliv Water quality control Lake. Because of excessive pollution of these water bodies, both plants started Water quality control at SUE “Vodokanal to apply tertiary treatment of potable of St.Petersburg” is carried out at all water supplied by the city waterworks. stages — from raw water intake to a The tertiary treatment is performed water meter at the house inlet. on the existing water treatment units Water quality control at SUE “Vodokanal — sand filters (one-stage treatment of St.Petersburg” is carried out in accorscheme). dance with the programs approved. 52 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 53 Results of activities in 2010/ Water supply Levels of water quality control • Automatic planning of the scope of work related to water balance items and its recalculation, and the needs for chemicals and electricity for Vodokanal’s core operations, including breakdown by months; On-line process control with use of automatic analyzers and systems of automated con• Automatic preparation of daily production assignments with regard to the tinuous monitoring; daily consumption coefficient; • Operational control of the daily production assignments, registration of aclaboratory control; tual production volume in terms of recalculation, and daily write-off of used chemicals; control by an independent organization — Water Research and Control Center; • Control of water losses and water used in the course of water treatment; • Operational supervision of the execution of the planned production volumes control by Rospotrebnadzor. and compliance with norms of chemicals and energy use. • Automatic preparation of analytical reports on chemicals and water balance The automated analyzers are installed on all the stages of water treatment. A sigof water supply and wastewater disposal services; nal from the equipment is sent to a control unit and to the process engineers providing for the real-time control of the process. In 2010, works on implementation of the Information System “Management of In 2010, over 25,000 water samples were analyzed for 83 parameters. Minor devianetworks maintenance and repair” began. tions from regulatory requirements in terms of “total iron” were identified in the distribution water network. The Information System “Management of networks maintenance and repair” The monitoring results show that potable water in St. Petersburg is harmless in provides for the following: terms of its chemical composition and safe in terms of epidemiological and radia• Automatic preparation of Vodokanal’s Production program for all the departtion conditions. ments and types of work; • Formation of the uniform electronic register of passports of Vodokanal’s facilities which includes information about every facility; keeping standard Achievements of 2010 maintenance charts and maintenance specification charts, production history; 1. Completion of a new water treatment block (K-6) at the Southern WTP • Automatic planning of resource requirements for execution of works; In July 2010, a new water treatment block with the capacity of 350,000 m³/day • Automatic preparation of requests for purchase of spare parts and supplewas put into operation at the Southern WTP. mentary materials with regard to inventories in warehouses, inventories orModern technological solutions used at this block ensure managing any changes dered from the suppliers, minimum balance and delivery cycle; of raw water quality. The block applies preliminary ozonation of water — ozone • Automatic preparation of work tasks, including a list of operations and apis added to water before the treatment process to improve it considerably. The pointment of required personnel for each operation, a list of necessary matreatment process comprises two stages: first — clarification, coagulation and terials, spare parts and special vehicles; control of work process; sedimentation in lamella tanks; then — filtration through dual media gravity • Operational supervision of the Production Program performance by each filters (sand/ activated granular carbon). Sodium hypochlorite with the addition team; of ammonia sulfate is used for water disinfection; then the water is UV treated. • Operational supervision of availability of materials and spare parts necessary The water used for filter backwashing is not discharged to the Neva River, but for works, special vehicles and personnel for each team; treated here again. Thus, negative environmental impact is considerably re• Accounting of tangible costs, labour inputs, special vehicles used for each duced. Treatment of sludge generated in the course of water treatment is also task completed; provided. • Operational supervision of compliance with norms of the Production Pro2. Implementation of chemical treatment systems at water treatment plants aimgram performance; ing at reduction of water corrosiveness. • Analysis of operational indicators and criteria of production activity. In 2010, the system of anticorrosive water treatment (addition of calcium chloride and soda ash to treated water) was put into operation at Sestroretsk WTP. In 2011, we plan to continue works on implementation of the Information SysThe measures taken resulted in reduction of iron concentrations at Sestroretsk tem “Management of networks maintenance and repair”. “check points” compared to the same period in 2009. The trial operation of the anticorrosion water treatment system is going on at 4. Organization of water supply from underground sources Petrodvorets WTP. As a result of the treatment, the iron concentrations at the 4.1. Reserve water supply check points of Petrodvorets reduced by 50% on the average compared to the A new reserve water supply facility was put into operation in the area of Musame period in 2009. rinskaya WTP (2 wells); the design works for the water intake well located in 3. Implementation of the Information System “Water Balance” on the basis of the 59-b area of Primorsky district (18 Turistskaya St) have been completed; water unified information system of the Company’s activities automation. intake wells at the addresses: 81 Engelsa Pr; 43 2nd Murinsky Pr, are at the deIn 2010, the Information System “Water Balance” was put into a full-scale opsign stage. Works on the construction of the reserve water supply facility in the eration. The Information System “Water Balance” provides for the following: area of Pulkovskaya water supply sub-station (3 wells) have been completed. 54 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 55 Results of activities in 2010/ Water supply 4.2.Organization of the centralized household water supply “Clean Water of St.Petersburg” for the period of up to 2010, which states the main The 1st stage of a new water intake in the village of Krasavitsa, Kurortny district long-term targets and tasks for the Company. was completed (2 wells to supply water and heat to citizens in winter season, The project was designed with regard to the tasks stated in the Federal special2010-11); works on designing the centralized water intakes in Molodezhnoe, purpose program “Clean Water” approved by St. Petersburg Government regulaDyuny, Solnechnoe have been commenced. tion No 1092 dated 22.12.2010. 5. Modernization, reconstruction of water pipelines and networks The development of the draft program “Clean Water of St. Petersburg” was based In 2010, works on the construction of the 2nd line of the water pipeline (inverton the results of survey of the existing condition of St. Petersburg water supply ed siphon) across the Srednya Nevka River to the Elagin Island were completed. system and the analysis of the experience of implementation of advanced technoIn 2010, the reconstruction of the water pipeline on Parkovaya St., Pushkin, was logical solutions focused on the improvement of quality of water supply services completed. provided to the citizens and increase of energy efficiency and energy saving. Totally, the amount of completed works on reconstruction, capital repair and construction of water pipelines in 2010 was 38.1km. 6. Improvement of the early pollutants detection system for the Neva River Objectives of the draft program “Clean Water of St.Petersburg” are as follows: 6.1. Modernization of nine bioelectronic systems used at the Neva water biological quality monitoring facilities (WQBMF) Provision of safe potable water to the customers; In 2010, the modernization of bioelectronic systems of WQBMF was performed. In the framework of the modernization of the biomonitoring system, the numReliability of water supply services; ber of crayfish increased, new algorithms of signal procesing were introduced. More advanced system of data processing, increased number of duty crayfish – Improved energy efficiency and implementation of the energy saving policy; all this increases the biomonitoring reliability, provides new opportunities for the operative control of the water supply system. Availability of water supply services. 6.2.Establishment of the oil spill detection system in the Neva River water area to protect the water intake of Kolpino WTP Tasks of the draft program include the following: In 2010, a new component of the early pollutants detection system was implemented. It is the system to detect emergency oil spills in the Neva River water Reconstruction of the waterworks taking water from surface sources. area to protect the water intake of Kolpino WTP. Optical-electronic equipment which responds to the appearance of oil spots and Construction and reconstruction of the waterworks taking water from underground sources. ensures determination of qualitative characteristics changes and visual evaluation of the resource condition was installed on Kuzminsky Railway Bridge and Reconstruction of water pipelines including, as a matter of priority, replacement of steel at Kolpino WTP. and ferroconcrete water pipes. 7. Implementation of the water supply management system to provide remote data collection from water meters of Vodokanal’s customers in K-17 zone (the Corrosion protection of steel pipes. service area of Uritskaya pumping station). In 2010, the automated system of collection, processing, storage and transfer Establishment of the water supply management complex. of measurement data from Vodokanal’s customers was put into a full-scale operation in Uritskaya water supply zone. The project includes the hydraulic Construction of networks and waterworks for small communities. mode monitoring system, a set of tools to improve the hydraulic mode, the automated water balance system, new energy efficient, state-of-the art, highConnection of constructed/reconstructed facilities to the water supply system aiming at capacity pumps, the system of optimal management of water supply mode. As the development of the city infrastructure. a result of the project implementation, the energy consumption, failure rate and water losses were reduced. In 2011-2012, the similar system will be implemented in the Southern water In the course of implementation of the program “Clean Water of St.Petersburg”, supply zone. we plan to build new treatment blocks at the Main and Northern water treatment plants. After the completion of the reconstruction works at Main WTP and Northern WTP, practically all potable water delivered to customers will be treated using upPerspectives of the water supply development system to-date technologies. To extend the use of underground sources, we plan to develop water supply faciliActions aimed at the development of St. Petersburg water supply system are statties in the suburbs of St. Petersburg, including the construction of Dyuny-Solneched in St.Petersburg Government regulation No 1270 “On the Program of the comnoe WTP and Molodezhnoe WTP in Kurortny district; and modernization of Gantuplex development of St.Petersburg public utilities systems, including heat supply, lovskaya Gora WTP and Dudergofskaya WTP in Petrodvortsovy and Krasnoselsky water supply, wastewater disposal and treatment, up to 2015” dated 21.10.2008 districts, respectively. and revised in St.Petersburg Government regulation No 291 dated 14.03.2011. In order to reduce the frequency of failures, we plan the reconstruction of over 100 In the end of 2010, SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg developed the draft program km of water pipelines annually. The first-priority task is to replace ferroconcrete 56 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 57 Results of activities in 2010/ Water supply pipelines (diameter — above 700mm), because damages of ferroconcrete pipelines Creation of the distribution network control system: are usually related to emergencies connected to water floods (frequent flooding of territories and inflicting damage on both city’s property and citizens’ property). installation of the hydraulic pressure controllers (which prevent hydraulic surges); Modernization of process equipment of pumping stations, namely: installation of automated air release valves; replacement of pumps; installation of control units, check devices (gates, valves); creation of automated systems of hydraulic modes regulation based on frequency control installation of flow meters with remote data transfer at the pumping stations and water mechanisms (installation of the pump control boards with frequency converters and supply zones borders; other equipment); installation of automated “check points” to control pressure in the network and detercreation of automated systems of processes management at the water treatment plants; mine the output parameters of the pumping stations operation. modernization of power equipment (transformers, switchgears); In order to solve the problem of water supply to the private sector of St.Petersburg villages, where hydrants are used at the moment, we plan the following: implementation of the equipment for water flow measurement and control (back valves, pressure sensors, flow and volume measurement units); construction of street networks in St.Petersburg suburbs and water service pipes to which individual houses may be connected; replacement of lighting systems with LED lighting equipment; connection of newly constructed networks to the existing water supply networks in the arrangement of commercial metering units, installation of baseband equipment aimed at suburbs of St.Petersburg; the connection to the AEICMS system. preparation of the existing networks and water supply facilities to start provision of Creation of an integrated system of collection, registration, storage, processing and water supply services to the customers of St. Petersburg suburbs. transfer of data on water consumption by customers, including the following aspects: The development of St. Petersburg water supply system under the approved Genequipping all the categories of customers with metering devices with pulse input; eral Water Supply Scheme for the period of up to 2015 and 2025 in perspective provides the opportunity for the overall city development. In order to provide water installation of the equipment of automated registration, storage and transfer of water supply services to new development areas, Vodokanal arranges works on: consumption data. • construction or modernization of water supply networks and facilities to provide a possibility of water supply to new construction or reconstruction projects of the capital construction; • connection of new pipelines installed on the developed areas of St.Petersburg to the existing water supply networks; • preparation of the existing water supply networks and facilities to start provision of water supply services to newly constructed or reconstructed projects of St.Petersburg. The draft program “Clean Water of St. Petersburg” is designed for improvement of quality of St.Petersburg water utilities operation, provision of affordable water supply services to ensure decent life quality for the customers. 58 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 59 Wastewater Disposal Saint-Petersburg is sewered according to the combined scheme: 70% of the whole SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” operates 21 wastewater treatment plants with territory has a combined sewer system, which collects domestic and industrial as design capacities varying from 500 m3/d to 1.5 mio m3/d. These plants treat 2.3 well as surface (rainfall, snowmelt) runoffs, the rest of the territory, mainly newMio. m3 of wastewater per day, which corresponds to 93 % of the total amount of built districts and suburbs, is sewered according to the separate scheme (rainfall wastewater entering the sewerage system of SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg”. and snowmelt waters are collected separately from other wastewaters). The remaining 7 % of wastewater is discharged untreated at the moment. In 2010 St. Petersburg sewerage and wastewater treatment system is a network of interthe amount of pumped wastewater was 915.4 Mio.m3, the amount of treated connected engineering facilities, which provide collection of wastewater from cuswastewater was 823.9 Mio.m3. tomers, its transportation and treatment at wastewater treatment plants to meet the parameters stipulated in mandatory standards and norms. Adjusted capacity of wastewater treatment plants, m3/day* m3/day* * Adjusted capacity of wastewater treatThe wastewater disposal system comprises: ment plants is calculated for dry weather Central Wastewater Treatment Plant 800,000 conditions taking into account wastewater quality requirements in accordance with sewerage network 8,099.39 km Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant 600,000 the Resolution of the Government of SaintPetersburg No. 1270 dated October 21, tunnel collectors 229.12 km South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant 290,000 2008 (as amended by the Resolution of the Petrodvorets Wastewater Treatment Plant 65,000 Government of Saint-Petersburg No. 1384 sewage pumping stations (SPS) 134 dated 30.11.2009). wastewater treatment plants of different capacity 21 Pushkin Wastewater Treatment Plant 65,000 sludge incineration plants 3 Kolpino Wastewater Treatment Plant 60,000 Kronstadt Wastewater Treatment Plant 22,000 Pipeline diameters of the municipal sewage network in St. Petersburg range from 150mm (courtyard networks) to 1,5m. The main material for sewage pipelines is reSestroretsk Wastewater Treatment Plant 17,000 inforced concrete (81% of all networks). Polyvinylchloride and polyethylene pipes are widely used in recent years. They are used most extensively for major repairs Repino Wastewater Treatment Plant 10,000 and network rehabilitation. Tunnel sewers are the basic mains for transporting sewage waters to wastewater Pontonny Wastewater Treatment Plant 10,000 treatment plants. In the city of Leningrad, construction of tunnel sewage collectors began in 1947. Tunnel collectors’ inner diameter varies from 1.5 to 4.9 meters, the Zelenogorsk Wastewater Treatment Plant 9,000 depth is 6 to 90 meters. Sewage pumping stations’ design capacities vary from 300 m³/d to 1,000,000 Metallostroy Wastewater Treatment Plant 7,600 m³/d. SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” undertakes modernization and reconstruction of SPS, using modern submersible pumps and integrated sewage pumping Osinovaya Roscha Wastewater Treatment Plant 800 stations. Apart from replacing pumping and electrical equipment, other auxiliary mechanisms are also modernized. Prigorodnye Wastewater Treatment Plant 750 Torfyanoye Wastewater Treatment Plant 700 Zavodskie Wastewater Treatment Plant 300 Pargolovo Wastewater Treatment Plant 200 Osinovaya Roscha Wastewater Treatment Plant 800 Pesochny, Rechnaya Str. Wastewater Treatment Plant 300 Pesochny, Lestnaya Str. Wastewater Treatment Plant 700 Molodezhnoye, Primorskoye highway Wastewater Treatment Plant 700 60 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 61 Results of activities in 2010/ Wastewater Disposal Wastewater disposal in Saint-Petersburg is based on the territorial zoning principle SWTP catchment area provides wastewaWastewater Treatment in accordance with division into sewer catchment areas. Saint-Petersburg wasteter disposal from a part of Kirovsky and water is treated at three major WWTPs: Central Wastewater Treatment Plant (CWKrasnoselsky districts, as well as receives Technologies WTP), Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant (NWWTP), South-West Wastewater wastewater from the town of Strelna Treatment Plant (SWTP) and medium-capacity wastewater treatment plants in the of Petrodvortsovy district. Wastewater Today, wastewater treatment plants of northern and southwestern suburbs. treatment is carried out at the South“Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” are impleWest Wastewater Treatment Plant. menting the technologies which ensure There are five catchment areas in St. Petersburg: Saint-Petersburg is the first large city in wastewater treatment in compliance the world which has solved the problem with all standards, including removal of of sewage sludge treatment. nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus). Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant (NWWTP); Three sludge incineration plants are operated in the city — at Central WastewaThe main wastewater treatment stages Central Wastewater Treatment Plant (CWWTP); ter Treatment Plant, Northern Wasteimplemented in SUE “Vodokanal of St. water Treatment Plant, and South-West Petersburg” are as follows: South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant (SWTP); Wastewater Treatment Plant. The heat • mechanical treatment obtained in the process of incineration • chemical and biological treatment Northern Suburbs; is used for technical purposes, for space (includes conventional biological South-western Suburbs. heating of buildings and electrical entreatment and nutrient removal proergy production, which allows SUE “Vocess) dokanal of St.Petersburg” to achieve • wastewater disinfection NWWTP catchment area provides wastewater disposal from the right Bank of the significant savings of energy resources. • sludge treatment and recycling River Neva: Nevsky (the right bank), Krasnogvardeysky, Kalininsky, Vyborgsky and (Thus, in 2010, about 10 % of electriPrimorsky districts. Wastewater treatment is mainly carried out at Northern Wastecal energy consumed at the Northern Mechanical treatment is designed for water Treatment Plant. A part of wastewater in the northern part of Vyborgsky Wastewater Treatment Plant, was prowastewater clarification. This block district is treated at the local WWTPs — Torfyanoye, Prigorodnye, Zavodskie, Parduced by the steam generator of the comprises an inlet chamber, mechagolovo, Osinovaya Roscha. sludge incineration plant.) Flue gases nized screens, grit removal units and CWWTP catchment area provides wastewater disposal from the left Bank of the go through a three-stage purification primary clarifiers. River Neva, including Nevsky (the left bank), Vasileostrovsky, Centralny, Admiprocess. Biological treatment is the main wasteralteysky, Frunzensky, Moskovsky and a part of Kirovsky districts. Besides, CWWTP Sludge incineration allowed to dispose water treatment process before wastecatchment area collects wastewater from a part of Pushkinsky, Nevsky (the right of 68,815.7 tons of dry solids (t DS) water is discharged into the water body. bank) and Krasongvardeysky districts. Wastewater treatment is carried out at the in 2008, 92,236.3 t DS. in 2009, and This stage includes aeration tanks and Central Wastewater Treatment Plant. 100,512.66 t DS in 2010. secondary sedimentation tanks. The 62 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 63 Results of activities in 2010/ Wastewater Disposal biological treatment process is mainwastewater treatment plants. However, Wastewater Quality Control tained by means of activated sludge life it did not provide the quality of treated activities in the aeration tanks through effluent stipulated in the HELCOM recWastewater quality control in SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is carried out at continuous contact with the atmoommendations for nutrient removal. several levels in compliance with Wastewater Quality Assessment Programs at SUE spheric oxygen injected into the aeraThat is why at present chemical and “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg’s” environmental facilities. tion tank. Activated sludge is a biocoebiological wastewater treatment is imThese programs have been approved by the Neva-Ladoga Basin Water Authority nosis inhabited by different bacteria, plemented at Vodokanal’s wastewater and Rospotrebnadzor Authority. protozoa and multicellular organisms treatment plants, combining advanced Amount of nitrogen, t/year which modify contaminants contained nutrient removal by means of biologiAmount of phosphorus, t/year Wastewater quality control is carried out: in wastewater and, thus, treat them. cal treatment and chemical phosphorus Until recently, only mechanical and bioprecipitation. Iron sulfate is used as the on the consumer side, in compliance with the approved monthly plans; logical treatment was implemented at chemical. at the entrance to wastewater treatment plants in compliance with Wastewater Quality Reduction dynamics of nutrient discharges into water bodies Assessment Programs at “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg’s” facilities; Alleviation of nitrogen and phosphorus burden on St. Petersburg water bodies at wastewater treatment plants’ discharge points in compliance with Wastewater Quality Assessment Programs at Vodokanal’s facilities; 25 000 at untreated effluent discharge points in compliance with Wastewater Quality Assess23 175 ment Programs at “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg’s” facilities. 22 288 20 000 Wastewater quality control is carried out by monitoring generalized physical and 18 163 chemical parameters, microbiological and parasitological parameters. The monitoring of wastewater inflow and discharge is carried out at over 200 points by 48 parameters. Amount of discharged contaminants, t/year SUE Vodokanal of Sain-Petersburg's Plan 15 000 12 248 Treatment efficiency for household wastewater is quite high: 11 048 10 729 10 003 8822 10 000 7808 over 90 % removal of suspended solids, BOD, COD and total phosphorus; 7603 6684 5615 around 70 % of total nitrogen removal. 3973 5 000 3502 Besides, SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” carries out monitoring of water bodies 3027 in compliance with the Water Body Regular Monitoring Program, approved by the 1930 1178 Neva-Ladoga Basin Water Authority. 760 677 566 558 547,3 536 515 At WWTPs’ treated effluent discharge points natural water quality control is carried 0 out and the treated effluent discharge impact on natural water composition of the 1978 1985 1987 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 receiving water bodies is assessed. According to the end-of-the-year reand Repino WWTPs. Currently, designs Achievements of 2010 sults for 2010 the concentrations of total are being prepared for treated effluent nitrogen and phosphorus in Vodokanal’s disinfection at all the other wastewaSewerage Networks treated effluent are 9.5 mg/l and 0.5 ter treatment plants, its startup being • The next construction stage of the Northern Tunnel Collector extension was commg/l, accordingly. scheduled for 2015. pleted, which allowed to connect to it 12 untreated effluent discharge lines with In order to improve the environmental As for the problem of sewage sludge the total amount of 57,000 m3 of wastewater per day to be directed to Northern situation of the city’s water bodies and disposal, it has been solved through WWTP for treatment. The amount of treated wastewater in St.Petersburg has in the Gulf of Finland, a certain amount construction of three sludge incinerareached 93 %. of effluent water undergoes disinfection plants: at Central, Northern and • Construction of inverted siphon across the River Srednaya Nevka was complettion. UV disinfection technology is imSouth-West WWTPs. The incineration ed, which resulted in the closure of untreated effluent discharge in the amount plemented at the South-West Wasteplants use the fluidized bed combustion of 950 m3/day. 8 untreated effluent discharge lines were connected to the sewwater Treatment Plant, Sestroretsk technology. erage system. 64 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 65 Results of activities in 2010/ Wastewater Disposal • Under the Primorsky Prospect reconheart rate and mobility). This AfFuture Development of work, to construct a collector in struction project, 2 untreated efflurican giant snail-based system of the area of the River Okhta, and ent discharge lines with the flow of continuous air pollution monitorWastewater Disposal to build a wastewater treatment 1,600 m3/day were connected to the ing at the border of the buffer zone System plant in Metallostroy community. sewerage system. of a sludge incineration plant can • Development of the surface run• Rehabilitation, major repairs and signal not only drastic and considAt the end of 2010, SUE “Vodokanal of off control and disposal system. construction of 47.88 km of sewererable changes in the level of air St.Petersburg” worked out a draft pro• Termination of flush water disage networks were completed. pollution biological hazard. It can gram “Clean Water of the Baltics”, which charges from Main Waterworks, • Untreated effluent discharge closure also monitor accumulation of poscontains the main goals and tasks for Petrodvorets and Kronshtadt Wascheme was designed for the area of sible negative impact to the health the future development of the Comterworks. the River Ohta. condition of the indicator group of pany until 2020. • Design of the wastewater dispossnails, which is connected with the 2. Upgrading and construction of wasteal plan for Krasnoselsky District chronic poisonous influence of air 1. Closure of untreated wastewater water treatment plants of Saint-Petersburg to the South contaminants, released into the air discharges • Implementation of advanced nuof Volkhonskoye Highway (Kraswith flue gases, even at relatively • Completion of untreated wastetrient removal technologies noye Selo, settlements of Toriky, low concentrations of such subwater discharges connection to • Construction of tertiary treatment Skachky and Gorelovo) was comstances. Besides, this system takes the Northern Tunnel Collector and treated effluent disinfection pleted. into account the synergetic effect will allow to provide treatment facilities • Construction designs and estimates produces by various air contamiof 95% of all city wastewater by • To meet HELCOM recommendafor rehabilitation of combined sewernants even in small doses. the end of 2011, and to improve tions for wastewater treatment age network from Leo Tolstoy Square the environmental situation in quality it has been planned to to Dobrolubova Prospect of the PetroLandfill-Stored Sludge Treatment the historical part of the city. By connect local wastewater treatgradskaya Side were prepared. • To alleviate the negative envi2015, it is planned to treat 98% ment plants Prigorodniye, Zaronmental impact of a landfill, we of wastewater. To achieve this vodskiye, Pargolovo, Osinovaya Wastewater Treatment Plants completed the first stage of sludge goal, it will be necessary to build Roscha and Torfyanoye to the • In the framework of fulfilling HELCOM removal from Severny Landfill near a tunnel collector along Nabersewerage network. recommendations for wastewater the rural settlement of Novosyolky. ezhnaya Robespyera Str., to con• Construction of wastewater treatment, a series of activities were The methods of stationary dewanect untreated wastewater distreatment plants in Molodyozhny carried out at the city’s wastewatering in geotubes and chemical charges of Petrogradskiy District community and in the town of ter treatment plants to intensify the treatment are used for sludge hazto the wastewater disposal netLomonosov. nutrient removal process. As a reard reduction and increasing sludge sult, in late 2010, the concentrations water yield. of total nitrogen and phosphorus in • Preliminary works for using the geothe treated effluent at the outlet of tubing method at Volhonka-2 Landfill WWTPs were 9.5 mg/l and 0.5 mg/l, have been completed. respectively, in compliance with the HELCOM requirements. As a result of these activities in 2010, • Advanced technology of biologi7,9 % of the total amount of sludge cal monitoring of flue gas purificastored at the landfills was treated. tion after sludge incineration was launched. Giant African snails are Assessment of New Wastewater and used for this purpose. This methSludge Treatment Technologies od was designed by the scientists • A cycle of works has been carried out of Saint-Petersburg Scientific Reto evaluate effluent disinfection with search Center for Environmental alternative chemicals. Security of the Russian Academy • A number of phosphorus removal of Sciences. Snails inhale a mixture chemicals have been tested. of flue gases and normal air, which • The cutting-edge technologies for imitates the atmospheric conditions measuring the depth of sludge dein the sanitary protection zone of a position in reservoirs have been sludge incineration plant. Special tested. equipment monitors the functional • The testing of new tertiary treatment condition of snails (mainly, their systems is being carried out. 66 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 67 Results of activities in 2010/ Wastewater Disposal 3. Improvement of sewage sludge 7. Sewerage network management treatment and disposal technologies Creation of sewerage management Prevention of sewage sludge storsystem on the basis of sewage age landfills’ adverse impact on the catchment areas, including impleenvironment. In accordance with mentation of wastewater flow meVodokanal’s plans the whole quantering and control systems. tity of sludge stored at landfills will be processed by 2020. 8. Optimization of recycling process Implementation of the technology 4. Improvement of energy efficiency of construction material production Reconstruction of the Central and with inclusion of ash from sewage Northern Wastewater Treatment sludge incineration. It will allow to Plants of St.Petersburg is aimed at recycle the whole amount of ash transition to alternative (renewproduced at sludge incineration able) energy sources and reduction plants and, thus, prevent its storage of adverse impact on the environat landfills. ment. The project includes anaerobic sludge treatment technology: biogas will be produced in the process of sludge digestion, which is planned to be used for combined electricity and heat production. The expected outcome of the project is reduction of energy consumption from external sources through: • reduction of electric consumption by the plant; • production of electric energy from the plant’s own alternative/ renewable sources. This project will also allow heat production from the plant’s own alternative/renewable sources. 5. Advance in the wastewater disposal system’s reliability • Construction of back-up tunnel collectors • Construction and rehabilitation of wastewater disposal networks • To increase the reliability of the tunnel collectors’ operation, the construction of cross-tunnels is planned, which will allow to carry out further rehabilitation of the existing network and to modernize the collector switching to the WWTP in the town of Zelenogorsk. 6. Provision of centralized sewerage systems for small communities. 68 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 69 Customer service Customer service responsible for customer relations withThe underlying principle of this collection are invited by Vodokanal to rearrange their contractual relations with the in relevant service areas. field of activities is: “Vodokanal Company by making separate contracts. management in 2010 When making new contracts with its customers, Vodokanal takes into account their The easy-to-reach customer service for the clients (customers), not units were created with the aim to enthe clients (customers) for Vodowishes to a maximum extent and follows an individual approach to each customer. Customer / client service is in the focus sure a quick response to the changing kanal Vodokanal offers to its customers the right of choice: they may enter into sepaof Vodokanal’s attention. customer requirements and the cusrate contracts for water supply and wastewater disposal either in relation to each The underlying principle of this field of tomers’ calls. Besides, the idea was to facility (if they have a direct connection to the Company’s water distribution and activities is: “Vodokanal for the clients organize the service provision process sewerage networks), or in relation to several facilities. (customers), not the clients (customers) in consideration of special features of for Vodokanal”. the customers’ facilities and the existVodokanal guarantees to its customers that new contracts are made at their maxiing water / sewer networks in the relmal convenience: Vodokanal’s customer service is based evant areas. • the Company officers visit a customer’s facility in the agreed time; on the following principles: In 2010, Vodokanal started to implement • the Company officers examine water supply and sewerage systems on the day • Maximal result for the client (cusa new customer contract scheme based of visit; tomer) and minimal requirements to on the functional principle: separate con• when drafting separate contracts, the Company uses, to a maximum extent, the the client (customer); tracts for potable water supply and for information and documents already submitted to it by the customer. • search for a solution satisfactory to collection of wastewater and pollutants. both parties; and The specialists of the water supply In 2010, a new customer service information system was put into operation by • continuous optimization of the comand sanitation districts at the branchVodokanal. pany interaction with its clients (cuses “St. Petersburg Water Supply” and Due to a full-scale operation of this system the Company could automate many of tomers). “St. Petersburg Wastewater Disposal” the functions related to preparation of the documents to be issued in the course are responsible for consultation of cliof customer service, including draft contracts of water supply and sewage / polIn 2010, Vodokanal continued practical ents and customers (on the making, lutants collection. implementation of the above principles. amending and termination of contracts The benefit of the new information system is the possibility to reduce the period of For the purpose of optimizing, and imof water supply and sewage / pollutdocuments issuance by automating the document preparation process. proving the quality of the customer ants collection), collection of applicaIn 2010, Vodokanal began to build an electronic archive of contract-related docuservice, special units (water supply and tions and documents for contracting, mentation. sanitation districts) were established at and the drafting of contracts within The purpose of electronic archive is to avoid reiterated requests for the documents the company’s production branches, St. relevant service areas. which have already been submitted by the customer, to provide access to elecPetersburg Water Supply and St. PetersThe customers having single contracts tronic copies of documents for the company units as required in the course of work burg Wastewater Disposal, and made of water supply and sewage/pollutants with clients and customers. Optimization by Vodokanal of its contract-related functions led to reduction of the number of documents to be submitted by customers in order to make contracts for water supply and sewage collection. Plenty of information which had to be confirmed by the customer (client) with relevant evidence is now simply specified by the customer (client) in his contract application. The customer (client) may choose a preferable payment procedure (by acceptance or direct debiting) specifying it in his application. The customer is not asked to submit the documents issued by Vodokanal (authorizations for connection to centralized water supply and sanitation systems) and the documents which have already been provided to the Company (unless such documents have been amended). It takes less time now to prepare draft contracts of potable water supply and sewage collection: now they are issued within 10 working days from receiving the contract application and the necessary package of documents (compared to a 30-day period set out in the Civil Code of the Russian Federation). Vodokanal is in the process of implementing an Internet-based system of collecting applications and documents for contracts of water supply and sewage/pollutants disposal. In this way, the time requirements for the drafting of contracts by Vodokanal will be further reduced, and personal visits of customers to the Company for the purpose of making contracts will be minimized. 70 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 71 Results of activities in 2010/ Customer service Connection to water distribution and sewerage Vodokanal is the Russia’s first water company to organize collection of requests for specifications via the Internet. Quick response to requests and the possibility for networks clients to send requests at any convenient time are the advantages of this method. Fifty-nine specifications were prepared on Internet requests in 2010. Vodokanal provides to its clients and customers the services on authorizations To improve the quality of customer service, requests for the issuance of authorizations preparation and connection to the engineering networks based on the issued auand consultancy are collected from 8:00 a.m. till 20:00 p.m. (without lunch break). Due thorizations. to extension of the client admission period and the possibility to obtain specifications via the Internet, there is, practically, no queue to the request collection desk. This work includes the following: * incl. specifications — 3730, connection Reception of clients is also organized in the city suburbs. • Preparation of specifications conditions — 778, baseline data — 266. All necessary information about the procedure of issuing the authorizations can be • Consultancy ** The contracts are made in compliance found on website: www.vodokanal.spb.ru. • Preparation of connection conditions and conclusion of connection contracts with Vodokanal’s Investment Program The works performance and the citizens’ calls in relation to the quality of customer • Review of design documentation for 2009-2011 and contain conditions service are monitored continuously, and corrective actions are taken to improve • Preparation of other authorizations (baseline data, approval of layout, etc.). of connection to water / sewerage netthe performance indicators. • Execution of connection contracts. works. To decide how to optimize the customer service, clients are asked to fill in questionnaires, and their feedback and suggestions аre analyzed. The average score of Results of work the clients’ points given to all items of the questionnaire (the respondents were asked to appraise the completeness and quality of the information provided, timely Work type Number of documents prepared Number of consultations issuance and quality of documents, convenience of service, friendliness of personnel, etc.) is in the range 4.04-4.84 (five scores max.). It is the evidence of the period 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 customers’ high satisfaction with the quality of services and indication of the need to further improve the permits preparation procedure. Issue of authorizations (incl. specifications, connection conditions, 6281 7250 6987 8623* 5150 7388 5091 5552 baseline data, etc.) Volume of sales Review of design documentation 3045 3169 2950 3456 3654 3802 3540 3840 The trend to lower water consumption continued in 2010, which demonstrates responsible attitude to water resources among the customers. Number of connection contracts In 2008 — 2010, water consumption reduced by 9%. 123 311 drafted Volumes of water and sanitation services in 2008 — 2010, in physical units (‘000 m3) Number of contracts concluded** 24 181 800 000 In 2010, the number of connection contracts made under Vodokanal’s Investment 700 000 794 896,1 754 744,9 Program for 2009-2011 grew considerably as compared to 2009. The total installed 703 461,8 728 547,9 600 000 658 517,1 640 240,2 capacity of the facilities connected under the 2010 contracts was: for water sup500 000 ply – 1114.96 m3/hour, for wastewater disposal — 992.62 m3/hour. 400 000 300 000 The following regulatory documents are issued and approved for the purpose of 200 000 Water supply ‘000 m3 improving the quality of customer service: 100 000 Wastewater disposal • Instruction on strengthening control over the issue of specifications for connec0 tion to engineering networks No. dated 02.09.2010 2008 2009 2010 • “Rules of interaction between structural divisions of SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg • “Rules of interaction between structural divisions in preparing Connection ConSuch reduction of water consumption in St. Petersburg can be explained by: ditions and Contracts of Connection” • Transition to the billing for actual consumption measured by individual cold/hot water meters (consumers paid according to the standard consumption rate before the installation of water meters); In compliance with the approved Rules, the specification preparation period is re• Water saving actions on the consumer side (emergency repairs and elimination of leaks on local networks, repairs of induced to 2 days (compared to 14 working days under the law) and the connection house pipes, etc.); conditions preparation period — to 5 days (compared to 30 days under the law). • Water conservation by the citizens; Collection of requests and consultancy at the address: Block 5, bldg. 103, Mos• Actions performed by housing organizations, management companies, condominiums and housing cooperatives to reduce kovsky prospect. water consumption 72 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 73 Results of activities in 2010/ Customer service Accounts receivable In 2010, close interaction with the city pared to 90 in 2009) with the customFor example, in 2010, the producauthorities in charge of the St. Petersers who lack funds to pay for Vodokanal tion branches limited water supply/ Vodokanal has developed a mechaburg budget was organized: services. Ninety such agreements were sanitation services for 186 customnism of individual work with customers • Monthly meetings at District Adminmade in 2009. ers, stopped provision of services to aimed to ensure timely payment for poistrations and the City Administration In 2010, the outstanding debts were 68 customers and resumed provision table water and sanitation services or, Committees where the cause of inmonitored more efficiently; the activities of services to 99 customers, following in the event of indebtedness, to recover debtedness and time of debt repayaimed to limit or stop the services for certhe requests from the Customer Serthe debt. ment are discussed. tain customers were better coordinated. vice Centre. In 2010, the management of SUE Vodo• The exchange of (electronic, etc.) kanal of St. Petersburg decided to hold data about the allocated funds and Limitation or stoppage of services regular meetings to discuss measures actual provision of services in physiagainst the debtors between Vodokancal and money terms and about the 200 al’s branches: “Customer Service Censtatus of indebtedness, with the city 180 tre”, “Water Supply” and “Wastewater authorities in charge of the St. Pe160 186 Disposal”, for the purpose of strengthtersburg budget. 140 ening control over the procedures and • Full-scale quarterly comparative number of customers 120 117 effect of this activity. All in all, 37 such checks of bills and collected pay100 99 82 meetings were held in 2010. ments for customers of certain cat80 68 In parallel, the Customer Service Centre egories. 60 42 branch provided regular training in the • Timely issuance and delivery of bills 40 2009 specifics of this activity, reporting proto relevant customers on a monthly 20 2010 cedures and preparation of analytical basis. 0 materials for all responsible persons in • Due to such efforts, the payments Limited Stopped Resumed each water supply / sanitation district. by the “St. Petersburg Budget” CatThe Microsoft Office Access database egory customers were collected in “BD PUV” was designed and implefull in 2010. Thus, in 2010, the number of customers tion award: the total recovered amount mented for the use by managers and for which water supply / sanitation serwas 571,700,981.09 Roubles. specialists at all levels. The database In parallel, the management of the Cusvices were limited or stopped increased In 503 court proceedings on the claims supports on-line monitoring of the statomer Service Centre Branch organizes 1.6 times, leading to reduction of debt filed by Vodokanal in 2010, the arbitratus of each customer’s indebtedness, its joint working meetings with the defaultin the customer categories “Industries” tion award was to enforce the payment duration and types of charges, providers where the issues related to payand “Other”. of 242,561,373.62 Roubles by defening digital and graphical data display. ments and reconciliation are discussed. Moreover, the percentage of customers dants in favour of Vodokanal. This helps take steps to prevent the The meetings held in 2010 led to 155 with outstanding (over 2 months) debts In 2010, the court of arbitration approved growth of debts. agreements of debt restructuring (comreduced in 2010. 22 amicable agreements of paying the The share of the customer category debt to Vodokanal in installments (the “Providers of Services to Households” in total amount: 13,055,409.01 Roubles). the overall debt structure is the biggest Moreover, in 2010, court proceedings on (44.6% as of 01.01.2011). Their share insome of the claims filed by the Comcreased by 1,6% in 2010. pany before 2010 were finalized. As Recovery through arbitration is one of a result, 157 judgments of recovering the instruments to recover debts. 75,402,937.39 Roubles from the defenIn 2010, Vodokanal filed 1,075 claims to dants were awarded. the arbitration court to recover debts In 2010, the South-West Vodokanal in the total amount of 1,207,121,869.40 Branch made much effort to recover Roubles. debts: it filed to the court of arbitration 209 claims of debt recovery in the total 202 claims of recovering debts in the toamount of 221,435,028.36 Roubles sent tal amount of over 247.7 Mio. Roubles, by Vodokanal to relevant debtors in where 98 Mio. Roubles were paid by its 2010 had been settled by the latter becustomers before the arbitration award fore such claims were sent to the court and 34.5 Mio. Roubles were recovered of arbitration. under the arbitration award. 399 claims of Vodokanal were settled In 2010, Vodokanal continued to publish by defendants in full before the arbitrathe information about its main debtors 74 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 75 Results of activities in 2010/ Customer service on its corporate website (section “Lists of Debtors”). Such information is updated Call Centre on a monthly basis. As of 01.01.2011, Vodokanal’s accounts receivable amounted to 3,066,670,300 RouSUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” has its Hot Line to receive calls from the customers bles. (phone: +7 (812) 305-09-09, see also “Interaction with customers” for more details). In 2004 — 2010, the implementation and use of the calls recording and handling Structure of accounts receivable in 2010 system, as well as other improvements of this process, led to reduction of call duration from 12 to 2 minutes with the maximum waiting time of 2 minutes (in peak periods, when up to 200 calls per hour are received). These performance indicators Accounts receivable Accounts receivable meet the international standards. Customer group as of 01.01.10 as of 01.01.11 At present, the average time of waiting for the operator’s reply is 8-20 seconds. In 2004 — 2010, the number of calls of general nature (general inquiries or consulProviders of services to households 1 141 409,2 1 366 309,1 tations) increased from 55,659 to 93,084. In 2004 — 2010, the implementation and use of the calls recording and handling GP TEK (heat supplier) 165 024,9 154 384,6 system, as well as other improvements of this process, led to reduction of call duration from 12 to 2 minutes with the maximum waiting time of 2 minutes (in peak TGK-1 (electricity supplier) 202 962,7 194 358,8 periods, when up to 200 calls per hour are received). These performance indicators meet the international standards. St. Petersburg budget 27 930,9 39 143,1 At present, the average time of waiting for the operator’s reply is 8-20 seconds. In 2004 — 2010, the number of calls of general nature (general inquiries or consulFederal budget 140 488,5 276 052,1 tations) increased from 55,659 to 93,084. Organizations in Leningrad Region 253 026,7 268 467,1 Inquiries Other 243 545,8 242 989,4 116 869 125 000 84355 93084 Industries 483 758,9 524 966,1 83983 100 000 TOTAL 2 658 147,5 3 066 670,3 55659 73395 55047 75 000 The share of different customer categories in the structure of accounts 50 000 receivable: 25 000 Growth or reduction 0 Customer group As of 01.01.10 As of 01.01.11 of share in 2010 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Providers of services to households 42,9% 44,6% 1,6% GP TEK (heat supplier) 6,2% 5,0% -1,2% TGK-1 (electricity supplier) 7,6% 6,3% -1,3% St. Petersburg budget 1,1% 1,3% 0,2% Federal budget 5,3% 9,0% 3,7% Organizations in Leningrad Region 9,5% 8,8% -0,8% Other 9,2% 7,9% -1,2% Industries 18,2% 17,1% -1,1% 76 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 77 Results of activities in 2010/ Customer service The number of inquiries in relation to Vodokanal activities has increased over these years. It can be explained by the increasing number of new customers and the growing interest of the citizens in the Company operations. The number of complaints received by Hot Line reduced from 30,146 to 25,309 in 2004—2010 The most frequent complaints are those about low cold water head and blockages in the yard sewers. In 2004, the Hot Line received 2,673 complaints about low water head, and in 2010 — there were 153 complaints only, i.e. the number of complaints has reduced more than 17 times over the 6 years. Complaints about low cold water head 3000 2673 2500 2000 1500 839 730 1000 378 500 218 153 127 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 The number of complaints about blockages of the yard sewers has reduced 1.5 times from 2004 to 2010 78 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 79 City Fountains In 2010, State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” operated 45 founThe largest fountain complex is in Mostoric appearance of the fountain will be tains and fountain complexes. cow Square. Its total area is 18,000 m2; restored: the copy of the sculpture stoThe history of St. Petersburg fountains goes back to 1705, the fountains have lived the total volume of bowls is 3,700 m3. len by vandals will be installed. through several periods of prosperity and decline. And by the time the decision The ensemble consists of 11 bowls. The In 2010, based upon the results of techwas taken to pass the city fountains into the economic management of State Unipumps of the fountain complex pump nical conditions of each fountain, the tary Enterprise “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”, fewer than 20 of 350 fountains were about 580,000 m3 of water per day. The Committee for Energy and Engineering functioning in the city. Most of them were in a state of failure. fountain bowls are installed at a depth Support together with Vodokanal St. Vodokanal St. Petersburg has been maintaining fountains and fountain complexes from one to three meters below the Petersburg formulated targeted prosince 1996. Company subdivisions were established, whose functions were to relevel of Moskovsky prospect. grams for capital repairs and renovation construct and maintain the fountains. The fountain complex in Lenin Square of fountains and fountain complexes. consists of 20 separate granite units 6 fountains are included in the capital The number of fountains and fountain complexes with light and music. The total water construction program, 14 fountains — in volume of all bowls is over 2,000 m3. the renovation program. 50 Among the fountains operated by SUE In 2011, it is planned to complete the 45 4 4 “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is the capital repairs of the “Boy with Duck” 40 4 fountain in the garden near the Kazan fountain, make the capital repairs of the fountain near Gostiny Dvor in Kronstadt 3 35 1 41 41 Cathedral, the fountain in Aleksan30 35 drovsky Garden, the fountain in Southand start the capital repairs of the foun31 33 25 27 ern-Primorsky Park, the fountain in the tain in Zelenogorsk. 20 garden near Gostiny Dvor (Kronstadt) Besides, in 2011 the renovation of foun15 17 20 and others. tains in Pisarev Garden and in San-Galli 10 The number of fountains In 2010, 41 fountains and 4 fountain Garden is planned. 5 The number of fountain complexes complexes were operated. 0 All city fountains are located in the plac1996 1999 2002 2005 2006 2008 2009 2010 es which are the most popular among citizens and guests of the city, in different city districts. All the fountains Over the period 1996-2010, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has renovated 27 fountains. are unique: they differ by the year of In addition to the renovation of the existing fountains Vodokanal has constructed construction, size, architecture and are new fountains in the most significant locations as well. made of different materials. By 2008, Vodokanal had constructed 15 fountains and fountain complexes using its The fountains operated by Vodokanal own and budgetary funds including the color-music fountain complex in the square St. Petersburg are equipped with over in front of Finlyandsky Station (put into operation in 2005) and the fountain com7,500 lamps, over 4,000 nozzles, 847 plex in Moskovskaya Square (put into operation in 2006). pumps, 915 electromagnetic valves and almost 300km of cabling. During a winter period, the performance of all the fountain and fountain complex equipment is tested; the relevant parts and units are repaired or replaced. In 2010, the lighthouse fountain in 300 Years of Saint-Petersburg Park, the drinking fountain in Sennaya Square and the fountain near the building of the Russian National Library were taken into economic management by Vodokanal St. Petersburg. Besides, in 2010 Vodokanal carried out capital repairs of the four fountains: the fountain in Maneznaya Square, the “Putti” fountain, two fountains in Nikolsky Garden; the capital repairs of the “Boy with Duck” fountain started as well. After the capital repairs, the his80 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 81 Public Toilets the first to acquire movable sanitary In total, by 2014 Vodokanal St. PetersIn 2010, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peters• 403 portable cabins and hygienic complexes on automobile burg plans to: burg” operated 659 public toilets. • 35 urinal-type toilets chassis which allow to provide better • renovate 47 stationary public toilets; services to visitors than portable cabins. • make capital repairs of 14 public toiThere are 809 public toilets in the ecoAmong them, in operation: Complexes and modular toilets help lets; nomic management of Vodokanal St. • stationary toilets — 127 solve the task of providing services to • acquire 9 mobile sanitary and hyPetersburg, including: • modular toilets — 74 inhabitants in central districts. gienic complexes on the base of au• 210 stationary toilets • portable cabins — 403 In order to increase the number of opertomobile chassis; • 141 modular toilets • mobile sanitary and hygienic comated public toilets in St. Petersburg and • acquire 47 modular toilets to be in• 20 mobile sanitary and hygienic plexes (on the base of buses, semito improve the quality of services prostalled in gardens and parks. complexes on the base of automotrailers and Valday vehicles) — 20 vided by Vodokanal, in 2010 the renovabile shassi • urinal-type toilets — 35 tion of one toilet and capital repairs of As a result of the renovation program 12 public toilets was made. implementation and capital repairs, 852 Total number of toilets During the city festivals — New Year, public toilets will be in operation by Christmas, Victory Day and Day of the 2014. City, “Scarlet Sails 2010” — Vodokanal • 210 stationary toilets 900 809 set up movable toilets. In total, in 2010 • 155 modular toilets 801 800 751 movable toilets were provided for more • 29 mobile sanitary and hygienic 700 than 650 events on requests of differcomplexes on automobile chassis; 622 600 ent organizations. • 438 portable cabins 500 400 355 In 2010, a new target program for the 300 development of public toilet network 200 178 190 for 2011-2014 was prepared. 123 100 Total number of toilets 0 In compliance with this program, in 2011 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 it is planned to: • renovate 17 stationary public toilets; • make capital repairs of 5 public toiThe total number of outdoor public toiministration of St. Petersburg No. 1492lets; lets in St. Petersburg in the 1950-70s ra “On Development of St. Petersburg • acquire modular toilets to be installed reached 700. They were managed by Public Toilet Network” was issued. in city gardens and parks: SUE Zentr-Servis”, the municipal auVodokanal St. Petersburg assumed re• design the renovation of 28 stationthority “Spetssluzba”, landscaping comsponsibility for the maintenance and ary toilets. panies, housing offices, which operated servicing of public toilets owned by the toilets. Saint-Petersburg, as well as client's In early 1990s, the number of public functions in repairs, renovation and detoilets reduced. As a result of privatizavelopment. tion many buildings and facilities were During the construction of shopping bought out, leased or redesigned as no centers, Vodokanal St. Petersburg isrestrictions were imposed on the use of sues technical conditions that specify such buildings and facilities. the mandatory inclusion of public toilet According to the inventory made by terfacilities in public areas. Today, practiritorial district authorities of St. Peterscally every large shopping centre has burg, at that moment there were about free public toilets. 300 toilets on the city budget, a part of Since 2006, a lot of work has been done which had already been entered into a to install modular toilets of a new genlong-term lease, and the others were eration next to metro stations, as well becoming dilapidated and going to ruin. as in the places agreed with district adVodokanal St. Petersburg was assigned ministrations. They are equipped with with the task to solve this problem. modern sanitary and hygienic facilities, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has been provide more conveniences to visitors operating public toilets since 2001. In and have more esthetic appearance. December 2001, the decree of the AdBesides, Vodokanal St. Petersburg was 82 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 83 Innovations Implementation of new technologies in the field of water supply and wastewater disposal SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” actively introduces up-to-date technologies, • Both the GAC layer and sand layer effectively capture solids, and this shows which ensure provision of customers with good-quality water supply and wastethat filtration takes place in all parts of the filter. The effective removal of As part of the biomonitoring water disposal services minimizing the environmental impact. suspended solids is achieved, and the outlet turbidity may reach the values modernization the number of less than 1 NTU. crayfish at the plants increased. One of the main goals of using activated carbon is to remove organic matter. The biomonitoring system modWater Supply Due to filtration through activated carbon filters, dissolved organic compounds ernization also includes new alare effectively removed in the adsorption and biological degradation process. gorithms of signal processing. All 1. At the new water treatment block at Southern Treatment Plant a number of this — a more advanced system innovative solutions are applied. 2. In order to reduce iron concentrations in tap water in St, Petersburg, a method of data processing, increasing The inclusion of the ozonization stage in the water treatment process provided of anticorrosion water treatment is developed and implemented. the number of crayfish on duty — the following benefits: This method is aimed at preventing the secondary contamination of water durimproves the biomonitoring reli• Taste and odor removal. ing its distribution due to corrosion processes, which occur after the contact of ability, gives new opportunities • Removal of color caused by humic substances. water with steel and cast iron pipes. to manage the water treatment • Turbidity reduction. The technology provides injection of calcium compounds and salts of carbonic acid system in real time • Suppression of algae growth. into the water treated at city water treatment plants. This technology is imple• Microflocculation effect (improvement of the colloidal organic matter flocmented at Petrodvorets Water Treatment Plant and Sestroretsk Treatment Plant. culation process). • Reduction of chemical consumption. 3. In 2010, large-scale coagulant tests were designed and made to select chemicals • Flocculation time reduction. that are capable to ensure a high quality of water treatment at low temperatures. • Increase of filtration rate. In total, 38 brands of coagulants were tested. The most promising brands of • Extension of filtration time. coagulants were selected. Using the series of chemicals will allow to increase • Reduction of backwash water. the flexibility of the applied water treatment technology in general. • Reduction of sludge volumes after filter backwash. • Organic matter reduction (including chlororganic compounds). 4. In 2010, a new technology for the Neva River monitoring was introduced — • Partial disinfection. the accidental oil spill detection system used to protect water intakes at water The use of mechanical agitators provides rapid water mixing before it enters treatment plants. into the first flocculation chamber in every process line, thus fostering flock A few kilometers upstream the first Vodokanal water intake, on Kyzminsky formation and improving the downstream sedimentation process. The existing Railway Bridge in Leningrad region, optic and electronic equipment is installed scheme of hydraulic chemical mixing at old plants depends on the plant load to detect oil pollutions in the Neva River. The equipment includes optic devices and is less effective. that measure the oil film thickness on the water surface and automatic analyzers, which measure the oil product concentration (water samples are pumped The water sedimentation process is using lamella sedimentation tanks which into the device). Rotating cameras for surveys were installed on the bridge as provides advantages as compared to the conventional water sedimentation well. All collected data are transferred to the control room at Kolpino Water scheme: Treatment Plant where they are analysed to take relevant decisions. • Higher hydraulic load and larger sedimentation area Currently, the early warning oil detection system is not fit for operation in a • Shorter retention time winter season. However, in the future it will be improved to allow the monitor• Higher sludge concentration ing all year round. • Significant reduction of the facility area • Significant reduction of the volume of sludge to be thickened 5. In 2010, the system for industrial biomonitoring of the Neva water quality was • Absence of supernatant improved. • Lower investment costs The operating principle of this system is to record the animal cardiac rhythm • Shorter start-up period using special sensors, which are fixed on the crayfish shells. If toxic substances • Higher quality of clarified water get into water the crayfish cardiac rhythm will sharply change and control room • Better performance at low water temperature. operators will receive a corresponding signal. As part of the biomonitoring modernization the number of crayfish at the plants Water is filtered in dual media gravity filters. Dual media filtration combining increased. The biomonitoring system modernization also includes new algorithms quartz sand and granulated activated carbon (GAC) provides a number of adof signal processing. All this — a more advanced system of data processing, invantages of treatment: creasing the number of crayfish on duty — improves the biomonitoring reliability, • The rate of head loss is lower than in sand filters. gives new opportunities to manage the water treatment system in real time. • Filter cycle is on average 60% longer than in sand filters. In the second half of the year the modernized biomonitoring system was put • The required amount of backwash water is less than for sand filters. into operation and currently it is operating in normal mode at all water intakes. • The rate of air flushing is the same, while the rate of backwash in dual media The comprehensive system for early detection of contaminations in the Neva filtration is lower than in sand filters. River also includes chemical monitoring and radiological monitoring. 84 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 85 Innovations/ Implementation of new water supply and sanitation technologies 6. Vodokanal tested innovative ideas for creating an effective water supply mannetworks and on the consumer site allows to diagnose and locate leaks, agement system in K-17 zone (Uritskaya Water Treatment Plant). The modernization of pumpunauthorized connections, and identify faulty meters. Emergency teams get In 2011, the work will continue to establish the water treatment complex maning stations to reduce energy preliminary information about the locations of leaks and losses before water agement system in St. Petersburg. Currently, the system is being implemented consumption by 30-40 % due to flows out on the surface and people start to make calls. in the Southern Water Supply Zone. efficiency increasing and imple• Installation of “check points” for online water quality control in the network The following main activities aimed at establishing the unified system for water mentation of an automated presand on the consumer side. treatment complex management in Saint-Petersburg can be selected: sure control using “check points” Online water quality control in the network allows to adjust the water supply • The creation of a hydraulic model that allows to determine a water supply set in networks modes in a timely manner and guarantee compliance of water quality with network optimization strategy (elimination of excessive pressure, improveregulatory requirements. ment of the rate mode, building a modern system of hydraulic mode management). • The main tool for making decisions on the network reconstruction is its mathematical model that allows to make multivariate hydraulic calculaSanitation tions, particularly to identify the sections with minimal rates and overloaded sections and select the best activities to eliminate these defects, calculate Throughout 2010, Vodokanal St. Petersburg continued developing wastewater various scenarios of water consumption, strategies to repair, modernize and treatment technologies and improving environmental situation in the Neva, Gulf construct water pipelines. An important moment is the hierarchical approach of Finland and Baltic Sea. to the network sections: the most important sections, water conduits, street distribution network etc. are singled out. 1. State-of-the-art technologies are used for construction of the extension of the • The modernization of pumping stations to reduce energy consumption by Main sewage collector in the Northern part of the city. In particular, the URS 30-40 % due to efficiency increasing and implementation of an automated pumping station under construction is a unique facility. That is an original pumppressure control using “check points” set in networks. ing station; it was designed to adjust the wastewater flow rate through the • As a result of the pumping equipment modernization, frequency drives will collector to prevent the tunnel silting. URS will be located in a 90m deep, 26m be used for all pumping units that will allow to smoothly start up and stop diameter shaft. engines and reduce the load on the power grid. Operating regimes of pumps In 2010, the tunnelling of the most complicated section of the collector started – are selected automatically based on the readings of flow meters, pressure from Arsenalnaya Street to Lenin Square (in this section a so-called “flowing recorders in “check points” and other criteria (for example, water level in ground” is located) –using Herrenknecht tunnelling machines. clean water reservoirs). As a result, the optimal values of water pressure and water flow are maintained at the outlets. Reduction of excessive pres2. Vodokanal St. Petersburg implemented a chemical phosphorus removal techsure in the water pipeline reduces its breakdown rate, distribution losses and nology. It allowed to consistently meet the HELCOM recommendations for reincreases its life. Due to a smooth start up and stop of pumping units the moving this nutrient from wastewater. In 2010, a stationary chemical dosing network loads in transient modes drop manifold that reduces the breakdown system Ferix-3 was put into operation at Central Wastewater Treatment Plant. rate by preventing water hammers. The opportunity of automated self-start A similar system is being prepared for commissioning at Northern Wastewater up for pumping units in case of emergency power failure, as well as autoTreatment Plant in June 2011. mated putting into operation standby pumping units minimize water supply interruptions and reduce the number of operating personnel. Work of pump3. Vodokanal continued searching for safe and effective methods of wastewaing units in the most energy efficient mode provides power savings and ter disinfection. In 2010, several tests of relevant technologies and chemicals increases the resource of pumping units themselves. were conducted both in laboratory conditions and directly in the process at city • The installation of modern fittings, which will allow to improve the water wastewater treatment plants. supply reliability and provide stable network operation, eliminate hydraulic At South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant, at Repino and Sestroretsk Wastehammers and air plugs. water Treatment Plants an ultraviolet disinfection system was in operation. • Application of modern control valves, which operate off-line according to preset parameters, provides the pressure regulation in separate subzones 4. Efforts were made to improve the efficiency of suspended solids removal from and minimizes excessive pressure that allows to reduce water losses. wastewater. • Installation of air valves allows to release the air accumulated in water pipeVodokanal conducted some tests of tertiary treatment pilot plants. lines, thereby increasing the reliability and efficiency of the network, as well Implementation of such systems at wastewater treatment plants in Saint-Peas providing high flow measurements accuracy. tersburg will allow to significantly increase the quality of the wastewater treat• The installation of pulse output meters to make water balance, monitor wament. ter consumption and control leaks online. Due to automatic meter readings there is no need for inspectors’ visits, that 5. Treatment of wastewater sludge stockpiled in landfills continued. allows to take readings and issue invoices strictly on required dates, thus In order to solve one of the most important tasks and reduce the negative imimproving the collection of payments and minimizing the human factor . pact on the environment, Vodokanal is implementing a sludge treatment projAutomatic comparison of meter readings taken at pumping stations, on the ect at Severny landfill. Under this project, a technology of static sludge dewa86 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 87 Innovations/ Implementation of new water supply and sanitation technologies rial manufacturing with inclusion of ash from wastewater sludge incineration tering with its preliminary treatment with stabilizing and passivating chemicals were completed. in special textile bags — “geotubes” is applied. The main advantages of this Implementation of this technology will allow to recycle all ash from sludge method are: incineration, thereby preventing its disposal to landfills. . • elimination of negative impact on the environment; • significant reduction in volumes and areas of stored sludge; 8. Vodokanal is actively implementing energy saving technologies. • creation of a standby sludge treatment system in case of equipment failure In 2010, the main fields of energy saving were: at sludge treatment complexes at wastewater treatment plants; • application and implementation of energy saving technologies and equip• elimination of a threat of emergency situations at a landfill with the possibilment; ity of getting contamination into soil and water; • application of energy efficient engineering solutions; • elimination of odors from stockpiled sludge. • monitoring of the plant and equipment operation. In summer 2010, the application of “geotubes” started to treat the sludge at Within this framework, the Central and Northern Wastewater Treatment Plants Volkhonka-2 landfill. According to Vodokanal plans, all the sludge stored at city modernization project is being implemented with the aim to use their own landfills will have been treated by 2020. renewable energy sources. This project covers construction of digesters and installation of a turbogenerator at the CWWTP SIP. 6. Saint-Petersburg is the only megapolis in the world, which has successfully A possibility of applying heat pumps at CWWTP is being contemplated to get solved the problem of wastewater sludge utilization. It uses the most promisadditional heat energy from discharged effluents. ing utilization technique — incineration. Advantages of the method are: 9. Vodokanal is searching for new methods of wastewater treatment. • 100 % utilization of the dewatered sludge; In 2010, survey works were carried out on Vodokanal production sites: • Sludge incineration and ash production, reducing the volume 10 times; • to select analogous chemicals for chemical phosphate removal; • Industrial use of ash; • to select optimal dosing points and chemical doses; • Absence of pathogenic microflora and odors in the ash; • to test the cutting-edge technology by which the level of sludge in tanks • Content of hazardous components in the treated gases from sludge incineracan be identified; tion meets the RF and EU standards; • to apply advanced technologies of treatment efficiency biomonitoring both • Using the flue gas heat for hot water supply and space heating; for wastewater and the flue gases emitted into the air after sludge incinera• Utilization of the produced steam. Possibility to generate electricity. tion. This technology is implemented at SWTP. Today, incineration of wastewater sludge from all city WWTPs is practiced at The development of sanitation management system is also worth mentionthree plants: CWWTP, SWTP, NWWTP. ing. Implementation of this system by the Company will allow to obtain a true picture of each customer’s wastewater quantity and quality. As a result, it will 7. One of the important fields of Vodokanal work is search for ash recycling be possible to manage the sanitation system, i.e. maintain optimal hydraulic technology. modes and ensure the optimal load of wastewater treatment plants. In 2010, the final preparations to developing a technology of construction mate10. Vodokanal started to assess water quality and origin of contamination of several water bodies in St. Petersburg. That will allow to optimize the measures aimed to reduce the adverse impact of Vodokanal activities on water bodies. This work is related to: • the Neva River; • the Malaya Nevka River; • the Izhora River; • the Suzdalskoye Lake (Upper); • the Neva Bay and Eastern Part of Gulf of Finland. This work will allow to assess the true condition of water bodies, investigate the reasons and identify sources of water contamination, as well as to select schemes of water quality monitoring with indication of sampling points which can give the most complete picture of a water body condition. 88 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 89 Patent work In 2010, Vodokanal St. Petersburg got 12 patents for inventions and useful models. Vodokanal major policy principles in the intellectual property field are: providing timely legal protection of intellectual activities results in compliance with the intellectual property law (in particular, technical solutions as inventions; useful models, art and design solutions as industrial samples) preventing the violence of company exclusive rights to intellectual property planning and management of design and/or product development and /or services. Among the patents received in 2010 — the patent for the invention “Method for liquid disinfection with ultraviolet and the device for its implementation”, useful models “System for processing data on innovative activities in the water supply filed”, “Energy consumption management system in the operation of pumping stations”, “Plant for a small community to treat domestic wastewater and its sludge utilization and others. 18 applications were prepared as well for state registration as inventions and useful models of different technical solutions. Besides, Vodokanal annually assesses the effectiveness of intellectual property use, expenditures of Research & Development (R&D) and technical level of R&D results. Vodokanal St. Petersburg pays a lot of attention to research work aimed at creating protectable intellectual activity results. Vodokanal has implemented a unique biomonitoring system using african snails to monitor the flue gas produced in the sludge incineration process 90 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 91 IT infrastructure development for sludge incineration and electric energy on a daily basis. IS “Water Balance” supThe IT infrastructure of Vodokanal — a big, advanced industrial company — is an inports the whole cycle of business processes of main production management (for In 2010, the UIS ACA module dispensable instrument to support its production, economic and financial activities. a one-day or longer period). “Integrated Production Planning In 2010, another UIS ACA module was launched: the environmental information System IS “Water Balance” was system to provide data about Vodokanal’s untreated wastewater (direct) dischargput into full-scale operation. As a Vodokanal’s IT infrastructure is divided into the following levels: es and the customers within the sewer basins where such discharges are located. result of the system implementation, Vodokanal could organize analytical superstructure — management reports OLAP level The IS “Direct Discharges” makes calculations and issues data reports on: the business processes of calcu• direct discharges of domestic sewage, combined sewage and stormwater; and lating, performing and analyzing automation of economic/ financial and auxiliary activities ERP level • masses of pollutants discharged with untreated wastewater. the Water Balance at a much Statistical reports and reports on effluent quality analyses can be tied to direct better level automation of production tasks MES level discharges, water bodies or customers. automatic control of equipment SCADA level The automated system for acquisition, processing, storage and transfer of measured data from Vodokanal’s customers’ metering instruments was put in operation in Uritskaya zone. The system supports remote reading of individual water Unified information system for the automation of the company activities meters installed on the consumer side. The meter readings are used by IS CSC to The main IT development actions are aimed at the building of the Unified Informacredit charges automatically, and by IS “Water Balance” — to calculate daily and tion System for the Automation of the Company Activities (UIS ACA). monthly balances of potable water supply and sales. Despite the implementation of UIS ACA, some specific tasks of Vodokanal will be UIS ACA is used for efficient management of information and processes: solved by means of special-purpose information systems, such as the integrated • the staff at all levels receive the necessary volumes of reliable and consistent management / financial accounting system “Everest”, the information system information; “Hot Line”, the integrated centralized control system and the automated electric• creation of integrated information space; ity metering system. • end-to-end data exchange between the UIS ACA subsystems and other data systems of Vodokanal; Information system “Hot Line” • single input of data at the point of origin; The information system “Hot Line” was put into operation in 2006. • integration with other Vodokanal’s information systems is possible. The system was implemented in 10 phases within one year. Nearly 70,000 applications from the citizens collected over the previous 5 years In 2007-2008 the UIS ACA prototype based on 18 subsystems (over 40 software were entered into the system. modules) was created. In December 2008, acceptance tests of the UIS ACA protoWorkstations of operators, dispatchers and mobile teams’ engineers were autotype were carried out at the Water Supply Production Unit. mated in 7 area divisions of Vodokanal. In 2010, the “Customer Service Centre” Subsystem (IS CSC) was created and put into full-scale operation as the next phase of UIS ACA implementation. The Subsystem supports the unified database of clients and their requests, authorizations, contracts with clients, meter readings, charges, billing, collection of payments and accounts receivable. This will allow to: • assess potential customers’ interest in Vodokanal services; • control the procedures of issuing authorizations and signing of contracts; • give the possibility for customers to obtain authorizations via the Internet using “the Personal Desk” function; • plan the volumes of water and sanitation services; • handle accounts receivable in an efficient way; • ensure timely and reliable accounting and reporting; • improve the payment collection rate. Two data processing centres (DPC) were built and a fail-safe cluster launched on their basis in order to put the system into full-scale operation. In 2010, the UIS ACA module “Integrated Production Planning System IS “Water Balance” was put into full-scale operation. As a result of the system implementation, Vodokanal could organize the business processes of calculating, performing and analyzing the Water Balance at a much better level. Due to that, the Company could optimize and control production volumes and consumption of chemicals, fuel 92 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 93 Innovations/ IT infrastructure development Eighteen standardized directories of different categories (application type, area of Integrated system of centralized control responsibility, reason, location of defect, etc.) were built to facilitate the work of Vodokanal has set up the UDS (Unified Data Storage)-based Integrated System of operators. The directories help identify — at the time of registration — whether the Centralized Control to improve accessibility and reliability of process information, application has been received more than once. to structure the latter by the control levels and, consequently, to accelerate and IS “Hot Line” comprises 9 subsystems, each designed for a specific set of tasks. All improve the process of managerial decision-making. in all, over 200 workstations have been automated. IS “Hot Line” helped solve the following city-specific tasks: Main functions of the system: to create an integrated database of the citizen’s complaints and calls automatic collection of process data arriving via different communication channels to ensure proper accounting and reporting continuous monitoring of conditions and operating regimes on all process facilities to coordinate the activities of Vodokanal’s departments and to establish the contacts with on-line provision of reliable, real-time data to the company managers and specialists for the municipal service agencies them to take reasonable managerial decisions to organize systematic analysis of the citizens’ complaints / applications in order to reclong-term secure storage of data in the UDS during several years ommend preventive measures integration with other information systems at the data exchange level to create a unified source of consultation and reference information on all matters in relation to municipal housing and public utilities services standard unified data access for the company managers and specialists processing and analysis of process parameter values according to the approved Integration with the city address database is achieved to ensure quick full-scale algorithms search of the applicant’s address in the area where any breakdown or planned interruption of water supply occurred. automated reporting The system development plan covers the following targets: Main advantages of the system: automation of planned maintenance management; creation of a unified protected information space in the company’s process network by integrating segregated local process control systems implementation of the corporate on-line reporting system; easy-to-use due to the unified process visualization system. No need to have several displays integration with other city information systems (city information system “004”, etc.). possibility to trace — from the company administration’s centralized control room or from the branches’ control rooms — each specific process parameter or group of parameters at any production facilities in real time possibility to incorporate an alert subsystem to send a warning if selected parameter values exceed the preset limits; possibility of remote on-line control of equipment in emergency situations according to the approved operating rules remote pickup of the meter readings, processing of archives, less manual work to record the meter readings analysis of emergency situations within different periods of time primary on-line diagnostics of process equipment faults 94 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 95 Innovations/ IT infrastructure development Automated system for commercial and technical metering of electric energy The Automated Electricity Information /Commercial Metering System (AEICMS) is designed to measure the active and reactive electric energy and power consumed or supplied by Vodokanal (bound to universal astronomical time) and to display, store, process and transfer the measurement data. The system supports the following functions: measurement of active/ reactive electric energy; measurement of 15-minute increments of active / reactive energy; automated collection of measured data with the binding to universal astronomical time; automated storage of measured values in the protected special-purpose database; automated transfer of measurement results and condition of facilities and measurement instruments to higher levels (to the organizations — actors of the wholesale electricity market); automated recording and monitoring of events. By implementing AEICMS Vodokanal could: • improve the accuracy of electric energy metering; • reduce power consumption in peak hours; • automate data collection, transfer and processing; • provide on-line access to electricity consumption data at remote facilities; • make payments to the electricity supplier according to differential tariffs; • provide required volumes of reliable information to the employees at all levels. Due to AEICMS Vodokanal could make more lucrative contracts with the electricity supplier and, consequently, cut down its electricity costs in terms of money. Corporate digital department integration network In 2010, the Corporate Digital Department Integration Network (CDDIN) was upgraded under the Information Infrastructure Development Concept of Vodokanal: • Twelve company units were added to the unified network. • 800 new SCS ports were installed. • Over 4.5km of optic fibre trunk lines were laid. • Videoconferencing system for 200 users was put into full-scale operation. Due to this system, managers can participate in briefings without leaving their work stations. • An alternate command station (ACS) for company management is constructed at South-West WWTP. The ACS has all equipment required for the operation of Civil Defense and Extra-Ordinary Situations team, including the multi-channel audio/video conferencing system and computer-based workstations for on-line company management. A water supply management system is created in the service zone of Uritskaya Pumping Station. 96 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 97 Social responsibility Awareness building Undertaking its mission, Vodokanal Youth Environmental Centre In 2010, the Youth Environmental Cenwas one of the project organizers. Enplaces special emphasis on developtre put an emphasis on sustainable wavironmental programs were offered for ing careful and responsible attitude The Youth Environmental Centre was ter use, energy efficiency and climate the children spending their holidays towards water resources and environestablished in 2002, and many hundred change — the world’s most burning in Zvezdny recreation camp near the ment in general. thousand children and teenagers have themes which are in a special focus of town of Luga. The recent years’ stable trend towards participated in its training sessions, proVodokanal. The YEC specialists participated in the reduction of water consumption is, in grams and projects since then. In particular, the YEC was a co-organizfamily festival “Water and Ourselves” particular, the result of Vodokanal’s The main goal of YEC is to disseminate er and participant of the Scientific and in the framework of the Second Interawareness building efforts. ideas about the importance of environPractical Conference in the framework national Clean Water Forum (October For the purpose of disseminating the ment and water protection using effecof VI Environmental Festival “We Speak 2010). culture of water use and developing entive methods of environmental eduFOR Resource Saving”. The teacher’s recommendations for the vironmental thinking Vodokanal widely cation and awareness raising, and to In 2010, the YEC was partner of 14th UN Water Lesson developed by the YEC were cooperates with the mass media familiarize the younger generation with Model Youth Conference dedicated to posted on the International Clean Water In 2010, the Internet-portal www.daVodokanal activities, its social and enwater challenges (it was an internationForum website to be used by teachers voda.com, targeted for the active part vironmental policies and role in the city al educational project for high school for the all-Russian Water Lesson. of Internet community was launched development. students). All in all, the YEC implemented 21 projwith the support of Vodokanal. This Due to advanced approaches, interestThe project “One Drop Saves Another” ects in 2010, where over 18,000 children portal contains different videoclips, ing design and up-to-date content, the was implemented under the “The Young and nearly 1,600 teachers participated. films, animated cartoons and texts projects can be implemented in partThink of the Baltic Sea” Program, where In 2010, a large-scale renovation of edabout water and its role in the human nership with different Russian and inschool students made their own research ucational environment in the YEC interlife explaining why we should handle ternational organizations. in the field of sustainable water use: active rooms began. water resources with care and attenMany high-ranking guests have visited made water audits in their flats and gave tion. At the end of 2010, the portal the YEC and learnt about its activities, clean water lessons” to their parents. www.da-voda.com won the national among them: His Royal Highness Prince In 2010, the contest of comic magazines Museum Complex Runet award in the nomination “Health of Wales Charles, His Royal Highness and animated videos “United by Water” “The Universe of Water” and Recreation”. Prince of Denmark Joachim, Her Royal was finalized. The videos can be found The key instruments of the Company’s Highness Princess of Denmark Mary, on Vodokanal’s corporate website (secIn 2010, The Universe of Water was visawareness building activities are the President of Finland Tarja Halonen, Contion “Videoarchive”). ited by 202,408 people. It is 5.5% more Youth Environmental Centre (YEC) and suls of many countries, members of the In the period 29 June — 4 July, the than in 2009 (then 191,733 people came “The Universe of Water” museum comGovernment of the Russian Federation Russian-Finnish youth camp was orto see the museum collections). plex — both being part of the Informaand representatives of Russian and inganized under “Water. Russia. Finland. The Universe of Water museum comtion and Training Centre branch. ternational companies. Outlook of the Young” project. The YEC plex in 56, Shpalernaya st. is an open 98 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 99 Social responsibility/ Awareness building social project of SUE Vodokanal of St. The exhibition in the Water Tower was The Water Universe offers novel interactive programs for visitors of different age Petersburg . It provides visualization opened in 2003 — it was Vodokanal’s groups. Various awareness-raising interactive excursion programs are developed of the company mission and values by present on the occasion of the 300th for pre-schoolers and school students by which they can learn about historical and means of special museum techniques. anniversary of St. Petersburg. In 2006, cultural relations between man and water. General and thematic excursions are The museum complex not only offers a at the International Forum of European offered for students and adults. full picture of the man’s views of water museums in Portugal, Vodokanal’s muand its properties, but also shows the seum was highly commended “for big Visitors of the museum complex (number of persons) history of St. Petersburg, the city where achievements in raising the social value water is a city-forming essence and the of museum exhibition”. source of scientific, engineering and The former clean water reservoir was 250 000 202 400 cultural achievements rather than just transformed into The Universe of Water 191 773 something that is used for household or museum in 2008 when Vodokanal St. Pe200 000 industrial needs. tersburg celebrated its 150th anniversary. 150 000 The museum complex comprises three exhibitions: 67 020 69 265 90 552 66 560 100 000 50 000 37 052 Multimedia exhibition Classical museum exhibition Multimedia exhibition “The Universe of Water” “The Water World of St. Peters“The Underground World of 0 (in the former underground clean burg” (in the old water tower). St. Petersburg” (in the left annex 2003 water reservoir). to the Water Tower). 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2004 It is a unique storage of modern water The exhibits — documents, pictures, obVisitors can trace the route of water from In 2010, The Universe of Water was visited by over 202,000 people. Although the knowledge. The exhibition is based on jects, collections of sanitary equipment the intake to treatment plants, then to floor area of the museum complex is not very big, this museum outperforms, in multimedia technologies, stereo effects and hatches — show the history of wathe flats via distribution networks and terms of the number of visitors, many similar European museums, such as Water and textual explanations. Over three ter supply and sewerage origination back to the treatment plants. Here, they Museum in Lisbon, Municipal Sewerage Museum in Paris, Waterworks Museum in dozen videofilms disclosing various asand development. can also look at a gigantic model of the Prague and Water Information Centre in Kiev. pects of the water element are demonhistorical centre of St. Petersburg. The Following the tradition, The Universe of Water took part in the international “Night strated here. model was produced by the Institute of of Museums” event in 2010. The result was record-breaking: over 11,000 people Architecture to Vodokanal’s order. came to see the museum complex. Visitors of “the Night of Museums” event (number of persons) Number of visitors 11 236 12 000 10 000 8000 approx 4000 approx 3000 6000 4000 2000 0 2008 2009 2010 100 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 101 Social responsibility/ Awareness building In 2010, The Universe of Water participated in the city festival of children’s museum programs “Children Museum Days in St. Petersburg”. The outcome was successful: the museum complex was visited by nearly 18,000 people. According to tradition, the Information & Training Centre in 56, Shpalernaya st. hosted the Knowledge Festival of the city school students on September 1, 2010. At the International Water Forum Equatech-2010 ( June 2010, Moscow) the personnel of The Universe of Water together with their colleagues from the Youth Environmental Centre presented special interactive programs for schoolchildren from Moscow, Tver and Kaluga. Moreover, interactive programs were prepared for III International Tea and Coffee Festival (August 2010) and the Second International Clean Water Forum (October 2010). In late December 2010, the museum complex gave 53 interactive New Year performances for the city school students and the children of Vodokanal employees. All in all, 4405 children came to the New Year performances. Participation in the New Year performances (number of people) 4500 4000 4405 3500 4100 3000 3894 2839 2500 2000 1500 2014 1000 1826 500 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 In 2010, four concerts in the framework of the Water Music Art Festival (this joint project of Vodokanal and the international musical festival “Palaces of St. Petersburg” began in autumn 2009) were hosted by the museum complex (in the former clean water reservoir). 102 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 103 Environment protection and safety Environment protection for all the countries in this region. NitroConsiderable attention was paid to the Implementation of the water supply gen and phosphorus in municipal wasteimplementation of sustainable techmanagement system in the Uritskaya Improvement of the ecological state of water lead to eutrophication of water nologies. pumping station zone allowed to save water bodies and the environment in bodies, i.e. the growth of blue — green In particular, at the new block of Southabout 40% of electric energy. general is one of the strategic goals of algae. As a result of eutrophication, flora ern Water Treatment Plant the closed The operation of sludge incineration SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. and fauna in the water bodies suffers cycle of flush water (i.e. water that is plants reduces the need to purchase In 2003, Vodokanal approved the Enviand water can become unusable. used for filter backwashing) is impleenergy — heat and electricity generated ronmental policy of the Company. Due to the global character of the eumented. Before that, flush water was in the incineration process are used by In 2008, the Environmental policy was trophication problem, the Baltic Sea discharged into water bodies. Vodokanal for its auxiliary needs. updated (since the commitments specicountries have taken a decision to join fied therein were fulfilled to a large extheir forces and save the marine envitent). ronment together. The Helsinki ComThe environmental management sysmission on the Baltic Maine Environtem in accordance with Standard ISO– ment Protection (HELCOM) approved 14001 is applied in Vodokanal. the treatment quality parameters for In addition to the commitments in renutrients: nitrogen and phosphorus, to lation to protection of regional water be met by all countries in the region. bodies from wastewater pollution, reVodokanal follows these recommendaduction of drinking water losses during tions in its work. production and distribution, closure of In 2010, at Vodokanal wastewater treatuntreated flushing water discharges, ment plants, the results in the nitrogen compliance with environmental laws, and phosphorus removal field were etc. it is specially stressed in the Enviachieved that are close to the HELCOM ronmental policy that the training of the recommendations, and sometimes suryounger generation in interacting with pass them. the environment is the key focus of the Finnish environmentalists have already awareness-raising activities of SUE “Vonoted the results achieved: according dokanal of Saint-Petersburg”. to their observations, in summer 2010, Vodokanal activities to protect the enin the Eastern part of the Baltic Sea the vironment include reduction of environnumber of blue — green algae reduced mental load on the water bodies in St. in comparison with previous years. The Petersburg, Gulf of Finland and Baltic Finnish experts attribute it to the high Sea; reducing the area of land used as wastewater treatment level in St. Pelandfills for wastewater sludge storage; tersburg. implementation of sustainable techTarja Halonen, President of Finland, nologies. called the improvements in wastewaIn 2010, Vodokanal worked hard in ter treatment in St. Petersburg “the these fields. achievement of the world class durUnder the untreated wastewater dising her meeting with Dmitry Medvedev, charge closure program, Vodokanal Russian President in November 2010. completed another phase of the extenIn 2010, Vodokanal worked on a project sion of the Main sewerage collector in to treat wastewater sludge stockpiled the Northern part of the city and conat landfills, to reduce the negative landnected 12 direct discharges to it. As a fill impact on the natural environment. result, the wastewater treatment level As a result, 7,9% of the total volume of in St. Petersburg reached 93% (in 2009 sludge stockpiled at landfills was treatthis figure was about 90%). ed using the method for stationary deThe improvement of wastewater treatwatering in geotubes.. ment technologies continued, including One of the environmental projects implementation of enhanced nutrient launched in 2010 was biomonitoring of (nitrogen and phosphorus) removal. flue gases from the sludge incineration Preventing pollution of the Baltic Sea plant at South-West Wastewater Treatbasin is an urgent environmental issue ment Plant by means of snails. 104 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 105 Social responsibility/ Environment protection and safety Indicators of pollutant discharges entering into water bodies in St. Petersburg employees. During 2010, regular checks to meet labour safety requirements were carried out in subdivisions. Over the review period, 577 violations of health and occupational safety requirements were corrected. Measurement Indicator units 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 During 2010, SUE “Vodokanal of Saint-Petersburg” has carried out as part of the Occupational Health & Safety Management System the following activities: Flow of wastewater discharged through • working conditions at six company production facilities are improved due to the public sewerage systems into water bodies. Mio.m3/year 1,026.1 1,023.6 1,034.6 970.4 952.1 introduction of new, safe practices and advanced technologies ensuring reliable and failure-free operation reducing the rate of injuries and professional Mass of suspended solids discharged into diseases; water bodies t/year 20,535.0 19,418 21,845.4 15,826.9 14,120.8 • monitoring of assessment of safe working conditions at 1286 workplaces is organized and carried out based on instrumental measurements of hazardous and Mass of BOD discharged into water bodies t/year 26,860.2 26,074.3 28,627.3 18,718.2 17,678 harmful production factors; • 100% of employees have personal protective equipment; Mass of total nitrogen discharged into wa• training and knowledge testing of 6780 company employees in occupational ter bodies, t/year 11,282.1 11,037.3 11,048.2 10,729.6 10,003 health and safety is carried out. Mass of total phosphorus discharged into Injury dynamics by years: water bodies t/year 1,576.7 1,269.7 1,177.8 760 677.7 Labour safety as monitoring of efficiency of the mea14 sures taken have become an important 12 Vodokanal’s Occupational Health & element of OHSAS. The monitoring sys12 Safety Management System created in tem includes: accordance with the requirements of • monitoring of working environment 10 the international standard OHSAS 18001 (assessment of sanitary and hygienic 9 and applicable Russian law guarantees working conditions, organization of 9 8 that identified risks are under the conlabour and social and psychological 8 trol of the company. factors at work); 6 The main purpose of company’s oc• monitoring of health status of em7 6 cupational health and safety policy ployees (health survey for the de(approved in 2008) is the creation of tection of early signs of diseases, 6 5 5 necessary conditions at workplaces to biological monitoring, polling of em4 achieve high performance results, the ployees). complexity of production, the diversity The international audit carried out in 3 2 of applied technologies and machinery June, 2010 confirmed that OHSAS at SUE being taken into account. “Vodokanal of Saint-Petersburg” operEmployees of SUE “Vodokanal of Saintates in compliance with the require0 Petersburg” and all stakeholders (conments of OHSAS 18001-2007. 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 tractors, visitors) are informed about In 2010, in order to ensure safe workthe Company’s occupational health and ing conditions, 1286 work places were safety policy. certified for working conditions in the The goals declared in the Policy were Vodokanal structural subdivisions. On Injury prevention allowed to ensure the following indicators in the Company: successfully reached in 2010. the basis of certification results, action • the number of insurance events per 1000 employees: Vodokanal’s average is The effective operation of OHSAS at SUE plans to improve working conditions 0.74; industry average is 1.23; “Vodokanal of Saint-Petersburg” pro(ensuring safe working conditions) of • the number of days of temporary disability per one insurance event: Vodokanvides as well employee’s health safety the Company structural subdivisions al’s average is 23.5; industry average is 67.69. management. Programs for disease employees. Over the review period prevention and health improvement of upon work place certification results, employees, monitoring of working con153 actions were carried out to improve ditions and health of employees as well safe working conditions for Company 106 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 107 Personnel policy established to search and select employees, which is supported by an internal inThe staff of Vodokanal numbered 8,598 people as of 31.12.2010. formation system. 37% of Vodokanal employees have higher, or incomplete higher education. When searching and selecting personnel from the external labour market up-toThe employee turnover in Vodokanal was 7.21% according the 2010 results. date personnel technologies are applied: Internet-resources, specialized publicaIn January-March 2010, Vodokanal St.Petersburg revised its personnel managetions, employment services, interviews, case studies, a comprehensive assessment policy. ment and psychological diagnostics of applicants. The policy goal is to provide a quality formation, rational and effective use of human resources to increase the Company performance and consumer satisfaction. The distinctive aspect of this policy is the establishment (in addition to the basic Personnel development policy areas) of the basic principles in the personnel management field, which reflect the system approach. Personnel development management is made through competence management In 2010, the basic personnel management processes were described and personnel based on individual development plans. services functions were standardized as well. Competence models are made and indicators of position effectiveness are selected Benchmarking is organized and conducted in the personnel management field for the personnel reserve positions, which were assessed in 2010. among the best representatives of Russia and Europe. Work with the Company personnel reserve is carried out in compliance with the During these studies the best technologies in the personnel management field are standard “Work with personnel reserve”. selected, which then will be implemented in the Company. At present, Company “key positions” are selected. Current personnel reserve is identified, which includes employees who act for the supervisors during their absence, as well as prospective personnel reserve, which includes specialists and chiefs for Adaptation and tutorship certain “key positions”. Besides, a Group of talents is sorted out of the personnel reserve, which includes employees with the highest development potential. An important area of work with the personnel is to provide fast adaptation of the Working stages: promotion — self-assessment and assessment based on compenewly employed by Vodokanal for their professional development, optimization of tences and key position indicators — feedback — making a career plan — making an entering a student into the Company social environment. individual development plan — setting goals and indicators of goal achievement. Tutorship procedure is applied to young company workers, as well as trainees — Personnel reserve provides personnel security of the Company, continuity of manstudents of vocational educational institutions. Adaptation is organized for all newagement and reduces the risk of losing control over the Company in the transitional ly employed workers. The hand on training and adaptation process is conducted in period of changing the Company general management. accordance with an individual plan, which the tutor develops taking into account The external personnel reserve from the best graduates is being created. the education and specialized training of a young worker. In 2010, 1794 persons went through adaptation procedures. In 2010, the good Company tradition to hold “Welcome to Vodokanal” celebrations for new employees appeared. Personnel satisfaction survey In 2010, the personnel satisfaction survey was made based on the satisfaction index analysis, loyalty and commitment. 10-score system for personnel satisfaction indices was introduced. Questioning revealed a high degree of employee commitment, satisfaction with work in the team and immediate supervisor. Based upon the results of conducted studies action plans, which are aimed at increasing personnel satisfaction, are made and major plans of work with personnel are adjusted. Management of personnel recruitment and selection Personnel selection is conducted both on internal and external labour markets in compliance with the Company standard “Labour market survey” and “Recruitment of new employees”. Personnel selection is made on the basis of applications executed by heads of subdivisions. The application includes selection criteria for applicants for a vacancy — job specifications. To close vacancies, first, employees from the Company personnel reserve are selected. The internal labour market is 108 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 109 Social responsibility/ Personnel policy Personnel training In 2010, 1171 Company employees were trained. The training was related to vocational preparation, retraining and refresher courses for blue collar jobs. 2688 trainVodokanal established the continuous training system “From Worker to Manager”. ees took part in corporate programs of computer and communicative literacy. 284 The system aims at personnel development and accumulation and generalization people took seminars and refresher courses for managers and specialists. of scientific knowledge and practical results. Training activities are being implemented in several areas: its own curricula, third Continuous staff training is based on the training chain: compulsory training — party training organizations, cooperation with institutions of science and higher training to maintain professional competence — development training. education and partner educational projects. The training is based on the thematic curriculum made in consideration of the comOver the past few years, we significantly increased the number of programs aimed pany need for competent personnel and according to the assessment of the perat the study of new water and sanitation technologies, best practice, new software sonnel training requirements, a survey of the personnel satisfaction and individual products and implementation of innovative training methods (simulator training, development plans. computerized training courses). The thematic curriculum is used as a basis for development of training programs On average, based on the results of 2010, 43.9 hours were spent for one Vodokanal and teacher’s books, improvement of training facilities, involvement of external employee. It is significantly above the average indices in Russia. educational organizations, preparation of time schedules and training programs. In 2010, 10,739 trainees participated in the training programs (Vodokanal employees may take several programs in one year). Professional skills contests Distribution of Trainees by areas of learning Vodokanal’s training activities are supplemented by professional skills contests. Basically, Vodokanal’s professional skills contests for “Best Professional” title are aimed to: • identify high-qualified specialists, motivate the employees to raise the efficien12459 14000 cy of their work using moral and material incentives; 10739 • disseminate the knowledge and raise the prestige of blue-collar professions, 12000 develop tutorship; 9968 10109 • prevent fluctuation of production staff, stabilize labor relations; 9590 10000 9017 • improve work quality, disseminate advanced methods and techniques, raise labor productivity; 8000 • improve the knowledge of the Occupational Health and Safety Rules. 6000 Seminars and courses for managers and In 2010, eighteen final “Best Professional” Contests for 175 specialists were held. specialists Among them: chemical analysis laboratory assistants (water and sanitation), pump 4000 job training operators (water and sanitation), electricians, medical nurses, emergency repair Compulsory Periodic training metalworkers (water and sanitation), autocrane and excavator operators. drivers, 2000 Computer training mechanical technicians, instrumentation repairmen, auditors of EMS and QMS, field Number of trainees engineers (water and sanitation), electric gas welders, health and safety engineers. 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Dynamic of participation in professional skills Contests Number of professions 20 18 16 18 14 15 12 10 12 8 10 10 6 4 2 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 110 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 111 Social responsibility/ Personnel policy Number of Participants 200 180 160 150 170 140 175 158 120 Persons 120 100 100 100 120 102 108 80 60 40 Plan 20 Fact 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 In 2010, 41 Vodokanal workers took part in the interregional and inter-sectoral contest “Stroymaster” among blue collar jobs in St. Petersburg and Leningrad region. Vodokanal representatives took first places in the nominations “Best electrician on electric equipment repairs and maintenance”, “Best metalworker”, “Best team of emergency repair metalworkers’ (santitation), “Best team of emergency repair metalworkers’ (water), “Golden Hands Master”. Corporate media Since 1999, Vodokanal has been publishing its corporate newspaper “Vodokanal News”. The newspaper is published 10 times a year with circulation of 4000 copies. In 2010, several “direct lines” with representatives of the Company management were organized: Director General, Director of Medical Centre and Director of Centre of Social and Economical Programs Development answered the employees’ questions on newspaper pages. In 2010, a special insert was released dedicated to the 65th anniversary of Victory in Great Patriotic War. In electronic form the newspaper is placed on the company corporate website (www.vodokanal.spb.ru). In 2010, the website itself won the competition “Best Corporate Media of the Year” in the nomination “Electronic Media. Internet-Portal”. In 2010, a website of the museum complex “The Universe of Water” was launched (www.vodokanal-museum.ru). 112 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 113 Social Policy Social policy of Vodokanal St. Peters• Arrangement of mass and cultural, ment, in case of damage caused by presenting the employee with a special burg is a part of personnel management sporting and corporate events fire, natural disaster, theft etc. badge “Honorary Employee of Vodokanand has a special place in the employee • Provision of catering and transport • payments for childbirth al of St. Petersburg”, by issuing a certifimotivation development, improving • payments after death of a relative cate, making an appropriate entry in the their self-expression in work. • payments to employees, who worked employee’s work record and by paying a Mechanisms of social support to emSocial protection program for the Company prior to a recruitment monetary reward to the employee. ployees, their families, and retired penand targeted material into the Armed Forces of the Russian An honorary employee has a right to obsioners are continuously improved in assistance Federation and were newly employed tain a free voucher to sanatorium “BureVodokanal St. Petersburg, particularly vestnik” for a health-improving vacation by means of providing employees with and sanatorium-and-spa treatment. quality medical services and creating In accordance with the Collective AgreeRecognition of employees’ The award ceremony for the title “Honorconditions for their good recreation and ment of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersachievements ary Employee of Vodokanal of St. Petershealth improvement. burg” the following payments were burg” took place once in 2010 and was In 2010, the Collective Agreement made in 2010: Awarding the title “Labour Veteran of timed to the Company’s anniversary. update continued. A new Collective • Lump-sum benefit to retiring emVodokanal of St. Petersburg” 6 employees were awarded this title in Agreement came into force on 1 Januployees; to employees who reached In 2010 the Company held two ceremo2010. ary 2011 and will be effective up to 2013 jubilee age; as well as for an uninternies of awarding the title “Labour Vetinclusive. During the work on a new edit rupted service in the Company; eran of Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. of the collective agreement local regu• monthly targeted material assistance This title is awarded to the employees Organization of medical lations were updated, amendments and to veterans of the Great Patriotic War who have had 20 years or more of care additions are made. (former Company employees), payuninterrupted work experience in the ments to the war veterans on the ocCompany (in exceptional cases not less Vodokanal’s social policy in terms of The main programs of Vodokanal’s socasion of the Full Lifting of Leningrad than 10 years, taking into account the provision of medical care to its employcial policy: Siege and the Victory day, payments employee’s particular contribution). The ees is based on a package of services • Social protection program and tarto the citizens of besieged Leningrad, awarding of the title is accompanied by aimed at health protection, disease pregeted material assistance to Nazi camp prisoners (former Compresenting with a special badge and vention, provision of timely and high• Recognition of achievements of the pany employees); paying a money reward. quality medical aid, modern and highemployees • quarterly targeted material assisIn 2010 113 employees were awarded technological treatment methods. • Medical support of the employees tance to retired employees (former the title “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” com• Recreation programs for employees Company employees); of St. Petersburg”. prises a Medical Center as its branch. and their families • financial assistance for medical treatIts structural units provide a multilevel Awarding the title “Honorary medical care system for the Company’s Employee of Vodokanal of St. employees. Petersburg” The title is awarded by recommendaIt consists of the following facilities: tion of managers and groups of staff to • Medical units in Company branches the Company’s employees as well as to • Medical unit dental rooms other persons who have made a con• Diagnostic and Treatment Center siderable contribution to development (two sites: 42 Kavalergardskaya of water supply and sewerage system St. and 103 Moskovsky Av.) of St. Petersburg. The title of “Honorary • Dental Clinic (56 Shpalernaya St.) Employee of Vodokanal of St. Peters• Specialized mobile medical complex burg” can be awarded for development, (fluorography) mastering and implementation of mod• Medical unit of sanatorium “Bureern equipment and cutting-edge techvestnik”. nologies, implementation of the labour management types and methods yieldAll departments of the Branch are liing considerable economic effect, procensed to provide medical services. The motion of a positive Company image in total of 8 licenses have been obtained, Russia and abroad, tutorship, promotion including 7 licenses for medical works of the Company’s corporate culture and (services) and 1 license for laboratory high professional competence. research. The general list includes 65 Awarding of the title is accompanied by different medical services. Medical con114 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 115 Social responsibility/ Social policy sulting is provided by professional and teaching staff of medical research institutes and medical educational establishments of St. Petersburg. The Medical Center emwith chronic diseases. For other categories of patients (healthy and apparently ploys 15 Doctors of Medicine, 59 doctors, 65 nurses and radiographers of the highhealthy patients) clinical examinations are carried out every 2 — 3 years, which est category. provides additional resources to offer medical services to the city population. The following tasks are set for medical care management: Coverage of Vodokanal’s employees with clinical and periodic health • Carrying out of treatment and prevention activities for the Company’s employexaminations (number of patients) ees, introduction of new healthcare services, implementation of state-of-theart diagnostics, treatment and prevention methods. • Provision of qualified and specialized medical aid to the Company’s employees in the framework of Compulsory Health Insurance (CHI) and Voluntary Health In6000 surance (VHI), provision of full range of services in outpatient and dental clinics, 5000 provision of preventive treatment and rehabilitation. • Carrying out of regular medical check-ups and case follow-up for the Company’s 5160 4000 4877 employees. 4419 4474 3323 • Carrying out of mandatory health examinations of employment candidates and 3000 2961 regular health examinations of the employees exposed to adverse or hazardous 3120 2316 2101 2297 working conditions; early detection of occupational diseases’ symptoms; plan1522 2000 ning follow-up activities to monitor the Company’s employees’ health in the 2518 conditions of occupational factors’ influence; diagnosing occupational and com1000 Periodic health examinations mon diseases’ primary symptoms as a result of carrying out of regular medical Clinical examinations 0 examinations; supervision of regular examinations. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 • Carrying out of anti-epidemiological preventive treatment, vaccination of employees in accordance with the Company’s scope of activities and against seasonal infectious diseases. Currently the Diagnostic and Treatment Center is a well-equipped facility, aimed at • Carrying out of temporary disability examinations of employees, working out a providing medical aid to the Company’s employees, their family members, Vodocomplex of rehabilitation activities. kanal’s veterans and the city population. Commissioning of a new building of the Diagnostic and Treatment Center at 103 Medical aid is provided to Vodokanal’s employees on the basis of compulsory Moskovsky Av. in 2008 allowed to implement new high-technological methods of health insurance (CHI) and voluntary health insurance (VHI). The Company’s emmedical examination and treatment on the basis of state-of-the-art MRI and CT ployees have access to high-technology medical examination methods, such as equipment, to introduce innovative rehabilitation methods, provided new opporCT, MRI, expert class US, endoscopy, laboratory research of all degrees of comtunities which had previously been unavailable. In the period between 2007 and plexity, specialist consultations on all aspects of outpatient medical aid. 2010 it allowed to achieve a 2.5 times increase in the amount of outpatient medical In 2009 — 2010 there was carried out a transfer to clinical examinations of patients services. 116 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 117 Social responsibility/ Social policy The Dental Clinic provides a full range of dental health services and up-to-date dental prosthetics. Provision with modern medical equipment and improvement Dynamics of medical services, provided by the Diagnostic and Treatment Center (DTC) of labour management have allowed to increase the capacity for dental health services by 2 times since 2007 until 2010. 271 585 300 000 Dental Health Services Dynamics 207 126 213 263 250 000 9200 9450 200 000 108 569 10000 9000 7341 118 780 8000 Persons 150 000 201 321 127 904 7000 Persons 142 355 6000 100 000 5000 4574 2032 Outpatient Clinic (Kavalergardskaya St.) 4000 73 240 50 000 Outpatient Clinic (Moskovsky Av.) 3000 1547 therapy Radiological Deparment 2000 606 717 surgery 5 805 12 119 20 661 1000 413 680 338 572 0 orthopedics 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 The doctors’ surgeries in the DTC are provided with equipment and supplies in acIn 2010 there was established Production Branches’ Medical Service which incorcordance with contemporary medical requirements. So, the DTC of SUE “Vodokanal porated 9 health units situated in different city districts. Its purpose is to provide of St. Petersburg” ranges with the top-level outpatient clinics of St.Petersburg. medical services to the Company’s production branches. The distribution of health During its operation the Medical Center has carried out health examination of all units in different parts of the city allows to provide emergency medical aid in the Vodokanal’s employees. An advanced health examination helped to diagnose shortest possible time, to provide employees with medical treatment, preventive acute and chronic diseases, as well as the risk factors which can lead to diseases. treatment and rehabilitation and follow-up care in proximity to their workplaces. The employees diagnosed with diseases and risk factors are registered for followIn 2010 it was continued to improve the integrated medical information system up care, they go through preventive treatment and receive consultations on im“Avicenna”. It allowed to create electronic patient records and an integrated inforproving their health. mation environment for all medical structural units. Any Vodokanal’s employee can address DTC specialists in order to receive the necContinuous development of healthcare services system in 2010 allowed SUE “Voessary high-level specialist medical aid, to be provided with necessary diagnostic dokanal of St.Petersburg” to provide its employees with a package of high quality examinations at the highest quality level. medical aid, to maintain a good health condition, extend professional longevity, to In 2004 a Dental Clinic was set up. The Dental Clinic staff are highly skilled broad improve “the quality of life” of all Vodokanal’s employees. specialists with work experience in several spheres of dental services. Organization of recreation for employees and their family members. Organization of quality leisure for the employees and their family members is one of the main constituent parts of Vodokanal’s social policy. The Program consists in providing the employees, their family members, the Company’s ex-employees with an opportunity of obtaining privileged vouchers (with partial cost compensation) to the sanatoriums “Burevestnik” and “Orlovsky” for health-improving recreation and sanatorium-and-spa treatment. To maintain the priority of health protection, prevention of occupational diseases and reduction of working day losses the employees exposed to hazardous work environment are provided with an additional vacation (besides the one guaranteed by the Russian legislation). The length of the additional vacation is 10 calendar days. It is provided to employees for charge-free rehabilitation and treatment in sanatorium “Burevestnik”, where 163 Vodokanal’s employees went through a course of rehabilitation in 2010. The children of Vodokanal’s employees are provided with a recreation opportunity in children’s health camp “Zvezdny”. In the summer of 2010 it welcomed over 1500 118 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 119 Social responsibility/ Social policy Central District of St.Petersburg (1 prize). SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” held a children (about 398 children every seswith the Company’s employees, Vosports contest among its branches in 8 kinds of sport. sion). There also took place traditional dokanal’s veterans, veterans of World In 2008 Vodokanal’s women’s volley-ball team won the 1 prize in The Women’s Sports children’s programs during the winter, War II (former employees) taking part Festival “Madonna of Ryazan”. autumn and spring vacations. in them. The inherent part of children’s recreEvery year October 10 is The Company In 2010 Vodokanal’s employees also took part in the following sports events: ation is visiting the Children’s EnvironDay. On this day the best employees are • summer tourist meeting mental Center, situated on the territory presented with awards. • FSO “Russia” Ping-Pong Club Championship of the Camp, which offers unique enviThe employee’s children are presented • Central District Mini Football Cup ronmental programs comprising study with tickets to theatrical performances, • Central District Mini Football Friendship Cup of water samples from various sources, organized by Vodokanal during school • “Veterans” Mini Football Championship developing lessons and games. vacations. • City Football Championship Qualified pedagogical staff offer chilEvery year the Company organizes exhi• Volley-ball Championship (amateur league) dren exciting and educational activities, bitions of creative works by Vodokanal’s • Russia Kayak and Canoe Paddling Championship among veterans, etc. such as walking trips and theme excuremployees and their family members. sions to World War II battle sites, visitThus, in 2010 about 70 people took part ing the sites connected with the history in the exhibition “Creativity Waters”. Catering and Transport of St.Petersburg and other towns of the One of the major directions of the ComNorth-Western Region. There are varipany’s corporate life is sports activities. All Vodokanal’s employees are provided with corporate catering on the territory of ous interest groups, children take part in Sports grounds and swimming-pools the Company in accordance with canteens’ work schedules in each Branch, with quizzes, concerts, exciting horse rides, are rented to hold sports events and partial compensation of the cost of meals. Emergency teams’ mechanics and drivcycling and walking tours to picturtrainings. Vodokanal has its volley-ball ers, working 24-hour shifts, are provided with free hot meals in the night time, esque sites, go swimming to the swimteam, football team, floorball team, which are delivered to their work places on specially equipped vehicles. ming pool. ping-pong team, swimming team, ski team, veterans’ football team on a perFor over 10 years the employees have been provided with special transport to manent basis. deliver them to their work places in the morning and to the nearest underground Leisure Program Vodokanal’s sports teams took an acstation at the end of the working day. tive part in sports events, organized Special celebrations are held on national by Physical Training and Sports Society and professional holidays (The Victory (FSO) “Russia” (3 prize), Interregional Day, End of the Siege of Leningrad, etc.) Trade Union Committee (1 prize), and 120 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 121 Tariff policy The operations of SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg in St. Petersburg and the subTariffs for water supply services urbs are tariff-regulated. Note: the tariffs are shown net of VAT The legal framework of tariff regulation and general principles of tariff policy for Tariffs for water supply services in the pepublic utilities are established by the Federal Law No. 210-FZ dated 30 December Customer groups riod 01.01.2010 — 31.12.2010 2004 “On Principles of Public Utility Tariffs Regulation” and the Decree of the Federal Government No. 520 dated 14 July 2008 “On Pricing Principles and Regulation Water supply service providers of Tariffs, Surcharges and Limiting Indices to Be Used by Public Utilities”. Under the current law, the tariffs for public utilities are regulated, at the federal Drinking water supply, RUB/m3 11.14 level, by the Federal Tariff Authority. This federal executive body is authorized to exercise legal control over the national regulation of prices (tariffs) for services and Other customers to monitor the use thereof; it sets the average price change limits for the subjects of the Russian Federation. Potable water supply, RUB/m3 16.26 At the level of St. Petersburg as the subject of the Russian Federation, the tariff activities of Vodokanal are supervised and monitored by the St. Petersburg Municipal Process water supply, RUB/m3 2.94 Tariff Committee. The Tariff Committee issues a special instruction establishing tariffs for Vodokanal Tariffs for wastewater services water services for each customer group for each subsequent planning period. Note: the tariffs are shown net of VAT Tariffs for wastewater services in the period The established tariff comprises two components: Customer groups 01.01.2010 — 31.12.2010 • tariff for the financing of the production program • tariff surcharge to finance Vodokanal’s investment program. Wastewater service providers The Tariff Committee issues a special instruction establishing charges for connecWastewater disposal, RUB/m3 11.14 tion to water supply and sewerage networks for the period of 3 or more years. Other customers Principles of tariff policy Wastewater disposal, RUB/m3 18.90 The Federal Law No. 210-FZ dated 30 December 2004 establishes the following general principles of tariff regulation: Tariffs for connection of newly constructed (reconstructed) real estate units to Vodokanal’s cold water supply and sewerage systems in 2009-2011 are established • the balance of interests between the public utility and its customers should be by the Instruction of the Tariff Committee No. 156-р dated 10.12.2008. reached to ensure affordability of goods and services provided by the public utility and, at the same time, efficient work of the public utility; • the tariffs and surcharges should cover financial needs of the public utility as required for the implementation of its production and investment programs; • motivate reduction of production costs, improve economic efficiency of operations and the use of energy saving technologies by the public utilities; • create conditions as required for the raising of investments in order to develop and upgrade the infrastructure of public utilities; • full repayment of the costs incurred by public utilities in the process of implementing its production and investment program; • accessibility of information on the structure of tariffs and surcharges. Tariffs for company services in 2010 Water tariffs for 2010 are established by the instruction of the Tariff Committee No. 117-r dated 10.11.2009 “On establishment of tariffs for cold water and wastewater disposal by the State Unitary Enterprise Vodokanal of Saint-Petersburg in 2010 . The Tariff Committee’s instruction was published in Nevskoye Vremya newspaper, issue of 10.12.2009. 122 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 123 Tariff policy Tariffs for connection, 2009-2011, RUB/m3/h Connected capacConnected capacity Connected capacity Type of service ity 4.17-41.67 m3/h up to 4.17 m3/h 41.67 m3/h or more (inclusively) Cold water supply 714,000 711,600 709,200 Wastewater disposal 738,000 735,600 733,200 Reasons for tariff increments SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg , like other big production companies in the region, is influenced by different macroeconomic factors. The main factors are: growth of tariffs for electricity and heat, and inflationary increase of prices for other organizations’ services and products used by Vodokanal in its operations. For the purpose of minimizing the influence of price growth on the tariffs, the Company implements sustainable technologies and optimizes production processes. In order to provide high-quality services to its customers, meet new regulatory requirements to the water sector and provide capacities for the city development, Vodokanal upgrades the existing water supply and sanitation facilities and builds new ones implementing advanced technologies on a large scale. The target development parameters are defined in the Program of Integrated Development, approved by the Resolution of the Government of St. Petersburg No. 1270 dated 21.10.2008. Operation of newly-built and modernized facilities and increased volume of repairs on water and sewerage networks lead to better performance but entail extra costs. To set tariffs for a planned period, the tariff regulation authorities undertake indepth independent expertise of Vodokanal’s investment and production programs in consideration of the need to maintain affordability of tariffs and of the ceiling of tariff growth as established by the Federal Tariff Agency for St. Petersburg. The joint work of Vodokanal and the tariff regulation authorities results in the establishment of tariffs as low as practicable, which ensures the achievement of targets set by the Government of St. Petersburg. 124 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 125 Financial Statements The main financial indicators of SUE Balance sheet Vodokanal of St. Petersburg Indicators, As of December 31, 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Mio. RUB Organization SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg Turnover 13 475 14 850 16 720 18 413 20 060 Taxpayer Identification Number Operating costs 11 677 12 649 14 123 15 484 17 694 Type of business Gross profit 1 797 2 200 2 597 2 929 2 366 Form of incorporation/ Net profit 146 56 24 72 379 Type of ownership Profitability of the core State Unitary Enterprise/ 15,4 17,4 18,4 18,9 13,4 activity,% RF subject owned Unit of measurement: ‘000 RUB. These indicators demonstrate that over the recent years SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg has worked with a positive financial result. The growth of the key financial indicators gave a possibility to finance the activities aimed at the achievement Location (address) 42, Kavalergardskaya st., St. Petersburg, 191015 of service quality targets in compliance with the long-term company development strategy. The bigger scope of production program (in physical, and money terms) in As of the 2010 as compared to the previous years led to lower profitability of the core activAs of the end of ASSETS Code beginning of ity, however, this indicator is maintained at a high level for a public utility. accounting period accounting period Indicators 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 1 2 3 4 I. NON-CURRENT ASSETS Current ratio (standard: 1 to 2) 2,03 2,44 2,0 1,59 1,13 Intangible assets Quick ratio (over 0.8 or higher) 1,49 1,94 1,46 1,14 0,83 including: 110 69 138 160 325 Cash ratio (0.2 or higher) 0,36 0,34 0,15 0,20 0,22 R&D 111 4 232 Over the recent years, Vodokanal has maintained its solvency at a rather high Fixed assets level which is evidenced by the fact that its current assets exceed its short-term 120 93 226 161 103 056 624 liabilities. including: The main liquidity ratios comply with the regulatory values, which means that the buildings 121 11 581 610 12 777 486 company is able to settle its obligations in a timely manner. structures 122 77 661 811 84 499 068 machinery and equipment 123 3 982 740 5 502 080 Indicators 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Construction-in-progress 130 18 802 329 16 424 914 Equity to Total Assets 0,83 0,84 0,84 0,87 0,88 Income-bearing investments 135 Financial leverage 0,17 0,16 0,16 0,13 0,14 in inventories Long-term investments 140 188 740 63 870 Vodokanal maintains a stable structure of its balance sheet with non-current assets predominating (this can be explained by the specifics of the water sector Deferred tax assets 145 267 329 276 962 which has a high capital coefficient. The share of fixed assets in the balance sheet structure is over 75%. Other non-current assets 150 The Equity to Total Assets Ratio and Financial Leverage are high which means that the company capital structure is stable. TOTAL Section I 190 112 553 697 119 982 695 Hence, the company has financial stability, maintains a sufficient level of solvency and is developing dynamically. 126 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 127 Financial statements/ Balance sheet As of the beginII. CURRENT ASSETS As of the end of LIABILITIES Code ning of accountaccounting period Inventories 210 1 585 814 1 363 682 ing period including: 1 2 3 4 raw materials and other sim211 540 918 618 691 III. CAPITAL AND RESERVES ilar assets rearers and fatteners 212 44 Registered capital 410 1 167 627 1 167 627 production-in-progress costs 213 Added capital 420 96 525 884 103 357 576 finished products and goods 214 for resale Reserves 430 41 218 60 167 goods shipped 215 including: deferred expenses 216 1 044 852 744 991 reserves required by law 431 other inventories and costs 217 reserves required by foun432 41 218 60 167 Input value-added tax 220 194 408 231 234 dation documents Target financing and proAccounts receivable (where 450 4 160 472 4 493 212 ceeds payments fall due more 230 594 881 459 697 than 12 months after the Undistributed profit (loss) 470 924 113 1 247 374 reporting date) TOTAL Section III 490 102 819 314 110 325 956 including buyers and cus231 152 390 95 954 tomers IV. LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Accounts receivable (where Loans and credits 510 8 400 003 7 814 639 payments fall due within 12 240 3 389 141 4 156 799 Deferred tax liabilities 515 73 831 84 647 months from the reporting date) Other long-term liabilities 520 1 563 088 761 737 TOTAL Section IV 590 10 036 922 8 661 023 including buyers and 241 2 779 990 3 224 184 customers V. SHORT-TERM LIABILITIES Short-term investments 250 15 226 15 026 Loans and credits 610 953 178 1 710 427 Accounts payable, including: 620 3 427 619 5 124 151 Cash 260 880 188 1 476 676 suppliers and contractors 621 2 253 424 3 732 727 Other current assets 270 payroll debt 622 104 903 128 846 debt to state extraTOTAL Section II 290 6 659 658 7 703 114 623 25 734 41 313 budgetary funds BALANCE (Lines 190 + 290) 300 119 213 355 127 685 809 tax arrears 624 569 555 198 546 other creditors 625 474 003 1 022 719 Arrears of income payments 630 to participants (founders) Deferred income 640 1 976 322 1 864 252 Provisions for liabilities 650 Other short-term liabilities 660 TOTAL Section V 690 6 357 119 8 698 830 BALANCE 700 119 213 355 127 685 809 (Lines 490 + 590 + 690) 128 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 129 Financial statements/ Balance sheet Note on off-balance assets Income statement Codes As of the As of the end of OKUD Form No. 1 0710002 Item Code beginning of accounting period Date accounting period 2010 2010 12 31 (year, month, day) 1 2 3 4 Organization: OKPO 03323809 SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg Rented fixed assets, 910 3 635 872 3 880 898 Taxpayer Identification Number Taxpayer’s ID 7830000426 including lease 911 3 629 383 3 875 395 90.00.1, 41.00.1, 41.00.2, Type of business OKVED 85.11, 85.12, 85.13, 85.14 Inventories received on Form of incorporation / 920 40 OKOPF/OKFS 42 13 trust Type of ownership State Unitary Enterprise / Goods accepted for 930 RF subject owned commission Unit of measurement: ‘000 RUR OKEI 384 Bad debts written off as loss 940 276 001 299 542 Obligation / payment 950 100 441 280 986 securities, received Item in the Obligation / payment in the corresponding 960 securities, issued accounting accounting Description Code period period of the Depreciation of housing previous year 970 51 941 53 929 stock 1 2 3 4 Depreciation of outdoor Income and expenses from ordiimprovements and similar 980 211 199 296 989 nary business facilities Net revenues from sales of goods, Software products and 990 47 023 353 131 products, works and services (less databases 010 20 059 571 18 412 932 value-added tax, excise and other compulsory payments) Instruments of labour in 991 285 662 294 460 Prime cost of sold goods, products, operation 020 (17 694 013) (15 484 330) works and services Gross profit 029 2 365 558 2 928 602 Director General F.V. Karmazinov Business costs 030 — — (signature) (name) Management costs 040 — — Sales profit / loss 050 2 365 558 2 928 602 Other income and expenses Chief Accountant G.A. Khachaturova Interest receivable 060 4 593 3 195 (signature) (name) Interest payable 070 (556 157) (747 646) 23 March 2011 Income from membership in other 080 134 446 organizations Other income and expenses 090 1 658 597 1 428 313 Other expenses 100 (2 255 406) (2 579 751) 130 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 131 Financial statements/ Balance sheet Audit report on financial statements Before-tax profit / loss 140 1 217 319 1 033 159 The audit firm ZAO “Marketing, Consulting, Design” has audited the financial stateDeferred tax assets 141 2 926 15 963 ments of State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal of Saint-Petersburg” for 2010 in compliance with the contract No 4-93-05.10. Deferred tax liabilities 142 (8 027) (3 668) Current profit tax 150 (836 667) (971 374) Audited entity: Allocated funds 151 3 422 1 599 State Unitary Enterprise Vodokanal of Saint-Petersburg”. Location: 42 Kavalergardskaya str., Saint-Petersburg, 191015, Russia. State registraNet profit (loss) in the accounting 190 378 973 72 481 tion: by the Decision of the Executive Committee of the Leningrad Council No 738 period dated 05.09.1988 For reference: Fixed tax liabilities (assets) 200 598 304 752 447 Auditor ZAO MCD”. State Registration Certificate of ZAO MCD” No. АОL-262 issued 29.07.1991. Breadown of profit and loss items Legal address of the audit firm ZAO MCD”: 2 Ploschad Truda, Saint-Petersburg, 190000. In the corresponding Location: 20, Aptekarskaya nab., St. Petersburg, 197376 In the accounting Item period of the previous Phone: (812) 600-91-03. period year Fax: (812) 600-91-50. Description Code Profit Loss Profit Loss License for auditing No. Е 002484, issued by the Order of the Russian Federation Ministry of Finance dated 06.11.2002 No. 255, term of validity: till 06.11.2012. 1 2 3 4 5 6 ZAO “MCD” is a member of the self-regulatory organization Not-For-Profit Partnership “Institute of Professional Auditors” (NP IPAR). It is put on the Register of the Penalties, fines and forfeits self-regulatory organization NP “Institute of Professional Auditors” (NP IPAR).) on as acknowledged, or to be 210 11 728 749 8 063 238 30.10.2009, № 10202000038. paid according to the court We have audited the attached financial statements of the State Unitary Enterprise decision or arbitral award “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” including: Profit (loss) of past years 220 6 111 17 419 129 108 93 215 Balance Sheet as of 31 December 2010; Indemnification of Income Statement for 2010; damages caused by default Statement of Changes in Equity for 2010; 230 10 945 3 968 7 760 10 602 or improper performance Cash Flow Statement for 2010; of obligations Appendices to the Balance Sheet; Foreign exchange explanatory notes. 240 1 150 211 706 541 815 049 1 227 066 differences Responsibility of the audited entity for financial statements Transfers to allowance The management of SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg is responsible for prepa250 Х Х account ration of reliable financial statements in compliance with the Russian accounting Accounts receivable / standards, and for the internal control system as required for the statements not to payable written off contain any material misrepresentations of bona fide acts or any errors. 260 4 095 60 305 9 875 146 829 upon expiry of action prescription Responsibility of the auditor Our responsibility is to express our opinion on reliability of the financial statements on the basis of the audit made by us. We have made the audit in compliance with Director General F.V. Karmazinov the federal auditing standards. These standards require observation of the appli(signature) (name) cable code of ethics and the planning and performing of audit in such a manner as to obtain sufficient confidence in the absence of any material misrepresentations in the financial statements. Chief Accountant G.A. Khachaturova The audit included the auditing procedures aimed to obtain the audit-based evidence (signature) (name) confirming the figures in the financial statements and disclosure of information in the latter. The choice of auditing procedures is subject to our judgement which is based 23 March 2011 on our assessment of the risk of material misrepresentations made due to malpractice or errors. In the process of assessing this risk, we have examined the internal control system which supports the preparation of reliable financial statements, with the aim to select relevant auditing procedures rather than express our opinion about the effectiveness of the internal control system. 132 REPORT IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG 133 Contact Information Financial statements/ Audit report on financial statements The audit also included assessment of the proper nature of the applicable accountState Unitary Enterprise Expositions are open 10.00am -8.00pm. ing policy and soundness of the estimated figures obtained by the management Museum tickets can be bought till 7.00pm. of the audited entity, as well as the assessment of financial statements in general. “Vodokanal of Website: www.vodokanal-museum.ru We believe that the audit-based evidence provides sufficient grounds for the exSt. Petersburg”: pression of opinion on reliability of financial statements. Youth Environmental Center of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”: Opinion 42 Kavalergardskaya St., 56 Shpalernaya Street, (ChernyshevsIn our opinion, the financial statements reflect truly, in all material respects, the Saint-Petersburg 191015, Russia kaya metro station) financial standing of State Unitary Enterprise Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” as of Tel.: +7 (812) 274-16-79, Tel. +7 (812) 438-43-96 December 31, 2010, and the results of its financial and economic activities and cash Fax +7 (812) 274-13-61 E-mail: dec@vodokanal.spb.ru flow in 2010 in compliance with the Russian accounting standards. (Documents Division) e-mail: office@vodokanal.spb.ru Burevestnik Sanatorium: Deputy Director General of Audit. Head of the Audit Department e-mail: personal@vodokanal.spb.ru — Office in St. Petersburg: Personnel Department (for CVs) Room 10, 12/15 Stavropolskaya Street, Gazaryan A.V. Website: www.vodokanal.spb.ru Tel. +7 (812) 271-26-27, Qualification certificate for general audit 271-20-71, 274-16-78; No 009228 dated 28.12.95 Hot line — +7 (812) 305-09-09 Fax and telephone: 8 (812) 438-44-85 (for unlimited period) Office in Luga: Directorate for preparation and 16 Zapadnaya Street Project Manager implementation of connection terms: Tel. +7 (813-72) 4-33-03, 2-36-60 1. Block 5, 103 Moscowsky Prospect, Svinjina O. I. Saint-Petersburg, Medical Centre Qualification certificate for general audit 8.00am—8.00pm, no lunch break. E-mail: medcenter@vodokanal.spb.ru No 19117 dated 26.07.01 Tel.: +7 (812) 326-52-32, 329-34-50 Medical Diagnostic and Treatment Centre: (for unlimited period) 2. Room 103, 7 Filtrovskoye Shosse, Lit. Я, 42 Kavelergardskaya Street Pushkin, Tel. +7 (812) 438-44-20 9.00am—6.00pm, Open hours: lunch break 1.00pm—2.00pm. Monday-Friday, Tel. +7 (812) 438-47-58 8.00am—8.00pm, 3. Room 14, 1 Leningradskaya Street, Saturday and Sunday — closed. Kronshtadt, Medical Diagnostic and Treatment Centre 8.00am—5.00pm, (Radiodiagnosis Department): lunch break 12.00am — 1.00pm. Block 2, 103 Moskovsky Prospect, Tel. +7 (812) 438-47-19 Saint-Petersburg. 4. Room 218, 15 Saperny Per., Kolpino, Tel. +7 (812) 438-47-77, 326-52-78 8.00am—5.00pm, Open hours: lunch break 12.00am—1.00pm. daily 8.00am—10.00pm Tel. +7 (812) 438-47-55 Saturday 8.00am—4.00pm, 5. Room 12, 1 Syvorovtsev Per., Sunday — closed Petrodvorets, Radiology Department: 8.00am—5.00pm, Open hours: daily 8.00am—8.00pm lunch break 12.00am—1.00pm. Make an appointment by phone: Tel. +7 (812) 438-47-02 +7 (812) 326-52-78, 438-44-20, 438-47-77. Museum complex “The Universe of Dental Clinic: Water”: Lit. AK, 56 Shpalernaya Street. 56 Shpalernaya Street, (ChernyshevsTel. +7 (812) 326-53-19 kaya metro station) Open hours: Tel.: 8 (812) 438-43-75, Monday-Friday, 275-43-25, 438-43-01 9.00am—9.00pm, Open hours: Saturday 9.00am—3.00pm, Wednesday-Sunday Sunday—closed. (Monday and Tuesday — closed). E-mail: medcenter@vodokanal.spb.ru SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg
