This report is printed with soy-based ink on paper approved to use the eco-friendly mark and guaranteed as chlorine free by FSC, an international NGO institute. Sustainability Report KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2010 Bringing the Light of Dreams and Hopes KEPCO KPS I Sustainability Report 2010 Jeongjail-ro 45, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, 463-726 Korea TEL. +82-31-710-4114 FAX. +82-31-710-4115 about THIS report Contents Reporting Purpose CEO message This report presents sustainability management achievements at KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Co., Ltd. (KEPCO KPS hereafter) with respect to company's economic, social and environmental responsibilities. COMPANY PROFILE It aims to help KEPCO KPS stakeholders to appropriately understand the company’s overall sustainability 2009~2010 Highlight management. SUSTAINABILITY AT KEPCO KPS Reporting Period 10. Sustainability Management Strategy KEPCO KPS publishes sustainability reports bi-annually. The reporting period of this report spans from 13. Major Affiliated Organizations January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2010. It includes data prior to 2008 when analysis of past trends is required and partially contains activities and achievements in 2011. KEPCO KPS's first sustainability 14. Governance report, KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2006, was published in September 2007 and this is the third 16. Ethical Management such report. 18. Risk Management 20. Material Issue Identification Process Reporting boundary This report covers KEPCO KPS's sustainability activities and performance at the head office, Korean field offices (34 offices) and overseas offices (10 offices). Sustainable Innovation 24. Business Performance and Goals Reporting Framework 26. Changes in the Power Plant Maintenance Market KEPCO KPS reports against the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative)'s G3.1 Guidelines and the financial 27. Management Efficiency information in this report is in accordance with Korean financial accounting standards. 29. Customers 32. Technology Development Strategy Assurance The reporting process and the report content were assured by the Korean Standards Association (KSA), 34. Technology Development System an independent external assurance provider. The assurance report appears in the Third Party Assurance Statement section of this report. Global Frontier 38. Global Business Strategy Characteristics of This Report 40. Expansion of Global Business In addition to the ‘third party assurance statement’, this report also includes the ‘ISO 26000 compliance assessment report’, which describes the level of compliance in meeting social responsibilities at KEPCO KPS. Green Energy Management 44. Eco-friendly Maintenance Major Changes from Previous Reports 47. New and Renewable Energy This report presents how KEPCO KPS responds to the opening of the Korean power plant maintenance 50. Environmental Performance market and offers a detailed picture of the measures taken at KEPCO KPS to enhance safety of nuclear 52. Special Report : Enhancing Nuclear Safety power plants, which is emerging as a major concern in the environment field. Distribution and Feedback of This Report Sharing Value This report is published both in Korean and English. The report is available through the KEPCO KPS 56. Fair Competition corporate website and registered at the GRI and the UN Global Compact’s list of sustainability reports. 57. Win-Win Partnership KEPCO KPS welcomes any feedback from valued stakeholders and they could use such diverse channels 59. Social Contribution as e-mail, post, fax and KEPCO KPS website to communicate with the company. Website : www.kps.co.kr Management Planning Team, Corporate Planning Dept. Jeongjail-ro 45, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Respectful Workplace Gyeonggi-do, 463-726 Korea 64. Human Resources Development Tel : +82-31-710-4097 67. Promotion of Global Talents Fax : +82-31-710-4099 68. Protection of Human Rights and E-mail : sustainability@kps.co.kr Prevention of Discrimination GRI G3.1 Guidelines Application Level 71. Win-Win Labor-Managememt Relations The KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2010 complies with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. KEPCO KPS's internal 72. Safety & Health assessments of the report show that it is in full compliance with qualitative and quantitative requirements of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and thus support the self-declaration of the application level ‘A+’. KSA, the Our Performance third party assurance provider of the report, verified that this report qualified for the application level ‘A+’. 76. Economic Performance Data GRI checked and approved that this report fulfills the requirement of Application Level ‘A+’ too. 77. Environmental Performance Data 78. Social Performance Data Appendix CEO MEssage “KEPCO KPS aims to achieve These endeavors are recognized in various ways : KEPCO KPS was selected as the Sector Leader in the Support Service Industry by DJSI Korea for 3 consecutive years, inducted into the Hall of Fame of the Korean Service Grand Prix for the KRW 3 trillion in sales, increase its “KEPCO KPS will take operating profit to sales ratio to 18% first time as a public enterprise, awarded with the Grand Prize of the National Quality Management Contest and chosen as a company with an excellent labor-management culture. These achievements further encourage KEPCO KPS to contribute and raise the share of overseas sales a new step forward to 40% by 2020, evolving into a more to a sustainable development of human society and the company is to take a new step forward in the following areas. to grow into a global ‘Global Leading Business Partner for company through Green Energy Management.” Sustainable Growth through Enhanced Core Competence KEPCO KPS redefined its mid/long-term strategic management plans at the end of 2009 to cope with rapidly-changing sustained business environments and to ensure sustainable growth and also declared ‘VISION 2020’ in 2010. KEPCO KPS set the growth-driven goals of achieving KRW 3 trillion in sales, increasing its operating profit to sales ratio to 18% and raising the share of overseas sales to 40% by 2020, evolving into a ‘Global Leading Business Partner for Green Energy Management’. To management ! ” meet this goal, KEPCO KPS plans to enhance its core competence by developing cutting-edge maintenance technology and hiring and promoting globally talented employees. Company that Values its Customers and Markets KEPCO KPS is to win the hearts of customers through customer-oriented and differentiated values and make business more profitable by eliminating inefficient systems and practices. KEPCO KPS's efforts in expanding overseas business and exploring new markets abroad will create new engines of growth. KEPCO KPS's diversification of business portfolio will make sure that the company can stay the course in the face of frequent changes in the business environment. Company that Values People and Workplace KEPCO KPS will continue to respect the dignity and intrinsic values of employees, the source of corporate competitiveness, so that their work life at KEPCO KPS is filled with pride, happiness and rewarding experiences. While the people-centered management philosophy will lead to new welfare policies and a stronger culture of workplace safety, KEPCO KPS will also work hard to implement fair HR policies and encourage employees to work on their own initiative and use their creativity. Company that Cares about the Environment KEPCO KPS's commitment towards preserving the precious mother earth, a home for the next generations, extends beyond merely reducing GHG emissions and establishing certified environmental management systems and into Dear Stakeholders of KEPCO KPS! minimizing the company's impact on the environment through optimized maintenance of environmental facilities of power plants and developing eco-friendly maintenance technology. Additionally, KEPCO KPS will make its business more Let me extend my heartfelt thanks for your continued interest in and affection for KEPCO KPS. After the company's environmentally-friendly with expanded investments into new and renewable energy technology for green growth. inception as a professional power plant maintenance service provider in 1974 to ensure stable supply of electricity, KEPCO KPS has been fully committed to delivering a higher quality of life for the general public and forging a sustainable Company that is Trusted through the Fulfillment of its Social Responsibilities future with stakeholders. KEPCO KPS's conduct of business will become more transparent with the operations and information disclosure that are in full compliance with ethical management principles. KEPCO KPS also aims to establish win-win partnerships through There have been many changes and various achievements since the company's second sustainability report in 2009 full-fledged sharing-oriented management, stronger partnerships with stakeholders and increased support for SMEs. and the first-ever such report in 2007. KEPCO KPS posted KRW 805.2 billion in sales and KRW 96.3 billion in net profit in 2009 and these increased to KRW 842.5 billion and KRW 98.4 billion respectively in 2010. Over the last 5 years, KEPCO KPS singed up the UN Global Compact in September 2007 in a bid to fulfill its social responsibilities and pursue company's sales and net profit have grown continuously. This is attributable to the world-class maintenance expertise sustainability management. KEPCO KPS supports the 10 UNGC principles in the areas of human rights, labour standard, that KEPCO KPS accumulated through the sustained development of advanced technology and global talented individuals environment and anti-corruption and all KEPCO KPS employees are fully committed to abiding by these principles. since the establishment of the company. Such an outstanding feat is also thanks to KEPCO KPS's sincere commitment towards sustainability management supported by communication and cooperation with a wide spectrum of stakeholders. KEPCO KPS promises to all its partners around the world that the company will renew itself as a true global world-class company that will contribute to the development of human society by fully meeting its economic, social and environmental With the corporate management principle of “sustained growth-driven management”, every employee at KEPCO KPS is responsibilities. doing their utmost to ensure that KEPCO KPS would evolve into a company that earns trust from its shareholders, has respect for people, wins the heart of people through ethical management and social contribution and strikes the right Thank you. KEPCO KPS CEO President Sung-Eun, Tae balance between publicness and profitability, which will be delivered through the endless pursuit of world No. 1, focus on customers and markets, increased communication and cooperation, and compliance with social responsibilities. 02 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 03 Company Profile Overview Organizational Structure • No. of Employees (Unit : No. of Persons) KEPCO KPS is a world-renowned total plant service company, providing maintenance services not just to electric power 4,500 4,474 KEPCO KPS head office is located in Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do and the company has 3 Divisions and 10 4,387 4,349 and industrial facilities in Korea such as hydro & thermal and nuclear power plants and transmission & substations but Departments at the head office and 34 offices in Korea and 10 offices abroad. also to power generation facilities abroad including India. 4,250 KEPCO KPS operates the Technology Research & Development Institute in order to develop comprehensive maintenance systems and core technology to repair core components of power plant facilities. The company's business scope also President covers new and renewable energy such as photovoltaic and wind power. 4,000 '08 '09 '10 Executive Auditor Business Areas Business Areas • Maintenance services for power plant facilities and related structures KEPCO KPS was established to ensure the ‘stable supply of electric power thorough maintenance of power plant Audit & Inspection Dept. • Inspections and maintenance of transmission and substation facilities facilities’. KEPCO KPS's services include maintenance of power plant facilities and related structures and inspections and Technology Development Dept. Quality Management Dept. • Repair of gas turbine components and assessments of reactor safety • New and renewable energy business including photovoltaic energy maintenance of transmission and substation facilities. To grow into a true global company, KEPCO KPS not only services • Maintenance of power plant and industrial facilities in Korea and power plants in Korea but also performs O&M (Operation & Maintenance) projects in overseas markets (India, Philippines, overseas as well as KEPCO facilities Business Management Div. Maintenance Business Div. New Business Div. Pakistan, and Madagascar), thereby enhancing brand values, corporate competitiveness and technology capacity. Corporate Planning Dept. Power Generation Business Dept. Nuclear Power Business Dept. • Sales Proportion • Sales Trend (Unit : KRW 100 million) General Affairs Dept. Specialization Business Dept. Overseas Business Dept. 10,000 8,425 8,052 Specialization Business 7,639 Finance Dept. and Others 14.8% 8,000 6,814 Hydro & Overseas Thermal 6,110 Business 37.5% 7.3% KRW Hydro & Thermal Nuclear Power Transmission & *Other Offices **Overseas Offices Transmission 842.5 billion 6,000 Power Offices Offices Substation Offices & Substation in 2010 <6 offices> <10 offices> <17 offices> <5 offices> <6 offices> 7.2% 4,000 *Other Offices : Technology Service Center (2), Training Center (2), Nuclear New Renewal Energy & Plant Service Center, Technology Research & Development Institute 33.2% **Overseas Offices : Vemagiri, Chanderiya, Jharsuguda, BALCO, Wardha, Ilijan, Daharki, Ambatovy, India, Indonesia (10) 2,000 • Gori Nuclear Power Plant 0 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 • View of the Head Office of KEPCO KPS Corporate History Han-ah Industrial Management Co., Ltd. Oct. 1974 ■Founded as Korea's first maintenance service provider Korea Electric Technical Service Co., Ltd. Aug. 1977 ■KEPCO acquired the 100% shares of Han-ah Industrial Management Co., Ltd. • Overseas Business Trend (power plant maintenance unit was separated) (Unit : KRW 100 million) Korea Heavy Industries & Construction Co.,Ltd. 800 632 614 Dec. 1981 ■Korea Electric Technical Service Co., Ltd. was merged into • Taean Thermal Power Plant Korea Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. 500 Korea Electric Power Repair Co., Ltd. 600 Apr. 1984 ■Established as a wholly-owned company of KEPCO Korea Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. acquired the power plant maintenance unit 400 Korea Power Plant Service Co., Ltd. Nov. 1992 ■Renamed 186 155 200 KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Co., Ltd. Aug. 2010 ■Renamed 0 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 04 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 05 2009~2010 highlight Grand Vision prize csi 6yearS 2020 Winning Grand Prize Highest-possible Customer Satisfaction Delivered by Flawless Maintenance for 6 Consecutive Years KEPCO KPS has been keeping up with its records of flawless maintenance for 6 consecutive years by KEPCO KPS was awarded with the Public Enterprise reducing KEPCO KPS-caused breakdown/outage to zero. ‘Grand Prize’ of the 35th National KEPCO KPS has been conducting customer satisfaction The shortened period of planned outage maintenance Quality Management Contest in index surveys since 2001 to measure and enhance customer eliminated the need for the construction of 428 MW November 2009, which recognized the satisfaction. With systematic customer satisfaction management power plant facilities between 2009 and 2010. company's contributions to improving activities, KEPCO KPS's customer satisfaction index stays at the nation’s industrial competitiveness top among public enterprises. economy through outstanding management Declaring VISION 2020 performance in quality management ￦122,000,000 KEPCO KPS announced VISION 2020 in innovation activities. March 2010. Under this vision, KEPCO KPS aims to grow into a ‘Global Leading US$ 40,000 djsi Business Partner for Green Energy Management’ and take a new leap forward to a global world-class company Creating the Base for Hope korea by achieving KRW 3 trillion in sales (KRW 1.24 trillion in overseas sales) and After partnering with Child Fund Korea Aiding Pakistan to Recover from society growing the operating profit to sales ratio to 18% by 2020. which owns a nation-wide network in November 2009, KEPCO KPS has Flood Damages All KEPCO KPS employees donated been ‘Creating the Base for Hope’, as a a total of USD 40,000 to the Pakistani represenative corporate philanthropic Embassy in Korea on August 26, 2010 program, in order to improve facilities to help the nation where torrential mainly used by children from low-income rains killed more than 1,000 and left families. The company donated KRW 122 20 million homeless. million including volunteering work at 33 children’s facilities in 2010. Listed in the DJSI Korea for 3 Consecutive Years and Chosen as the Sector Leader harmony KEPCO KPS has been listed in Dow Jones Sustainability Index Korea for 3 years in a row since 2009 and selected as the Sector Leader in the Support Service Industry. This recognizes both financial and non-financial achievements the company made in sustainability Corporate management. university Chosen as a Company with an Excellent Labor-Management Culture employee KEPCO KPS was chosen as a company with an excellent laborISO 9001 & 14001 management culture by the Ministry of Employment and Labor Corporate University Up and Running in July 2011 for its cooperative labor-management relations that KEPCO KPS opened its own corporate were possible thanks to the labor-management partnership. university in 2010 to assist employees in developing their capacities and to promote top-level maintenance engineers Setting Targets for Reducing GHG Emissions and Having with hands-on competency and the KEPCO KPS Head Office and the GT Technology Service theoretical knowledge. Center Certified with both ISO 9001 & 14001 KEPCO KPS is working hard to meet the set target for reducing environment GHG emissions for low-carbon green growth. The KEPCO KPS head office and the GT Technology Service Center were certified with both ISO 9001 & 14001 in July 2011. Sustainability at kEpco kps KEPCO KPS creates a world where everyone is united in happiness through sustainable growth and development. 08 2010 KPS sustainability REPORT 2010 KPS sustainability REPORT 09 Sustainability Corporate Philosophy KEPCO KPS corporate philosophy is to ‘Contribute to human society by delivering the greatest-possible values to MUV 2013 Mid-term Strategic Management Plan KEPCO KPS's mid-term strategic management plan ‘MUV 2013’ was set up to achieve ‘VISION 2020’ and presents the Management customers’. By ‘delivering the greatest-possible values to customers’, the company is to identify customer needs and deliver customer values with cutting-edge technology and new solutions. To ‘contribute to human society’, the company following 8 core strategic tasks to be completed by 2013. Strategy plans to provide the best-possible services through customer value creation and management innovation, helping human society lead an even richer and more flourishing life. • MUV 2013 Strategy Strategic Goals KRW 1.2 Trillion in Sales, KRW 180 Billion in Overseas Sales, 14% of Operating Profit to Sales Ratio Core Values KEPCO KPS core values are ‘Customer Satisfaction’, ‘Pursuit of Innovation’, ‘Focus on Technology’, ‘Talent Fostering’ and Strategic Enhancing Promoting Horizontal/Vertical Building the ‘Globalization’. Customer satisfaction will be delivered by putting customers at the center of everything and offering the Competitiveness in Globalization Diversification Enabling Framework Directions · Tasks greatest-possible values to customers. Pursuit of innovation means that KECO KPS is to respond proactively to changing Existing Business business environments through innovative thinking and behaviors. Focus on technology is to secure core technology that • Sustainability Management Goals ■Strengthening ■Advancing overseas ■Enhancing the GT ■Upgrading the competitiveness in business component reclamation organizational will allow the company to offer world-class services and lead the global market and talent fostering is to find and nurture the hydro & thermal/ O&M business and manufacturing operation framework global talented individuals who possess the passion for what they do and the top-quality expertise. Last but not least, nuclear power plant Engineering business nsparency globalization serves as a measure of the level the company strives to reach in all of these core values and KEPCO KPS Tra maintenance business business ■Promoting the ■Improving ■Promoting the export nuclear power plant aims for the world’s highest level in business areas, talent fostering, technology development and business conduct. competitiveness market-oriented maintenance support in the transmission & nuclear power plant automation business Global T.O.P substation business business/overseas ■Developing and Ozone-frie Vision through Sustained nuclear power plant operating specialization Growth-driven y bilit KEPCO KPS vision is to become a ‘Global Leading Business Partner for Green Energy Management’. The ‘Green Energy services business business(new and nd Management ita renewable energy, etc.) Management’ covers not just facility operation and maintenance but also the whole spectrum of services in the energy of industry including component design & manufacturing, consulting services and even green energy. In an effort to become Pr s es a ‘Global Leading Business Partner’, KEPCO KPS is to perform at the level of other advanced industry peers overseas lin and position itself as a global market leader in terms of business and technology. Not only that, it means that KEPCO KPS Sustainability Management Strategy plans to provide professional services to customers to assist their business operations, thus elevating the company's To achieve the goal of becoming the ‘Global T.O.P through sustained growth-driven management’, KEPCO KPS's standing as an equal partner. sustainability management strategic framework is up and running to incorporate the company CEO’s people-centered management philosophy as well as economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainability management. • Sustainability Management Strategic Framework • Sustainability Management Organizational Structure Vision Global Leading Business Partner for Green Energy Management Principles CEO High-level Decision Making Goal Global T.O.P through Sustained Growth-driven Management • VISION 2020 Strategy Various committees regarding sustainability Gathering opinions management internally and externally Vision Global Leading Business Partner for Green Energy Management (Board of Directors, ethical and incorporating them into management, customer management policies Action Framework Economy Society Environment People advisory council, etc.) Sustained Growth Responsible Eco-friendliness People-orientation Management ■Increasing corporate ■Improving management ■Making facility ■Nurturing future global Strategic Goals KRW 3 Trillion in Sales, KRW 1.24 Trillion in Overseas Sales, 18% of Operating Profit to Sales Ratio Planning values by identifying transparency with maintenance more leaders with creativity new engines of growth, work process and eco-friendly by and professionalism Department in charge of sustainability management improving profitability information disclosure adopting environment■Establishing win-win (Management Planning Team, Corporate Planning Dept.) and making the in full compliance with conscious technology labor-management financial structure ethical management ■Developing new culture, improving the ■Setting plans for sustainability Management Strategic Directions · Tasks Enhancing Promoting Horizontal/Vertical Building the Enabling healthier principles and renewable energy quality of life of KEPCO ■Publishing and posting sustainability reports Competitiveness in Globalization Diversification Framework ■Setting and managing key performance indicators ■Pursuing continued ■Fully meeting technology, providing KPS employees Existing Business technology innovation, corporate social solutions to future through increased leading the responsibilities through energy issues welfare benefits ■Improving competitiveness ■Strengthening ■Launching new business ■Upgrading the organizational proactive sharingglobal development of ■Preserving the ■Focusing more on in the hydro & thermal business in the hydro & projects in green energy operation framework Execution maintenance oriented management natural environment human rights aspects business thermal business ■Technology-centered ■Building systems to nurture engineering technology ■Enhancing corporate by addressing climate of business conduct ■Increasing profitability in ■Increasing sales from horizontal/vertical competitive individuals Sustainability management working-level departments ■Gaining competitive values by solidifying change together with including prevention of the hydro & thermal business diversification ■Redefining and expanding (company-wide departments and offices) global cooperation in the edge through initiativepartnerships with KEPCO group accidents and ■Promoting competitiveness the corporate culture stakeholders nuclear/transmission & Performing and managing sustainability management driven management promotion of employee in the nuclear business substation business innovation health tasks in respective areas 10 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 11 Establishing the Code of Sustainability Management In establishing the Code of Sustainability Management in July 2008, KEPCO KPS employees pledged themselves to Major Affiliated Korea Electric Association (joined in 1984) ■CEO Sung-Eun, Tae is serving as a director. contribute towards sustainable development of the nation, society and all human kind and help KEPCO KPS grow into a global leading business partner for green energy management. In so doing, the company is determined to fully meet its Organizations ■Its main areas of business cover research & development of technology standards and relevant specifications under the Electricity Business Act including electric facilities and hydro/thermal power plant facilities as well as the development social responsibilities as a leading maintenance service provider for electric power facilities and to make the company's and management of the Korea Electric Power Industry Code (KEPIC). business more stakeholder-driven and thus more sustainable with respect to economy, society, environment and human KEPCO KPS works with kind. the following organizations Korea Atomic Industrial Forum (joined in 1984) ■CEO Sung-Eun, Tae is serving as a director. to share information and ■The knowledge and information on nuclear power that we share with the forum is utilized as basic data to secure safety Sustainability Management Key Performance Indicator(KPI)s To ensure that KEPCO KPS's sustainability management goals and strategies are reviewed and given proper feedback adapt their advanced management of the nuclear power plants that we service. regularly, the company manages the following key performance indicators in the respective sustainability management techniques. areas of economy, society, environment and people. Korea Energy Foundation (joined in 1985) ■The foundation was established to guarantee basic energy rights for the socially underprivileged and narrow the wealth Areas Key Performance Indicators Unit 2008 2009 2010 gap in our society. ■KEPCO KPS supports foundation’s international cooperation projects through the energy network project and serves as Sales KRW 100 million 7,639 8,052 8,425 a bridge to promote energy cooperation in the private sector and exchanges between government-owned and private Value-added productivity per employee KRW 1 million 109 114 118 enterprises, encouraging them to take part in energy welfare projects. Economy R&D investments (against sales) % 4.4 4.5 4.7 Korea Co-Generation Association (joined in 1996) Flawless maintenance No. of cases 0 0 0 ■Executive Vice President Oh, Kim is serving as a director. Enhancing integrity Score 9.76 9.87 9.76 ■The association was set up to expand collective energy and co-generation and to promote relevant systems. • KEPCO KPS supports the UN Global Increasing customer satisfaction Score 94.7 93.1 95.4 ■The sharing of information on co-generation facilities helps us win more contract orders, tap into new business areas Compacts. Society and upgrade our maintenance technology. Expanding electronic procurement % 91.3 94.5 96.3 Purchasing products from SMEs % 90.5 77.4 82.8 Korea District Heating Association (joined in 2004) Photovoltaic energy EPC projects KRW 100 million 130 134 47.7 ■CEO Sung-Eun, Tae is working as an auditor. ■The association assists the Korean government in carrying out its collective energy industry policies including energy Wind power facility maintenance business KRW 100 million 3 0.3 0.34 Environment saving and environmental preservation. Purchasing eco-friendly products KRW 100 million 17 18 27.8 ■KEPCO KPS exchanges information with the association and take part in seminars to gain insight into the optimized Increasing recycling of waste % 95 95 95 maintenance and repair of district heating facilities and more sophisticated methods of safety management. Injury rates % 0.55 0.94 0.44 Korea Powerplant Maintenance Association (launched in January 2008) Welfare satisfaction level Score 74.2 77.0 77.8 People ■The association is made up of 7 companies including KEPCO KPS (president : KEPCO KPS CEO). Turnover rates % 0.9 1.0 1.0 ■Its objective is to study ways to improve competitiveness of the power plant maintenance industry. Training expenses(per employee) KRW 1,000 1,619 1,357 1,620 • Chosen as the DJSI Sector Leader BEST Forum : Business Ethics and Sustainability for Top Management (joined in 2006) ■We are to build ethical management into our business operations and make it part of our corporate culture by learning UN Global Compact best practices of ethical management. KEPCO KPS joined the UN Global Compact in September 2007 to fulfill its social responsibilities and make its business ■CEOs of the participating companies sign the pledge to practice ethical management and participate in monthly forums more sustainable. KEPCO KPS clearly stated its support for the UNGC’s 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour and workshops. standard, environment and anti-corruption. KEPCO KPS submitted to the UNGC COP (Communication on Progress) report written in accordance with the UNGC guidelines in November 2008 and reconfirms the company's commitment to these principles every year. Receiving the DJSI Certificate and Chosen as the Sector Leader KEPCO KPS has been listed in Dow Jones Sustainability Index Korea for 3 years in a row since 2009 and chosen as the Sector Leader in the Support Service Industry, which widely recognizes the company's achievements in sustainability management. KEPCO KPS reviews regularly the level of its compliance with economic, social and environmental responsibilities and makes sure that the company continues to make progress on those areas that need to be improved. 12 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 13 Governance Board of Directors : Operation and Voting We run the board of directors in a bid to fulfill our responsibilities and duties to stakeholders. The board of directors • Board of Directors Operation Evaluation System oversees top management’s performance and makes decisions on important matters. At KEPCO KPS, we make sure The BOD meeting is valid only when a majority of current members are present and for any matters to be decided, it Purpose Improve board of directors operations efficiently that our board of directors is both independent and professional so that our management performance is supervised through reasonable evaluation systems requires support from a majority of the members attending the meeting. Directors cannot exercise their voting rights on objectively and our corporate governance becomes more transparent and efficient. matters where they may have interests and in particular, for those matters where the chairman of the board of directors has any stake, the director representing the largest shareholder would temporarily take on the role. This institutional Composition of Shareholders Evaluation Quantitative ■Attendance rate device helps us control possible conflicts of interest within the board of directors. ■Time for deliberating Our shareholders include KEPCO with 75% equity and general stakeholders (including the employee stock ownership Criteria on respective agenda • Organizational Structure of Board of Directors association) with the rest 25%. They take part in deciding who serves on our board of directors and this enables us to items/No. of comments Board of Directors : Increased Vitality in Operation and Strengthened Role made by non-executive make decisions on such important management issues as management goals, budget and settlement in a transparent directors measured To make board of directors operations more efficient, we set up annual board of directors operation plans, operate Board of Directors manner. against the total/ support systems and evaluate its performance. The outcome is reflected in the following year’s board of directors plans Percentage of comments Board of and in so doing, we continue to make progress on board of directors operations. Evaluations are made every quarter made by non-executive Directors’ Bureau ■directors measured Composition of Board of Directors and such quantitative criteria are considered as directors’ attendance rate, percentages of comments made by nonagainst the total/No.of Non-executive/ Our board of directors is structured pursuant to the KEPCO KPS Articles of Incorporation and makes decisions on major policy suggestions made executive directors against the total, time taken to deliberate on agenda items and the number of modified items passed. Executive Directors (4) External Directors(4) issues of management as a top decision-making body. It primarily deals with management goals, annual business ■Satisfaction with board Any shortcomings identified are dealt with through feedback. Additionally, we survey our non-executive/external directors Execution of Qualitative of directors operations Check/Supervision of Management Policies plans, budget and settlement, major corporate policies and changes in main assets. The board of directors also sets up at the end of year on board of directors operations to assess qualitative aspects of the board of directors performance Top Management overarching strategies of sustainability management and votes on critical matters including HR systems, staff safety, and and needed improvements are incorporated in next year’s board of directors plans. Our director appointment procedures labor policies. are free from influences of top management to ensure the board of directors plays a stronger role in overseeing top Performance ■Quarterly performance review Our board of directors has 8 members with 4 executive directors(policy execution) and 4 non-executive/external directors Analysis ■Annual outcome analysis manager’s performance with increased expertise. To help non-executive/external directors better understand KEPCO (check and monitoring of top management). External directors make up 25% of the total and our CEO serves as the KPS’s conduct of business and thus vitalize board of directors operations, we offer management information updates Securing Expertise chairman of the board of directors. Their term is 3 years and we started introducing external directors in 2008 with 2 regularly via e-mail and allow them to access our corporate intranet management information system. Our non-executive/ Increasing Transparency appointed since then. To ensure the chairman of the board of directors is a qualified person with the right expertise, we Surveying Board of Directors Performance Evaluation external directors also make policy suggestions and serve on various corporate committees to provide management Feedback operate the CEO Recommendation Committee attended by non-executive directors and external directors. Our executive consulting services. They serve as a judge at in-house competitions, give special lectures to KEPCO KPS employees and Identifying Improvements to be Made CEO Recommendation directors are required to possess expert knowledge and experiences on the electric power and energy industry so that write articles for company newsletters on important issues and policies, playing stronger roles and growing more active in External Director System Committee management policies are carried out efficiently. Our non-executive and external directors are appointed based on their Reflecting the Outcome management activities. in Following Year’s Plans domain-specific knowledge and experiences on such areas as law, business management and economy in order to • Composition of Board of Directors (as of Jun. 2011, all members are male) provide the necessary checks and balances and assist continued growth of the company. Position Name Date of Education/Current Position and Major Work Term • No. of Board of Directors Meetings • Board of Directors Meetings Birth Experience (Unit : No. of Meetings) 15 Voted Items CEO (Chairman of the Sung-Eun, Tae Sep. 1951 Kyungpook National Univ. Department of Physics Aug. 31, 2010~ • Serving as a Judge at the Outstanding Package Board of Directors) Former KHNP Wolsong Nuclear Power Site General Manger Aug. 30, 2013 Year No. of Agenda Passed as Passed as a Deferred Rejected Subtotal Reported Knowledge Contest 10 10 10 Items Drafted Modified Items Executive Director Yeu-Geun, Choi Feb. 1953 Dongguk Univ. Department of Public Administration Nov. 12, 2010~ Version (Executive Vice President, Former KEPCO Labor-Management Relation Department Nov. 11, 2013 6 Buiness Management Div.) Director 5 2008 30 21 1 0 0 22 8 Executive Director Oh, Kim Mar. 1956 Incheon Technical College. Electrical Engineering May. 30, 2011~ 2009 36 26 0 0 0 26 10 (Executive Vice President, Former KEPCO KPS Hydro Thermal Power Department May. 29, 2014 0 Maintenance Business Div.) Vice President 2010 37 27 1 1 0 29 8 '08 '09 '10 Executive Director Jae-Yuel, Kang Feb. 1954 Sungkyunkwan Univ. Department of Physics May. 30, 2011~ (Executive Vice President, Former KHNP Yonggwang Nuclear Power Site General Manager May. 29, 2014 New Business Div.) Board of Directors Appointment and Remuneration KEPCO KPS's CEO is appointed through the recommendation of the CEO Recommendation Committee and the vote Non-executive Director Chan-Wang, Eom Feb. 1970 Yonsei Univ. Department of Electronic Engineering Dec. 8, 2009~ of the general shareholders' meeting. Executive directors except for the CEO and non-executive/external directors are Incumbent) Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Electric Power Dec. 7, 2012 • Special Lecture by External Directors Division Manager decided through the vote of the general shareholders' meeting. At KEPCO KPS, top managers’ remuneration consists of basic salary, performance incentive and severance pay. The annual basic salary should be within the boundary approved Non-executive Director In-Kook, Cho Aug. 1954 Hanyang Univ. Department of Economics Mar. 29, 2011~ Incumbent) KEPCO Planning Division General Manager Mar. 28, 2014 by the general shareholders' meeting for executive directors and auditors and the performance incentive is determined according to management performance set forth in the Management Agreement signed at the beginning of each year. External Director Se-Young, Ahn Jan. 1953 University of Paris 1, International Economics. Doctor Mar. 29, 2011~ Incumbent) Sogang Univ. Graduate School of International Mar. 28, 2014 Studies Professor External Director Hun-Ki, Baek Dec. 1955 Soongsil University School of Business Master Mar. 29, 2011~ Incumbent) Ministry of Employment and Labor, Member of Mar. 28, 2014 Committee of Employment Policy 14 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 15 Ethical Management KEPCO KPS's employees are fully aware that ethical management is a basic responsibility we should fulfill as a corporate • CEO Pledging Ceremony at BEST Forum • Integrity Index citizen and the most critical prerequisite for sustainable development and growth of the company. This is why we strive Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 to make sure that our ethical management is at the world-class level by building work ethics into day-to-day operations, establishing transparent management systems and carrying out strategic social contribution activities. We also provide Integrity Index 9.69 9.76 9.87 9.76 wide-ranging ethical management training courses regularly to build a stronger ethics awareness among our employees. Anti-corruption Policy • Ethical Management Brand Ethical Management Systems KEPCO KPS introduced ethical management in 2003 to take the lead in preventing corruption. Our Code of Ethics, Rules Our ethical management activities are performed under our own ethical management brand of ‘Crystal KPS’. We put in of Conduct and Practice Guidelines define what constitutes corrupt practices and all our employees are observing work place the Code of Ethics, Rules of Conduct and Practice Guidelines as ethics standards for all staff to follow and run a ethics in daily operations. The following is strictly prohibited at KEPCO KPS : taking and giving any kind of bribes and separate unit solely responsible for ethical management for its systematic operations. Additionally, we provide systemized treats, unjustified exercise of rights to privileges, mediation and solicitation, transactions using work-related information, training to our employees on ethical management to help them build company-wide consensus on the matter and a private use of and profit-making from company assets, spouse’s bribe-taking, borrowing money from work-related people stronger ethics awareness. and insider trading. We also make it mandatory to exclude any special favors while doing one’s job and to sign and implement contracts with integrity. Offering bribes to work-related persons, public officials or politicians for the company’s • Ethical Management Training Systems profit is not allowed and illegal political funds should not be donated or provided in support of political parties or politicians. • Ethical Standards Framework Category Training Objective Training Target Breaches of ethical standards are punished with disciplinary measures in accordance with our corporate regulations on Code of Philosophy and course of action Working-level Employee Training To nurture working-level employees to lead ethical Those in charge of ethical reward and punishment. This is to alert our employees to the disadvantages of corrupt actions and make sure no such Ethics pursued by ethical management (5 Codes of Ethics) management management practices occur ever again. Online Training Concept and importance of ethical management, New recruits, those newly As a member of such anti-corruption organizations as the UN Global Compact, BEST Forum (Business Ethics and ethical decision-making promoted and etc. Sustainability for Top Management), CEO’s Club for Business Ethics, and Korea Academy of Business Ethics, we declare Rules of Standards of ethical behaviors to be observed by KEPCO KPS our anti-corruption policies and identify best practices to utilize them for our anti-corruption initiatives. Conduct Human Resource To enhance understanding on ethical management Those subject to position-specific and its employees Development Center Training and develop ethical management mind-set training and job training (22 Rules of Conduct) • Shinmungo Corruption Reporting Systems and Actions Taken Itinerant Training for Offices To improve understanding on ethical standards, All employees prevent corruption and enhance integrity Our whistle-blowing system, Shinmungo and Inconvenience Reporting and Action Center for Trading Partners can be Practice Detailed practices and disciplinary accessed by any KEPCO KPS employees and external stakeholders to report unethical behaviors and corrupt practices. Guidelines actions to make employees comply The whistle-blowing system addresses KEPCO KPS employees’ violations of ethical standards(Code of Ethics, Rules of with standards of ethical behaviors (7 chapters and 26 articles) Major Activities and Achievements Conduct and Practice Guidelines) and Shinmungo deals with corruption and unreasonable practices. The Inconvenience Reporting and Action Center for Trading Partners serves as a channel for receiving reports on inconveniences and unfair CEO and All KEPCO KPS Staff Signing the Ethics Pledge practices caused by unreasonable systems and procedures, unjustified practices such as KEPCO KPS employees’ • Organizational Structure for Ethical Management Our CEO took part in the CEO pledging ceremony held by BEST Forum to publicly announce KEPCO KPS’s commitment demanding bribes or overlooking shoddy construction, any inconveniences these companies face while working with towards ethical management and our executives signed the agreement to observe integrity at the workplace during their KEPCO KPS and suggestions to prevent corruption and enhance integrity. Board of Directors term in order to build ethical management and transparency into our corporate DNA. All of our employees also made their • Performance of Reporting Systems Ethical Management Committee own pledge to observe integrity, committing themselves to transparent management. (president : CEO) Category 2008 2009 2010 Policy-making • Online Ethical Management Training Expenses Ethical Management Website and Consulting Center Whistle-blowing System/Helpline 1 1000 49,600 50,000 Our ethical management website allows not just KEPCO KPS staff but also the general public to easily understand our Corporate Communications Audit & Inspection Dept. Shinmungo and Complaint Phone Calls 7 2 17 Team Preventing corruption and ethical management policies and standards and our past achievements and current practices. We also run the Ethical 992 800 40,000 No. of Cases Handled 7 3 17 Social contribution Raising integrity awareness management Consulting Center to help our employees deal with ethical conflicts. The center presents possible ways to address breaches of ethical management principles and ethical dilemmas and thus prevents unethical practices and No. of Disciplinary Actions Taken 1 3 Ethical Management 600 30,000 builds stronger work ethics. Practice Bureau Setting action plans • Training on Ethical Management, Anti-corruption and Integrity 400 20,000 15,000 Enhancing Integrity 300 Category 2008 2009 2010 Chief of Ethical Management Our itinerant training for offices and the '3 Don'ts and 7 Do's' campaign enable our employees to raise their integrity 200 8,600 10,000 Practice awareness. We conduct integrity surveys on our own to make improvements in vulnerable areas and took various actions No. of Training Sessions Offered 223 188 214 Promotion 172 and Dissemination to prevent unreasonable practices including secret surveillance and guidance/inspections of corruption-prone sites, 0 0 Accumulated No. of Trainees 8,817 7,313 8,738 '08 '09 '10 maintaining the title of company with outstanding integrity performance for 4 consecutive years. Ethics Keeper No. of trainees (Unit : No. of persons) Training Hours per Employee 2.6 2.7 5.4 Training expenses (Unit : KRW 1,000) On-site Ethical Management Activities 16 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 17 Risk Management Building the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) System In identifying risks, we first listed up risk factors through the analysis of strategy and business, employee interviews and Internal Audit Our internal audit is operated with independence. The Audit & Inspection Department performs audits of important benchmarking of industry peers and these risks were narrowed down to core risks as follows : business environment decisions executed and settlement of accounts to make our business operations more reliable. Our audit infrastructure risks, financial risks, HR risks and maintenance business risks. The risk map was then generated on a two dimensional systems include the internal control system for risk prevention, ethical management systems and e-audit systems as well KEPCO KPS ERM system ensures that scale of probability and magnitude based on these risks and it helped us identify the most critical exposure risks of as other institutional devices to guarantee the independence and professional expertise of auditing. As part of our efforts risks associated with the company's business environment change risks, financial risks, HR risks and maintenance risks. to exclude any types of unreasonable influences, we analyze audit information and identify risk factors in various ways conduct of business are measured In addressing ‘business environment change risks’, we monitor detailed sales breakup of affiliated companies, sales such as evaluation of the internal accounting control system and feedback of its outcome, prior review and post check of in real time and managed in an growth rates and share of optional contracts of our business partners since they are indicative of our major customers’ official disclosure documents, prior audits of major job duties and budget execution, investigations into major accidents, integrated manner on a companychurn probability and the intensity of competition in the market. To deal with ‘financial risks’, we pay close attention to Shinmungo and Inconvenience Reporting and Action Center for Trading Partners. In so doing, we prevent risks and take wide level. sales risk indicators to manage variability in sales forecasts and cost of sales forecasts as well as liquidity indicators actions once they occur, building our risk management capacities and increasing transparency. to understand our short-term liquidity risks. In particular, to cope with growing currency exposure risks that come with expanding overseas business, we are measuring and monitoring currency risks through Value-at-Risk analysis. We set • Screen Capture of the Internal Control Internal Control System the maximum loss limits based on our operating profit (3%, 5%) in dealing with such currency risks and these criteria are Evaluation System Our internal control system intends to build transparency and reliability into the process to produce financial reports in stipulated in our currency risk management guidelines. To address ‘HR risks’, we ensure that technical certification rates, accordance with the Act on External Audit of Stock Companies. Our board of directors and auditors are briefed on how the involuntary retirement rates, and the percentage of current employees against the quota are aligned with the ERP system system is being operated and relevant information is made public through our business reports. In addition, we utilize the and managed in real time. Maintenance business risks are defined as risks associated with facilities serviced by KEPCO Internal Control Assessment Network (ICAN) to operate the internal accounting control system efficiently and encourage KPS and are managed separately from the ERM system. employees to take part in risk control activities on their own. Internal Control Assessment Network (ICAN) ■Establishment : December 2005 ■Serves as a company-wide control procedure design and monitoring system ■Ensures optimized operations of the internal accounting control system in accordance with the internal accounting control system standards • Screen Capture of Comprehensive • Screen Capture of Financial Risk Management • Screen Capture of Exchange Risk Management Evaluation of the Internal Control System : Improvements Identified and Actions Taken ERM Management (in detail) The revised ‘Act on External Audit of Stock Companies’ in 2009 stipulates that concerned companies should report on their internal accounting control system once a year, which was twice a year in the previous version of the act. As a supplement to the reduced reporting frequency, we evaluate the design and operation of the internal accounting control system twice a year in the first and second half respectively. Additionally, new systems such as the online tax invoice system and changes in business procedures are incorporated into internal accounting control activities in order to manage and evaluate the system in a more efficient and reliable manner. Our evaluations of the internal accounting control system in 2010 revealed 4 flaws, which were all addressed with appropriate actions. These correction cases are shared among departments at the head office and company-wide offices so that no such cases happen in the upcoming years and we continue to monitor the system and offer training to help our employees in charge of the system become more competent. • Screen Capture of Business Environment • Screen Capture of HR Risk Management • Results of Internal Accounting Control System Evaluations Risk Management Category 2008 2009 2010 Comments Made 24 6 4 Improvements Made 24 6 4 ※ In 2008, these comments and improvements were made twice in the first and second half respectively 18 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 19 Material Issue Awareness of Social Responsibilities Materiality Analysis • Materiality Analysis Process We analyzed internal and external environments to identify material issues of sustainability management that should be Identification considered in our activities of business. ■Analysis of industry peer data ● Procedure Our materiality analysis was performed in two phases of relevance analysis and significance analysis. Process ● Media Analysis We looked at news articles between 2008 and 2010 to understand how these media outlets covered major issues of ■Analysis of media reports ■Trend-Impact analysis ■Diagnosis of CSR ● Outcome social responsibility management and identified relevant issues. performance level A total of 101 issues identified through various analyses and interviews with external stakeholders were narrowed down In 2010, KEPCO KPS identified material ■Stakeholder interview to 60 issues. Out of these relevant issues, we finalized the 26 core issues through significance analysis based on internal/ issues in accordance with ISO 26000 ● Industry Peer Data Analysis external surveys. guidelines and based on these issues, We studied corporate social responsibility reports of 5 power plant and energy companies in Korea and overseas. We Materiality Analysis we finalized items to be contained in classified major issues these companies addressed in their report by ISO 26000 issues and relevant issues were then 4.40 Significance to Stakeholders Relevance analysis 02 our sustainability report. identified. ▼ Significance analysis 05 03 01 4.30 ● Sustainability Management Performance Assessment 13 • Stakeholder Identification 07 With the ISO 26000-based checklist developed by the Korean Standards Association as part of the project initiated by 04 12 the Korean Agency for Technology & Standards under the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, we evaluated our level of 4.20 16 11 performance in social responsibility management and identified relevant issues, primarily based on our vulnerabilities. 06 Identification of 19 10 08 24 ironmental E nv Core Issues 4.10 22 ● Trend & Impact Analysis 23 09 25 21 15 We surveyed our employees on major issues of social responsibility management in terms of trend, impact and R&C 26 20 18 Strategic 17 (Resource & Capability) and discovered issues where we are impacted or impact others and internal capacity issues. 4.00 14 Stakeholder Identification and Engagement 3.90 Core To make sure that we fully identify and engage stakeholders as emphasized by ISO 26000, we utilized ISO 26000 criteria to identify stakeholders and found material issues through interviews and surveys. 3.80 ● Stakeholder Identification ●Core Stakeholder Employees, Major shareholders, Korean power plants We followed 8 criteria suggested by ISO 26000 to identify our stakeholders. We categorized them into 3 groups : first, 3.70 they impact our performance, second, they are impacted by our performance, and third, they carry legal, financial and 3.70 3.80 3.90 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50 4.60 ●Strategic Stakeholder operational responsibilities. Government/Related public institutions, Labor union, Trend Impact Significance to KEPCO KPS SME business partners,General shareholders and ● Stakeholder Engagement 01. Opening of the power plant & maintenance market 15. Fair employment and employment relationships investors, Customers except for KEPCO affiliated We prioritized identified stakeholders according to the level of mutual economic, social and environmental impact and the 02. Accelerating technology development 16. Environmental pollution(including radiation), companies potential level of impact in the upcoming years. We also interviewed experts representing respective stakeholder groups 03. Extension of product and service responsibilities increasing waste ●Environmental Stakeholder that are high on the priority list in order to identify additional potential material issues. 04. Saturation in the Korean power plant & 17. Guarantee of basic labor rights NGO, Industry associations, Media, Knowledge To measure their level of interest and involvement in each issue, we surveyed each of our stakeholder groups on issues maintenance market 18. Fair and appropriate considerations of providers, the Socially underprivileged, Non-regular 05. Concerns over safety of nuclear power plants the quality of work conditions identified through the analysis of internal/external environments and stakeholder interviews. The outcome was used as workers, NPOs, Local citizens data representing stakeholder significance in the following stage of materiality analysis. 06. Declining trust in business 19. Increasing regulations and compliance costs 07. Increasing demand for transparency 20. Fair competition(unfair competition and monopoly) 08. Health and safety at workplace 21. Development of expertise, skills and development & 09. HR development and training opportunities at workplace contributions to local community through their application Category Communication Channel Main Issue 10. Expansion of emerging markets 22. Growing threats from competitive goods (growing income in developing nations) through technology convergence Joint customer workshop, Customer advisory council, Customer Satisfaction Contributing towards the creation of customer values, Providing services differentiated Customer Index, Service Quality Index from competitors 11. Increasing globalization and inter-connectedness 23. Depletion of natural resources(fossil fuels) 12. Expansion of socially-responsible investments 24. Electricity rates adjusted to realistic levels Employee Satisfaction Index, Informal meeting between the representative of labor Promoting global talents with global competitiveness, Respecting the dignity of our Employee 13. Growing importance of rights and roles of suppliers 25. Prevention of environmental pollution and management, Joint labor-management conference, Grievance committee employees, Human rights protection and gender equality, Win-Win labor relations 14. Growing importance of rights and roles of employees 26. Consumer health and safety Shareholder IR presentations, disclosure, earnings releases Enhancing nuclear safety, Expanding global business SME Support Committee, SME Support Center (SME Surveys, Business Partner Business Partner Fair Competition, Win-Win partnership This sustainability report outlines our activities at KEPCO KPS on material issues identified through the above materiality Screening Committee etc.) analysis process. Community Hanmaum Volunteers Supporting and strengthening ties with local communities 20 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 21 Sustainable innovation KEPCO KPS's endeavors to win the heart of customers, put customer communication as the top priority and conduct business transparently will drive the company's sustainable growth forward. KEPCO KPS needs to contribute towards the creation of customer values and provide services differentiated from its competitors. KEPCO KPS continues to exhibit world-class technology competitiveness in the face of the cutthroat competition in the global power plant market. The company is also recognized for its commitment towards customers and outstanding technical expertise of power plant maintenance. To ensure its sustained growth in the upcoming years, KEPCO KPS would need to become more active in developing new technology to deliver greater customer values and services differentiated from its competitors. It means that the company would benefit from enhancing its technology capacity and qualifications of its maintenance engineers. Soon-Beom, Lee, Deputy Manager at Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Business 2010 Business Performance In 2010, our sales grew by 4.6% from the previous year to KRW 842.5 billion thanks to increased maintenance orders of Mid/long-term Financial Goals Our mid/long-term financial plans intend to make KEPCO KPS become more proactive in coping with changing business Performance and hydro & thermal power plants and emergent maintenance services. Our operating profit rose by KRW 4.1 billion from the previous year to KRW 114.2 billion and net profit increased by KRW 2 billion to KRW 98.4 billion during the same period. environments internally and externally and our endeavors to achieve these goals also contribute towards enhancing corporate values and shareholder values. Under the mid/long-term financial plans set up in 2010, we aim to record Goals The rise in operating profit is primarily attributable to increased orders of emergent restoration work for hydro & thermal power plants. KRW 3 trillion in sales, KRW 1.24 trillion in overseas sales and an growing the operating profit to sales ratio to 18%. In addition, we are to make VISION 2020, our mid/long-term strategic management plan, a reality with the 3-year mid-term strategic management plan dubbed ‘MUV 2013’ set up to make the vision more viable. Main criteria we took into account • 2010 Business Performance (Unit : KRW 100 million) in making these financial goals are as follows : first, expansion in power plant facilities and transmission lines, plans for In 2010, KEPCO KPS's sales grew by Category 2008 2009 2010 Growth Rate against private power plant construction and growth in overseas orders for sales figures, second, costs in accordance with the 4.6% from the previous year to KRW 2009 performance (%) principle of matching costs with revenues and changes in labor costs associated with the number of employees for cost 842.5 billion. Under the company's Sales 7,639 8,052 8,425 4.6 figures. In the case of investments, we considered large-scale investments such as purchase of land and construction mid/long-term financial plan, KEPCO Gross Margin 1,120 1,511 1,581 4.6 costs regarding the government policy to relocate the headquarters of public institutions in a bid to ensure stable KPS aims to post KRW 3 trillion in operation of management funds in the mid and long term. Operating Profit 725 1,101 1,142 3.7 sales, KRW 1.24 trillion in overseas • Mid/long-term Financial Plan (Unit : KRW 100 million) 687 963 984 2.2 sales and growing the operating profit Net Profit Category 2009 Performance 2010 Performance 2013 2015 2020 to sales ratio to 18% by 2010. Sales 8,052 8,425 11,786 14,547 30,096 • Business Performance and Goals Performance by Business Areas Operating Profit 1,101 1,142 1,618 2,176 5,535 (Unit : KRW 100 million) Business Areas 2008 2009 2010 Growth Rate against Net Profit 963 984 1,523 1,927 4,684 35,000 2009 performance (%) Net Profit Margin(%) 12.0 11.7 12.9 13.2 15.6 30,000 Hydro & Thermal 3,212 3,372 3,601 6.8 • Dividends Paid Investments 542 562 1,527 1,323 1,372 25,000 Nuclear 2,718 2,876 2,917 1.4 1200 1,100 600 1,070 20,000 Transmission & Substation 533 553 610 10.3 1000 Distribution of Economic Outcomes 535 550 Technology Service Center 10.0 800 Interest Cost We have remained unleveraged in our conduct of business since 2001. In 2010, no interest cost occurred 15,000 645 589 648 800 400 400 and our interest revenues stood at KRW 15.9 billion, a KRW 600 million increase from 2009’s KRW 15.3 billion. Others 531 662 649 -2.0 495 10,000 600 (Overseas) (500) (632) (614) (-2.8) 482 Dividend In 2010, we paid a total of KRW 49.5 billion, which rose by KRW 1.3 billion from KRW 48.2 billion in 2009. 5,000 360 Dividend per share rose by 2.7% from the previous year to KRW 1,100 in 2010. Total 7,639 8,052 8,425 4.6 400 200 Donations Our donations grew by KRW 1.2 billion from 2009 to KRW 1.7 billion in 2010, which went to help the needy 0 ※ Others include (Overseas) 200 '08 '09 '10 '13 '15 '20 and support the establishment of KEPCO International Nuclear Graduate School. Sales Net Profit 0 0 Labor Costs Our labor expenses for 2010 stood at KRW 366.5 billion, which come down to KRW 328.4 billion except for Our hydro & thermal plant business recorded KRW 360.1 billion in sales, a 6.8% year-on-year growth, and this is mainly '08 '09 '10 KRW 38.1 billion for severance benefits. Per Share Dividend (Unit : KRW 1) due to increases in routine maintenance orders and emergency recovery work at Samrangjin and Shinincheon. Taxes The corporate taxes recorded in our balance sheet rose by 2.2% from the previous year to KRW 31.9 billion in Dividend Rate (Unit : %) The nuclear plant business saw a slight increase in sales thanks to the rise in the number of nuclear power plant Total Dividends (Unit : KRW 100 million) 2010. units in need of planned outage maintenance and the implementation of non-KEPCO affilliated companies and new commissioning maintenance projects in spite of a drop in routine maintenance orders. • Donations Government Subsidies (Unit : KRW 100 million) Our transmission & substation business rose by 10.3% from the previous year to post KRW 61 billion in sales. Its sales 20 KEPCO KPS received government subsidies for research projects on electric and nuclear power that are commissioned by 17 kept growing gradually due to increased routine maintenance and rising sales from HVDC converter station maintenance. the Korean government to ensure sustained development of the electric power business and stable supply of electricity. 15 Our Technology Service Center Business grew by 10.0% from the previous year to show KRW 64.8 billion in sales, We were awarded with KRW 1.9 billion regarding the ‘development of automation technology for macrography of which is attributed to the rise in regeneration of GT high-temperature components and the renovation of the Nuclear 10 tube sheet top of the W-F type steam generator’ in 2008, KRW 700 million regarding the ‘development of the foreign Power Technology Service Center that we undertook. 5 5 substances inspection and elimination system for nuclear reactor coolant systems’ in 2009 and KRW 500 million 5 Other businesses fell by 2.8% from the previous year to KRW 64.9 billion in sales as overseas business declined in sales regarding the ‘development of wind power plant suitable for upper resevoir areas’ in 2010. The balance was KRW 1.1 due to order delays. 0 billion as of the end of 2010 and there are a total of 7 on-going development projects. '08 '09 '10 24 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 25 Changes in the Changes in the Power Plant Maintenance Market The electric power plant maintenance market in Korea and overseas is expected to show continuous growth with Management Making Financial Data Internationally-reliable We signed the joint IFRS project agreement with 11 KEPCO affiliated companies under the supervision of KEPCO in Power Plant expansion of power plants to meet increasing demand for electricity and rapid development of new&renewable energy and nuclear power generation to suit the needs for low-carbon energy sources around the world. Meanwhile, we witness Efficiency March 2007. The 1st stage of the project was completed in March 2009 to set up plans to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) including the diagnosis of readiness for IFRS and tangible assets. Maintenance Market that the competition in the related maintenance market is growing ever fiercer. As a public enterprise, we are supporting small and medium-sized business partners with the orders we obtained and The 2nd stage of the project between June 2009 and April 2010 was for 7 companies (KEPCO KPS, KEPCO, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd., Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd., Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd., Korea Knowledge, Data & technology edge we gained in accordance with the Korean government’s policy to promote SME maintenance companies. KEPCO KPS makes progress on Network Co., Ltd. and KEPCO Nuclear Fuel Co., Ltd.) who built their ERP under the supervision of KEPCO to initiate joint These SME service providers, however, are evolving to compete against us on an equal footing nowadays. Multinational work to establish their IFRS-based financial systems. These systems were launched successfully on January 4, 2010 and sustainability management through maintenance service providers are also stepping up their pressure to open the Korean maintenance market for them to our settlement of accounts for 2010 followed both Korean GAAP and IFRS in compliance with the government policy that continuous efforts to make its conduct tap into through free trade agreements. mandates listed companies to meet IFRS. of business more efficient and proactive actions to address changing Expansion of Knowledge Management Systems Competition Conditions Market Size Competitors external environments. As a professional power plant maintenance service provider in Korea, we strive to incorporate processes to resolve Since the introduction of International high-level facility issues that may affect electricity generation such as unscheduled plant shutdown into our knowledge ■Overseas manufacturers and ■The growth of the Korean ■Overseas competitors : Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), management systems. Our company-wide knowledge management activities include unit-specific knowledge community multinational service providers electric power market is Multinational service providers the company built IFRS-based where knowledge required in each facility of nuclear power, hydro & thermal power and transmission & substation is are entering the Korean market reaching a plateau such as GE and SIEMENS ■Our Korean business partners ■Nuclear power and new/ ■Korean competitors : financial systems and is maximizing managed on an organizational unit level, knowledge community where respective units’ experiences of problem-solving are shared across the company and Q&A where office staff in charge seeks advice from experts with facility-specific are turning into competitors ■Hydro & thermal power plant renewable energy will play a central role in growing Our business partners management performance through the knowledge. business is expected to be the Korean power plant expansion of knowledge management more competitive after 2013 maintenance market In particular, our ‘package knowledge community’ aims to organize as hyperlinks the procedure forms, maintenance ■Nuclear power generation is to ■Overseas markets present systems and quality management cases, drawing and photos to help employees in charge of respective facilities to do their job and integrate them introduce partial competition growth potential innovations. into a single unit of packaged knowledge so that it can be utilized by successors or new recruits. The ‘Best Practice Communication System (We’re Tops)’ is to identify and share best practices on a company-wide level and the ‘Make Your • IFRS Financial System Job Easier Website’ is run in each unit to encourage knowledge-sharing between the head office and each site. These systems enable us to put together problem-solving capacities of individuals and organizational units into a systematic Overseas Markets with Increasing Growth Potential structure, develop successful business models for new projects and perform strategic business more effectively. As The global power plant market is worth more than USD 300 billion and emerging countries in the Middle East and India such, our knowledge management systems are process-driven in that they integrate the know-how and information that are forecast to expand their power plant facilities. In particular, the global market is expected to show 2.3% of annual individual employees gained while performing job duties into established processes. These critical data become part of average growth rate by 2035 and the number would be even higher at 3.3% in the non-OECD regions of the world. The our corporate assets and are shared across the board, boosting our competitiveness. majority of emerging countries in want of capital often promote IPPs (Independent Power Producer) to perform power plant projects and prefer outsourcing as most of them lack O&M (Operation & Maintenance) capacities, which presents more business opportunities in overseas markets for KEPCO KPS. We evaluated respective regions and nations based on their market attractiveness and internal capacity levels and promising target markets turned out to be Southeast Asia, India, Latin America and Africa. In Southeast Asia, its continued • Action Framework of Knowledge Management economic growth makes it highly urgent to improve the electric power infrastructure and its O&M market is expected to be worth KRW 1.7 trillion by 2020 with 3.6% annual average growth rate. India, our current major export market, plans to Vision Global Leading Business Partner for Green Energy Management increase its power generation capacity to 339 GW by 2035 due to the exponential increase in its electricity demand. KEPCO KPS's Response to Changes in the Power Plant Maintenance Market Enhancing Core Competence Assisting Problem-solving Improving Work Efficiency To grasp the opportunity and cope with the threats and thus ensure sustained growth, we strive to grow more competitive in existing business, expand overseas business and diversify business areas, posting continuous growth in sales. In Strategic Directions · Tasks Customer Pursuit of Focus on Talent Fostering Globalization particular, we opened overseas offices to lay the groundwork to expand our overseas business in a systematic and Satisfaction Innovation Technology ■Increasing service ■Synthesizing ■Addressing facility ■Allowing employees to ■Accumulating proactive manner and are concentrating aggressive marketing efforts on those selected target nations through the quality by turning knowledge and creating problems and learn on their own on experiences and analysis of business environments in respective countries. We also make sure that we promote individuals with global maintenance history new knowledge enhancing maintenance the spot knowledge regarding competence to support our expansion of overseas business in the mid and long term. into knowledge ■Sharing work standards technology competency ■Building a knowledge overseas business ■Enhancing maintenance and encouraging ■Maintaining on-site network among efficiently Our future plan is to make overseas offices in major foothold business areas separate entities and secure stable O&M workers’ skills through improvements technology competency employees ■Gathering and sharing projects by discovering investment candidates and making equity investments. We also aim to generate synergistic effects sharing of best by passing experiences information on global practices into successors business from our cooperation with KEPCO by carrying out O&M projects for the overseas electricity companies and power plants that we service. KM Vision Innovation infrastructure to achieve KEPCO KPS Vision earlier Initiatives to build an open-minded culture for individuals and the company 26 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 27 Efficient Management of Organization and Human Resources We seek to bring the utmost efficiency to the operation of the corporate organization and human resources in order to Customers Customer Satisfaction Management Strategy Our customer satisfaction management strategies are aligned with management strategies to meet management become globally competitive with enhanced core competence. The Business Management Division was newly established goals. The quality goals of ‘enhancing customer values’, ‘establishing quality management innovation systems’ and to improve management functions and units that perform similar functions were integrated : the Innovation Initiative ‘expanding quality competitiveness’ were set to achieve ‘MUV 2013’. To realize the vision to become a ‘Global Leading Department was merged into the Corporate Planning Department and the Technology Planning Department into the To embed customer satisfaction, the Business Partner for Green Energy Management’, we are working in a systematic way to enhance customer satisfaction Technology Research & Development Institute. In addition, to make existing business more competitive and secure new most important prerequisite to grow management systems, provide differentiated customer services and improve welfare/benefits and working environments. engines of growth, the previous Business Division was reorganized into the Maintenance Business Division and the New into a sustainable company, into our Our Service Identity (SI) ‘Feel the Master’s Touch’ was publicly declared and aligned with the Customer Charter framework Business Division and overseas offices in India and Indonesia were created to support functions of overseas business. to make it clear that we are fully committed to leading customer values and intend to focus our capacities to do so. The SI day-to-day operations, KEPCO KPS set The Strategy Investment Team was newly established for efficient operations of company-wide strategic business literally means that the touch of KEPCO KPS master engineers can even restart a halted machine to generate energy and the management principle of ‘focus including joint venture, special purpose company and equity investment in an effort to ensure we better cope with embodies our promise to offer differentiated values out of maintenance services and provide even better services to our rapidly-changing business environments. In operating human resources, we continue to hand over non-primary business on customers and markets’ and is customers, which helps improve our corporate image and earn customer’s trust. into the private sector, expand outsourcing in non-core business areas and improve maintenance techniques. We are engaged in wide-ranging activities to • Alignment between MUV 2013 and Quality Vision also hiring international lawyers and contract workers with expertise on negotiations and project financing, utilizing support customer success with new diverse recruitment channels to deploy the right individuals at the right timing. Additionally, we are bringing vitality to HR profits and values. Vision 2020 operations by introducing new performance-oriented HR systems. • Service Identity Quality Management Innovation MUV 2013 Enhancing Promoting Horizontal/Vertical Building the Competitiveness in Globalization Diversification Enabling We launched the Challenge 6 Sigma campaign as a company-wide quality management innovation initiative and our Existing Business Framework work efficiency is growing by 10% every year by identifying, eliminating and improving low value-added job duties. The ■Enhancing ■Advancing overseas ■Boosting the GT ■Upgrading the Challenge 6 Sigma campaign is made up of top-down 6 Sigma activities to produce management outcomes, bottom• Customer Charter competitiveness of business component reclamation organizational the hydro & thermal/ ■Developing the export and manufacturing operation framework up quality circle activities and making suggestions as an individual improvement activity. In particular, quality circle and nuclear power plant market-oriented business 6 Sigma activities are performed in the 5 stages of our own unique KPS Way and the entire process is managed and maintenance business nuclear reactor ■Promoting the nuclear ■Enhancing business/overseas reactor maintenance evaluated through online systems from uploading identified tasks into the issue pool to quality circle gatherings and competitiveness of nuclear power plant support automation presentations at the in-house quality management competition. Our employees are encouraged to take internal and the transmission & service business service industry substation business ■Developing and external training courses to become improvement experts every year and in-house improvement expert certification was operating specialization newly created in 2009. In 2010, improvement expert teaching materials were developed and relevant training courses are businesses up and running. These proactive quality management activities led to tangible benefits of KRW 22.4 billion in 2009 and KRW 26.1 billion in 2010 and also 4 awards including the Presidential Award and the Gold Medal at the National Quality Circle Competition. Quality Vision Establishing the Quality Expanding Quality Enhancing Customer Management Innovation Competitiveness Values Framework • VOC Utilization Systems A Must Quality campaign Challenge 6 Sigma campaign Be the Master campaign Customer Points of Contact ■Direct visits ■Phone calls ■Site ■Internet ■Satisfaction survey ■Monitoring ■Meetings ■Others Voice of Customers KEPCO KPS manages wide-ranging points of contact with customers in a systemized way to accurately identify customer ■■Customer recommendations ■■Customer complaints needs through Voice of Customers and takes immediate and appropriate actions. We gather VOC through such points ■■Customer suggestions ■ ■Customer information ■■Market information ■ ■Customer company trends of contact as face-to-face interviews, phone calls, various research work, meetings and websites. To gather VOC • Performance of Quality Management Innovation ■■Maintenance technology information and information of potential customer, we utilize sales calls, seminars, invitations and e-mail. We also maintain close relationships with diverse stakeholders including existing customers, partner firms and government institutions to obtain Theme Tasks Completed(No. of tasks) Suggestions(No. of suggestions) Performance(KRW 1,000) Activity ■■Comprehensive VOC Management System business and market data. Our VOC management system provides one-stop services with regard to VOC collected through 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 ■■Knowledge Management System ■■CRM System various channels and is aligned with the CRM system to support related data base management including customerQuality Circle 105 103 66 73 2,071,548 2,644,424 specific history. Such information is thoroughly analyzed and reflected in business operations for strategic purposes and Suggestions 5,420 5,033 18,737,319 17,130,118 ■Analysis by the Quality Management Department and other we perform VOC analysis in each site so that customer satisfaction activities at the points of contact are systematically business departments and offices ■Actions are taken immediately and feedback follows carried out. 6 Sigma 9 5 3 7 1,625,775 6,341,025 ■Actions are reviewed and opinion feedback is offered on Customer and market data that are constantly gathered and analyzed are shared in top management briefings, executive matters where actions were not available Total 114 108 5,489 5,113 22,434,642 26,115,567 meetings, strategic management meetings and site manager meetings. Corresponding actions are then decided in these meetings and taken immediately by concerned departments to reflect these data in business operations. Additionally, Use of Customer Information ■Reflected in CEO briefing and CEO policies/philosophy and outcomes of customer and market data analysis that has been conducted are considered in setting strategic management management plans and used for SWOT analysis. This process enables us to set goals, strategies and tasks we should pursue in the ■Used for sales operation of respective business departments and development/introduction of new technology mid and long term. 28 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 29 • Overview of the Be the Master Campaign Be the Master Campaign • Winning the Grand • Certificate of Excellent Our enterprise-wide ‘Be the Master’ campaign aims to carry out activities to reflect customer needs we gathered and Prize at the National Service Quality ● Customer Satisfaction Activity Best Practice No. 1 Leading Customer Values through Quality Management Customized Innovation Activities generate substantial outcomes. The campaign includes CS Quick Win Tasks, Joint Customer Workshop, Customer Contest ■Delivering profits to costumers through the reduction in planned outage maintenance project periods Advisory Council and CS Master activities. These endeavors have taken firm root at KEPCO KPS and are highly welcomed Our maintenance services deliver profits back to customers by boosting their productivity. With world-class by our customers and employees. maintenance technology capacity, we build and operate advanced maintenance systems to fundamentally The ‘Customer Advisory Council’ is set up at business departments of the head office and offices to gather VOC at the eliminate breakdown/outage and human error causal factors, integrated predictive maintenance systems CS Quick-win CS Master Tasks Activities points of customer contact, perform systematic customer satisfaction activities, promote customer relationships and and human error prevention systems in a bid to ensure efficiency and stability in facilities operation for ■Performing customer ■Enhancing customer reflect customer opinions in our corporate policies. The council started its operation in 2005 and selects external advisory our customers. Our ERP maintenance management system is aligned with customers’ systems to provide value-oriented innovation satisfaction mind-set/ activities capacities of all employees members who are customers in respective organizational units. We ensure that council meetings are held more than accurate maintenance information swiftly and this brought about innovative improvements to the business ■Expanding the basis for ■Improving maintenance company-wide customer services at the customer twice a year in each office so that these exchanges contribute towards our open-minded management. process of both KEPCO KPS and our customers, thereby enhancing productivity and customer satisfaction. satisfaction activities point of contact Be the Our ‘Joint Customer Workshop’ serves as an improvement activity carried out together with customers and aims to In particular, such systemized operations of maintenance systems reduced the number of KEPCCO KPSMaster promote open-minded management and maximize performance. Out of issues that concern both KEPCO KPS and our caused breakdown/outage to zero for 6 consecutive years. Additionally, planned outage maintenance project Campaign Joint Customer Customer customers, those that require improvements but are hardly addressed by KEPCO KPS or customers alone are chosen as periods declined by 318 days in total over the last 2 years (the number of power plant units was 219), Workshop Advisory Council ■Improving customer implementation tasks and how these tasks will be dealt with is determined by considering outcomes of previous year’s which substituted the construction of 428 MW-capacity power plant facilities and brought to our customers ■Building a culture of communication and relationships through VOC analysis. productivity boosts worth KRW 220.8 billion. cooperation with customers open-minded management • Induction to the Hall of Fame of the Korea Service ■Enhancing customer values ■Performing improvement The ‘CS Quick Win Tasks’ intend to elevate customer satisfaction on a company-wide level and lead customer values through the improvement of activities by reflecting Grand Prix concerned issues customer needs by reflecting customer needs and making improvements across the whole spectrum of our business operation. Tasks are selected based on the VOC analysis and internal monitoring and these ‘Quick-Win’ tasks that could lead to outstanding results without much effort encourage more of our employees to experience success and thus to upgrade their customer ● Customer Satisfaction Activity Best Practice No. 2 satisfaction mind-set and improvement capacities. ■Improving maintenance service quality through the development of procedure forms for hydro & thermal power plants • Year-on-Year Customer Satisfaction Trend Performance of Customer Satisfaction Management Joint Customer Workshops that intend to improve mutually aligned business operations between KEPCO KPS 100 Our customer satisfaction index (CSI) survey began in 2001 when we just introduced customer satisfaction activities in and our customers helped us to make innovative improvements in procedure forms and operation systems order to measure and improve the level of customer satisfaction and survey techniques have been upgraded continuously. for hydro & thermal power plants, which benefited greatly both our customers and KEPCO KPS. Today, we carry out diverse research activities such as service quality index (SQI) survey and planned outage maintenance We previously had 4,636 maintenance procedure forms to service 5 hydro & thermal plants who are our 90 customer satisfaction survey in addition to CSI survey. major customers and these documents were difficult to utilize and highly burdensome to manage because In particular, we became aware of the importance of customer communication regarding planned outage maintenance • Joint Customer Workshop they presented only narrative information for respective machines. Through joint customer workshop services that are the largest in scale in our service profile and have been conducting customer satisfaction surveys for activities, we reduced the number of procedure forms to 100 by integrating them by models and developed 80 the projects since 2006. These surveys are performed by respective KEPCO KPS offices in charge of planned outage flow-chart procedure forms so that they are efficiently used and managed. To disseminate and share these maintenance projects. Survey questionnaires filled out by customers right after project completion help us measure their newly created procedure forms and to make them more readily available, we are holding presentations satisfaction level and find out issues to deal with and improvement performance is managed. These achievements are at offices and operating maintenance keeper systems, cross approval systems and customer consultative 70 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 considered in evaluating business performance of KEPCO KPS offices to encourage them to continue with their customermeetings. These endeavors led to increased maintenance service quality, helping our customers operate KEPCO KPS Government-owned Companies oriented improvement activities. Quasi-government institutions Other Public Enterprises their facilities more stably and manage procedure forms more efficiently. We also benefited by preventing human errors and achieving productivity gains worth KRW 5.4 billion a year. Survey Results • Customer Advisory Council Survey Names 2008 2009 2010 Customer Satisfaction Index 94.7 93.1 95.4 • Flow Chart-type Procedure Form • Human Error Prevention System Service Quality Index 9.45 9.43 9.64 Data Management/Analysis Inspection of Preventive Activity Performance ■Analysing what caused human error-related accidents ■Compliance with human-error prevention guidelines These accomplishments were widely recognized : we were awarded with the Grand Prize at the highly prestigious ■Uploading data on maintenance/facility/human factors ■Management and monitoring of human error prevention National Quality Awards, inducted into the Hall of Fame of the Korean Service Grand Prix and received the certificate of excellent service quality from the Korean government. Reporting/Data Uploading Supervising Establishment of Comprehensive Implementation of Comprehensive Prevention Measures Prevention Measures ■Creating measures to prevent human error-related ■Training to nurture human error prevention experts accidents-Making video teaching materials Disseminating ■Establishing human error preventive guidelines ■Building preventive techniques applicable to ■Sharing cases through ERP daily operations 30 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 31 Technology Mid/Long-term Technology Development Vision and Roadmap We set up our ‘KEPCO KPS 2015 Mid/Long-term Technology Development Plan’ in December 2008 to focus our Mid/Long-term Technology Development Roadmap To respond to an on-going shift from the repair of failures to preventive and predictive maintenance in power plant Development technology development capacity on 4 major projects of new growth engine technology, diagnosis and analysis evaluation technology, maintenance optimization technology and gas turbine maintenance technology, which led to the completion maintenance paradigm, we are determined to enhance our R&D capacities and further advance our power plant maintenance technology, positioning KEPCO KPS as a leader in future technology. Our mid/long-term R&D plans aim to Strategy of 13 technologies including nuclear power plant small-diameter socket welds UT equipment development. In an effort to achieve our ‘VISION 2020 & MUV 2013’, we plan to push ahead with technology development by focusing on the 4 respond to a new paradigm in the power plant maintenance business including the development of core technology to boost exports. With continued R&D investments, we are working closely with related organizations in the electric power To ensure sustainable growth and major projects of robotics/automation development and operation technology, maintenance advancement technology, industry and creating wide-ranging synergistic effects in the areas of R&D and HR development. development, KEPCO KPS set up maintenance support technology and gas turbine/specialization business technology, 15 middle projects and detailed ‘KPS 2020 Mid/Long-term minor projects under our ‘KPS 2020 Mid/Long-term Technology Development Plan’. • R&D Investments (Unit : KRW 1 million) R&D Investment Plan Our mid/long-term technology development plans that intend to produce a new power plant maintenance paradigm are Technology Development Plan’ to • KPS 2020 Mid/Long-term Technology Development Plan Category 2008 2009 2010 bringing about outstanding achievements in gaining independence in maintenance engineering technology development. build sophisticated maintenance 2020 Vision Global Leading Business Partner for Green Energy Management R&D Investments 33,610 36,235 39,599 In particular, we have been expanding investments in research facilities, advanced equipment, R&D budgets and technology systems and enhance professional researchers. Our R&D investments have kept growing from 4.4% in 2008 to 4.5% in 2009 and 4.7% in Strategic Enhancing competitiveness in Horizontal/vertical diversification Building the enabling framework Sales 763,873 805,243 842,544 preventive maintenance capacity, Directions existing business Expanding globalization in related industries 2010. We are to ensure that these R&D investments continue to be at the 5% level of our total sales in the upcoming R&D Investment Rates(%) 4.4 4.5 4.7 taking the lead in technology Period 2011 ~ 2020 years, which will help us secure advanced maintenance engineering technology. development in the upcoming years. Robotics/Automation Major development and Maintenance Maintenance support Gas turbine/Specialization Mid/Long-term R&D Investment Plan for Nuclear Power Plant Maintenance Support Automation Projects advancement technology technology business technology • R&D Organizational Collaboration • Percentage of Respective Projects under the 2020 operation technology Services Mid/Long-term Technology Development Plan The Fukushima nuclear power plant accident on March 11, 2011 alerted us to the importance of remote response Reactor, Steam generator, Other primary parts of system in case of nuclear power plant emergencies and we chose nuclear power plant maintenance support automation Hydro & thermal plants, Building maintenance Component manufacturing, Common nuclear power plants, R&D Business Middle Nuclear plants, management systems, Component reclamation, service technology development as one of our strategic development areas. While we mainly depended on foreign-made Nuclear 13% Chemicals, Decontamination, 18% Projects Transmission & substation, Maintenance support/diagnosis New and renewable energy R&D Center equipment, we started the development of proto types and now evolved into the level where we are developing our own Decommissioning, Secondary Transmission GT Technology Electric power IT analysis, Evaluation technology •Technology Research & & Substation Service parts of nuclear power plants, Development Institute (Researchers) proprietary models. KEPCO KPS 2020 mid/long-term technology development plan includes robotic systems that are 3% Center Hydro & thermal plants •Technology Solution Center, Nuclear New and 17% Power Technology Service Center, GT applicable not only to power plants in operation currently but also APR1400s, export-oriented model for the UAE market, Renewable Technology Service Center (Experts) Nuclear 3% Minor Projects 32 projects 22 projects 28 projects 21 projects which will ensure stable operations of nuclear power plants and boost exports as well. We also aim to adopt the mid-entry •Training Center, Human Resource Power Plant Automation Development Center(Trainers) strategy in our R&D efforts to save investment resources and generate outcomes rapidly. 30% Hydro & Thermal 16% Solution Training • Example of the R&D Mid-Entry Strategy • Mid/Long-term Basic Technology SCR, Semiconductor Metal composition, Base metal and welding Insulator Technology Development properties, Alloy rod : Connections and characteristics Roadmap Manufacturing changes in properties Mid-entry Technology SCR, Semiconductor, Stress analysis through WPS/PQR development Selection of insulators Sensor technology ANSYS program through the ASME/ASTM and reinforcement analysis technology Outcomes Reactor vessel head Pressurizer heater Underwater laser Analysis of boiler penetration inspection sleeve maintenance welding robot combustion efficiency system technology • R&D Investment Plans for Nuclear Power Plant Maintenance Support Service Automation (Unit : KRW 1 million) Budgets Category Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Investments 8,003 7,407 7,183 5,471 3,291 1,531 806 1,155 1,079 464 36,390 32 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 33 Technology Technology Development System • Certificate of Electric New Technology • R&D Process Advancement Framework To make our R&D activities more efficient, we have specialized technology development systems up and running that ■Review of the Technology Human resources, Development enable each R&D unit to fully focus on their specialty areas. • R&D System Development Committee Facility, R&D expenses System Technology Research ■New engine of growth Development Application & Development Strategy, Special research projects ■Lifetime evaluation and diagnosis PreTechnology Institute ■Nuclear, hydro & thermal common technology Needs Methods and PostFeed Back analysis Development Chosen analysis Technology Development Department In charge of technology development Nuclear Power Nuclear power plant main equipment ■Reactor coolant pump ■Steam generator Technology Service maintenance technology development ■Reactors and subsidiary facilities Center ■Existing technology ■Overlapping with ■Research Cooperating ■Effectiveness of GT Technology Gas turbine regeneration and ■Repair, regeneration, rehabilitation Feedback manufacturing/Localized ■Component localization getting out-of-date prior technology & development organizations developed technology Service Center maintenance technology development ■Component lifetime extension ■New facilities ■Need for ■Acquisition of at home and ■Analysis of emerging development developed technology abroad outcomes and needed Grid system maintenance ■Power plant facility diagnosis and efficiency ■Possibility of ■Business feasibility -Technology cooperation improvements Technology Solution Center technology development improvement creating new areas of after development -Training Maintenance engineering services ■Maintenance engineering • International Patent maintenance services -Purchase of equipment ●Patent Name : ■Nuclear power plant on-site maintenance On-site maintenance Stud bolt hole cleaning Offices ■Hydro & thermal plant on-site maintenance technology development ■Transmission & substation on-site maintenance and management Joint R&D and Technology Exchange system for inspection • Data on R&D Staff and damage history In an effort to introduce advanced overseas technology, we signed agreements for technology and business cooperation Human Resource Development Center/ ■New engine of growth Experts Researchers (Unit : No. of persons) Training Center Nuclear Maintenance Training Center ■Lifetime evaluation and diagnosis ●Country/Year of with leading power plant service providers and also concluded MOUs of technology cooperation with the Korea Training R&D ■Nuclear and hydro & thermal common technology Registration 3 17 Electrotechnology Research Institute (KERI), the Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute (KAERI), Seoul National University Korea(2010), Japan(2010) and Myongji University to build industry-academy partnerships. In addition, we are an active subscriber of such technology Technology Research & Performance Analysis of Technology Development Development Institute service providers as the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), SceinceDirect, Korean Industrial Standards webservices, Our mid/long-term technology development plans were set up in 1990 and they led to 586 cases of technology 29 1 and DBPIA to get access to latest technology information and trends for research activities. development projects completed by 2010. These endeavors gave us 69 core technologies, which are utilized in providing maintenance services to Korean power plant facilities and overseas power plant maintenance projects. In particular, we • On-going Technology Cooperation in Korea and Abroad (As of Jan. 2009-Jun. 2011) Technology Solution Center will strive to acquire our own localized technology in the nuclear power plant and gas turbine areas where we depended Regions Partners Target Technology Date of Partnership Conclusion much on manufacturers, upgrading our engineering technology competitiveness. 11 Preventive maintenance of structural weld overlay (SWOL) May. 2009 • Data on Research Projects (As of Dec. 2010, Unit : No. of Projects) • No. of IPR Registrations Overseas Westinghouse Reactor coolant pump (RCP) maintenance technology Aug. 2009 GT Technology Office-level Technology In-house Projects Commissioned Projects 604 Service Center Year Development Projects 576 Advanced scale conditioning agents (ASCA) technology Apr. 2011 545 28 New On-going Completed New On-going Completed New On-going Completed 523 KERI Industry Applications Research Division MOU on lifetime evaluation and reliability enhancement Oct. 2009 509 2008 11 24 6 1 9 3 43 43 KAERI Nuclear Industry Technology 48 28 MOU on nuclear power plants Jun. 2010 Nuclear Power Korea Development Division 2009 22 Technology Service Center 20 34 8 7 12 3 54 54 14 17 Myongji University Next Generation Power 2010 MOU on industry-academy partnerships Feb. 2011 16 46 15 2 11 3 46 20 26 Technology Center ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 Total 47 104 29 10 32 9 143 20 123 Accumulated Number New Regisrations(No. of registrations) ● Roles of R&D • Subscription at Technology Service Provider (As of Jan. 2009-Jun. 2011) Regions Providers Target Information Joining Date Maintenance Paradigm Maintenance Paradigm • KEPCO KPS Intellectual Property Rights Restore to original condition Upgrade & restore to original condition (As of Dec. 2010) EPRI EPRI’s technology information and data Jan. 2009 Technology Development Strategy R&D to Create a New Technology Development Strategy Overseas Present Category No. of Items Future Technology development to meet project needs Maintenance Service Creating project seeds through technology develpment. ScienceDirect Overseas papers/academic information Dec. 2010 Maintenance Techniques Paradigm Maintenance Techniques Patents in Korea and Overseas 279 Korea Standards Association Korean Industrial Standards (KS) May. 2009 ■Manual work ■Mechanization, Automation, Unattended operation Korea ■Disassembly and assembly ■Diagnostic analysis, Reliability assessment, Lifetime evaluation Utility Model 325 DBPIA Korean papers/academic information May. 2009 ■Restoration to original conditions ■Remodeling, Refurbishment, Efficiency improvement Subtotal 604 Technology Solution Center Nuclear Power Technology Service Center GT Technology Service Center Programs 16 Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) ■Diagnostics, Efficiency improvement Development of specialized nuclear technology such as Development of specialized GT technology including coating and reverse Electric New Technology/Safety Mark 6 ■Development of specialized technology ISI, RCP and S/G engineering Since our first IPR application in 1993, we have strived to turn the knowledge we accumulated into value-added assets including maintenance engineering Papers 221 in a bid to enhance maintenance technology and R&D outcomes, protect and develop the technology that we own and Subtotal 233 cope with changing business environments such as the opening of the plant maintenance market. Thanks to these endeavors, we have a total of 604 registrations of intellectual property rights including 2 Electric New Technologies and 3 Technology Research & Development Institute Total 837 ■■Mechanization, Automation, Robotics technology ■■Development of project infrastructure tecnology such as diagnostics/analysis/assessment international patents as of 2010. 34 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 35 Global frontier KEPCO KPS will stand tall in the global market as a world-class company through the expansion of overseas business supported by aggressive marketing endeavors. KEPCO KPS would benefit from a more aggressive advance into the overseas market. Since the Korean power plant market is almost being saturated, the company needs to become more active not just in Korea but also abroad in tapping into new market potential. KEPCO KPS’s achievements in the global market have been positively recognized and particularly, its power plant maintenance technology has reached world-class levels. It is my sincere hope that with such outstanding technology competency, KEPCO KPS would grow into a world-renowned maintenance service provider. Hae-Yeun, Chung, Assistant Director, Ministry of Knowledge Economy 36 2010 KPS sustainability REPORT 2010 KPS sustainabilit REPORT 37 Global Business Global Business Strategies and Goals • Mid/Long-term Overseas Business Strategic Goals to Become a Global Leader Boosting the Competitiveness of Existing Overseas Business With our growing overseas business, we are setting up more overseas offices. Currently, we have 10 offices in 5 countries Strategy Year 2011 2013 2015 2020 including India and continue to expand business abroad via the systemized operation of long-term business offices and the creation of local footholds. In addition, our overseas business management systems and risk management systems Sales Goals KRW 100 billion KRW 180 billion KRW 300 billion KRW 1.24 trillion enable us to manage overseas business in a systematic way and to make our work process faster with online systems. ·Ambitious marketing geared towards new overseas markets ·Building the overseas business infrastructure Strategies Chosen as a Partner for the UAE Nuclear Power Plant Project ·Boosting competitiveness of existing overseas business In accordance with the contract between the Korean and the UAE government to export nuclear reactors to the UAE ·Fostering globally competent and talented workforce signed in December 2009, 4 APR1400 (1400MW) units will be constructed in Braka, the UAE, with the unit No. 1 to KEPCO KPS's objective is to increase be completed by May 2017 and the rest 3 to be installed one by one per year by 2020. KEPCO KPS’s role here will its overseas sales and become a be to provide diagnosis and maintenance services for special areas such as commissioning maintenance, training for Marketing Strategy for New Overseas Markets global leading business partner for We apply differentiated market access strategies to different countries in order to grow our overseas business. Our UAE maintenance personnel and pre-service inspections. In a bid to train and qualify our maintenance personnel to green energy management through marketing activities primarily focus on O&M projects and equity investments in Southwest Asia(India and Pakistan), and be dispatched to the UAE and to train local maintenance personnel in the UAE, we are working hard to build advanced the systemization of overseas planned outage maintenance projects, rehabilitation projects and equity investments in Southeast Asia and Oceania. In training systems and to develop career paths and selection criteria to choose and nurture those to be sent to the UAE. We business support infrastructure and addition, our sales activities are geared towards rehabilitation projects, planned outage maintenance projects and routine also plan to set up a joint venture maintenance provider with the UAE. As we are considering to service thermal power the aggressive overseas marketing maintenance in Africa and planned outage maintenance projects, O&M projects and equity investments in the Middle plants and industrial facilities in the Middle East, we expect the joint venture to perform as an outpost to further expand initiatives, which will support the East. the maintenance market that we serve. company's management goal of In order to evolve into a global service provider, we are focusing on O&M projects, engineering projects and equity Global Business Achievements globalization. investments. In particular, our future O&M strategy is to be expanded to cover a full range of services (MCR & BOP Thanks to the aggressive marketing strategy to promote globalization of our business, one of the strategic directions of facilities operation + maintenance, supply of materials) while our previous strategy was limited to BOP facilities operation our VISION 2020, our overseas business sales rose 3.94-fold from KRW 15.5 billion in 2006 to KRW 61.1 billion in 2010. and maintenance without supplying materials. Our plan for engineering projects is to expand the scope of business The overseas long-term business offices we secured (10 offices in 5 countries including Wardha, India) laid a stable basis into performance diagnosis of aging plants & life assessment and large-scale rehabilitation with supply of materials. In to enter overseas markets and KEPCO affiliated companies were able to increase their joint overseas orders from KRW making equity investments, we aim to provide differentiated services to meet specific market needs and tap into niche 92.9 billion in 3 countries in 2007 to KRW 180.7 billion in 9 countries in 2010. market sectors through the expansion of business opportunities including O&M and EPC projects via minority investments This accomplishment is attributable to the world-class maintenance technology expertise of KEPCO KPS that support of 5~20%, participation in power plant projects such as BOT and ROM, and expansion of overseas business such as customers in enhancing their capacity factors and our CEO’s proactive sales initiatives including the invitation installation and acquisition of local repair shops. of international figures to grab promising business opportunities abroad. Other contributing factors are our price competitiveness that ensures more efficient maintenance services compared to our competitors and the systematic Building the Overseas Business Infrastructure maintenance service back-up systems that help us deal with critical facility issues and present solutions. We are fully committed to building the overseas business infrastructure to increase orders abroad including the systemization of overseas business organizational structures, the operation of separate business units dedicated to overseas business and strategic partnerships with companies with specialized overseas business capacity. First, in order to establish more systemized overseas business structures, we expanded the Overseas Business Team with 16 employees to the Overseas Business Department with 3 teams and 44 employees. We also strive to hire individuals with expertise in respective areas such as new project development, project operation and project analysis and management and our Overseas Risk Management Committee is up and running as well. • Aerial View of the Nuclear Power Plant to be Built in the UAE, Korea’s First-ever Export of Nuclear Power Plant Second, the Global Service Office was newly created with 4 teams and 39 employees as a dedicated unit for the execution of overseas business, which improved the effectiveness of our HR operation for overseas business in supplying professional maintenance personnel who meet customer needs. Last but not least, to ensure strategic partnerships with companies that have expertise on overseas business, we signed the MOUs on overseas business cooperation with 6 overseas companies including Rotek Engineering of South Africa and also concluded the MOUs on overseas business with 5 Korean companies including Hyosung. BELGIUM USA IRAQ CHINA PAKISTAN INDIA PHILIPPINES MADAGASCAR BRAZIL AUSTRALIA SOUTH AFRICA 38 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 39 Expansion of Global Our Performance in Major Overseas Markets We achieved another success in Eraring coal-fired plant (capacity : 2,640MW, manufacturer : Toshiba) in Australia where The success in the GMR diesel power plant O&M project in India in 1998, the first-ever order we won in the country, we offered planned outage maintenance services for 10 years from 2001. In particular, we won the contract for plant Business brought us increased trust in our technology expertise in India and this translated into more O&M orders in other regions of the nation from 2007. The Daharki combined cycle power plant O&M project in Pakistan was our first full-scale O&M performance enhancement (output increase : 660MW→700MW, 6% improvement in output) in september, 2009 and completed the project successfully. This demonstrated our technological excellence once again in Australia. project which included supply of materials and is touted as a representative example that recognized both our technology competitiveness and customers’ trust in our service. Our overseas markets are expanding beyond the Philippines, India Our advanced technology and differentiated maintenance services were also recognized in South Africa. The nation was and Australia into Africa (Sudan, Nigeria, South Africa, Madagascar) and the Middle East. faced with a challenge to reorganize its electric power system before the FIFA World Cup 2010 and while the short-term With KEPCO KPS's customer-centered • Our Long-term Contract O&M Projects technical service project we carried out in the country was supposed to be terminated in May 2008, the client company management, the philosophy of topdecided to extend the contract to the end of December 2008 since they were highly satisfied with the service quality we quality service and the hands-on Country Project Name Project Period Contract Amount (KRW 100 million) Facility Capacity delivered. This laid a strong bridge-head for us to tap into the electric power plant maintenance market in South Africa know-how KEPCO KPS staff have Jharsuguda O&M Feb. 2008 ~ Jan. 2015 736 1,215MW and we were able to serve as a hidden contributor to the success of the 2010 World Cup. accumulated for more than 30 years, Chanderiya O&M Oct. 2004 ~ Sep. 2013 394 248MW the company is meeting wide-ranging Our technical skills have been widely recognized since our first O&M project in Pakistan in 2008 and our maintenance Vemagiri CCPP O&M Jul. 2005 ~ Dec. 2013 134 388MW needs of customers. India services are demanded by many companies in the country. We have successfully completed the planned outage BALCO O&M Mar. 2009 ~ Apr. 2014 278 540MW maintenance project for Lal Pir thermal plant (capacity : 365MW, manufacturer : MHI) owned by AES, the technical advisory service project for BQPS thermal plant (capacity : 210MW, manufacturer : Hitachi) owned by KESC and the Wardha O&M Dec. 2009 ~ Jul. 2020 765 540MW technical advisory service project for SABA thermal plant (capacity : 134MW, manufacturer : Toshiba) owned by SPLC. GMR O&M Jul. 1998 ~ Mar. 2009 310 200MW Currently, we are working to win the contract for the planned outage maintenance project of Pakgen thermal plant (capacity Pakistan Daharki CCPP O&M Feb. 2009 ~ Sep. 2027 822 175MW : 365MW, manufacturer : MHI). Madagascar Ambatovy O&M Aug. 2009 ~ Feb. 2017 360 135MW Our Vemagiri O&M office in India, one of our main overseas business markets, exceeded the guaranteed level (92%) Phillippines Ilijan CCPP Maintenance Jun. 2002 ~ Jun. 2012 349 1,200MW of plant capacity factor stated in the contract to reach 92.37% between 2009 and 2010. According to CENTRAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY data in April 2010, Vemagiri combined cycle power plant ranked 1st in terms of availability as a Successes in Overseas Business gas-based plant, which proves that our technical expertise is met with increasingly higher appraisals. In the Bayswater coal-fired plant (capacity : 2,640MW, manufacturer : Toshiba) planned outage maintenance project in Australia that started in 1999, we succeeded in advancing into the power plant maintenance market for the first time that had been exclusively dominated by the manufacturer (Toshiba, Japan) for 15 years. Our successful 12-year track records • Conclusion of the Bayswater planned outage • CENTRAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY in the maintenance project since then earned us absolute trust from the customer and the contract was further extended maintenance Project Contract of Australia in 2010 for another 3 years on October 26, 2010. Chanderiya Thermal PS Vemagiri CCPP Jharsuguda Thermal PS ●O&M Project ●O&M Project ●O&M Project -248MW (ST : 77MW×2, -388MW (GT268MW+ -1,215MW (135MW×9) 80MW×1, 9MW×1, 5MW×1) ST120MW) -Vedanta Aluminum Ltd. -Hindustan Zinc Ltd. -Vemagiri Power Gen. -ST&BLR : Shanghai -BHEL (Siemens) -GT : GE9FA, ST : Alstom -Feb. '08~Jan. '15 (7) -Oct. '04~Sep. '13 (9) -Jul. '05~Dec. '13 (9) BALCO Thermal PS Wardha Thermal PS Daharki CCPP ●O&M Project ●O&M Project ●O&M Project -540MW (135MW×4) -540MW (135MW×4) -175MW (GT115MW+ST60MW) -Bharat Aluminum Co. -Wardha Power Co., Ltd. -Foundation Power Co., Daharki Ltd. -Dongfang -Dongfang -GT : GE9E, ST : Fuji -Mar. '09~Apr. '14 (5) -Dec. '09~Jul. '20 (11) -Feb. '09~Sep. '27 (19) Ilijan CCPP Ambatovy Thermal PS ●Routine Maintenance ●O&M Project -1,200MW (GT200MW×2 -135MW (45MW×3) 2Blocks+ST200MW×1 2Blocks) -DMSA -KEILCO -Siemens -GT : MHI (501G) -Aug. '09~Aug. '15 (6) -Jun. '02~ 40 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 41 Green Energy Management KEPCO KPS promises to create a flourishing future where every human being is happy through sustained green management activities. KEPCO KPS needs to create the awareness that nuclear power plants are maintained safely. KEPCO KPS, an unrivaled power plant maintenance service provider in Korea, is known for its effective management of safety facilities at all of its worksites. Nevertheless, we see threat factors increasing over nuclear power plants due to the Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan. In spite of these concerns over nuclear safety, we have no option but to depend on the electricity power generated from nuclear power plants. In order to ease these concerns, the safety of nuclear plant maintenance should be the top priority. The first thing to do is to reassure local residents living near the nuclear plants and the general public. KEPCO KPS’s role here is to deliver even better maintenance services to ensure the safety of nuclear power plants. Seung-Woo, Kim, Senior Analyst, Samsung Securities Co., Ltd. 42 2010 KPS sustainability REPORT 2010 KPS sustainabilit REPORT 43 Eco-friendly Maintenance of Environmental Equipment at Power Plants • Routine Maintenance Performance procedure forms are developed and initial data on test operations of equipment such as vibration measurement are We provide such specialized maintenance services as routine maintenance, planned outage maintenance, modification & (Unit : No. of cases) systematically managed so that environmental impact is minimized and the plant is fully ready for commercial operation 5,479,945 Maintenance rehabilitation and commissioning maintenance for power plants in Korea that are commercially operated after their initial 5,336,722 test-run operation. At thermal power plants, our service scope covers flue gas desulfurization, flue gas denitrogenization, 5,032,513 Routine Maintenance electrical precipitation, comprehensive wastewater treatment facilities, coal fly ash prevention equipment and other We provide preventive and predictive maintenance services to prevent breakdown/outage through advance inspections of environmental pollution control facilities in a bid to reduce environmental impact of power generation processes to facility abnormalities during operation or stoppage and also rapid rehabilitation services in case of unplanned breakdown KEPCO KPS's maintenance services the minimum. We service a total of 24 nuclear power plants in Korea including 16 pressurized water reactors (PWR), of facilities to ensure normal operation of power plants. for environmental equipment at 4 pressurized heavy water reactors (PHWR) and 4 test reactors and our perfect maintenance services help raise their 59,870 53,609 • Routine Maintenance Performance (Unit : No. of cases) power plants aim to minimize their capacity factors, contributing to replacing fossil fuel consumption and cutting GHG emissions. 47,593 environmental impact. With perfect Korean nuclear plants recorded a capacity factor of 91.2% in 2010, much higher than the world average of 79%(as 28,789 Category 2008 2009 2010 22,161 maintenance services for nuclear of 2010). Such improvements in capacity factor lead to less use of fossil fuels, which in turn brings about remarkable 16,017 Preventive Inspections and Maintenance 5,032,513 5,479,945 5,336,722 power plants, the company boosts reductions in GHG emissions. '08 '09 '10 Trouble Memo (TM) Issuance 47,593 53,609 59,870 these plants’ capacity factor and thus • Life Cycle Carbon Dioxide Equivalent Emissions by Power Plant Types (Unit : g-CO2 eq/kWh) Preventive Inspections and Maintenance Work Order (WR) Issuance 16,017 22,161 28,789 help reduce GHG emissions. Trouble Memo(TM) Issuance Coal Oil LNG PV (Photovoltaic) Bio Hydro Wind Nuclear Work Order(WR) Issuance 991 782 549 57 70 8 14 10 Planned Outage Maintenance Planned outage maintenance aims to prevent plant facilities from coming to a unexpected outage and is carried out ※ Source : Nuclear Energy Outlook 2008, OECD/NEA regularly to perform facility disassembly, inspections, assembly and capacity testing while the operation is suspended in We have a systemized management system for environmental equipment maintenance services : commissioning accordance with mid/long-term maintenance plans of the power plant and relevant regulations & technical standards. maintenance in the initial stage of power plant operation, routine maintenance performed during operation or stoppage, Planned outage maintenance project is the largest in size among all the maintenance projects that we perform at KEPCO and planned outage maintenance where plant operation is suspended and equipment is disassembled for checkup KPS. Our systematic process management and productivity enhancement technology come together to shorten planned regularly. outage maintenance periods, which replaced the construction of a 109MW power plant in 2010, and this contributes to reducing our environmental impact. In addition, decreased planned outage maintenance project periods translated into Commissioning Maintenance longer facility operations for customers and created KRW 69.9 billion in profits for our customers (calculated with the The scope of our maintenance services includes commissioning maintenance, which takes place in the final stage average selling price of KRW 73.09/kWh in 2010). of power plant construction, and this ensures the soundness of commercial operation after the test run. In order to • Shortened Planned Outage Maintenance Periods effectively maintain and manage the installed facilities up to the point of commercial operation, we carry out preventive Category 2008 2009 2010 examinations, support testing of various systems and equipment and perform emergent rehabilitation work that may be needed during the test-run period for mechanical, electrical and instrument & control equipment. In addition, maintenance Units Serviced (No. of Units) 123 114 105 • Commissioning Maintenance for the Gas Turbine Reduction in the No. of days (Day) 154 222 96 at the Combined Cycle Power Plant • Environmental Equipment Layout at Thermal Power Plants Benefits (MWh) 1,094,328 1,805,472 955,779 Indoor boiler Average Selling Price (KRW/kWh) 78.76 83.59 73.09 building Indoor turbine building Benefits (KRW 100 million) 862 1,509 699 Steam turbine Stoker Boiler Flue Gas Generator Denitrogenization (Selective Catalytic Condenser Reduction) Voltage : 345kV Shinsiheung s/s Fly ash drag chain conveyer Flue Gas Electric Desulfurization Transformer precipitator Fly ash Chimney • Planned outage maintenance for the Turbine • Inspection during the Mock-up Operation at the • GT Rotor Spool Balancing Switch Yard Pulverizer Wastewater collection Fly ash storage Nuclear Power Technology Service Center • Predictive Diagnosis of the Air Compressor at the tank Bank Thermal Power Plant (Vibration Inspection) Shelter forest Shelter forest Earth-sheltering Tap water in the metropolitan Water Sprinkling treatment Coal loader area : 33,000 tons/day facility facility (closed-type) (water in-taking at Paldang Dam) Stocking Closed-type conveyer Hoan intake pump station coal Coal ship Reclaiming Coal coal yard Coal Deep intake duct Reuse Desulfurization water Comprehensive Ash handling water Underwater drain wastewater treatment facility Flue Gas Electrical Flue Gas Coal Fly Ash Comprehensive Denitrogenization Precipitation Desulfurization Prevention Wastewater Facility Equipment Facility Treatment Facility 44 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 45 Contributions of Eco-friendly Management KEPCO KPS has continued to foster professional technical personnel and deploy cutting-edge and highly productive New and Renewable Need for the Development of New and Renewable Energy As the responsibility to reduce GHG emissions becomes a reality for countries around the world and the fossil fuel energy equipment for testing, inspections and maintenance services in a bid to minimize environmental impact and enhance reliability of our power plant maintenance services. Such endeavors drove KEPCO KPS to grow into the unequaled total Energy market keeps fluctuating, new and renewable energy is emerging as an important energy source. The global competition is growing ever fiercer to dominate the technology and the market of new and renewable energy accordingly. The Korean plant service provider in the world that is capable of service all facilities of hydro, thermal and nuclear power plants. We government announced its ‘new and renewable energy industry development strategy’ in October 2010 and is making also established advanced maintenance management systems to reduce breakdown/outage and optimize maintenance KEPCO KPS is pushing ahead with its full-fledged efforts to promote this emerging industry. services, which base the stable operation of plant facilities, and have strove to increase plant capacity factors and R&D projects to find new engine of minimize breakdown/outage through the improvement of maintenance environments. All of these efforts enabled us to growth for the future including new Progress in New and Renewable Energy Business continue One Cycle Trouble Free (OCTF) operations. We are committed to expanding and distributing new and renewable energy facilities with the technology capability and renewable energy in addition The OCTF operations mean continuous operations of all plant facilities including environmental facilities without any we accumulated in our traditional plant maintenance business, doing our part in promoting ‘low-carbon green growth’. to boosting competitiveness of its shutdown of the plant between planned outages for planned outage maintenance and are directly indicative of the level of Our new and renewable energy business began in February 2006 with the registration as a RESCO (Renewable Energy our unequalled maintenance service quality. traditional business of power plant Service Company) for photovoltaic and wind power generation and we set up the New & Renewable Energy Center in maintenance. February 2007 to be in charge of our new and renewable energy business. We were chosen as an exclusive service • Nuclear Power Plant OCTF Rates • One Cycle Trouble Free (OCTF) Performance (Unit : %) provider for wind power generators by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy in April 2007. Currently, we are registered as (Unit : %) 90.9 a specialized company in the 11 areas of photovoltaic power, wind power, bio, geothermal, ocean, small hydro power, fuel 88.9 Plant Type 2008 2009 2010 77.8 cells, coal gasification, hydrogen, waste and other energies and further expanding the scope of our business. Hydro & Thermal 100 91.3 88.6 Nuclear 88.9 77.8 90.9 Period Progress Made Total 97.9 89.1 89.1 May. 2005 Launching an in-house venture in new and renewable energy '08 '09 '10 Feb. 2006 Registered as a specialized photovoltaic and wind power company In case of nuclear power plant the number of OCTF operations stands at 92 between 1978 when the first commercial Starting the New & Renewable Energy Center, operation of nuclear plants began in Korea and 2010 and this demonstrates that we are highly qualified in all areas of Apr. 2007 Designated as an exclusive service provider for wind power facilities by the Korean operation, maintenance and management of nuclear power plants. We are seeking upgrade of maintenance capability, improvement of vulnerable facilities and outage optimization based on our 35-year experiences of nuclear operation. We government (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) also built regular maintenance programs in accordance with the Nuclear Energy Law and are considering radioactive Jan. 2009 Integrating the New & Renewable Energy Center and Domestic Plant Service Office safety, industrial safety and facility safety as the top priority in performing refueling and the planned outage maintenance, May. 2009 Registered as a RESCO in 9 additional areas including bio which led to highly successful track records in the industry. Mid/Long-term Roadmap for New and Renewable Energy Business We incorporated new and renewable energy business into ‘VISION 2020’, our mid/long-term strategic plan, and plan to diversify our new and renewable energy business portfolio from existing areas of facility EPC, maintenance and distribution projects aligned with the Korea Energy Management Corporation(KEMCO) into component development projects and others, achieving KRW 49 billion in sales by 2020. • Mid/Long-term Roadmap for New and Renewable Energy Business Basic Infrastructure Promotion Expansion Establishment ■Period : 2010~ ■Period : 2013~ ■Period : 2015~ ■Period : 2018~ ■Domestic market ■Wind power projects ■IGCC projects ■Global Competitiveness projects in Korea ■Sales of equipment ■Entering the overseas market ■Sales goal : KRW 28.7 billion ■Building business ■Sales goal : KRW 12.3 billion ■Sales goal : KRW 16 billion infrastructure ■Sales goal : KRW 3.2 billion 46 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 47 New and Renewable Energy Business • Bio Green Energy Fund Agreement • Participation in the Bio Green Energy Fund to Start Bio Business In order to lead the untapped future market of new and renewable energy, we are working on new and renewable energy In May 2011, 19 public institutions including KEPCO KPS and private sector businesses in Korea concluded the facility EPC projects including photovoltaic power, wind power, bio and IGCC, maintenance projects and KEMCO-related agreement to create the KRW 750 billion Bio Green Energy Fund and decided to invest in energy recovery and GHG • Inauguration Ceremony for the PV Generator distribution projects as well as human resources development and R&D to secure technology. reduction business including biomass. We expect that the fund will allow us to systematically respond to GHG reduction in Dokdo projects in Korea and overseas, bringing about economic benefits. • Photovoltaic EPC Business The business scope covers the design, procurement, construction and post management of photovoltaic(PV) plants. We Technology Investment in New and Renewable Energy are building a total PV business solution framework including business feasibility analysis to cope with the expansion of We aim to lay the basis to expand our new and renewable energy business through the development of our own core the RPS market in the future and to develop PV business. technology and to continue to foster technician staff and carry out R&D activities. ■Major PV EPC Business Results ·2007 : Seocheon Thermal Power Plant’s building an 1.2MW PV power plant and the New & Renewable Theme Park ● Promotion of Technical Staff ·2008 : 1.9MW PV plant built in Gochang, Jeollabuk-do • R&D Project on Wind Power Generators ■Major Training Programs ·2009 : 1MW PV plant built in Youngdeok, Gyeongsangbuk-do · Vestas wind power facility O&M training in 2009 ·2010 : 950kW PV plant built in Goheung, Jeollanam-do · Siemens wind power facility O&M training in 2010 · Wind farm operation training in 2011 • Maintenance of the Wind Power Generation · Special training on new and renewable energy construction between 2010 and 2011 Facility in Yangyang PV Generator Set up in Dokdo (2009) Working with the KEMCO and the Korean Electrical Contractors Association, we constructed an eco-friendly 55kW capacity photovoltaic generator with our remarkable technology skills in Dokdo, a symbolic space ● R&D Projects of territorial rights and a clean, unpolluted area, serving our role to protect this National Monument island ■Major R&D Projects more effectively. · Development of Photovoltaic tracking systems in consideration of ground subsidence in 2008 · Development of 30-degree tilt single-axis photovoltaic tracking system in 2009 · Development of wind generators suitable for the upper reservoir of Cheongpyeong pumped storage • New and Renewable Power Plant Maintenance Business • MOU on the Photovoltaic RPS Market Partnership hydroelectric power station The efficiency and lifetime of new and renewable energy facilities vary greatly depending on their post management. As a professional power plant maintenance service provider, we are operating systems to hire technical personnel and support expert staff who can be deployed in the right position at the right time in order to elevate the efficiency of these facilities Business Partnerships in New and Renewable Energy to the highest-possible level. Currently, we are capable of servicing wind, photovoltaic and hydro power facilities and plan We are forging strategic business partnerships in our new and renewable business including the development of core • IGCC Business Consortium Agreement to provide unrivaled maintenance services in the whole spectrum of new and renewable energy business. technology and business development. They will enable us to secure the basis to expand this emerging new business and maximize synergistic effects for our sustained growth in the upcoming years. ■Signing the MOU on the photovoltaic tracker business partnership in 2009 • Maintenance Performance of New and Renewable Energy Facilities (Unit : MW, as of 2010) ■Signing the MOU on the photovoltaic RPS market partnership in 2011 Category Photovoltaic Hydro Wind Total Maintenance Capacity • Business Outcomes by Year (New and Renewable Energy EPC) 9.4 24.2 3.0 36.6 (Unit : KRW 1 million, MW) Category 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 합계 Sales 3,614 7,315 13,293 13,519 4,775 42,516 • Entry into IGCC and SNG Business We concluded the IGCC and SNG business agreements with KEPCO and KEPCO affiliated companies to reduce carbon Construction Capacity 0.5 1.3 2.4 2.3 1.4 7.9 dioxide emissions in May 2011, laying the basis to secure advanced technology of IGCC and SNG facility maintenance. 48 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 49 Environmental Environmental Management System The vehicles owned by 60 KEPCO KPS sites including the headquarters are 314 diesel vehicles (passenger cars, vans, KEPCO KPS is a professional electric power facility maintenance service provider including of hydro & thermal, trucks and special-purpose vehicles) and 69 gasoline vehicles. Their number is rising with the expansion of our business Performance nuclear and other types of power plants and transmission & substation facilities, which means that we do not own nor operate these facilities but provide them with our maintenance services. We work with power plant companies scope and thus GHG emissions are increasing accordingly. Our continued endeavors to reduce GHG emissions are supported by energy use management of our office buildings (electricity, steam, kerosene, LPG and LNG) and increases in (KPECO and 6 other power plant companies, private power plants in Korea and overseas power plants) in operating onenergy efficiency. KEPCO KPS's company-wide site environmental management systems within the power plants that we service in accordance with the established • GHG Emissions environmental management environmental guidelines. The by-products generated from maintenance services are disposed of in full compliance with systems ensure the efficiency and relevant guidelines of our customers and we apply highly stringent criteria in dealing with these by-products including Category Unit 2008 2009 2010 separation and recycling regulations. objective reliability of environmental Direct GHG Emissions Metric tonnes of 2,147.50 2,514.94 2,126.89 Our GT Technology Service Center is equipped with its own facilities and the environmental management system up and • Management of Vehicle GHG Emission CO2 equivalents management. Such systems reflect Indicators (Gasoline, LPG, Diesel) running independent of customers. The center was certified with ISO 14001 for international environmental management the company's continued efforts for a systems on September 28, 2002. (Unit : tCO2eq) Indirect GHG Emissions Metric tonnes of 2,263.78 2,151.05 2,265.32 CO2 equivalents sustainable future. We set up plans to build integrated ISO 9001 & 14001 systems for the headquarters and the GT Technology Service 2,459 2,500 2,383 Center in April 2011. This was followed by the development of integrated manuals and procedure forms and they were 2,089 2,077 • Environmental Management 2,000 System Certificate successfully certified with both ISO 9001 & 14001 on July 24, 2011. Management of Waste and Hazardous Substances In an effort to manage and reduce GHG emissions and energy consumption according to government guidelines, we are 1,500 The daily and industrial waste we generate is treated in accordance with proper disposal procedures through the building online management programs aligned with our in-house management performance evaluation systems. reduction of the amount generated and the separation for recycling. There has been no single leak of waste, oil or 1,000 hazardous substances for the past 2 years. Hazardous chemicals are managed under the control and procedures of Climate Change Adaptation 500 environmental management officers : they are listed in the MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) registry from the stage of After the Korean government’s guidelines on GHG & energy target management and operation in the public sector under purchasing and their residual amount is listed as well. To make sure that these harmful substances are managed safely, 0 the Basic Act on Low Carbon and Green Growth were established and announced in January 2011, we started to list our '07 '08 '09 '10 we set up the emergency response and prevention framework to cope with emergencies any time. GHG emissions and energy consumption regarding fuel use of all vehicles we own at KEPCO KPS and our office buildings in the National Greenhouse Gas Management System. Action plans are set up to meet targets in reducing GHG emissions and energy consumption and they are incorporated in evaluations of management performance at KEPCO KPS. Our GHG emission baseline figure is the 3-year average between 2007 and 2009 in the amount of fuel used by vehicles in our possession at KPECO KPS and our plan is to cut GHG emissions by 4% a year for 5 years between 2011 and 2015, which will add up to a total of 20% cut in 2015. • National Greenhouse Gas Management System • ISO 14001 Certification • In-house Evaluations of Energy Consumption in 2011 (Buildings) (Unit : TJ) (http://gov.gir.go.kr/index.html) Evaluation Target Name of Office Type of Energy Fuel Baseline between '07~'09 2011 Goal Reduction Rate (3-year average) (based on the 4.0% reduction rate) (4.0%) Setting up Action Plans Developing Developing Manuals ISO Certificate and Directions Procedure Forms Electricity 3,949.42 3,791.44 4.0% ■Operation scope ■Environmental ■Developing ■Making the application Head Office, Busan ■Operation procedures procedure forms environmental manuals ■Evaluations and inspections TS Office, Daegu TS Steam 4,796.82 4,604.64 4.0% ■Review/Approval ■Obtaining the certificate Buildings in KEPCO Office, Gwangju TS KPS Possession Only Office, New Renewal Kerosene 83.29 79.96 4.0% Energy & Plant Service Center Butane 3.22 3.10 4.0% LPG 9.92 1.05 4.0% * Power production ratio by energy source in Korea consists of nuclear 31.4%, coal 41.9%, LNG 21.8%, oil and renewable energy 5% in 2010 • GHG Management System • In-house Evaluations of Energy Consumption in 2011 (Vehicles) (Unit : TJ) Evaluations Target Name of Office Type of Energy Fuel Baseline between '07~'09 2011 Goal Reduction Rate (3-year average) (based on the 4.0% reduction rate) (4.0%) Setting Basic Plans Developing Systems Incorporating Operating Systems Head Office Systems into In(Departments) Gasoline 307.00 294.72 4.0% ■Management Targets ■Building management ■Quarterly performance ■Operation procedures systems on EP house Evaluations management Hydro & Thermal ■Developing and using ■4% cut a year (Group 1, 2, 3) KEPCO KPS evaluation indicators Nuclear (Group 1, 2) Transmission & Diesel 2,389.64 2,294.05 4.0% Substation and Other 50 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 51 Enhancing Nuclear KEPCO KPS's Role in Nuclear Power Plant Maintenance • Nuclear Power Plant Safety Enhancement Building a Stronger Culture of Nuclear Safety Since the commercial operation of Gori Unit No. 1 started, we have accumulated experiences in servicing nuclear power Framework As a world-leading professional maintenance service provider, we fully comply with relevant regulations, recommendations Safety facilities upgraded our maintenance technology and continued to invest in technology development over the last 35 years, positioning ourselves as a leader in the Korean power plant maintenance industry with world-class technology Operating Plants Safely and Enhancing Safety of regulatory authorities and safety culture policies of plant operators in order to ensure perfect maintenance services for safe operations of nuclear power plants. Our culture of safety helps to create an open-minded environment where all competence. Nuclear power plants are usually run on the following cycle according to the nation's power development individuals and organizational units in charge of maintenance services can share every piece of safety-related information plans that reflect long-term electricity consumption : establishment of master plans, site selection, licensing, plant without any constraint. We also hold the ‘Day of Nuclear Safety’ every month as a cultural campaign to raise the safety design, equipment procurement & fabrication, construction, commissioning, commercial operation and decommissioning. awareness of maintenance workers. We are building sustainable safety culture systems to make sure that a culture of Our maintenance services ensure that these facilities are maintained and managed in optimum shape during their Developing safety regarding plant operation would take firm root in all of our nuclear offices. Growing Awareness operation life so that their functions are performed properly and operated as designed. Together with plant operation, our Expertise of of Social Maintenance maintenance services play a pivotal role in keeping nuclear facilities working continuously. Our technology level is higher Responsibility Workers Real Name Maintenance System Our real name maintenance system, runs as part of our efforts to build a stronger than 95% of that of advanced nations and we are capable of servicing all types of equipment without manufacturers’ Ensuring Failureculture of safety, allows our staff to be more attached to and responsible for the facility they are in charge of. Under this help. For those technology areas where we are not fully independent, we strive to increase R&D and establish a culture of free Operation system, facilities whose maintenance services are completed are marked with the names of maintenance workers, the through the Perfect staff safety in a bid to bring our technology to perfection and secure our own source technology. date of maintenance and detailed maintenance services. This enables more responsible maintenance services and real• Shingori Unit No. 1 and No. 2 under Construction Maintenance • Nuclear Business Performance in 2010 Services time management of maintenance workers, which in turn enhances reliability of the maintenance services we offer and Organizing Strengthening the culture of safety as well. Type of Maintenance Performance Maintenance Activities to Prevent Service Systems Human Errors Staff Qualification To help our maintenance workers improve their expertise, we provide respective basic, practical and Power Generation expert training courses in each facility category and operate professional qualification systems based on staff competency. Equipment 95% (18 Units : 100%, 2 Units(Uljin Unit No. 5 and No. 6) : 55%) Routine Maintenance Instrument In so doing, we improve our maintenance service quality, prevent safety accidents and ensure safe operation of facilities 20% (2 plants : Younggwang Unit No. 5 and No. 6 / Wolsung Unit No. 3 and No. 4) & Control we service. Planned outage maintenance Planned outage maintenance for 16 Units (power generation equipment and instrument & control) • Conceptual Diagram of Integrated Strengthening Maintenance Services Management Systems Our maintenance services management systems are up Commissioning Maintenance On-going for 4 Units of Shingori and Shinwolsung Predictive Maintenance and running to prevent unexpected outage. Based on case studies of top-performing nuclear plants overseas, our on-site maintenance experiences, and guidelines of government regulatory authorities, these systems are run on 7 components Minimizing Nuclear Safety Risks of procedure forms, guidelines of basic maintenance items, workpackage, pre-job-briefing(PJB), on-line maintenance Nuclear power takes up 40% of Korea’s power generation and does its own part in ensuring stable supply of power. records management, facility-specific expert groups and integrated predictive maintenance. The effectiveness of We have been working hard to establish advanced maintenance management systems such as pre-job arranements procedure forms that greatly influence the reliability of maintenance services is regularly evaluated and their quality for perfect maintenance services and provision of feedback and uploading of maintenance records in database once is continuously upgraded through the feedback of issues identified during maintenance and the incorporation of new maintenance is completed. We have also striven to prevent breakdown/outage, train our staff to prevent human errors, technology and latest information. share technology for power plant maintenance, and set up mutual cooperation systems. These continuous pre-cautionary Regular Training To prevent human errors and improve workmanship of our staff, we train our staff on human error endeavors to minimize risks enabled us to reduce KEPCO KPS-caused breakdown/outage to zero for 6 consecutive years. prevention procedures, human error cases, re-work cases and human error prevention techniques, develop video training • Nuclear Power Plant Failures Trend for the Last 5 Years materials and offer regular training. This allows us to fundamentally eliminate causes of human errors and identify and • ROSAⅢ improve vulnerability factors. Category 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 No. of Units in Operation 20 20 20 20 20 Minimizing Radioactive Exposure of Workers through Radiation Safety Management Breakdown/outage (No. of cases) 11 12 7 6 2 The objective of radiation safety management of nuclear plants is to protect plant workers from radiation and minimize Breakdown/outage per Unit (No. of cases) 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.3 0.1 the leak of radioactive substances to the outside environment, thereby minimizing their impact on local people and surrounding environments. To meet this objective, we carry out mock exercises under the same conditions as the actual KEPCO KPS-caused Breakdown/outage (No. of cases) 0 0 0 0 0 worksite to reduce maintenance hours and remove the need for any re-work in high-radiation sectors. We also develop and utilize special-purpose tools and equipment such as remotely operated maintenance robots (ROSA III : Remotely • Advanced Maintenance System Layout Operated Service Arm III) in a bid to reduce radioactive exposure and improve the quality of maintenance services. Maintenance Procedures Pre Job Briefing (PJB) Follow Maintenance Post-Job-Critique • No. of Breakdown/outage of Korean Nuclear Power Plants and No. of Units in Operation (Source : website of the Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd.) Before Maintenance During Maintenance After Maintenance ■Standardization, Segmentation, ■Check maintenance work to do Procedures ■Identify needed improvements Specialization ■Human error causal factors ■Set improvement measures 20 20 Advance Arrangements Peer Review Units in Operation 100 Basic Maintenance ■Review hazardous risk factors 18 18 No. of Breakdown/outage per Unit Guidelines 16 16 ■Machinery/Electricity/Measurement FME (Foreign Material 14 14 Exclusion) Work-package 12 12 ■Technical information 10 10 ■Equipment history ■Site conditions 08 08 Advanced Maintenance Feedback 06 06 Information Sharing Systems ■Reflect needed improvements after maintenance 04 04 (ERP-KMS) Fundamental elimination of ■Share maintenance experiences ■Revise maintenance procedures (if necessary) breakdown/outage and human error 02 02 causal factors Creation of Data Base of Maintenance Records 00 00 '79 '80 '81 '82 '83 '84 '85 '86 '87 '88 '89 '90 '91 '92 '93 '94 '95 '96 '97 '98 '99 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 52 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 53 Sharing Value “KEPCO KPS pursues equal partnerships with all its stakeholders and dreams of a beautiful world where we live in harmony with the happiness of sharing” It is imperative that KEPCO KPS would seek joint growth with business partners in the overseas market. Business partners play a critical role in expanding KEPCO KPS's business and achieving growth in the overseas market. KEPCO KPS engages with wide-ranging stakeholders including customers, employees, business partners and local communities where it operates. Specifically, it is important that KEPCO KPS consider its business partners as an equal partner to pursue mutual interest in achieving joint growth. KEPCO KPS is known to have friendly relationships with plenty of business partners, assisting them with maintenance technology development and tapping into the overseas market together. KEPCO KPS’s win-win partnership with business partners in exploring new business opportunities abroad together will help the company take off as a world-renowned total plant maintenance service provider sooner. KPECO KPS is also able to offer basic technical jobs to local people, creating employment and improving the quality of life for local stakeholders. By making such corporate philanthropic contributions, KEPCO KPS may fully meet its social responsibility as a public enterprise. Mong-Sep, Lee, CEO of Ace Power Utility Service Co., Ltd. 54 2010 KPS sustainability REPORT 2010 KPS sustainabilit REPORT 55 Fair Competition Fair Competition We are expanding our e-procurement, improving our contract-related programs and systems continuously, building Win-Win Partnership KEPCO KPS Vision for Win-Win Partnership ethics awareness and increasing the share of human rights evaluations in order to ensure transparency and customer KEPCO KPS Vision Global Leading Business Partner for Green Energy Management satisfaction in the contracting process. KEPCO KPS is fully aware of the KEPCO KPS is fully committed to joint importance of joint growth with its Expanding E-procurement growth with its busness partners, Support for SMEs Maximizing Corporate Values and Improving Korean National Competitiveness business partners based on win-win The construction projects, services and purchases worth over KRW 3 million are obligated to make electronic contracts fulfilling its social responsibility for through Win-Win Partnership and contracts worth over KRW 10 million are subject to competitive bidding, which leads to continued increases in partnership and committed to meeting sustainable development. KEPCO e-procurement. its social responsibility with various KPS shares its vision for win-win projects to support its SME partners. • Expansion in E-procurement (Unit : %) partnership with these SME business 100 94.5 96.3 partners and carries out various 91.3 cooperation projects, helping SMEs KEPCO KPS SMEs 90 enhance their competitiveness and ■Meeting social responsibility ■Building capacity to stand self-sustainability and playing a stronger role ■Enhancing corporate on their own ■Improving technology 80 competitiveness development competency '08 '09 '10 ■ Improving the quality of power ■Enhancing stable plant maintenance services management • Supplier Relationship Management(SRM) Improving Contract Programs and Systems To be a Clean Company through the transparent and fair contracting process, we continue to improve relevant systems. • Annual Action Plans for Win-Win Partnership KEPCO KPS SRM (Supplier Relationship Management), our e-procurement system, initiated the real name contract program and we allow online submissions of 2-phase bidding documents. We also introduced the electronic open noncompetitive contract system. Dissemination 2009-2010 Win-Win Partnership System ■Strengthening win-win partnership systems ■Screening ■Establishing procedures to support SMEs procedures regarding construction were streamlined (Apr. 2008) ■Building successful win-win partnership models KEPCO KPS External Organizations ■Real name system was introduced in SRM for e-procurement (Mar. 2009) ■Expanding performance-sharing systems ■SRM cost estimation system was upgraded (Mar. 2010) and giving preference to participating companies ■Expanding support for human resources CEO Government ■Online submissions of 2-phase bidding documents were allowed (Sep. 2010) development of SMEs CEO’s Firm Commitment Government’s Proactive Policies ■Electronic open non-competitive contract system started (Dec. 2010) ■Expanding financing support for SMEs SME Support Committee SME Support Council of Affiliated Companies Building Ethics Awareness and Expanding Human Rights Evaluations Selecting support projects and participating SMEs Sharing information on In assessing business partners, we look at not only their performance track records and construction capacity but also Institutionalization 2007-2008 SME support projects ■Establishing win-win partnership systems their compliance with human rights regulations. These human rights evaluation items include violations of fair competition, ■Setting up procedures to support SMEs safety management practices, incidence of safety accidents, ethical management practices, late disbursement of wage, ■Disseminating examples of win-win partnership Working-level Committee Integrated SME Support ■Introducing and establishing performanceon Technology SME Support Website Systems of Affiliated appropriateness of labor expenses, annual labor fluctuations, and labor input. Starting from 2011, we are to add such Development Promotion Introducing support projects Companies sharing systems SME Support evaluation criteria as efforts in enhancing technology competitiveness (percentage of staff who took training courses on ■Expanding support for SMEs’ finding new Selecting research projects and gathering suggestions Managing public procurement and participating SMEs Center markets performance safety, quality and job duties and those who obtained national technical license certificates), comments made on radiation Setting up SME • Purchase of Eco-friendly Products ■Expanding joint overseas projects with SMEs support plans (Unit : KRW 1 million) safety management and the availability of staff in charge on the site. and managing Business Partner 3,000 2,779 performance SME Surveys Screening Committee Surveying satisfaction Selecting SME business 2,000 1,842 Purchasing Eco-friendly Products partners levels with support projects 1,778 Eco-friendly products refer to those green products as defined in Article 2 Sub-paragraph 5 of the Basic Act on Low Introduction 2006 1,000 Carbon Green Growth that make greater contributions to saving resources and reducing environmental pollution ■Building win-win partnership systems ■Creating a separate unit for SME partnership Working-level Committee on compared to its counterpart products or services that meet the same purpose. We are working to increase the share of Public Procurement Promotion Affiliated Companies’ ■Building consensus over win-win partnership 0 Setting up plans to purchase SME products Meeting to Expand Public '08 '09 '10 eco-friendly products in our purchasing list and doing our part in protecting the public health and safety. initiatives Procurement and managing performance ■Strengthening site-based support ■Training on maintenance technology and transferring technology Internal Evaluations of ■Supporting SMEs in building quality Management Performance Evaluating purchasing performance assurance capacity of SME products 56 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 57 Win-Win Partnership Programs and Outcomes Social Contribution Social Contribution Strategy Our social contribution strategies are set up to be more proactive in meeting our social responsibility and responding to Support for Technology Development social issues (social welfare areas specifically) with wide-ranging stakeholders as a company that grows together with the We support our SME partner firms in carrying out joint R&D projects, applying for intellectual property rights, acquiring general public. We ensure that our contribution are carried out in a systematic manner through the organization of the innew technical license certificates and building quality assurance capacity in a bid to promote their technology house volunteering group (Hanmaum(One-Heart) Volunteers) and the financial and systematic support at the company level. development and help establish systematic quality systems. • Evolution of KEPCO KPS Social Contribution Activities Performance of Social Contribution Initiatives • Expanding Purchase of SME Products in Public Support for Finding New Markets Funds are raised for our corporate philanthropic activities through the angel funds that are voluntarily created by KEPCO e-Procurement To ensure stable conduct of business of these SMEs, we put their products first in line in making purchasing decisions KPS employees and the matching grant system where the company donates the same amount as the angel funds. Our (Unit : KRW 1 million) and work together in performing overseas projects, assisting them in improving their global competitiveness. social contribution activities move beyond mere financial support into more substantial beneficiary-focused activities with 250,000 5,000 225,123 the expansion of professional and general volunteer work. 205,991 2010 ~ 200,000 4,000 Support for Haman Resources Development ■Initiating global social contribution 176,518 3,885 3,521 To improve SME partners’ technology competitiveness and ensure stability of power plant operations, we introduced the activities 150,000 3,000 ■Promoting the company’s • Performance of Social Contribution Activities qualification system for assistant maintenance workers. We also offer training courses to enhance maintenance capability representative social contribution 14,000 13,457 13,222 41,899 40,462 100,000 2,000 of these business partners and commission professional training institutes to provide job training to SME partners. program 12,548 1,592 12,879 38,083 12,000 50,000 1,000 Support for Financing 10,000 8,377 8,413 To ensure stable management of our SME partners, we make payments as soon as possible, invest in and operate win8,000 0 0 '08 '09 '10 win cooperation funds and offer assistance regarding network loans and business partner loans. Products manufactured by SMEs 2009 6,000 ■Performing social contribution Products produced through technology development projects activities through the selection and 4,000 2,916 3,211 Support for Improving Management Capacity concentration 2,240 ■Continuing with local cooperation 2,000 8.4 7.7 8.5 We support SMEs with management consulting services and quality certification in order to improve their selfprojects(professional volunteer work) sustainability and quality competitiveness. 0 '08 '09 '10 '08 '09 '10 • No. of Qualified Assistance Maintenance No. of Activities (No. of cases) No. of Volunteers (No. of persons) Volunteering Hours (hr) Volunteering Hours (hr/volunteer) Workers • Support for Obtaining Quality Certificates (Unit : No. of cases, KRW 1,000) Financial Value of Volunteer Work (KRW 100,000) (Unit : Accumulated No. of persons) 500 Category 2008 2009 2010 455 • Details of Social Contribution Activities ~ 2008 No. of Cases 1 4 5 ■Diversifying participating programs 399 ■Setting communication channels 2008 2009 2010 388 400 Amount of Support 2,000 11,750 15,000 Type of Social Contribution Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Amount Percentage (KRW 1,000) (%) (KRW 1,000) (%) (KRW 1,000) (%) Performance-sharing Systems Professional Service 36,754 4.4 94,510 11.24 73,196 5.68 300 '08 '09 '10 Our performance-sharing systems aim to seek joint growth with our SME partners and create mutual interest and Education and Culture 7,780 0.9 9,656 1.15 15,542 1.21 they include the designation and preferential purchasing of SME products selected for development and KEPCO KPS Local Community 35,051 4.2 119,325 14.18 76,955 5.98 technology transfer & support for commercialization. We identify candidate products to be developed with SMEs, KEPCO KPS Hanmaum cooperate in developing these selected products and if the commercialized products prove their outstanding performance, Volunteers Environmental Protection 10,863 1.3 2,206 0.26 564 0.04 they are given precedence when we make purchasing decisions. This encourages SMEs to develop new products and Donations 747,288 89.2 615,575 73.17 1,121,580 87.09 also ensure the quality of our maintenance services. We also transfer unused technology to SMEs and support them in • Social Contribution Strategy commercializing such technology, which contributes towards mutual technology cooperation. Supporting and Strengthening Ties with Local Communities We put in place the institutional foundation for joint growth with our SME business partners. We will further operate wideranging win-win partnership programs and push ahead with win-win management practices, helping SMEs in improving Structure Funds People Technology Customers Government their competitiveness and maintaining sustainable partnerships in the upcoming years. ■Local volunteer groups ■Angel funds/ ■Local community/ ■Electric/Mechanical technology ■Plant Tours ■Participating in energy Matching grant funds Education and culture/ ■Provision of services ■Joint Projects saving campaigns ■Corporate donations Environmental Protection ■Participating national ■Employee donations ■Supply of volunteers projects & campaigns Using Building Available Building Infrastructure Resources Partnerships System Programs Finance Materials Local Community NGO ■On/Off line systems ■Hiring well-doers ■Constant fund-raising ■Lending vehicles ■Promoting and purchasing ■Signing the agreement ■Internal management/ ■Mandatory volunteering programs ■Corporate donations ■Lending equipment local specialty with Child Fund Korea External participation systems ■Reward programs for volunteers ■Angel funds/Matching ■Lending facilities ■Forging sisterhood ties with ■Employees’ serving as a one■Reducing disciplinary actions taken grant funds agricultural villages day teacher on nuclear power against social volunteers ■Joining volunteer centers 58 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 59 • Organizational Structure of Hanmaum Volunteers Hanmaum Volunteers ● Fun Donation KEPCO KPS Sisterhood Campaign ‘Fun Donation’ The Labor-Management United campaign was launched in July 1996 to carry out sustained social contribution activities ‘Fun Donation’, a campaign twinned with the ‘Creating the Base for Hope’ campaign allows our staff at KEPCO KPS to Hanmaum Volunteers for the socially underprivileged and our Hanmaum (One-Heart) Volunteers were founded in March 2005 to offer meet their social responsibility and to spread the culture of sharing. Our employees choose more than 1 out of the 9 l (Head : CEO/Union head) ls al specialized volunteer services and to enhance the welfare of local communities where we operate and forge closer ties Mea self programs carried out by Child Fund Korea and decide whether to make donations or to make one-to-one sisterhood ties. y Happy Sound body, by m with local residents. The Hanmaum Volunteers include 54 units and 4,774 volunteers at the headquarters and offices learning sound mind Since January 1, 2010, 1,304 employees have joined the campaign and donated KRW 62.2 million. as of December 31, 2010. They also serve as a communication channel for local people and local governments to offer Secretariat their opinions on our community involvement activities and these ideas are fully incorporated into our social contribution Assessment Team (Corporate Global Social Contribution Activities (Joint labor-management) Future Communications Team) activities in a bid to promote community development and mutual cooperation. Lost wish Sharing SOS As a world-class plant maintenance service provider, we work in 25 countries including India and the Philippines where and hope we provide operation and maintenance services for local power plants and perform localized social contribution activities • Major Corporate Philanthropic Activities that cater to specific needs of the countries where we operate, taking a renewed step forward a sustainable global worldHeadquarters Unification (Head : General Affairs Office Activity Type Details Sad hideGlobal village class company. bread for North Department Vice President, (Head : Office head, Chapter and-seek sharing Korean children Chapter president of the president of the labor union) Professional specialized volunteering activities that take advantage of KEPCO KPS’s power plant maintenance labor union) Professional Service technology expertise, equipment and personnel (Creating the Base for Hope), Improving and creating residential Directions of Global Social Contribution Activities environments, repairing work and disaster recovery work Under our mid/long term strategic management plan VISION 2020 and mid-term strategic management plan MUV 2013 Operating scholarship committees to provide learning opportunities to youths and encourage healthy afterschool • Environmental Protection Campaigns at the Ilijan to grow into a global leading business partner for green energy management, we adhere to the following 3 principles in Education & Culture activities, one-day teachers on nuclear power, power plant experience programs, donation of books to children in remote island areas Office, the Philippines a bid to deliver mutual values between our overseas offices and local people who are the beneficiaries of our volunteer services : first, global social contribution activities that lead customer values, second, global social contribution activities Creating sisterhood ties with welfare facilities for the elderly, the physically challenged and children, agricultural Local Community villages, volunteering centers of local governments and schools and supporting them, offering regular donations and that build on our corporate vision, third, social contribution activities that strike the right balance among global standards, Volunteering volunteers, localized volunteering activities that cater to the needs of local people for local community development the environment and values to seek harmony in global social contribution activities. Launching forest fire prevention campaigns and helping to extinguish forest fires, waste pick-up and other protection activities for the sea, mountains and rivers, transmission & substation sites’ getting rid of snares and traps in Environmental Protection Environmental Protection Campaigns in the Philippines mountains and wild areas, feeding wild birds and beasts in winter and setting up bird houses made out of surplus materials Our Ilijan Office in the Philippines marked the Day of Environmental Protection and Trash Clean-up together with our local Financial support for welfare facilities, volunteering centers of local governments, agricultural villages and schools to staff and citizens, volunteering in beach areas near the power plants where we operate. The event was held in conjunction Donations help solve economic issues of local people and the needy utilizing donations made by KEPCO KPS employees (Angel Funds, Matching-grant Funds, Fun Donation) with KEILCO, our client company, as part of the ‘25th International Coastal Clean-up Day’, Philippines’ nation-wide campaign held on September 25, 2010. This annual event aims to protect the environment surrounding power plants that are being polluted by various harmful substances and is attended by our Ilijan Office every year so that we may conduct • Creating the Base for Hope Representative Social Contribution Program Creating the Base for Hope • Donations to Help Pakistan with Disaster Recovery our business more stably by forging closer ties between the Ilijan combined cycle power plant, an eco-friendly power ‘Creating the Base for Hope’ is our specialized volunteering program that fully utilizes our own strengths as a plant plant, and local people living nearby and enhancing our corporate brand image. maintenance service provider. This program aims to carry out social contribution activities in regular and sustained manner with the material, human and knowledge resources in our possession, targeting primarily child breadwinners, Donations to Help Flood Victims in Pakistan children living with grandparents only and children from single-parent families under our corporate strategy of branding We are servicing Daharki combined cycle power plant and we donated USD 40,000 raised by all KEPCO KPS employees our social contribution activities. We provide services to improve surrounding environments of facilities mainly used by to the Embassy of Pakistan in Korea on August 26, 2010 to help the nation where 5 days of heavy rainfalls started from children from low-income families nationwide including inspections, replacements, performance reinforcement and repair late July killed more than 1,000 people and left 20 million homeless. of heating, electricity and utility of residential facilities. We also partnered with Child Fund Korea that has a nation-wide network in November 2009 to produce synergistic effects in our corporate philanthropic activities. In 2010, we offered Other Global Social Contribution Activities specialized volunteering services to 33 children’s facilities, worth KRW 121.7 million Our Vemagiri Office in India held the “Scooping Rice of Love” event on April 28, 2008 together with our local partner ONGC, offering meals to 150 people including Hansen’s disease patients. Our ‘Happy Together’ event held in the GMR • Protection of Eco Systems (Removing Snares) Preserving Bio-diversity and Eco Systems • “Scooping Rice of Love” Event site in India on June 18, 2008 invited families of our local staff and local people for plant tours and lunch meals, giving KEPCO KPS does our utmost in protecting the eco systems and the environment near our sites and also takes part in children hope for a bright future. As part of our efforts to aid developing nations in developing plant maintenance national projects such as forest fire fighting, trash pick-up and other programs to protect our precious sea, mountains technology which is critical to the operation of social infrastructure facilities, we invited 8 maintenance workers at the and rivers. In particular, our transmission & substation sites get rid of snares and traps in mountainous and wild areas, National Electricity Corporation of Sudan for 4 weeks from October 5 to October 30 in 2009 and trained them on power feeding wild birds and beasts in winter and set up bird houses made out of surplus materials in their spare time set plant maintenance technology in our Human Resource Development Center located in Taean. aside from maintenance working hours spent on line inspections and transmissions and maintenance and repair of transmission tower. Such environmental protection programs enable our staff to do their part in preserving bio-diversity and take the lead in protecting the environment and preserving eco systems, learning the virtue of respect for life from our mother nature. We are fully aware that our environmental protection initiatives aim to protect the livelihood for our next generations and determined to always take the first step in preventing damages to our cherished environment. 60 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 61 Respectful Workplace KEPCO KPS nurtures competent individuals who can proactively respond to the age of globalization and creates a pleasant workplace that delivers satisfaction to all employees. KEPCO KPS needs to promote talented individuals with global competitiveness For sustainable growth, KEPCO KPS needs to tap into the overseas market. This requires the recruitment of competent local employees and it presents quite a challenge to the company since it has been operating primarily in less developed nations rather than advanced nations. This is why KEPCO KPS needs global talents who are capable of working in local offices. In particular, the company needs more highly competent individuals who can handle diversified and advanced facilities and assign these top-level staff to core maintenance jobs. With globally-competitive individuals nurtured through thorough training programs, KEPCO KPS would be able to take a leap forward as a worldclass plant maintenance service provider. Wook, Seonwoo, Senior Manager at KEPCO 62 2010 KPS sustainability REPORT 2010 KPS sustainabilit REPORT 63 Human Resources KEPCO KPS's Right People • Career Path (Office Workers) Career Development Programs We defined the KEPCO KPS's right people as GLOBAL ACE (Globally Advanced Customer-centered Expert) in order to To strengthen our employees’ capacity through the specialization of human resources and the identification of potential Generalist Development identify and nurture global talents who have the passion and the top-quality expertise to perform their job duties. The 1st Grade capacity, we set up systematic position-specific and job-specific career development systems. Under these systems, office KEPCO KPS's right people we strive to promote is capable of seeing things from a customer’s perspective and satisfying workers are nurtured into generalists who are capable of contributing to the growth of the company with comprehensive customer needs, securing competitiveness to take the initiative in the global market through sustained innovation and understanding of the organization and diversified experiences. To promote professional technical workers, their job duties 2~3rd Planning · Finance · HR · Support growing into top-level experts in the plant service industry with continued learning and technical training. are aligned with sector-specific in-house certificates and certified technical workers are placed in relevant job positions. Grade These technical workers obtain certificates in connection with training programs and are promoted to supervisors. Human Resources Development Systems Those who meet specific qualifications are developed into specialized workers through the decision made by a selection The right people the company aims to 4th Grade Multi-functional Staff Our mid/long-term staff training plans are set up based on the analysis of the need for human resources development and committee or promoted into technical managers. nurture at KEPCO KPS is summarized the identification of needed improvements. We also set up in-house certification plans aligned with career development as GLOBAL ACE (Globally Advanced programs and project personnel development plans which serve as a basis for our annual training plans. Training System Customer-centered Expert). • Career Path (Technical Workers) Our training programs are connected with the in-house certificate systems to promote top-level technical workers who KEPCO KPS's systematic human Mid/Long-term Strategic Vision 2020 contribute to trouble-free project operations and technical competitiveness and to enhance capacity of our human resources development systems Management Plan Enhancing Promoting Horizontal/Vertical Building the Experienced Technical Supervisor Specialized resources. These programs are classified into basic, specialized, engineering and development courses by position and Workers Managers Workers ensure that its employees grow into Competitiveness in Globalization Diversification of Enabling Framework job groups and 390 courses are incorporated into our mid/long-term training plans. Existing Business Related Business global leaders with the passion for • Human Resource Development Training System Framework what they do and the top-quality Experienced Workers by Sectors Years in Job Personnel TechInnical house Basic Course Global Talent Course Business ManageDiagEngineering Practical nostics Basic Course Grade Rank Level CertifiCourse Course Course ment New Recruits/ Lan expertise. Service cation Newly Promoted guage Leadership Course In-house Korea Overseas (More than 5-year Experiences) Mid/Long-term Basic Systematic Promotion of Global Talents 30 1st Creative 29 Grade Leadership Training Goal (Vice Course Customer Satisfaction Management Course Change & Innovation Leader Course Work Process Innovation Course Strategy & Planning Course Leader Core Capacity Course Trustworthy Communication Course Common Manager Business Management Course Mechanics / Measurement / Electricity / Welding Staff-in-Charge Training Course (Departmental Training) On-site OJT & Generation System Training Course (Office Training) Commissioned Training Course Offered by Specialized Training Agencies Correspondence & Cyber Training Course Language Training Course Executive Course Technical Training Course Management Training Course Superb 28 President) Rank 27 10 Incoming Change Learning knowledge and technology of the 26 1st Grade Executive Leadership 4th Grade 25 (Director) Manager Course Course organization and facility maintenance by handling 24 IV Technology Transfer Course In-house Certification Maintenance Course (III) Mid/Long-term Basic ■Moving towards a World Leading Company through the establishment of the KEPCO KPS's right people diverse facilities in various business units 23 Performance • KEPCO KPS's Right People Training Guidelines ■Nurturing top-level global talents who lead customer values 22 2nd Rank Management 사 21 Grade 9 Incoming Leadership ■Identifying training needs and developing training courses to create new engines of growth Course 내 20 Middle Manager 자 Advanced ■Delivering Great Work Place through learning-centered management 19 Course 격 Maintenance English Course ■Enhancing position-specific leadership capacity through leadership training courses 18 유 Office Work / Electricity / Welding / Mechanics G ■Advancing business management and offering substantial training courses • Certificate of Best HRD 17 Rank 지 MBA Course 16 8 과 정 15 III Team (Ⅲ) 14 3rd Building 13 Grade Rank Leadership 7 A Global E 12 Course Measurement / Non-destructive Technology ACE Systematic Human Resources Development Systems 11 10 Rank Incoming Elementary 6 Manager Course Middle 9 In ensuring effective HR development and advancement & specialization of HR capacity to achieve Global ACE, we 8 II 7 Rank C built career development programs and HR development systems such as training programs and in-house certification 6 5 Self Leadership programs and make sure they are mutually aligned and operated in a systematic manner. 5 4th Grade Rank I Course Elementary 4 3~4 3 2 Rank Basic Course for New Recruits (Basic, Job, Globally Advanced HR Strategy Systematic Promotion of Global Talents 1 1~2 Generation System) Securing competitiveness to take the initiative in the global market through sustained innovation On-site Training & Self-development Training for Organizational Capacity Building Customer-centered Systematic and aligned Career Specialized Workers Managers On-site Engineers We offer systematized and diversified training channels and motivation programs to ensure effective learning of Development Seeing things from a customer’s perspective Operation knowledge and technology through the facilitation of on-site training. Our on-site learning practices include on-site staff and satisfying customer needs In-house Level Ⅰ, Ⅱ, Ⅲ, Ⅳ Certificates OJT training accompanied by experts, generation systems training, in-house certificate maintenance training, office Expert Training Collective Training In-house Certificate On-site Training Examination site OJT training, presentations of maintenance cases, R&D Workshop and quality circle activities. We also provide 140 Gaining top-level expertise in the plant service industry with continued learning and technical • Entrance Ceremony of KEPCO KPS Corporate correspondence training courses and 70 cyber training courses annually to support self-initiated learning and offer training University incentives for learning according to individual training needs. Training System In-house Certification Career Development Building HR Development System System Training Programs that Meet Wide-ranging Needs Systems ■Mid/Long-term training plans ■In-house certification ■Ensuring career development We support various job capacity improvement training programs to enhance our maintenance technology and provide ■Diversified 390 training regulations is aligned with training, courses ■11 in-house certificate in-house certification and staff long-term fully-time commissioned training courses including overseas project expert courses, public enterprise policy ■Human Resources procedure forms assignment courses, and Seoul National University executive courses. We also operate our own corporate university and master’s Development Center, Nuclear ■In-house Certificate Evaluation ■Nurturing qualified employees Maintenance Training Center Committee degree programs. Besides the Fathers’ School programs, provide outplacement support courses & start-up assistance ■Online training programs ■Online in-house certification courses to help retirees-to-be come up with their own life plan after retirement. We re-hire these retirees-to-be to utilize programs their experiences in maintenance work and offer continued training as well. 64 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 65 Promotion of Global • Annual Training Data In-house Certification System Developing Personnel for Overseas Projects to Grow into a Global Company 7,116 To enhance the quality of our maintenance services by using qualified personnel in respective generation facilities, we Our overseas project personnel pool is made up of the established employee group (470 employees) with overseas 7,046 5,997 provide training both on theoretical background of various maintenance technology and practical on-site application. In particular, these training courses are aligned with our government-authorized in-house certification systems. Talents project capacity and experiences and the new recruit group (12 employees) dedicated for overseas projects and these staff are given separate training according to the required capacity. 80.8 71.5 • Qualifications for In-house Certificates by Grades 61.7 Hiring and promoting top-level Promoting Staff with International Certificates to Cope with Future Demands We are working hard to make inroads into the overseas power plant maintenance market to maximize our corporate Training Requirements individuals is the fundamental Qualification Career Physical Qualification Required value in the future and to secure future engines of growth. As part of such efforts, we are nurturing competent personnel '08 '09 '10 Grade Levels Requirements On-site Training Requirements Tests No. of Years prerequisite for KEPCO KPS to ensure certified with international certificates that are acknowledged in the global power plant maintenance market such as ISO Annual Training Expenses (Unit : KRW 1 million) Training Center Course sustainable growth amid rapidly18436 (condition monitoring and diagnostics of machines), EDM/UST, and MAL/MLT. We were recognized as Korea’s only Annual Average Training Hours per Employee Higher than changing business environments and ISO 18436 training body (Category I, II, III) equipped with qualified trainers and facilities and 100 of our employees were Level IV Level III(1) 80 score points 15~ cut-throat global competition. certified ISO 18436. +Level II(3) in screening evaluations At KEPCO KPS, systematized HR • Annual Average Training Hours (Office Workers) systems and programs help and Promoting Global Talents with Global Competitiveness Level III 28,104 23,560 Granting Specialized Higher than nurture global leaders with the passion We are promoting globally competent individuals through the career development programs that aim to nurture nextLevel III Level II 3 years Qulifications 70% per 9~14 generation leaders with the right capacity and technology in order to grow into a global company and to generate 17,152 On-site Course Eyesight : question and the top-quality expertise for their Training business outcomes. We define global talents as core employees who are highly critical to our business performance and 98.6 78.5 0.8 Normal job duties. Level II present high replacement risks and classify them into 3 groups of Potential Leader Group, Professional Engineer Group 57.0 Granting Body Higher than Practical and R&D Talent Group. Level II Level I 2 years Qulifications 70% on 5~8 On-site Course average Potential Leader Group includes those who have high growth potential and are working in overseas sites and they Training • ISO 18436 Certificate of Training Body are chosen out of the overseas project personnel pool and trained with language courses and operation programs. '08 '09 '10 Annual Training Hours Level I Professional Engineer Group is made up of supervisors, technicians and experts with core maintenance technology Granting Annual Average Training Hours per Employee Joining the 1.5~2.5 Basic competence and is nurtured through the in-house certification systems, training and specialized worker systems. R&D Level I Qulifications 2~3 company years On-site Course Training Talent Group includes PhD-holders and researchers who have capacity to develop new business and is developed through the specialized worker systems, open recruitment systems and training. • Annual Average Training Hours (Technical Workers) Building Infrastructure to Operate Training Programs • KEPCO KPS Performance in Global Talent Development We offer 340 training courses a year on average to enhance our organizational performance through the provision of 323,984 (Unit : No. of persons) diverse learning opportunities and the support for capacity development. We also set aside professional personnel in 290,344 255,400 charge of these training programs. Our training center provides consigned training courses not only to KEPCO KPS staff 238 193 79.7 but also maintenance workers of other Korean companies and overseas partners. 159 71.4 61.7 Fair and Balanced ‘Performance-centered HR System’ '08 '09 '10 We carry out performance evaluations once a year as part of our performance-centered HR systems. Our performance • KEPCO KPS’s Definition of Global Talents evaluations are divided into ‘capacity evaluations’ and ‘performance evaluations’: capacity evaluations are to assess '08 '09 '10 H Potential Leader Group Annual Training Hours capacity-specific behavioral characteristic levels by categorizing individual job capacity into competency and attitude and Annual Average Training Hours per Employee Those who possess comprehensive expertise performance evaluations are to assess job performance during the evaluation period. Under this system, our employees and high leader potential Global Talents have interviews with evaluators to determine their target job duties and submit them in written form and evaluators Importance observe and monitor these employees’ job performance and capacity and conduct more than 1 interview to produce Professional Engineer Group evaluation documents. To address the shortcomings of such single-source evaluations and ensure objectivity and fairness Those who own specialized technology required of the appraisal system, multi-source evaluations are performed as well by boss, co-workers and junior staff. to develop business in the future The outcome of these evaluations is used as basic data for HR management and incorporated in deciding promotion, R&D Talent Group placement, training, salary and performance bonus. In so doing, we are building a performance-centered corporate Those who are capable of finding project culture where fair opportunities are guaranteed to anyone who qualifies for them. development items for new business areas L L Replacement Risk H ● Level of importance in meeting business goals ■Does their business performance have grave impact on the overall business outcome of the company? ■Do they possess the core capacity/technology to the achievement of business goals and the corporate strategies? ● Replacement Risk ■In case they quit, is it difficult to re-hire such talents through head-hunters or the internal development process or is the re-hiring costly? 66 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 67 Protection of Employee Data • Data on Physically-challenged Employees Increasing Employment of the Physically-challenged 160 155 100 The number of KEPCO KPS employees stands at 4,349 as of the end of December 2010. We hired 217 in 2010 in 146 To offer more job opportunities to the disabled who are relatively disadvantaged compared to their able-bodied 130 Human Rights accordance with the government policy, doing our part in solving the youth unemployment issue which is emerging as a serious social concern. 80 75 50 counterparts in terms of employment, we give additional scores to the physically-challenged applicants in hiring new recruits. The number of physically-challenged employees keeps growing every year and currently, their number is above and Prevention of Category 2008 2009 2010 2.34 2.65 2.88 25 the statutory criteria at 2.3%. Discrimination No. of Employees (No. of persons) 4,474 4,387 4,349 0 '08 '09 '10 0 Category No. of Physically-challenged Employees (No. of persons) 2008 130 2009 146 2010 155 No. of Physically-challenged Employees Average Length of Service (No. of years) 15.4 16.3 17.0 Percentage of Physically-challenged Employees Percentage of Physicaly-challenged Employees (%) 2.34 2.65 2.88 Turnover (No. of voluntary resignation/Total No. of employees) 0.9% 1.0% 1.0% ※ The 2008 statutory criteria for the employment of the physically-challenged was 2.0% ※ The 2010 total employee number does not include full-time internship ※ The calculation of the physically-challenged employees includes the number of day workers and contract workers. ※ The calculation of turnover rates excluded involuntary resignations such as regular retirement. KEPCO KPS believes that its greatest asset is its employees. Respecting the Dignity of Our Employees Hiring Graduates of Universities in Non-metropolitan Areas For valued employees, the company We champion our people-centered management philosophy where ‘we respect the dignity and the value of individual We do not discriminate against graduates of universities in non-metropolitan areas in hiring new recruits in accordance employees and aim for fair HR practices and best-of-class welfare’. We treat each and every KEPCO KPS employee as with our performance-centered employment principle. Out of the university graduates we hired in 2010, 51.8% (72 is to deliver world-class working a dignified human being and strive to build systems for fair business practices. In recruiting new employees, we do not persons) of total were from universities in non-metropolitan areas. In particular, we provide internship programs to young environments and creates a healthy discriminate against them on the grounds of gender, age, education or hometown in a bid to establish fair and open people living near the power plants, helping ease the youth unemployment in local areas. and best-of-class workplace through recruitment systems where only individual ability matters. systematized and diversified HR Support for Retirees development programs and welfare Human Rights Protection and Gender Equality Our outplacement programs support retirees in planning their life after retirement and improve satisfaction of our benefits. We fully comply with the Labor Standard Law of Korea and ILO’s regulations to ban child labor and forced labor. We offer employees. These programs primarily deal with finding a new job, starting his/her own business and developing one’s regular sexual harassment prevention training twice a year (one in the first half and the other in the second half) to all our capacity, assisting participating employees in designing another new chapter in their life. In addition, those who retire due employees to ensure protection of human rights. The number of female managers is also increasing through continued to their age but still own top-level technical skills are re-hired for technology transfer, which enable us to get the most out recruitment and promotion of female workers. of these top-quality human resources, instills a sense of pride to these retirees as a KEPCO KPS member and guarantees • Data on New Recruits • Employee Data by Business Areas a stable and comfortable life at the later stage of their life. (Unit : No. of persons) Category • Re-hiring of Retirees 2008 2009 2010 No. of Employees Business Areas Gender No. of New Recruits Category 2008 2009 2010 164 217 Regular Workers Contract Workers Others Total (No. of persons) No. of Retirees (No. of persons) 66 87 110 Male 315 14 329 Headquarters No. of Retirees Re-hired (No. of persons) 12 31 Female 22 7 29 • Data on Female Employment ※ Hiring retirees began in 2009 20 100 Male 1,566 111 1,677 16 16 Hydro & Thermal Female 25 21 46 Employee Satisfaction Survey 75 Our employee satisfaction survey is conducted once a year to create a great workplace through the systematic 10 50 Male 1,576 70 1,646 Nuclear measurement of employee satisfaction and continued improvements. The survey is modeled on KS-ESI (Korea Standard7.4 25 Female 21 8 29 Employee Satisfaction Index) developed by the Korean Standards Association and professional third-party research 9.8 0 0 Male 341 12 353 agencies are commissioned to perform the survey. Major issues found in the survey outcome are notified to relevant '08 '09 '10 Transmission & Substation departments as feedback to ensure improvement is made. The 2010 employee satisfaction index stood at 77.8 score No. of Female Recruits (Unit : No. of persons) Female 1 1 Percentage of Female Recruits (Unit : %) points and it continues to increase. Male 396 171 195 762 Other Offices • Outcome of Employee Satisfaction Surveys • Female Managers Female 9 11 16 36 • Outcome of Employee Satisfaction Surveys Type of Factors 2007 2008 2009 2010 20 100 Others Male 72 1 73 100 Corporate Factors 76.5 77.3 82.4 83.7 75 Total 4,344 426 211 4,981 77.0 77.8 80 73.1 74.2 Environmental Factors 64.8 64.9 67.3 68.2 10 50 5 3 3 ● Notes) No. of employees 60 Compensation Factors 65.2 66.7 70.4 69.0 25 0.4 0.4 0.6 ■Excluding 5 executive employees ■Transmission & Substation : Transmission & Substation Offices 0 0 40 Relationship Factors 76.8 78.1 79.2 80.3 ■Others mean full-time internship ■Other Offices : Training Center, Technology Service Center, New Renewal '08 '09 '10 ■No part-time job Energy & Plant Service Center, Anyang Branch Office, 20 Work Factors 76.0 77.3 78.6 79.9 No. of Female Managers (Unit : No. of persons) ■Hydro & Thermal : Hydro & Thermal Offices, Hwaseong Branch Office, Songdo Cogeneration Branch Office Percentage of Female Managers (Unit : %) Technology Mobile Service Offices and Incheon Airport Branch Office 0 Total 73.1 74.2 77.0 77.8 ■Nuclear : Nuclear Power Offices ■Others : Overseas Offices, Labor Union '07 '08 '09 '10 68 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 69 Win-Win Labor • Fring Benefits per Employee Welfare System for Fair Work-Life Balance Establishing a Advanced Labor-Management Culture that Creates Values (Unit : KRW 1,000) For happy employees and a healthy and pleasant workplace, we benchmarked Korean and overseas companies with We comply with the Protection Agreement on the Freedom on Association and Right to Organize of our labor union (ILO 13,874 14,532 outstanding welfare systems and conducted in-house group interviews and surveys to set up our mid/long-term welfare plans called ‘NEW KEPCO KPS Welfare 2010’. We also selected welfare items by incorporating various needs of our Relations Convention Nos. 87, 98). We are working to establish participatory and cooperative labor-management relations based on trust and both our labor union and management are moving towards the shared goal of advanced labor-management 13,083 employees and improved optional services such as point collection in alignment with the use of welfare cards and relations that create values. discounts at gas stations. We are offering such family-friendly welfare systems as the Father’s School and the Happy We are in full compliance with all labor-related regulations in Korea and overseas including the Labor Standard Law, Trade Family Day(our employees can go home early every Friday to spend quality time with their family) since we believe that KEPCO KPS strives to ensure stronger Union Law and Labor Relations Coordination Act. Our labor union is affiliated with the Federation of Korean Trade Unions organizational vitality comes from our employees’ happy family life. Our headquarters and 23 offices have installed fitness communication continuously between and its members are 3,508 in total, which account for 81% of total KEPCO KPS employees as of December 2010. centers to help our employees exercise after work. Other welfare programs include anti-smoking clinic services & antiOur Joint Labor-Management Conference is attended by 9 labor union members and another 9 from management and labor and management based on its smoking funds(launched in March 2010) and EAP(Employee Assistance Program). the conference meetings are held regularly to build consensus on major management issues and increase bilateral '08 '09 '10 own corporate culture of cooperative communication on such issues. In particular, the conference met 5 times in 2010 and all of these meetings were held We are fully committed to improving our employees’ satisfaction with the corporate welfare systems through the labor relations. with 100% attendance rates to share sincere dialogue. The conference meetings made great contributions to achieving • Father’s School publication of ‘Welfare Guidebook’ which explains the overall KEPCO KPS welfare systems in detail and describes ways KEPCO KPS employees and the the best-ever business performance since the establishment of the company based on win-win labor-management to use these systems conveniently, the publication of ‘e-Guidebook’ to help retirees-to-be plan for their stable life after company are united in one to make partnership. retirement and the introduction of retirement pension systems to guarantee security and stability for the aged. concerted efforts to achieve the We make sure that our labor union has a say on matters that have grave impact on the employment status of our staff. KEPCO KPS vision. When staffing adjustments take place for reasons of urgent management issues through collective bargaining, we reach Those who are fulfilling their duties in remote overseas sites are provided with work allowances, residence & commuting consensus with the labor union in advance and if there are staffing changes to unionized employees due to merger or vehicles, and additional days off for better conditions of work. When KEPCO KPS went public, with an IPO in 2007, the • Certificate of Company with Outstanding hand-over, the labor union is entitled to 90-day prior notice and its consent is sought. These endeavors demonstrate that employee stock ownership association benefited from the preferred allotment of 20% equity interest, which actually led to Labor-Management Culture we are sincerely working towards employment stability of our staff. increase in real income of our employees. (Initial offering price was KRW 13,300 in 2007 and this rose to KRW 52,400 at the end of December 2010) Building Labor-Management Consensus for Authentic Communication We hold sincere dialogue with our labor union through various communication channels. Thanks so such efforts, we were • Aerial View of the New Company Building to be Government’s Relocation Plan and KEPCO KPS's Response able to conclude wage negotiations without any conflict for 9 consecutive years, which led to stability in labor relations Built Our headquarters will be relocated to the City of Naju in Jeollanam-do in accordance with the Korean government’s plan and the establishment of a reasonable labor-management culture. to move the headquarters of public institutions to local areas. The new company building will be built on a 52,894㎡ Type of Activity Details land with total square of 37,059.29㎡. The 19-story building with 1 basement level will be equipped with energy-saving, intelligent and eco-friendly systems (Intelligent Building System) and high-speed internet network systems to enable our Informal Meeting between the Representative of Representatives of Labor and Management visit each other’s office and worksites together employees to work in the optimal working environment. To cope with the planned relocation, we will consider to build Labor and Management company housing (accommodating 231 households) to ensure residential stability of our employees and the relocation Management and the Labor Presentations of pending issues in the hydro& thermal, nuclear and transmission & will be funded by our own employee benefit fund and the sale of our current company building. Union Headquarters substation business • Labor-Management Joint Declaration • KEPCO KPS Welfare System Map Informal Gathering between Office Presentations on each office manager’s pending issues and major matters to be Managers and the Labor Union Statutory Welfare ■National Pension implemented Headquarters ■National Health Insurance Non-statutory Welfare ■Employment Insurance Joint Labor-Management Discussions on pending issues through Joint Labor-Management Conference meetings ■Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Conference and collective bargaining Welfare Allowances Included in Payroll Meal allownaces, Transport allownaces, Grievance Committee Junior high/high school tuition Year-round operation of meetings attended by both labor and management Selective Welfare KEPCO KPS Funding Committee Comprehensive medical check-up, Self-development Welfare Allowances expenses, Medical expenses Not Included in Payroll Presentation on Pending Expanding consensus through presentations of pending issues for labor union executives Management Issues Tuition University tuition loans Housing Funds Employee housing loans, Employee rental housing loans • Signing Ceremony of the Wage Negotiations Declaration of Permanent Harmony between Labor and Management in 2010 KEPCO KPS labor and management made the joint declaration that both parties would help the company fully serve Collective Insurance its role as an essential utilities business and do its utmost to guarantee stable supply of electricity and that they would Resort facilities for employees actively participate in meeting their social responsibility. It shows that KEPCO KPS, as a public enterprise, puts satisfaction of the general public and customers as top priority. Employee Benefit Fund Scholarship, Compensation funds, Education allowances, Education Sustained efforts of labor and management at KEPCO KPS led to increases in corporate productivity and competitiveness grants, Expenditures for congratulations and condolences, Bond and such accomplishments were recognized by the Ministry of Employment and Labor and we were chosen as a insurance fees, Small loans, Welfare card support company with outstanding labor-management culture in 2011. Others Funds to ensure stable livelihood, Father’s School, Shopping mall 70 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 71 Safety & Health Safety Management We adopted KOSHA 18001 for health and safety management systems and are working in various ways to ensure safety Occupational Health & Safety Committee Formal Occupational Health & Safety Committees are run at 50 KEPCO KPS sites nationwide and the Joint Laborat workplace. All types of site work are subject to risk evaluations to build pre-job readiness and regular monitoring is Management conference takes on this role in small sites. The committee gathers suggestions made in respective sites conducted to check whether safety activities are carried out as planned. and reflects them in site operations to enhance the safety and health of employees. The committee meets once every three months in each site and discusses plans to prevent industrial accidents and recurrence of such accidents. The KEPCO KPS is working on various We offer safety training courses for each position level from new recruits to executives. We are also highly active in result is made public to all employees transparently. accident prevention activities such as Tool Box Meeting (TBM), Pre Job Briefing (PJB), hazardous work instruction systems fronts to prevent accidents in the first and firearms permission systems. • No. of Accidents Major Industrial Safety Indicators place as part of its efforts to deliver a 15 healthy workplace free from accidents Our Safety & Disaster Management Team built safety package systems into our Enterprise Portal (EP) to perform safety 12 Industry-wide KEPCO KPS Year and diseases. activities effectively and to create site-centered safety, health and disaster activity support systems. Under these systems, 10 9 Injury Rates Injury Rates Severity Rates No. of Fatalities KEPCO KPS trains all of its employees breaking news of accidents, reports, procedure forms, various safety regulations and teaching materials (video, power 5 2008 0.71 0.05 0.56 1 3 on safety issues, doing its utmost to point materials and documents) are offered. Meanwhile, our worksites ensure real-time application of appropriate safety 2009 0.70 0.08 0.95 2 create safe conditions of work. training materials and set up 11 safety and health basic rules to be observed in day-to-day operations, increasing the 0 '08 '09 '10 effectiveness of on-site safety activities. 2010 0.69 0.01 0.44 1 ※ Injury rates(Converted injury rates)=converted NO. of injured workers/No. of regular workers x 100 • Injury Rates • Corporate Brand for Safety and Disaster We also help our business partners elevate their safety performance through such supports as safety & health training 0.09 0.08 Management and safety guidance and inspections. In particular, we provide comprehensive supports including various facility safety Health Management gears and site-focused safety training materials so that lively communication and information-sharing take place among 0.06 0.05 Our health managers are working in 15 major sites in Korea to improve staff health, prevent diseases and offer firstour business partners. aid services. For sites with 50 or more employees, these management services are provided by commissioned health 0.03 0.01 management agencies. In particular, we enable our employees to manage their individual health track records, which ■KEPCO KPS as a company safe from leads to increased effectiveness of health policies and improvement actions. industrial accidents and disasters 0 '08 '09 '10 General and specialized medical check-ups are performed every year and those working under hazardous conditions are ■KEPCO KPS as a company that respects life and puts top priority on safety given special health diagnostic services every year : those working in noisy sites receive noise-induced deafness tests and ■KEPCO KPS as a company that provides those exposed to chemicals receive liver function and blood cell tests. We support medical expenses of comprehensive high-end maintenance services safely check-ups for our employees and those working at nuclear power plants are entitled to radiation disorder tests and cancer tests every year. In particular, those who show symptoms are provided with counseling with health managers and health management agencies stationed in sites and issued health control diaries to check their health conditions regularly. We offer group training to prevent musculoskeletal diseases and encourage employees to do stretching exercises in order to make muscular joints more flexible and thus to prevent these diseases. Our employees’ physical strength is precisely • Pre Job Safety Briefing • Safety Activity Framework and Detailed Actions measured to clearly identify the right level of exercise for individual employees in a scientific and systematic manner. On Reducing Safety Accidents to Zero with Increased Safety Awareness monthly Sports Day, our employees take part in various physical activities to enhance fitness and health management. Strengthened Safety Awareness of Workers Strengthened Safety Management Mind-set of Managing Supervisors • Physical Activities • Fitness Activities Promoting Safety & Providing Substantial Establishing a Culture Strengthening Health Management Safety Training of Safety Safety Management of Systems Disasters ■KOSHA 18001 ■Customized training ■Creating safety brand and ■Measures to cope with ■Operating safety patrols for each position level catch phrase seasonal disasters and ■Operating based on and each plant type ■Building 11 safety & health accidents procedure forms and ■Applying standard safety basic rules into day-to-day ■Building readiness for standards of safety work procedures to practical operations natural disasters ■Three out change system training of the Training ■Operating TBM/PJB ■Participating Korean ■Safety guidance and Center ■Day of Safety Check government’s emergency inspections ■Promoting safety ■Safety letters written by response training (Safe experience training team leaders Korea Excercise) ■Posting safety training ■Conducting emergency materials online response training supervised by top management 72 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 73 Our Performance • Economic Performance Data • Environmental Performance Data • Social Performance Data Economic Financial Performance Environmental Use of Raw Materials The raw materials that we use are procured by our customers and we do not purchase any additional materials. Performance Data Stability We have remained unleveraged since 2001 and are staying highly stable and sound in terms of financial structure with the current ratio of 610.0% and the debt ratio of 27.2% in 2010. Performance Data Recycling Rate (Unit : %) Recyclable scrap metal generated from our operation is handled by recycling companies to ensure that it is fully Category 2008 2009 2010 reused and recycled. Supplies provided by our customers are returned back for recycling and the chip or maintenance replacements generated out of processing operations performed at the GT Technology Service Center are also recycled. Current Ratio 456.0 520.8 610.0 • Generated and Recycled Scrap Metal (Unit : kg) Debt Ratio 34.5 28.1 27.2 Category. 2008 2009 2010 Total Total Borrowings to Total Assets Generated Scrap Metal 8,900 1,100 2,200 12,200 Interest Coverage Ratio The GT Technology Service Center also recycles some 20 tons of wooden box a year that are used as packaging materials Profitability Continued upward pressure on fixed costs is expected considering plant company’s cost reduction efforts and for maintenance components and materials for repair maintenance and commissioned manufacturing when they enter labor cost factors. We are working hard to grow more profitable through sustained sales growth and cost reduction. or leave warehouses. In addition, we make sure appropriate paper boxes are used to increase recycling rates and plastic (Unit : %) boxes are also used that can be collected and reused. The disposal of wooden boxes as packaging materials is performed Category 2008 2009 2010 by management service providers in full compliance with relevant regulations to ensure they are recycled. Ratio of Operating Profit to Net Sales 9.5 13.7 13.6 • Air Pollutants Generated (Unit : ton) Air, Water and Soil Pollutants Ratio of Net Profit to Net Sales 9.0 12.0 11.7 Our primary responsibility is to provide maintenance services at power plant facilities for 6 power plant companies and Pollutants. 2008 2009 2010 Return on Assets 13.1 16.7 15.6 private power plants. Our GT Technology Service Center belongs to category No. 4 of air quality management site and has Dust 9.85 9.86 9.88 installed dust trap facilities to minimize substances emitted to the atmosphere during operations. Its work environments Return on Equity 17.5 21.9 19.8 NOx 0.019 0.02 0.02 are also measured every year in the first and second half respectively for proper management. Since we utilize tap water, there are no supply sources affected by water usage and all the wastewater discharged by our ※ The generation of air pollutants is limited only to the GT Technology Service Growth Potential We have been continuously growing with our 2010 sales rising by 4.6% from the previous year. To Center. offices is commonly treated by the wastewater treatment facilities at the power plants where we operate. We never use ※ We do not discharge any soil pollutants. become more proactive in responding to internal/external environment changes in the maintenance service market in the such ozone-destroying chemicals as CFC and do not discharge the kinds of waste stipulated in the Basel Convention. upcoming years, we not only seek sustained growth in existing business but also expand overseas business as a new There was no single violation of environmental regulations during the reporting period. engine of growth. (Unit : %) • Use of Water Resources (Unit : ton) Environmental Expenses Category 2008 2009 2010 • ISO 9001&14001 Certificate Maintenance Inspection Expenses Category. 2008 2009 2010 (Unit : KRW) Net Sales Growth Rate 12.1 5.4 4.6 Amount Used 119,371 23,698 19,098 Category. 2008 2009 2010 Total Growth Rate of Stockholders’ Equity 10.0 14.7 10.7 ※ The use of waster is limited to the headquarters and the GT Technology Expenses 6,400,000 3,400,000 3,400,000 13,200,000 Service Center. Growth Rate of Net Income 7.7 40.3 2.1 • Environmental Waste Treatment Expenses (Unit : KRW) Growth Rate of Total Assets 11.1 9.2 9.9 Category. 2008 2009 2010 Total Increasing Shareholder Values Expenses 165,047,524 164,049,529 272,412,273 436,461,802 Our corporate value (market cap) surged by 23% from KRW 1.917 trillion at the end of 2009 to KRW 2.358 trillion at the ※ The expenses cover relevant company-wide operations and the 2008 data were estimated. end of 2010. Not only this, we paid KRW 1,100 in dividend to our shareholders, which is 5.5 times higher than the par • Environmental Waste Treatment (Unit : ton) value (50.3% of dividend payout ratio), enhancing shareholder values further with high investment returns. Category. 2008 2009 2010 Total Category Initial Offering Price (A) End of 2009 End of 2010 (B) Rate of Waste Synthetic Resin 29 28 31 88 Change(B/A) Date Dec. 14, 2007 Dec. 30, 2009 Dec. 30, 2010 ※ The data cover the office buildings owned by KEPCO KPS only including the headquarters and the GT Technology Service Center. Stock Price KRW 13,300 KRW 42,600 KRW 52,400 Market Cap KRW 598.5 billion KRW 1.917 trillion KRW 2.358 trillion ⇧294.0% Foreign Ownership 0.85% 4.35% 4.78% KOSPI Index 1,895.05 1,124.47 2,051.00 ⇧8.2% 76 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 77 Social Performance Appendix Data on Physically-challenged Employees Data Category. No. of Physically-challenged Employees (No. of persons) 2008 130 2009 146 2010 155 • Sustainability Management Principles Percentage of Physically-challenged Employees (%) 2.34 2.65 2.88 • Employees by Age Groups (as of Dec. 31, 2010) • Code of Ethics 2,000 1,845 100 No. of Regular Employees (No. of persons) 5,422 5,507 5,374 • Assurance Report ※ The calculation of the number of regular employees includes contract workers and day workers. 1,500 1,353 75 • ISO 26000 Compliance Assessment Report 984 • GRI G 3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 1,000 42.5 50 31.1 Data on Female Employees • GRI Application Level Check Statement 500 22.7 25 • Glossary 162 2008 2009 2010 3.7 Category 0 0 Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage 20's 30's 40's 50's (No. of persons) (%) (No. of persons) (%) (No. of persons) (%) No. of Employees (Unit : No. of persons) Female Employees 80 1.8 78 1.8 78 1.8 Percentage(Unit : %) Female Managers 3 0.4 3 0.4 5 0.6 • Local Employees at Overseas Offices (as of Dec. 31, 2010) 5 2,500 5 162 2,000 4 Years of Service by Gender (3-year Data) (Unit : No. of years) 1,500 3 Category. Male Female Total 1,000 2 Current Employees as of the End of 2008 15.2 5.7 15.0 1 1 1 500 1 Current Employees as of the End of 2009 16.1 6.5 15.9 65 105 63 0 0 Current Employees as of the End of 2010 16.8 7.3 16.6 India Pakistan Madagascar Phillippines No. of Employees (Unit : No. of persons) Percentage(Unit : %) • Survey on SME Support Projects Reinstatement and Employment Maintenance after Parental Leave 100 92 (Unit : No. of persons) 90 Gender 2008 2009 2010 Total 80 74 71 70 Male 1 1 60 50 Female 2 1 1 4 40 34(45.9%) 29(31.5%) Total 2 1 2 5 30 20 15(21.1%) Note 1) Reinstatement rate : 100% 10 Formula : No. of reinstated employees after parental leave / total No. of employees on parental leave × 100% Note 2) Employment maintenance rate : 100% 0 Formula : No. of current employees(as of Dec. 31, 2010) who were previously on parental leave / total No. of employees who were previously on parental '08 '09 '10 leave(2008~2010) No. of Survey Respondents Note 3) One employee is currently on parental leave in 2010 and was excluded in calculating the reinstatement rate and the employment maintenance rate. No. of Respondents who Received Support from KEPCO KPS • Satisfaction of Companies who Benefited from KEPCO KPS Support Projects 80.0% Average Wage of Male/Female Employees by Employee Categories (Unit : KRW 1,000) 62.1% 64.7% 2008 2009 2010 60.0% Category 46.7% Male Female Male Female Male Female 40.0% 40.0% 37.9% Executives 199,116 170,124 186,242 35.3% Employees 62,153 41,002 61,333 40,703 59,602 38,611 20.0% 13.3% Note) 1. Employees : Excluding welfare benefits included in payroll 0.0% 0.0% 2. Executives : Based on full attendance (Integrated disclosure criteria for public institutions applied) 0.0% ※ Male and female employees are not discriminated against in terms of wage for work of equal value. As female workers’ years of service are shorter '08 '09 '10 than their male counterparts, they are paid relatively less. Our newly-hired employees are guaranteed a wage level that is 231.8% of the statutory Highly Helpful Somewhat Helpful Not So Helpful minimum wage. 78 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 2010 KPS sustainabilit REPORT 79 Sustainability Management Principles Code of Ethics All KEPCO KPS employees are determined to make sure that the company would contribute toward 1. Value Creation for Customers the sustainable development of society, nation and human kind and achieve sustainable growth and development We create and deliver new values that our customers need from a customer perspective. into the world’s best-of-class total plant service provider through the fulfillment of social responsibilities as a leading power plant maintenance company and the sustainability management that values all stakeholders 1. Promotion of Shareholder Interest with respect to economy, environment, society and human race. We help promote shareholder interest through increased corporate values based on cost reduction and productivity improvement. 1. People-centered Management We respect the dignity and value of individual employees and deliver fair HR and best-of-class welfare policies. Economy : Sustained Growth • We continue to find new engines of growth to become more profitable and establish sound financial structure to improve our 1. Pursuit of Stakeholder Trust corporate value. We preserve the honor of KEPCO KPS and ensure fairness in the conduct of business based on integrity and honesty in order to become a company that is trusted. • We lead the development of maintenance engineering technology through continued technology innovation. • We enhance management efficiency and secure competitive edge through constant and self-initiated management innovation 1. Fulfillment of Social Responsibility We respect fundamental values upheld by society, comply with statutory regulations and contribute toward the development of the national economy and society. Society : Right Way Management • We enhance transparency in our conduct of business through the stringent work process and disclosure in accordance with Rules of Conduct ethical management principles. • We stick to our sharing-driven management philosophy to fulfill our social responsibility. Customer Ethics • We strengthen our partnership with all stakeholders to drive mutual values forwards. ■ Respect for customers ■ Value creation for customers ■ Promotion of customer satisfaction Shareholder Ethics Environment : Eco-friendliness ■ Profitability enhancement ■ Transparent disclosure of information • We adopt environment-conscious technology to make our maintenance services more eco-friendly. • We strive to develop new and renewable energy technology to help solve future energy issues. Ethics for Employees • We preserve the planet earth by addressing climate change issues together with KEPCO affiliated companies. ■ Respect for employees’ dignity ■ Fair HR operations, Equal opportunities ■ Promotion of competent individuals ■ Improvement of quality of life Employee Ethics People : People-orientation ■ Fair job performance ■ Prohibition on bribery and special treatment ■ Prohibition on unfair practices including abuse of authority • We endeavor to foster globally competent individuals who are creative and professional. ■ Protection of corporate property ■ Self-development ■ Prohibition on employment by other companies • We establish mutually-beneficial labor-management culture and seek continuous improvements in the quality of life of our ■ Harmony of the labor and the management ■ Prohibition of unfair stock trading ■ Prohibition on sexual harassment and gender discrimination employees through welfare benefits. • We respect human rights in the conduct of business including prevention of accidents at workplace & staff ■ Prohibition on transactions with companies run by KEPCO KPS employees health promotion, improved treatment for the less privileged in society and prohibition on all types of discrimination. Social Ethics ■ Fulfillment of social responsibility ■ Legal compliance & Fair trade ■ Prohibition on political interventions 80 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 81 Assurance Report on the ● Conclusions and Opinion We are not aware of any material errors or biases in the content of the Report with respect to KEPCO KPS’s sustainability management. KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2010 ■ Inclusivity (Does the organization include stakeholders in developing and making responsible and strategic responses with regard to sustainability?) KEPCO KPS is aware of its responsibility to report to stakeholders who influence the company or are influenced by the company. Its stakeholder identification and engagement process is systematically operated. To the Management and Stakeholders of KEPCO KPS ■ Materiality (Does the organization include material information in the Report to enable stakeholders to make informed judgment and decisions and take actions?) KEPCO KPS set up process to understand sustainability management issues through benchmarking of industry peers, media research, and interviews with internal/external ● Introduction stakeholders and to identify issues of interest to stakeholders in order to make sure that material issues are addressed in the Report. The company is also working to set up process The Korean Standards Association (KSA) was commissioned by KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Co., Ltd. (KEPCO KPS) to provide independent assurance of the ‘KEPCO KPS to monitor and build on the achievements made with respect to these issues continuously. Sustainability Report 2010’ (the ‘Report’). We looked at the evidence of the data, achievements and related systems contained in this Report to present the independent assurance report. KEPCO KPS is responsible for collating, analyzing and organizing the information used to generate this report and as well as all the claims made therein. ■ Responsiveness (Does the organization respond to concerns of stakeholders in the report? Does the organization implement policies and relevant standards to deal with material ● Independence sustainability issues and concerns?) We have no interest for the purpose of profit-making across the whole business spectrum of KEPCO KPS other than the third-party assurance engagement of this Report. We also KEPCO KPS incorporates material issues of sustainability management into its organizational guidelines and activities and also responds to issues of interest to stakeholders. hold no bias against KEPCO KPS stakeholders. The company strives to make its sustainability management practices consistent and communicate them to stakeholders. ● Scope ● Sector-specific Opinion and Recommendations The assurance covers the entire content of this Report including activities carried out to create this Report between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2010 as well as the We present the following recommendations for KEPCO KPS to build company-wide sustainability management strategies and lay the basis to respond to relevant issues continuously. company’s systems and activities in the 2009 and 2010 fiscal years. The financial information was assured through the comparison with the 2009 and 2010 Audit Reports. ■ Economy ● Assurance Standards and Credibility The recent nuclear power plant accident in Japan prompted countries around the world to think seriously about whether to continue their nuclear power generation as a major policy Our assurance engagement was performed in accordance with the AccountAbility 1000 assurance standards 2008 (AA1000AS 2008) and GRI G3.1 Guidelines. In addition, the challenge. We believe that the company would benefit from supplementing its strategies to respond to changes in the global electric power market such as the shrinking nuclear AA1000AS principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness were utilized as criteria of our assurance engagement. The credibility of the information within the Report was power market and accelerating development of alternative energy sources in order to ensure sustained expansion of overseas business, which is one of KEPCO KPS’s core strategic assured with a moderate level of assurance. tasks. ● Type ■ Environment Our assurance engagement is a Type 2 assurance as defined in the AA1000AS 2008. It means that we verified the accuracy and quality with respect to the sustainability KEPCO KPS is advised to align its environmental, safety, health and risk management systems for their effective implementation. management achievements described in the statements of KEPCO KPS and the Report in accordance with the principle of reporting responsibility set forth in AA1000AS 2008. ■ Society ● Methodology The company needs to evaluate and improve its activities to meet social responsibility in accordance with ISO 26000. In particular, we believe that KEPCO KPS would benefit from We used the following methods to collate the necessary information, materials and evidence with regards to the assurance scope. improving its management systems to secure and promote human resources that serve as one of the most critical engines of growth since such practices play a fundamental role ■ Review of the reporting process including stakeholder identification & engagement and materiality analysis in building core competence given the nature of the plant maintenance service industry. Meanwhile, overseas business entails wide-ranging issues with regard to labor and human rights as it is conducted in an environment different from that of Korea and the company would benefit from building systems to ensure systematic response to these issues. ■ Research of media reports and online materials produced on KEPCO KPS during the reporting period ■ Physical inspections of the KEPCO KPS headquarters and offices ■ Review of the management systems and processes used for the creation of this Report ■ Follow-up verification of the internal documents and basic data July 14, 2011 Chang-Ryong, Kim ■ Interviews with KEPCO KPS employees in charge of respective aspects of sustainability management KSA Chairman & CEO 82 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 83 KEPCO KPS ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Compliance Assessment Checklist Structure : Overview and Framework Compliance Assessment Report ISO 26000 Compliance Assessment Checklist(total 1,000 point) The Korean Standards Association developed the checklist to assess an organization’s performance in meeting its social responsibility in accordance with ISO 26000, international Process – 360 point Achievement640 point standards on social responsibility, as part of the project carried out by the Korean Agency for Technology & Standards under the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. This report presents Making assessments based on the process of building organizational social Making assessments of the level of an organization’s achievement on the 7 the outcome of our assessment of KEPCO KPS’s social responsibility management process and its achievements in ISO 26000’s 7 core subjects based on the checklist. responsibility systems as presented in ISO 26000 (Recognizing, engagement, core subject of ISO 26000(organizational governance, human rights, labour analysis, strategy, execution, communication, verification, improvement). Enabling practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, community KEPCO KPS’s social responsibility management aims to achieve its purpose of establishment, which is to contribute to stable supply of energy through maintenance and repair of the organization to integrate social responsibility into its current management involvement and development). Helping the organization to easily understand the power plant facilities. systems and to improve it continuously. concepts and terms in 7 core subjects, 37 issues and the expectations related to the issues and to assess on its own how well it is implementing them. The company is fully aware of its relationship with stakeholders in dealing with social responsibility issues and making efforts to respect customers and employees and to earn their trust in order to become a company that grows together with stakeholders. KEPCO KPS’s systems to manage and address its economic, social and environmental impact are up and running but it needs to come up with ways to make its social responsibility management more systemized. Assessment of process(8 steps) Assessment of achievement(7 core subjects) In other words, the company is advised to identify material areas of its social responsibility and sustainability management and to ensure they are better aligned and conform with strategies in a bid to build more detailed action plans. Recognizing social responsibility Organizational governance In addition, the company is expected to develop policies to prevent violations of labor rights and human rights that may come with the conduct of overseas business and to contribute Step1 Reviewing the current status based on the commitment of CEO Activities of respecting the principles of social responsibility and integrating them to business practices to community development through the engagement of local communities abroad and corporate philanthropic activities. Stakeholder identification and Engagement Step2 Reviewing stakeholders’ interests and expectations and setting up Human rights engagement strategies Activities of respecting and protecting the human rights within an organization and its scope of influence. • Outcomes of the Assessment of KEPCO KPS Social Responsibility • KEPCO KPS Achievements in Fulfilling Social Responsibility Management Systems Analysis of core subjects and issues Step3 Listing up the issues by reviewing the issues and analyzing internal capability Labour practices Recognizing Organizational Policy and practices influencing the labour environment of social responsibility governance employees of an organization and its subcontracted organizations 100 Setting priorities, strategies and plans 100 Community 90 Step4 Prioritizing the issues that need to be improved and managed taking account of organization’s capability and setting up the 90 Stakeholder The environment Improvement identification and involvement and goals and implementation plans development 80 Human rights Activities of integrated approach to decrease the impacts of an 80 engagement 91 organization to the environment by taking account of the meaning 70 70 68 70 79.3 Execution of organization’s decisions and activities. 73.3 67 Step5 Executing the strategies, vision, goals and implementation plans 60 60 and monitoring the performance of social responsibility regularly Analysis of Fair operating practices 50 80 core subjects 50 Verification 80 Activities of giving attention to the ethical behavior of the and issues Consumer Communication transactions between an organization and other organizations such issues 91.7 90.6 Labour Step6 Communicating with stakeholders through the issuance of as partners or suppliers 65 70 practices performance reports Consumer issues 90 Activities of protecting consumers’ rights such as consumer Communication 84 Verification Setting priorities, Step7 Activities and reports to enhance the credibility of performance education, fair and transparent marketing information and contract, sustainable consumption promotion, etc strategies and plans 92 Fair operating The environment Execution practices Improvement Community involvement and development Step8 Reviewing performance regularly and building on it continuously Activities of trying to maximize the resources and opportunities while recognizing and respecting the right of the community. Integrating Social Responsibility into the Entire Organization July 14, 2011 Chang-Ryong, Kim KSA Chairman & CEO Contributing towards Sustainable Development 84 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 85 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index ※ Reporting level : ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported Not Applicable ※ Reporting level : ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported Not Applicable GRI GRI Index ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Issues Reported Page Remarks GRI GRI Index ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Issues Reported Page Remarks The principle of stakeholder engagement 6.8.2 Community involvement ● 20~21 Economic Disclosure on Management Approach ● 10~11, 25~26, 44~45 Boundary protocol 6.6.5 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain ● Front Cover EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other 6.8/6.8.3/ Community involvement and development/Community involvement/Wealth and income ● 25 Strategy and Analysis community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 6.8.7/6.8.9 creation/Social investment 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 6.2 Organizational governance ● 2~3 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. 6.5.5 Climate change and mitigation ● 47~48 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6.2 ● 10~11 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 6.4.4/6.8 Conditions of work and social protection/Community involvement and development ● 70 Organizational Profile EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ● 25 2.1 Name of the organization. ● 4 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 6.4.4/6.8 Conditions of work and social protection/Community involvement and development ● 78 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. ● 4 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 6.6.6/6.8/ Promoting social responsibility in the value chain/Community involvement and development/ ● 56, 58 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 6.2 Organizational governance ● 5 6.8.5/6.8.7 Employment creation and skills/Social investment 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. ● 5 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 Community involvement and development/Employment creation and skills/Social investment ● 68, 78 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. ● 4~5 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3/ Economic, social and cultural rights/Community involvement and development/Community ● 59~61 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. ● 14 or pro bono engagement. 6.8.4/6.8.5/6.8.6/ involvement/Education and culture/Technology development and access/Wealth and Income 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). ● 4 6.8.7/6.8.9 Creation/Social investment 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. ● 4~5, 76 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/ Economic, social and cultural rights/Promoting social responsibility in the value chain/Respect ● 24~25 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. ● No 6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5/ for property rights/Access to essential services/Community involvement and development/ significant change 6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 Employment Creation and Skill development/Technology development and access/Wealth and 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. ● 6~7 income creation/Social investment Report Parameter Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach ● 10~11, 44, 47, 50, 60, 77 No occurrence except oil, due 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. ● Front Cover EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 6.5/6.5.4 The environment/Sustainable resource use to industry characteristics. No occurrence, due to 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). ● Front Cover EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. industry characteristics. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● Front Cover EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ● 51 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● Front Cover EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. ● 51 Data is being 3.5 Process for defining report content. ● 20~21 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ◐ 51 aggregated currently. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). ● Front Cover EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements ● 47~49 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). ● Front Cover as a result of these initiatives. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly ● Front Cover EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ● 51 affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. ● 77 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other ● Front Cover EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ● 77 information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ● 77 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement ● Front Cover EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 6.5/6.5.6 The environment/Protection of environment, biodiversity and No operation site with high biodiversity value area is existed due to industry (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). protected areas. rehabilitation of natural habits characteristics. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. ● Front Cover EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Low impact on biodiversity is existed due to industry characteristics. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ● 86~89 biodiversity value outside protected areas. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 7.5.3 Assurance ● 82~83 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. ● 60, 61 Governance, Commitments & Engagement EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ● 60, 61 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 6.2 Organizational governance ● 14 ~15 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of No operation site in areas. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 6.2 ● 15 extinction risk. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 6.2 ● 15 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 6.5/6.5.5 The environment/Climate change and mitigation ● 51 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 6.2 ● 15, 71 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ● 51 Data is being aggregated 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance 6.2 ● 14~15 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. ◐ 51 currently (including social and environmental performance). EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 6.5/6.5.3 The environment/Prevention of pollution ● 77 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 6.2 ● 14~15 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ● 77 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of 6.2 ● 14 ~15 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ● 77 gender and other indicators of diversity. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ● 77 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and 6.2 ● 80~81 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. ● 51 the status of their implementation. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention ● 77 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks 6.2 ● 11~12, Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 14, 80~81 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 The environment/Sustainable resource use/Protection of environment, biodiversity and ● 77 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 6.2 ● 11, 14 organization's discharges of water and runoff. rehabilitation of natural habits 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 6.2 ● 18~19 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 The environment/Sustainable resource use/Promoting social responsibility in the value chain/ ● 44~46 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 6.2 ● 12 Sustainable consumption 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization 6.2 ● 13 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 The environment/Sustainable resource use/Sustainable consumption No packaging material used 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6.2 ● 20~21 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and 6.5 The environment ● 77 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 6.2 ● 20~21 regulations. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 6.2 ● 20~21 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 The environment/Sustainable resource use/Promoting ● 51 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, 6.2 ● 20~21 and transporting members of the workforce. social responsibility in the value chain including through its reporting. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 6.5 The environment ● 77 86 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 87 ※ Reporting level : ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported Not Applicable ※ Reporting level : ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported Not Applicable GRI GRI Index ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Issues Reported Page Remarks GRI GRI Index ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Issues Reported Page Remarks Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach ● 10~11, 64, 67~68 Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach ● 11, 29, 38, 52~53 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 6.4/6.4.3 Labour practices/Emplyoment and employment relationships ● 68~69, 78 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, 6.3.9/6.6.6/ Economic, social and cultural rights/Promoting social responsibility in the value chain/ ● 46, 52~53 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. ● 68~69, 78 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5 Consumer issue/Protecting consumers' health and safety/Sustainable consumption LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 Labour practices/Emplyoment and employment relationships/Conditions of work and social protection ● 70 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety ● 52~53 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/ Labour practices/Emplyoment and employment relationships/Conditions of work and social ● 71 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 6.4.5/6.3.10 protection/Social dialogue/Fundamental principles and rights at work PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/ Consumer issue/Fair marketing, fatual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices/Protecting ● 52~53 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 Labour practices/Emplyoment and employment relationships/Conditions of work and social protection/Social dialogue ● 71 services subject to such information requirements. 6.7.5/6.7.6/6.7.9 consumer's health and safety/Sustainable consumption/Consumer service, support, and complaint and LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and 6.4/6.4.6 Labour practices/Health and safety at work ● 73 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and dispute resolution/Education and awareness No occurrence, due to industry characteristics. advise on occupational health and safety programs. service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. ● 73 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/ Consumer issue/Protecting consumer's health and safety/Sustainable consumption/Consumer service, ● 30 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/ Labour practices/Health and safety at work/Community involvement and development/Community ● 72 6.7.6/6.7.8/6.7.9 support, and complaint and dispute resolution/Access to essential services/Education and awareness community members regarding serious diseases. 6.8.3/6.8.4/6.8.8 involvement/Education and culture/Health PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.6/6.7.9 Consumer issue/Fair marketing, fatual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices/ ● 29~30 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 6.4/6.4.6 Labour practices/Health and safety at work ● 73 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 6.4/6.4.7 Labour practices/Human development and training in the workplace ● 66 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing ● No Violation LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 Labour practices/Human development and training in the workplace/Employment creation and skills ● 69 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. managing career endings. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 6.7/6.7.7 Consumer issue/Consumer data protection and privacy ● No Violation LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 6.4/6.4.7 Labour practices/Human development and training in the workplace ● 66 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and 6.7/6.7.6 Consumer issue/Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution ● No Violation LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority 6.3.7/6.3.10/ Discrimination and vulnerable groups/Fundamental principles and rights at work/Labour practices/ ● 15, 78 use of products and services. group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 6.4/6.4.3 Emplyoment and employment relationships LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/ Discrimination and vulnerable groups/Fundamental principles and rights at work/Labour practices/ ● 78 GRI G3.1 Application Level Declaration 6.4.3/6.4.4 Emplyoment and employment relationships/Conditions of work and social protection LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.3.7 Discriminatiohn and vulnerable groups/Economic, social and cultural rights ● 78 Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach ● 10~11, 16~17, 56~57, 60~61, 68, 71, 89 ※ KEPCO KPS reported against the GRI G3.1 guidelines and self-declares its reporting to be Application Level ‘A+’. ※ The Korean Standards Association provided an independent assurance of KEPCO KPS's Sustainability Report 2010 and confirms that the report is rated Application Level ‘A+’. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/6.6.6 Human rights/Due diligence/Avoidance of complicity/Promoting social responsibility in the value chain ◐ 56 Assessment and investment on the human right issue has been integrated through all of our procurement process. We concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. are going to report by 2020. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/ Human rights/Due diligence/Avoidance of complicity/Emplyoment and employment relationships/ ◐ 56 Assessment and investment Against the 2002 guidelines C C+ B B+ A A+ on the human right issue has been integrated through all of our procurement process. We 6.4.3/6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain are going to report by 2020. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 6.3/6.3.5 Human rights/Avoidance of complicity ● 17, 71 including the percentage of employees trained. Extemal Assurance Statement Extemal Assurance Statement Extemal Assurance Statement HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ Human rights/Resolving grievances/Discrimination and vulnerable groups/Fundamental principles and ● No Violation Mandatory Self Declaration 6.3.10/6.4.3 rights at work/Emplyoment and employment relationships HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/ Human rights/Due diligence/Human rights risk situation/Avoidance of complicity/Civil and political rights/ ● 68 be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 6.3.8/6.3.10/6.4.3/6.4.5 Fundamental principles and rights at work/Emplyoment and employment relationships/Social dialogue Optional Third-Party Check HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/ Human rights/Due diligence/Human rights risk situation/Avoidance of complicity/Discrimination and ● 68~69 Compliance with ILO Standard, no risk for incidents of child labor. contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 6.3.5/6.3.7/6.3.10 vulnerable groups/Fundamental principles and rights at work HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures Human rights/Avoidance of complicity/Emplyoment and employment relationships/Promoting social ● 71 Compliance with ILO Standard, no risk for incidents of forced labor. to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. responsibility in the value chain HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of 6.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/6.6.6 Human rights/Resolving grievances/Discrimination and vulnerable groups/Fundamental principles and ◐ 16~17 Human rights related human rights that are relevant to operations. rights at work/Emplyoment and employment relationships contents are included in our education courses. UN Global Compact Principle HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ Human rights/Resolving grievances/Discrimination and vulnerable groups/Civil and political rights/ ● No Violation ■ Human Rights 6.3.8/6.6.7 Respect for property rights Assessment and investment Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. 6.3.3/6.3.4 Due diligence/Human rights risk situation ◐ 56 on the human right issue has been integrated through all of our procurement process. We Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. are going to report by 2020. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 6.3.6 Resolving grievances ● 17, 71 ■ Labour Standard Society Disclosure on Management Approach ● 11, 13, 16~17, 56~57, 59~61 Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/ Economic, social and cultural rights/Community involvement and development/Employment creation ● 60~61 of the right to collective bargaining; 6.8.7*/6.6.7 and skills/Social investment/Respect for property rights Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; We are going to report by SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 6.6/6.6.3 Fair operating practices/Anti-corruption ◐ 16, 19 2020. Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. ● 17 Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ● 17 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 Fair operating practices/Responsible political involvement/Community involvement ● 13 ■ Environment SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. ● 17, 81 Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 Fair operating practices/Fair competition/Respect for property rights ● No Violation In September 2007, KEPCO KPS joined the UN Global Compact, the Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7* Fair operating practices/Respect for property rights/Social investment ● No Violation UN-led international agreements on corporate social responsibility and Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 6.8 Community involvement and development ● No operation site with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local is fully complying with its 10 principles in the 4 areas of human rights, communities ■ Anti-Corruption SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on 6.8 Community involvement and development ● 61 labour standard, environment and anti-corruption. Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. local communities. 88 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 89 GRI Application Level Check Statement Glossary ● Flue Gas Desulferizer : Facility to reduce sulfur dioxide in flue gas generated at power plants ● Flue Gas Denitrogenizer : Air quality control facility to eliminate nitrogen oxide and dioxin that come out of various emitting facilities (incinerators, boilers and melting furnaces) ● APR 1400 (Advanced Power Reactor 1400) : New type of light-water reactor with 1400MW capacity ● BOP(Balance of Plant) : Auxiliary components not included in the primary system itself ● BOT(Build-Operate-Transfer) : The concession contract under which public infrastructure is financed, designed, constructed and operated by a private entity and later transferred to the local government ● EPC(Engineering, Procurement, Construction) : Design-Build project, Turnkey project where the contractor is involved in the whole spectrum of concerned activities from purchase of engineering materials to construction ● EPRI : Electric Power Research Institute ● ERM(Enterprise Risk Management) : New risk management methodology to manage visible/invisible management risks at an integrated company-wide level in order to minimize losses a company would suffer ● GT : Gas Turbine ● HVDC(High Voltage Direct Current) : High voltage direct current transmission ● IFRS(International Financial Reporting Standards) : Unified international accounting standards established by the International Accounting Standards Board(IASB) through the narrowing-down of diverse accounting principles and auditing criteria of countries around the world ● IGCC : Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle ● IPP : Independent Power Producer ● Joint Venture : Overseas investment where more than 2 companies, individuals and government organizations jointly participate in the operationof the concerned company ● MCR : Main Control Room ● MSDS(Material Safety Data Sheet) : Sheet that contains information necessary to use and manage chemicals in a safe manner ● OCTF(One Cycle Trouble Free) : Continuous operations without any breakdown/outage of the power plant between planned outage maintenances ● O&M : Operation & Maintenance ● PJB : Pre-Job-Briefing ● ROM : Plant Rehabilitation Operation & Maintenances ● RPS(Renewable Portfolio Standard) : Quota system that mandates certain percentage of new and renewable energy to be used ● SCM(Supply Chain Management) : Management solution to effectively handle product manufacturing process (component procurement, production plans, delivery and inventory management) ● SNG : Synthetic Natural Gas ● SPC : Special Purpose Company ● UN Global Compact : UN-initiated declaratory pledge that calls for multinational companies to proactively respond to wide-ranging issues that arise together with the globalization of the world economy ● VaR(Value at Risk) : Estimated threshold value of losses that a company may suffer in case of risks on a specific portfolio 90 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 KEPCO KPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 91 Stakeholder Opinion Survey We welcome your invaluable feedback on our Sustainability Report 2010 We will make sure that your opinions and suggestions are reviewed and fully reflected in our next sustainability report. You can e-mail (sustainability@kps.co.kr) or fax us to present your candid opinions. ● Receiver ● Sender (Can be left blank) Fax. 031-710-4099 Name _ Gender _ Job _ KEPCO KPS Management Planning Team 1. Which of the following group do you belong to? 2. How did you learn about KEPCO KPS Sustainability Reports? □ Customers □ Investors/Shareholders □ Business Partners □ KEPCO KPS Corporate Website □ Seminars/Lectures/Exhibitions □ Local Citizens □ Civil Organizations □ Employees of KEPCO □ Newspapers/Magazines □ Other Websites Affiliated Companies □ Research Institutes □ Government Officials □ KEPCO KPS Employees □ Others ( ) □ Employees □ Media outlets □ Others ( ) of KEPCO KPS 3. Which of the following did you find most interesting in this report? 4. Which of the following do you think should be improved in this report? □ Sustainability at KEPCO KPS □ Sustainable Innovation □ Sustainability at KEPCO KPS □ Sustainable Innovation □ Global Frontier □ Green Energy Management □ Global Frontier □ Green Energy Management □ Sharing Values □ Respectful Workplace □ Sharing Values □ Respectful Workplace 5. How do you evaluate this report? Ease of Understanding □ Highly Satisfied □ Satisfied □ Average □ Unsatisfied □ Highly Unsatisfied Amount of Information □ Highly Satisfied □ Satisfied □ Average □ Unsatisfied □ Highly Unsatisfied Overall Satisfaction □ Highly Satisfied □ Satisfied □ Average □ Unsatisfied □ Highly Unsatisfied 6. Please feel free to say anything about the KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2010.
