Global Compact COP July 2011 Global Compact COP July 2011 Indhold Danish Architecture Centre in a Brief 3 CEO’s Statement of Support 3 Presentation & Debate Activities Communication as a Tool for Change 5 Business & Network Activities Connecting People 7 Partnerships in DAC 10 DAC as an Enterprise 10 2/11 Global Compact COP July 2011 Danish Architecture Centre people, companies and society. This conception of in Brief architecture and its possibilities and consequences Danish Architecture Centre (DAC) is Denmark's are crucial to DAC and our approach to our national architecture centre. DAC works to develop communication, the thematics and partners we and present architecture, urban and landscape work with. development, and functions as a platform for initiatives which set new agendas and pave the way Since the beginning of the 21st-century, the Danish for sustainable development across the architecture Architecture Centre has focused with determination and construction industries. on how architecture can help to bring about global change by means of a sustainable approach to DAC offers a wide range of professional activities development, and in 2008 we joined the United that foster debate, along with cultural activities such Nations Global Compact. as exhibitions, professional conferences, partnership projects, seminars, web presentations, guided tours It is only natural to us, as Denmark's national of the city, training courses, etc. architecture centre, to continue supporting the principles of Global Compact and to exploit DAC's Our stakeholders and users embrace everyone from role as a platform for dialogue between the parties professional parties in the construction industry to of the construction industry and our position as the politicians, planners and decision-makers, as well as Danish government's primary player in the field of members of the general public who have an interest architecture, to put green growth and social and in architecture and culture. ethical accountability in architecture and building on the agenda. DAC is located in a beautifully renovated warehouse facing onto Copenhagen harbour, where we have Networks and alliances exhibitions, a bookshop, cafe and a conference Danish architects and engineers are at the cutting centre, and receives visitors every day from edge when it comes to green solutions. But this Denmark and abroad. does not mean that we cannot do things even better. The next move requires that the industry sets certain common goals and adopts a united CEO’s statement of support approach. This requires a joint effort across professional boundaries as well as new alliances From sustainability to Green Growth between developers, architects, engineers and Thinking in terms of sustainable development is no contractors, landscape architects, materials longer an option. It is an absolute necessity in all manufacturers and other relevant professional spheres of society if we are to protect and develop groups. our natural environment, our towns and cities, our welfare and democratic rights locally and globally. If the construction industry genuinely wants to At the Danish Architecture Centre working with make a difference to the overall sustainability sustainability and the principles of Global Compacts account, it is vital that the entire food chain joins in, is integral to the very purpose of our enterprise, in from the developer, who already sets the standard our core areas as well as in our organisation. in the tender documents, to the materials makers We understand sustainable architecture to mean who ensure that the supply chain is in order, but construction and construction design as well as which also have tremendous development potential urban and landscape planning which create the best when it comes to intelligent and sustainable possible framework for life the world over as well as materials. creating social, economic and cultural values for 3/11 Global Compact COP July 2011 In 2010/11, DAC has arranged a whole range of However, although Danish companies have a lectures and seminars which, among other things, reputation as some of the best employers in these have focused on sustainable materials, energy markets, we need to look at how we can make even reduction in the construction industry and general better use of Danish builders companies' ethical and sustainable development in the industry. A series of moral codex, including our take on democracy, lectures, the ”Arup Talks”, were given by directors human and workers' rights, to make a distinct from one of the world's most sustainable and footprint on the world stage. It makes sense for ethically responsible engineering firms. companies in the Danish construction industry to make good use of their cultural advantages, and the DAC will continue to work to bring together the current focus on companies' social responsibilities to parties of the construction sphere in order to create a common brand as a responsible Danish exchange knowledge and identify new tendencies, construction industry. challenges and potentials in a global perspective. The affair involving the Danish consultancy firm The city as a framework for green growth Rambøll, accused by the media of having slaveryThe city with urban and landscape development like conditions on a construction site in Dubai in are another of DAC's strategic focus areas. More early 2011 created a Burning Platform not just for than half of the world's population live in urban Rambøll, but for all the construction industry areas, a number which is increasing. Cities account companies active in markets in the region. Rambøll for a large proportion of overall CO2 emissions, but has chosen to take the matter extremely seriously strategic planning of urban areas is not just decisive and has published a strategy for how to avoid those in relation to reducing CO2. The city still functions kinds of conditions on their construction sites or as the perfect framework for green growth as those of their business partners. It is obvious for regards the environment, public health and quality the rest of the industry to follow suit and to take of life, as well as for testing new intelligent lead and make a difference. technologies and solutions for the future where population density is greatest. At DAC we will capitalise our commitment to Global Compact and DAC's role as a platform for the At DAC we have brought sustainable urban parties of the construction industry to keep focusing development into focus through a whole series of on sustainable development of buildings, cities and information activities. We will continue to bring into landscape. At the same time we see an obvious focus the city's potential as a framework for green opportunity to foster, together with the industry, growth in the years to come. We will do so in greater awareness of the Global Compact principles collaboration with companies, municipalities, on human rights, labour and anti-corruption in the industry associations and other relevant players in industry and create initiatives which bring into focus Denmark and abroad. how the Danish construction industry can take the lead as responsible players in the global market. Internationalisation and global accountability Danish architecture and urban development have Kent Martinussen tremendous potential as export commodities. Major Danish engineering companies and a number of Danish architectural firms are making their mark in CEO, Danish Architecture Centre the international market in the Middle East among other places, where culture and working conditions are very different to those in Denmark. 4/11 Global Compact COP July 2011 Presentation & Debate DAC at EXPO 2010 in Shanghai: Sustainable activities Cities Talk At EXPO 2010 in Shanghai, Sustainable Cities held Communication as a tool for change two talks in collaboration with the City of We believe that through DAC's role as a platform for Copenhagen in the Danish pavilion under the information, dissemination, networking and debate headings:”Sustainability the Copenhagen way” we can make a difference when it comes to creating and ”Metropolis for people mobility and urban life”, shared understanding across architecture and the where director and head of centre Ulrik Winge of the construction industry and achieve national political City of Copenhagen Urban Design Centre spoke on goals which harmonise with the goals and principles sustainability strategy and sustainability tools. The of the Global Compact. talks took place in the Danish Pavillon designed by BIG – Bjarke Ingels Group. DAC has in recent years arranged a number of international exhibitions and initiatives with global Q&A: Urban Questions _ Copenhagen Answers perspectives. However, most of DAC's projects, The official Danish contribution to the 12th local as well as global, put architecture into a International Architecture Exhibition – La Biennale societal context and relate to how architecture, di Venezia which was held from September to construction and urban and landscape development November 2010 featured the city of Copenhagen can help to resolve current local and global with the exhibition “Q&A: Urban Questions _ challenges. Copenhagen Answers.” For the last twenty years, Copenhagen has been a living lab of sustainable Sustainable Cities urban development. Danish and international Urban planning in the modern world is a complex architects, urban planners, investors, politicians, task which requires an interdisciplinary and and the general public have explored the city’s sustainable approach. Infrastructure, water potential with determination, courage and curiosity treatment, energy-reducing building, waste to experiment with different strategies. handling, health, involvement of the public, research and education and much more are all relevant themes in the development of a city. For this reason, cities have become interesting as a frame story of green growth and in particular for the branding of municipalities and nations. DAC's strategic focus on sustainable cities in recent years has proven to be of interest to players far from the traditional disciplines of urban planning. Via the Sustainable Cities ™ project, DAC has disseminated knowledge of sustainable urban planning through web presentations and lectures. As a result Copenhagen has changed radically – not Most of the presentation relating to sustainable only in its architecture but also in the way we use cities is collected on www.sustainablecities.dk. and live in the city. New connections with the Metro However, Sustainable Cities ™ exploits to a high and cycle routes have been implemented, new degree the social media and other web sites of urban spaces and new public buildings created and different organizations and firms, who are dealing new ways of living, working, going to school and with the same themes and questions, to reach as spending leisure time have emerged. Each of these many interested parties as possible. provides new suggestions as to how the urban 5/11 Global Compact COP July 2011 challenges of cities can be met with architectural healthy lifestyle. For this reason, DAC started a answers. campaign in the summer of 2011, in collaboration with five Danish municipalities, which brings into What makes a liveable city focus towns and cities the life, targeted at older – a Copenhagen X exhibition members of society. In June 2011, an edited version of the biennial exhibition opened at the Danish Architecture Centre, The campaign was based on research and expert enabling Danes and tourists in Copenhagen to get a interviews, together with cases from all over the deeper insight into the development of the Danish world to be find at www.bæredygtigerbyer.dk capital, in particular two projects – Nordhavnen (the north harbour), which will be Copenhagen's biggest sustainable neighbourhood, and the Carlsberg site in the city's Vesterbro district, which over time will develop into a CO2-neutral community. The exhibition at DAC gives visitors an insight into the massive physical changes Copenhagen has undergone over the last 10 years from large scale development in Ørestad to new cultural institutions and green urban spaces in the Nørrebro, Østerbro and Vesterbro districts. The exhibition also looks towards future developments, asking the question: Manmade Environment – An exhibition about how can we build on the experiences of the last 10 new Nordic landscape architecture years and continue to create a sustainable In the light of global climate change and growing framework for future growth and welfare? pressures on towns, cities and landscapes there is a Read more about the exhibition at www.dac.dk need for alternative, interdisciplinary planning methods and strategies with the emphasis on using The city for life A campaign in five Danish natural resources and combining new expertise and towns and cities technologies with an awareness of local conditions, Urban development has many aspects to it and in culture and identity. The exhibition, MANMADE recent years, researchers, architects, urban ENVIRONMENT, a collaborative effort between DAC planners and municipalities have focused on finding and Norsk Form, zooms in on the role of landscape out how development of urban spaces can create architecture in large-scale sustainable urban the basis for greater social cohesion and in development and planning. The exhibition was first particular, equality of access to a healthy and active shown at the Architecture Triennial in Oslo in 2010 lifestyle. One efficient tool to this end is the and since then, at DAC and in Stockholm in 2011. development of urban spaces which encourage people to take exercise, for example by making it The exhibition comprises examples which illustrate easy to get around by bike or on foot in the town or important progress and new tendencies in the to play ball games, etc. current landscape discourse and practice exemplified by a multifarious selection of projects. The focus has often been on young urban dwellers These address common and location-specific Nordic and families. However, with the prospect of an challenges such as urban renewal, public ageing society, it is also relevant to examine how involvement processes, rehabilitation of areas which older people can get out and about and use open have lost their original functions, the extension of spaces to exercise and keep active, supporting a 6/11 Global Compact COP July 2011 new infrastructure and the restoration or whose focus was on the sustainable cities of the conservation of natural landscapes. future. Dr. Jan Wurm, partner in Arup Materials in Read more about the exhibition at www.dac.dk Berlin, provided insight into some of Arup's current research projects. Rory McGowan, Arup's director Architecture TV the China and Ireland, spoke, among other things, DAC has set up its own Web TV channel, which about the history of Arup's. shows Danish and international talks and lectures, The Talks are available on Architecture TV. taken place at DAC for a broader audience. In 2010/11 DAC has scheduled a number of lectures Green Building Materials on sustainability in architecture, urban planning and As part of DAC's focus on the significance of the construction recorded for the TV Channel. The materials used in buildings in recent years and in lectures are free of charge and available to all. the future, DAC organised a number of events and Some of them are available in English, including the lectures for Architecture TV in collaboration with Arup Talks. several external business partners and companies. In June 2011, DAC organised a theme event about Business & Network 'Green Building Materials' in collaboration with the Activities Danish Material Technology Society. The event brought developments into focus in a Cradle to Cradle building demonstration in collaboration with Connecting people 3XN and Cradle to Cradle Denmark. The concept DAC and Copenhagen X have organised a number of relates to creating buildings in such a way that at events and debates during 2010/2011 which have the end of their useful lives they can become brought into focus sustainability and CSR in the nutrition four new creations. The event provided a industry and in particular on the architect's role in a discussion of specific case studies, as well as ideas social and environmentally sustainable perspective. for green building materials for use today and tomorrow. DAC’s Business & Networks programme has focused specifically on the construction industry's development agendas and on encouraging dialogue and partnerships across the companies of the construction industry, organisations and decisionmakers with a view to creating a common language and common goals when it comes to creating a sustainable society. The Arup Talks Energy Efficient Building Design Arup is one of the world's leading engineering firms By 2020, the energy consumption of all new in the field of sustainable building, infrastructure buildings must be reduced by a total of 75 % in and urban development. In June 2011, the Danish relation to 2006 consumption and in the longArchitecture Centre invited Arup to hold three talks term, all buildings must be plus-energy buildings, focusing on Arup’s work, projects and visions of the meaning that they will generate more energy than future to provide inspiration, learning and debate they consume. The goals for 2020 are so ambitious for the Danish consultancy industry. that players in the construction industry still do not have at their disposal the technologies and solutions The talks were held by Mark Watts, director of necessary to achieve these goals. Economy and Arup’s Energy & Climate Change Consulting Team, Commerce Minister Brian Mikkelsen therefore 7/11 Global Compact COP July 2011 decided to announce the 2020 goals already in Healthy building for the future” where a number of 2011. experts presented their views on which challenges and possibilities applied to the development of In connection to the announcement, DAC held a healthy buildings in the future, together with conference in March 2011 with discussion papers examples of best practice in indoor climate design and debate on energy-efficient building design using with the focus on light, sound and air concrete examples and identification of the topics Read more about Good Indoor Climate and see the crucial to the design of energy-efficient building. three talks from the conference on Architecture TV In cooperation with AT Architects, DAC made an inspiration paper to the discussion on how Caring for Climate – companies CSR from architecture and choice of design best can vision to reality contribute to fulfilment of the 2020 goals. Download 34 Danish architecture firms and engineers have the paper from www.dac.dk joined the Global Compact since 2008, but what does membership mean and how do they maintain their commitment? In January 2011 the Danish Architecture Centre, the Copenhagen Urban Network (Byens Netværk) and the UNDP Denmark arranged a breakfast meeting about Global Compact and the Caring for Climate initiative and a debate on global company accountability from vision to reality. COWI, Site Architects and Henning Larsen Architects told the gathering how they work with global accountability with the focus on the climate. Good indoor climate in buildings of the future Their presentation was followed up by Helle – light, sound and air Johansen, Head of Business Outreach and the UNDP Indoor climate design is a challenge the building Nordic Office, CSR and Global Compact, presented sector cannot afford to ignore. Indoor climate is one the Global Compact Caring for Climate initiative, of the fundamental elements of architecture and the with the presenters in the hot seat and asked way we sense light, sound and air our indispensable questions about their company practice and the aspects of the architectural experience. future challenges faced by the industry. Read about the event here. In December 2010 DAC held a seminar in collaboration with the Danish Enterprise and Building materials of the future Construction Authority on the challenges and In December 2010, DAC highlighted digitisation and possibilities that apply in the development of the development of new building materials, which healthy buildings in the future and good indoor must carry architecture and building into the future. climate. On the basis of discussion papers, several DAC invited to an evening with three talks on the speakers from architecture firms and engineering future of building materials and developments in the companies, as well as research institutions, world of research and company development presented their ideas of best practice in indoor departments. climate design relating to light, sound and air. On Architecture TV you can hear Mette Ramsgaard In connection to the event, DAC edited and Thomsen from the Royal Academy School of published the publication Light, Sound, Air Architecture, Information Technology and 8/11 Global Compact COP July 2011 Architecture, Anne-Mette Manelius from the Centre Danish Resources clusters of green skills in for Industrial Architecture and Kasper Guldager the Danish construction industry Jørgensen, head of 3XN's development department, The market for sustainable services is growing and talk about their research into, and work with, the Danish construction industry has the potential to building materials of the future. be there up front. But this position is by no means the reserve of the Danes, and competition from Selected visits to construction projects and bigger nations is considerable especially companies at the cutting edge considering our high labour costs. The Copenhagen Urban Network arrange visits to construction sites and visits to the firms, who are In the period June 2009 to September 2010, the members of the network. Danish Architecture Centre completed the project Danish Resources clusters of green skills in the One of the companies which the Copenhagen Urban Danish construction industry. The purpose of the Network visited this year was Logik & Co, a fastproject was to underpin the development of Danish growing Copenhagen based construction company skills clusters in the delivery of sustainable solutions which distinguishes itself quite markedly from its in constructed environments and to strengthen the counterparts in the industry. The company's general domestic and international competiveness of Danish manager spoke about the unusual approach of this companies. special construction firm to quality, sustainability and social accountability, and how Logik & Co Through the communication and exchange of the creates value by means of networking. Although its knowledge and building competition-strengthening structure is a departure from the norm, the firm clusters among various parties in the construction competes on an equal footing with other process, the project contributed to Danish contractors, implements complex projects and is architecture firms' and engineers', along with adding an increasing number of building projects to building contractors' understanding of the its list of references. strengthening potential of clusters for their competitiveness in the global market. In November last year, Logik & Co was awarded the Read more about the project and experiences from National Network for Senior Executives' special the clusters here. prize. Logik & Co was selected holistic efforts and modern approach to work involving social DAC’s areas of business becoming greener accountability, and social commitment which permeates the entire company as a core value , as the committee put it in the grounds for its decision. Networks In 2008 DAC joined the Global Compact Nordic Network. DAC is still a member of the Global Compact Nordic Network, although we have concentrated our resources on bolstering our network and relations with players in the construction market with focus on future DAC has a bookshop, a conference centre, a café collaboration projects relating to SCR and and a conference restaurant. All accessories now on sustainability. sale at DAC bookshop are fair trade products. 9/11 Global Compact COP July 2011 In 2011, DAC uses 35 % organic produce in its rights, Labour, anti-corruption and environment is kitchen, compared to 30 % in 2010. integral part of DACs organization. All staff at DAC enjoys the protection of the Danish Employers' and All kitchen waste is sorted and collected by different Salaried Employees' Act, which complies with all suppliers for recycling and all paper and cardboard employee rights under Danish legislation and boxes used in the kitchen come from SCA, the most international human rights conventions. In addition sustainable supplier in the market when it comes to to this, DAC has chosen to provide its staff with the certified paper and board. following: All staff have the right to be a member of the trade union of their choice Partnerships in DAC All staff are under the supervision of DAC's health One of DAC's main roles is to provide fertile soil for and safety committee dialogue and development in and among the All permanent staff have pension schemes and parties of the construction industry. We do this health insurance, as well as a group insurance through partnerships. which covers in the event of illness or death. All staff enjoy a free fruit scheme and can buy DAC receives basic funding from a partnership inexpensive food in DAC's conference restaurant. consisting of Realdania, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of At DAC we also have a co-operation forum for Economic and Business Affairs. DAC's projects are dialogue between staff, management and the board. funded from income and subsidies from ministries, This consists of 3 staff representatives, 1 foundations and sponsorships and are developed in management representative and a director. The copartnership with the companies, organisations and operation forum holds four regular meetings a year other central players in the industry. as well as a number of ad hoc meetings. On the basis of numerous initiatives on the part of Co-operation with international players All staff DAC, focusing on the influence of architecture and business partners at DAC, including those from including the cities and landscape on the other countries and cultures with entirely different environment and climate change, the Ministry of the gender-related and authoritarian work structures, Environment became the fourth partner in DAC are treated as equals at DAC. Business partners partnership agreement in 2011. from abroad are entitled to food and housing At each of the ministries, DAC makes its knowledge conditions on a par with our own, and in the world available as well as fulfilling its obligations outside Denmark we meet people at eye level and pertaining to the framework agreements with each take exception to any form of discrimination on the of the ministries, which e.g. includes hosting events, basis of sex, race or religion. producing publications, etc. which spotlight strategically important political focus areas such as Against corruption energy reduction targets and 2020 goals. In DAC's day-to-day role as an information centre, primarily on the Danish soil, we are not involved in any corrupt activities and strongly object to any form of corruption. DAC as an Enterprise Production DAC's production of material is relatively limited and Human rights / Employee rights financed by project funds from foundations, The UN Global Compacts principles on human 10/11 Global Compact COP July 2011 ministries and sponsors. We endeavour in all our kW/h. In addition, all the 300 W halogen exhibition dealings to maintain a sensible balance between lamps at DAC were replaced by ones that use only sustainability of products and economy. 75 watts in 2010. Most of DAC's production and products used are Cellar lights turn off automatically and copiers go on made in Scandinavia or Europe and are certified as standby sustainable. As regards products from the Far East, The entire cellar at DAC has been equipped with we try to enquire about work conditions whenever movement sensors which switch off the lights if nopossible to ensure that DAC is not complicit in one has been in a room for a number of minutes. All violations of international human rights. photocopiers go onto standby when not in use. All DAC's printed material, including posters in the exhibition, constituting more than 80 % of a production, carries the Swan label and is made on FSC-certified paper. Climate and energy Danish Architecture Centre In the course of 2011, DAC, together with the Strandgade 27B Palaces and Properties Agency (Slotsog DK-1401 Copenhagen Ejendomsstyrelsen), which manages the Gl. Dok www.dac.dk building on Christianshavn in Copenhagen, carried Danish Architecture Centre (DAC) is a project organizaout a number of replacements and renovations. tion that develops and communicates knowledge about architecture and urbanand landscape development. DAC is base funded by a partnership consisting of Realdania, Building renovation the Danish Ministry of Culture, the Danish Ministry of EnIn 2010, DAC has got renovated all the windows in vironment and the Danish Ministry of Economic and Business Affairs. the old warehouse and a 25 year-old ventilation system has been replaced by a new one that enables us to recycle our own heat. According to the Palaces and Properties Agency calculations, replacement of the ventilation system throughout the Gl. Dok building is expected to reduce heat consumption by approximately 93,500 kW/h and electricity consumption by some 10,000 kW/h a year in the whole building, of which DAC occupies about 50% of the floor space. LED bulbs in all standard light fittings In DAC's administration, the restaurant and conference centre, 400 bulbs are on from 817 360 days of the year and on some days long into the evening. In 2011, DAC replaced all 400 bulbs with LED bulbs, which will not require replacement until 2018. DAC expects this initiative to reduce its electricity consumption by 1/6 of previous consumption in 11/11
