UAH 4,559 mln. sales in 2010 total payments UAH 991 mln. (taxes, excise tax, charges) of Obolon Corporation in 2010 90 despite the crisis, Obolon Corporation UAH closed 2010 with a profit mln. investments in the company’s own UAH 500 mln. malt plant in Chemerivtsi (Khmelnytskyi Oblast) the share 80 Obolon Corporation % holds in Ukrainian beer exports staff of all corporate 6,500 people entities of Obolon JSC this is the equivalent 23 of plastic waste that Obolon mln. plastic 1-liter bottles recycles a year the number 11,982 of visitors to the brewery in Kyiv last year people share 16,8 of the Obolon brand % in the Ukrainian beer market in 2010 21 % total reduction in new waste at Obolon JSC in 2010 2,7 water consumption as compared to product output liters of water per liter of the finished product 1,181,000 output per UAH employee at Obolon JSC ЗМІСТ 3 Executive introduction 6 About the Sustainability Report 7 ABOUT OBOLON CORPORATION 8 The Structure of Obolon Corporation 9 Anti-Corruption Practices 10 Economic Results and Impact of the Crisis 11 Main News of the Company and its Brands 12 PRODUCTS 14 Brands of Obolon Corporation 14 Position in the Domestic Market 16 Exports 18 Comprehensive Quality Assurance System 20 Relations with Suppliers 22 and Consumers STAFF 24 Working Conditions and Staff Development 25 Occupational Health and Safety 28 Corporate Culture and Volunteers 30 COMPREHENSIVE 34 ENVIRONMENTAL CULTURE Workflow Ecology 35 Innovative Environmental Projects 38 Promotion of Environmental Awareness 40 SOCIAL INVESTMENTS 42 Prizes Received in 2010 46 Table of Conformity to GRI v.3 48 4 Map оf corporate social responsibility of Obolon corporation offer of jobs Economic impact national production exports tax payments responsibility for the product at all stages of the life cycle environmentally friendly investments Environmental safety optimized use of resources reduced environmental impact of the company Obolon waste reduction and recycling Corporation high social standards decent compensation staff training and Working conditions: development standardized staff health and safety system employment of people with special needs educational projects aid to vulnerable strata of the population Social investments promotion of the revival of high spiritual values, historical and cultural heritage development of sports 5 Shareholders and investors Staff members Internal stakeholders Consumers Partners State authorities Local self-government External NGOs stakeholders Media International organizations Financial and lending institutions Local residents of where the company’s facilities based 6 Executive introduction The Mission of Obolon Corporation: ”We work every day to be the best and to leave nobody thirsty on the planet” Dear partners and colleagues: We are proud to present a Report of Obolon Corporation that shows our path to sustainable development. Oleksandr Slobodian, The previous year was especially significant for Obolon. Despite President of Obolon the invariable pressure on the sector and on the manufacturCorporation er, we managed to overcome crisis phenomena, maintained and even increased our output. Last year the corporation had a lot of positive changes — increased performance, introduction of new products and renewal of Obolon’s main brand. No matter how actively involved we are in the business, we never forget about the principles of corporate responsibility, because seven thousand Obolon employees are working for 45 million Ukrainians. Changes made in corporate governance prove the correctness of the path we have chosen to develop this Ukrainian corporation headquartered in Kyiv. Reorganized into a public company, Obolon has assumed additional obligations. Now we are going to be even more open to the world. The drive for leadership in all markets where the Corporation is present remains a strategic business objective. In addition, we are striving to diversify and make our business less affected by crisis phenomena. Exporting products to international markets is one of these techniques. Corporate social responsibility is a very important tool for us on the path to sustainable long-term development. The drive for sustainable development guides as when we design all strategies of the Corporation, including our impact on all stakeholder groups to which we owe such success. During the crisis. we managed to maintain financial stability due, in particular, to implementation of the strategy of the Corporation’s sustainable development. Meanwhile, Obolon Corporation continues invariably to follow principles of harmonious coexistence, interaction and continued dialogue with society. I am convinced that this Report will continue the development of effective dialogue between Obolon Corporation and its employees, consumers, the wider public, state authorities and partners. executive introduction 7 About the Sustainability Report Reporting period: 2010. Most statistics are provided in a 5 year sequence. Information has been updated to include the results for H1 2011 results and conforms to the standards for non-financial reporting (Conformity Table, page 48). Obolon Corporation’s Report includes actual data for the entire Corporation (most figures). These data reflect the Corporation-wide situation in the main CSR areas. This is possible after work has been done with remote facilities, subsidiaries and enterprises with corporate rights. Information provided in the Report describes the organization’s operations in the broad context of sustainable development. Facts and statistics referred to in the Report enable the reader to evaluate the Corporation’s impact on the economic, environment and society. This Report was constructed on the principles of balance to include both positive and negative aspects of the Corporation’s performance. Moreover, whenever possible, all data is shown in the framework of the past five years. There are also facts to compare the Corporation’s operations with other enterprises’. When deviating from the proposed GRI, data measurement methods and calculations meet requirements of internal corporate standards. Last year Obolon continued developing programs including responsible beer consumption, workflow energy efficiency and gender equality in the workplace. It was also in 2010 that Obolon CJS joined the ranks of the best companies in such areas as business reputation, employer reputation and gender policy based on independent rating assessments. Most importantly, the high quality of our products is recognized by our consumers, who acknowledge this by purchasing Obolon Oleksandr Puchok Corporation’s beverages every day. General Director of Furthermore, CSR activities are an element of the reputation capiObolon JSC tal of Obolon JSC. Based on research, an improved level of corporate reputation increases the number of consumers prepared at least to recommend the company and its products to others. Consumers are also willing to speak positively and support companies with the best reputation during a crisis. This becomes a competitive advantage when launching new products in the market and fixing premium prices for goods and services. 8 About Obolon corporation The Structure of Obolon Corporation Oleksandr Slobodian, In late April 2011 the General Shareholders Meeting of Obolon President of Obolon resolved to change the name of the closed (private) company Corporation to a public company. As required by the laws of Ukraine, companies that have more than one hundred shareholders should make such changes. This means our company will be open to the public. In addition, as required by the law, the General Meeting resolved to transfer its stocks from documentary to non-documentary form on a compulsory basis. The twenty-year-old strategy aimed at building Obolon into a powerful national company remains valid for the future. Obolon still is a company in the Ukrainian market wholly owned by Ukrainians. We continue writing the history of Ukrainian business, this time through innovations in corporate governance. Obolon proves yet again that domestic business headquartered in Kyiv really can successfully operate about Obolon corporation 9 Main Structural Elements of Obolon Corporation ‫٭‬ also the largest brewery in Europe : Parent enterprise Obolon PC (Public Company), Kyiv (production of beer, soft drinks, mineral water, (headquarters) in malt, grain) Kyiv ‫—٭‬ calculations based on nominal production capacity Production complex in Oleksandria, Kirovohrad Oblast (production of soft and low-alcohol drinks, recycling of PET bottles, Territorially production of strips) separated Malt plant in Chemerivtsi, Khmelnytskyi Oblast (malt production) work units Sports and Recreation Complex of Obolon Arena, Kyiv Zibert’s Brewery Subsidiary, Fastiv, Kyiv Oblast (production of beer, soft drinks) Obolon Krasylivske PC Subsidiary, Krasyliv, Khmelnytskyi Oblast (production of Subsidiaries potable water, low-alcohol and soft drinks) Obolon Agro LLC, Chemerivtsi, Khmelnytskyi Oblast (agricultural production, cultivation of barley, rearing of cattle and pigs) Okhtyrka Brewery PC, Okhtyrka, Sumy Oblast (production of beer, soft drinks, potable water, malt) Sebastopol Plant of Beverages PC, Sevastopol, the Crimea (production of soft Enterprises drinks, potable water) with corporate Bershad Combine PrC (Private Company), Bershad, Vinnytsia Oblast (production of rights low-alcohol drinks, malt) Diatkivtsi PrC, Kolomya, Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast (malt production) ‫٭‬ Rokytne Glass Plant PrC2 , Rokytne, Rivne Oblast (bottle production) ‫ — ٭‬Obolon holds a significant, but not controlling shareholding in the Rokytne Glass Plant PrC 10 about Obolon corporation Anti-Corruption Obolon Corporation fully recognizes and meets the tenth prinPractices ciple of the UN Global Compact to the effect that business circles should counteract corruption, including extortion and bribery. In order to combat corruption and other negative phenomena that might affect normal operation of the Corporation, Obolon PC has put the following local regulations in place: provisions to regulate job-related rights and duties of staff members, their relations with employees from other work units and offices; provisions to regulate selection of suppliers of raw materials, goods, work, services; provisions to regulate contractual employment at the Corporation. If any employee performs corrupt actions that have caused or may cause damage to the Corporation, such an employee is subjected to measures allowed by current laws. about Obolon corporation 11 2010 was a year of difficult economic conditions, yet Obolon Economic Results and Impact of the Crisis Corporation even managed to raise the output of its main product (beer) by almost 3% compared to 2009. Influenced by a lot of factors (the global economic crisis, reduced buying power of the population, increased excise and tax rates), the 2008-2009 period was among the most difficult periods of Obolon’s 30-year history. Sales (proceeds) (‘000 UAH)] In 2010, Obolon Corporation increased beer production by 3% vs 5 000 000 2009, reaching 99.4 mln. decaliters. 4 558 949 4 500 000 Though the pressure on the sector did not cease and even in4 176 304 4 107 760 creased in 2010, Obolon Corporation points out some posi4 000 000 tive tendencies. Firstly, it stopped a decline in beer output: it rose 3% in 2010, reaching 99.4 mln. decaliters. Secondly, 3 500 000 Obolon Corporation ended 2010 with a profit of more 3 489 318 than UAH 89 mln. Thirdly, employee output grew 12.3% at 3 000 000 Obolon Corporation (nominal value based on sales per em2 729 766 ployee). This all resulted from a comprehensive program of 2 500 000 improving the economic performance of the Corporation’s 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 businesses. In addition, in 2010 Obolon Corporation paid UAH 991 mln. in taxes, excise tax and charges, i.e., 50% more than in 2009. Net profit (‘000 UAH) Fair and transparent payment of taxes has always been a 400 000 principle of Obolon’s operations in the financial area. 300 000 231 313 200 000 159 642 175 351 100 000 89 476 0 -100 000 -200 000 -300 000 -400 000 -449 396 -500 000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Performance (sales, ‘000 UAH, per year per Total budget payments (‘000 UAH) employee) 1 050 000 1 300 990 624 950 000 1 200 1105 1181 850 000 1 100 1052 750 000 1 000 635 763 659 004 998 650 000 900 898 568 968 800 550 000 521 686 700 450 000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 12 Main News of the Company and its Brands May 2010 A new Ukrainian record was set during the January 2010 celebration of Obolon Corporation’s 30th Obolon Corporation supported an educational anniversary. Representatives of the Ukrainian project of the People of the Future Foundation. Book of Records registered the biggest Within the Education Around the Country simultaneous beer toast ‘To Obolon!’ which project, the People of the Future Foundation was simultaneously made by 2,123 employees named 30 winners of grants for a university of the Corporation. education. Obolon’s brand was recognized as the most valuable Obolon sponsored Ukraine House in Vancouver and indispensable for Ukrainians. Obolon was during the Winter Olympic Games. Guests of named ‘my favorite domestic brand’ by the Ukraine House were treated to true Ukrainian most respondents during a survey initiated beer and drinks during official parties, gala by MMR, a marketing publication, and called concerts and events. ‘Which companies and brands have won Ukrainian hearts’. April 2010 August 2010 A special festive premium beer, Obolon Jubilee, was The Obolon Trademark is the general sponsor of the created as part of the celebration of the 30th Supreme League. Obolon Corporation continued anniversary of the Kyiv-based brewery. This was a cooperating with the Supreme league as the general real gift to all Obolon fans. sponsor of the Football Championship of Ukraine. Obolon launched a new product in the soft drinks market According to the contract, Obolon Corporation and — live brewed kvass — Bohatyrskyi. This drink is the Supreme League will cooperate for three years. made in Zibert’s Brewery, a subsidiary of Obolon JSC The Obolon brewery in Kyiv resumed production of the based in Fastiv, Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast. legendary Zhyhulivske beer based on the old recipe. Obolon Corporation gathers a record number of prizes at the 2010 Beer Fest. At the conclusion of the International Professional Competition, Obolon Corporation’s products had won 38 prizes September 2010 13 In late September Novyi Kanal (New Channel) aired the third season of a popular sports and entertainment show for children, Zhyvchyk-Starty. March 2011 The favorite drink of families, Zhyvchyk Nehazovanyi, December 2010 appeared in a new non-transparent yellow The Obolon Trademark was recognized as well known package. The bottle was improved to make it in Ukraine. This not only increases the commercial easier to find the useful still drink and single it value of the Obolon TM but also ensures it has out in the main Zhyvchyk product line. unlimited protection for all classes of international patent classification of goods and services. A new design for the Beermix TM was created. Obolon breathed new life into the Beermix TM by making April 2011 the package brighter, more colorful and dynamic. Obolon Svitle became better. Obolon brewers Obolon is among the most reputable companies in made the shelf life of ‘Obolon Svitle’ beer Ukraine. Results of the Ukraine’s Most Reputable shorter. This novelty is intended to globally Companies-2010 survey organized by Reputation change the situation in the beer market. Capital were announced in early December, during From now on, consumers can always drink the Reputation Days in Ukraine, Obolon Corporation only fresh beer. The design of Obolon Svitle placed 12th among companies with the best package has been changed along with reputation in Ukraine. improved taste and shortened shelf life. Obolon came in first among the best employers which implement principles of fair gender policies. The competition was held under the auspices and with active support of the Ministry of Labor and Social Policies of Ukraine, the project of the EU and International Labor Organization called ‘Equality of Women and Men in the World of Labor’ and the European Business Association. January 2011 Obolon is among the most reputable employers of Ukraine. The Corporation came in 13th in the general rating (which included foreign companies operating in Ukraine) among companies with the best employer reputation. 14 Products Major product types produced by Obolon Corporation include beer, soft drinks, potable water, low-alcohol drink and, malt for brewing. Other types of operations involve manufacture of plastic products (from recycled PET bottles) and various agricultural products. Next, we will be focused on results of operations involving manufacture of our major products. Ukraine is the main market for our products accounting for over 80% of sales. Brands of Obolon Primary brand:Obolon TM Corporation Each year Ukraine produces 300 million decaliters of beer. Most main sorts of beer have an overall shell life of 180 days. However, after marketing research Obolon experts found out that increasingly more people consider product freshness as a major advantage of beer and watch especially closely the time that has passed since bottling. The fresher beer is, the better it tastes. So, Obolon brewers refreshed the taste of Obolon Svitle (Light) by, in particular, making its shelf life shorter, from 180 to 60 days. This is the very period during which the taste and aroma of beer do not change. Based on degustation results, experts established that Obolon beer that has been kept for over 60 days is not exposed to changes in its physical and chemical indicators. However, since no preservatives are used to make the product, its taste and aroma do change. ‘The decision to change the design was quite difficult. Obolon’s brand appeared in 1992 and consumers have gotten used to it already. We have never changed the taste of our beer and renewed the label design only once, in 2007. Obolon’s design is regarded as a classical example of Ukrainian beer design. Most respondents said during a survey that the brand’s design was conservative. Consumers said at the same time they Vitaliy Tkachenko wanted to be progressive and modern and consume only a Marketing Director, high-quality product. Such perceptions became proof that Obolon Corporation change was needed’. C W Po l la en ate Pr tab dr ow-a ssic ter r f oz le Gi ink lc a or Pi pr rom a[ wa ns oh l Ok dh Tr To a irn ise nic ol hty a s reg ns ter TM rsk TM pa Ru aT ion re nt] mM al TM Co Ob la olo Br TM ns Mineral water an ka dy TM -C ola TM A se rie so Mineral Zh fn yh ew Low-alcohol uli vs dr and ke ink Ice Bi tbu TM s life rg TM drinks er potable water TM De s an tT Ca M Low-price segment r lin Ob gT M Licensed beer olo nL em Ob on ad o lon e TM Cy tro Co TM la No va TM Ob olo Soft nP ine Beer ap ple drinks TM Le mo na Ob sde olo Pr М nТ em th i um y wi vZh ce be jui Medium-price segment s Be er Z ib ink nt er er Mi M tT Dr nte TM М xТ co chyk Sp hik M eT Sl ec av ial kra be aU er ine TM 15 16 products Positions Beer Market in the Domestic The average annual per capita consumption of beer is about 70 liters in Europe, with some highly developed countries Market reaching 100-150 liters. Based on vast research, consumer income level significantly affects the popularity of this drink. This is why average beer consumption in Ukraine is about 63 liters a year per capita. Nevertheless, the beer market is characterized by a high level of competition. Obolon Corporation remains the only large player in the beer market with 100% Ukrainian capital and headquarters in Kyiv. The Obolon brand is the second in terms of sales in Ukraine, holding 16.8% of the market (based on 2010 figures). Obolon remains the only large player in the beer market with 100% Ukrainian capital and headquarters in Kyiv products 17 Main beer brands of the % of the Ukrainian Beer production (mln. decaliters) company market, 2010 120 Obolon TM 16,8 115 Zibert TM 6,5 110 Desant TM 1,2 109,10 113,30 BeerMix ТМ 1,0 105 Zhyhulivske TM 0,7 100 hike TM 0,4 96,60 99,40 95 Okhtyrske TM 0,2 93,60 Magnat TM 0,04 90 Bitburger TM 0,03 85 Total 26,9 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Other Markets Production of soft drinks (mln. decaliters) The company’s main brands in other markets in the category of Production of water (mln. decaliters) soft drinks include Zhyvchyk TM, potable water — Prozora Production of low-alcohol drinks (mln. decaliters) TM and Obolonska TM, low-alcohol drinks — Gin-Tonic TM, Brandy-Cola, Rum-Cola. 25 20,70 21,70 22,10 20 16,60 19,00 15 10,00 10 7,00 8,30 7,00 9,20 5 4,50 4,20 4,10 2,80 2,60 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Malt Production Malt production (‘000 tons) In addition, Obolon is the only large brewery that supplies itself 180 with malt of its own production. 164,00 161,60 160 Obolon is the only large brewery that supplies itself with malt of 140 its own production. 123,70 120 In 2010, the most modern malt plant in Europe worth UAH 500 100 mln. started operating at full capacity in Chemerivtsi, Khmel80 nytskyi Oblast. This industrial giant is not only the pride of 60 Obolon staff but also an important factor of economic de54,20 55,00 40 velopment of an entire region in Podillia, since it uses raw 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 materials produced by local farmers. 18 products Product Obolon Corporation has maintained its status as the largest Exports beer exporter from Ukraine. 2010 Obolon successfully developed its export program and sold abroad almost 80% of beer exported from Ukraine. This is 24 mln. decaliters in terms of volume, or 23.8% of the company’s total production. Beer is the main product type in the structure of exports — 97%. Share of Obolon Corporation The remaining part includes soft drinks and mineral water. in Ukrainian beer exports Obolon Corporation’s export strategy is aimed at building long82% standing partnerships with distributors. Obolon does not strive to make a one-time delivery at any cost and put an80% other flag in the map. Our goal is to make regular deliveries 78,11 79,43 79,12 and have reliable partners. 78% Obolon Corporation’s products are ex76% ported to 33 countries on all continents. 74,52 74,90 74% 72% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 products 19 The anti-dumping problem in Belarus The beer market of Belarus is important for Obolon Corporation, since this country comes second after Russia in terms of Ukrainian beer exports. Obolon has been present in the market of the Republic of Belarus for over 17 years and has developed relations of trust with our Belarusian colleagues. In 2010 the Belarus government resolved to introduce licenses on Ukrainian beer. This resulted from charges of dumping (which actually was not the case, since our retail prices were 15% above the average) claimed by participants of the Belarusian beer market against Ukrainian brewers in the spring of 2010. After a lengthy discussion, the Ukrainian producers were forced to sign an agreement with the Belarusian party and agree to raise sale prices by 1,5 times. Negotiations between Obolon Corporation and Bilderahkharchoprom Concern led to the signing of a bilateral agreement on beer deliveries to Belarus. It was a forced step. We had to do Oleksandr Slobodian our best not to lose the market once and for all, so sale pricPresident of Obolon es were raised for Belarusian counterparties. There are also Corporation plans to expand the licensing program with Brest Beer Open JSC involving the bottling of beer under our brand, Desant. Nevertheless, we believe introduction of licenses for Ukrainian beer to be a discriminatory and non-market method of market regulation. 20 products Comprehensive Product safety and quality is a key issue for enterprises to become Quality Assurance competitive and win a reputation among consumers. In an attempt to make high-quality, useful and safe products comSystem petitive both in the Ukrainian and foreign markets, Obolon became the first domestic enterprise of the food industry to receive an international certificate for a quality management system in 1998, ІSO-9001, 1994 Version. Later Obolon continued the practice of quality certification of processes and use of yearly independent audits. Obolon JSC was the first food industry enterprise to have as many as four management systems certified at one time. Currently Obolon JSC has a management system in place made up of: a quality management system (ІSO 9001:2008), a food safety management system (ІSO 22000:2005), an environmental management system (ІSO 14001:2004), Valentyna Mykusevych QA Director an occupational health and safety management system (OHSAS 18001:2007). They all have been maintained by an external independent audit. The international certification of Obolon’s four management systems is a pass to markets of WTO member countries. Most WTO members require compliance with ISO 22000. Otherwise, products are not admitted for sale. The company’s facilities have an integrated management system that ensures responsibility to the staff, consumers, society and the state in general. 21 Beer production process Four main ingredients are used to make beer — water, malt, hops and yeast. water malt hops yeast Water is obtained from 290 meter deep artesian wells of Jurassic and Senoman horizons. The best varieties of natural hops are grown in Ukraine, the Czech Republic and Germany. Malt is produced from barley (sometimes wheat) grains put down and dried under a specific temperature and humidity regime. At early stages of production, crushed malt is mixed with water. The mix is warmed in a set temperature environment. This is the stage where proteins and starch contained in malt pass into a solution and turn into sugars which are later fermented by yeast. The resulting solution (wort) is filtered, later added to hops and boiled for some time to help beer develop its aroma and pleasant bitterness. Then the wort is cleared. The cleared wort is cooled to the brewing temperature and yeast is added. Obolon carefully selects the best yeast races to ensure optimum conditions for beer fermentation. Sugars are fermented by yeast and turn into alcohol and carbon dioxide. For it to mature finally, ‘young’ beer is held for a certain period in special tanks under the temperature of -1-2°С. As a result, it acquires an unmatched taste and aroma, and is saturated with carbonic acid naturally. Beer has no contact with air during its production, since oxygen has a detrimental impact on the drink’s taste. After fermentation, beer is filtered to make it transparent and poured into bottles, cans or kegs. 22 products Relations with Responsible procurement Suppliers and Obolon Corporation ensures compliance with quality and safety requirements of procured raw materials, supplies, Consumers equipment and technical tools, as well as services to prevent use of noncompliant and unsafe products. This is achieved through defining and establishing requirements on suppliers, the system of their assessment and monitoring, all of which help clearly define and document processes of supplier selection and involvement in cooperation. A radiation control laboratory is open at the Kyiv-based parent enterprise of Obolon Corporation. Obolon Corporation makes sure the procured products meet requirements of procurement, in particular, in terms of environmental protection. The type and scope of control of the supplier and procured product/service depends on the latter’s impact on subsequent production or finished products. An input control and other measures have been put in place at Obolon JSC to check procured products. Cooperation is started with those suppliers which are closest to the consumer (production, processing or procurement facilities) provided that the price and quality are equally competitive. This helps reduce transport costs and intermediary fees and demonstrates Obolon Corporation’s responsible attitude to regions where it operates. Responsible marketing Obolon Corporation’s responsible marketing involves special attention to certain audiences (for example, the so-called risk group — people aged under 18) and dialogue with consumers (distribution of true information about the products and promotion of responsible consumption). In its marketing communications, Obolon not only meets all statutory requirements but is also consciously focused on consumers aged 18 and over. For example, external advertising (big boards, banners) does not violate laws — media advertising alcoholic products are placed at a significant distance from educational establishments. Obolon’s TV advertising activities are carried out in line with the European Convention on Cross-border Television. This imposes certain limitations: persons appearing in beer commercials should not look like they are underage; beer consumption must not be associated with physical work or driving a car; products 23 it is prohibited to claim that beer has healing properties, is a stimulant or sedative, serves as a tool to solve personal problems; one must not encourage alcohol abuse, represent abstention from alcohol or its moderate intake as negative; one must not draw special attention to alcohol content in products. Obolon is the first company in Ukraine to take steps towards the consumer and introduce principles of a responsible attitude to the product it makes. For example, we started putting labels on all beer bottles with notice of consumption rates. Obolon’s voluntary initiative to include a note on the need for responsible consumption in advertising is one of its consistent steps in implementing its program for the development of a culture of beer consumption in Ukraine. Product labels and TV commercials are the most far-reaching tools for raising consumer awareness. In addition, the ‘Consume responsibly!’ logo will be placed on POS materials and souvenirs. Information will also be distributed among consumers through a specialized website and educational brochures. You can find out more about the ‘Consume responsibly!’ program by visiting www.enjoyobolon.com. Responsible communications In 2009 Obolon set up a new multichannel customer support hotline at 0-800-507-300. Introduction of a free hotline is one of the important steps in boosting consumer loyalty and collecting information about Obolon Corporation. Obolon’s hotline is intended to allow closer communication with consumers and is part of the effort to improve customer services. We work to provide answers to all queries received by our hotline. The new hotline helped us to find difficult issues and respond to consumer requests faster, provide them with information about the Corporation’s products and beer consumption culture more efficiently. The total number of calls received by Obolon Corporation’s hotline at 0-800-507300 in 2010 was in excess of 97,000. 24 Staff and working conditions Creation of jobs and payment of salaries and other types of compenstaion to our employees for the work they have done are among the most important economic and social aspects of the operations of our organization. Obolon Corporation’s administration is of the opinion that conscientious and productive work is an important element of a person’s development, while the standard of living is improved through full and reliable employment. Lack of employment is the primary reason for social problems, especially in Ukraine, where social security is not duly organized. Labor practices mainly affect the sense of justice available to society. This is why socially responsible labor practices are important for social justice, stability and peace. About 6,500 people are employed at all facilities of Obolon Corporation, including 3,860 at the Kyiv-based brewery alone. Description Unit 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total number of staff persons 4 885 5 583 6 111 6 333 6 376 Percentage of women % 32,42 30,75 29,88 29,92 30,10 Number of people persons 188 217 257 269 278 with limited abilities Occupational thousand health costs UAH 1 884 40 707 3 060 3 458 5 164 Data for Obolon PC (including teritorially separated work units, subsidiaries and enterprises with corporate rights). For more information, go to Obolon Corporation's official website at http://obolon.ua/ukr/corporate-responsibility/staff/ Employees are the top asset and, equally, the pride of Obolon. The company’s operations are aimed at raising employees’ professionalism, improving working conditions and workflow safety and guaranteeing their social security. This is why Obolon JSC has introduced and certified an occupational health and safety management system, OHSAS 18001:2007. It is through consistent performance of its commitments to employees that Obolon has a great reputation as an employer. Our company has a collective bargaining agreement in place which means employees are protected. In addition, the company’s corpoSerhiy Bloschanevych rate culture is intended to develop every specialist. Chairman of the Management Board of Obolon PC and Director for HR and Consumer Services staff and working conditions 25 As an employer, Obolon promotes one of the most widely acWorking Conditions and cepted objectives of the society — improving the standard of living through full and reliable employment and approStaff Development priate work. Obolon Corporation provides its employees with appropriate working and living conditions. Each year includes further education for employees, medical examination, first aid, preventive treatment and development of the social sphere. Obolon Corporation is among the best employers in Ukraine. The average wage in the company is above the average countrywide and increased 10% in 2010 as compared to 2009. All wages and bonuses are paid officially, i.e. the company fully pays all mandatory taxes, deductions to the pension and other funds. The social policies of Obolon JSC with regard to staff members are aimed at providing the necessary level of performance, reducing labor turnover and improving social security of employees. Each employee of Obolon Corporation can undergo additional vocational training, improve his or her skills within the staff development and training program. In 2010, 991 employees of Obolon JSC were involved in the training process. Obolon PC regularly carries out occupational training, skill improvement and education for its entire workforce. To this end, staff competency is assessed and preparation, educational and training sessions, introductory orientation are conducted. The social package is also available to retired employees and includes ad hoc aid for health improvement, trips for children, cash bonuses for holidays, financial aid at childbirth, retirement, marriage or in critical situations. There is a firstaid post with modern equipment and a workout room at the company. As required by law, about 4% of all employees at Obolon JSC are handicapped people. 26 staff and working conditions Obolon’s In line with the rules of current Ukrainian law and principles of practices social responsibility, Obolon creates working conditions for people with special needs, too. As required by law, about 4% in employment of all employees at Obolon JSC are people who are handicapped to a varying degree. This means 161 persons at the Kyiv-based facility. Obolon expresses its assistance to peoof people ple with special needs not only through compassion about the trials and tribulations they face but also, and more imwith special needs portantly, by creating conditions for their social adjustment and professional development. Most people with special needs work in the Marketing Department as agents. Some are also engaged in production. The ailments these people have mostly include sugar diabetes, cardiologic, oncological or ophthalmologic diseases and diseases of the musculoskeletal system. Agents have a flexible work schedule which depends on the scope of work. Agents’ functions involve support of events, creating and updating client databases, etc. To perform these duties, agents were trained in due time and learned to use special software or acquired client communication skills. Obolon does its best to support people with special needs by creating special conditions for their work. Senior agents have a separate office. Since most of them have sugar diOver 650 million people, or abetes, it is crucial for them to consistently monitor their approximately 10-15 % of the blood sugar level and have several meals a day. They have global population, live with a a specially equipped medical and preventive room at their disability. According to the UN disposal where they can eat, make an insulin injection, take Development Program (UNDP), medicine, have blood pressure and blood sugar level mea80% of the disabled live in sured or simply have a rest. Our staff members get a full developing countries. As estimated lunch in the canteen. by the World Bank, 20% of All employees with limited abilities are integrated into the comthe Earth’s poorest people are pany’s life and are an regular part of the team. Firstly, they disabled. Official statistics suggest have a status equal to that of other employees and are also that there are 2.67 million people covered by the collective bargaining agreement. This means they have all benefits such as facilities for health improvewith limited abilities in Ukraine, or ment, financial aid, bonuses etc. Secondly, all such employabout 5% of the total population. ees are involved in Obolon’s corporate events, celebrations Of these disabled, 80% are people etc. Furthermore and quite importantly for them, employees of active age. have a free examination by the doctors and can have all necessary medical tests done at Obolon Clinic No. 1. staff and working conditions 27 People with a disability can be equally effective employees if their Liudmyla Yanytska medical condition is taken into account when they are hired First Deputy Director of the and one is careful about selecting their occupation, workplace Marketing Department for and official duties. Employment offers not only a wage but Beverages in charge of the also other benefits such as communication, self-realization work of people with special and career, a certain social status, completeness of life, etc. needs Popular myths of employers about how the disabled work include the myth that people with a disability cannot find common language with other staff members. This is not the case — on average, persons with a disability are more loyal, reliable and productive than their colleagues without a disability. They appreciate the social contact available through the job. Adjustment to the team is an individual matter and depends on the character and culture of the organization rather than the person’s disability. The main thing is the desire to work, to be useful to society, to realize yourself, to grow professionally. In turn, the company gets steady workers with initiative, with genuine patriotism and this makes a significant contribution to the support of a domestic producer. For people with special needs, Obolon is something more than Roman Hromskyi just an employer, because this is where we communicate, are Senior Agent of the involved in social life. The factor of human attitude is very Drinks Market Marketing important in our work. We see that we are trusted increasDepartment ingly, more from year to year as new interesting tasks are given to us. Besides, from my own experience, the company is strongly focused on conditions in which people with special needs work. I had to work in a few companies where the work schedule was tougher and so was the management’s attitude to their subordinates. Here it’s all different, more humane. This is the basis for a successful operation. 28 staff and working conditions Occupational Recently, the issue of occupational health has become ever more Health and Safety important at companies. All employees want to work in comfortable and safe conditions. Obolon follows a modern approach to occupational health — this is the certified occupational health and safety management system, OHSAS 18001:2007 and an effective monitoring system. Obolon’s performance in occupational health speaks for itself (no lethal outcomes, a reduced number of accidents). An orientation which gives priority to the life and health of people working at the Corporation’s facilities is among the key elements of Obolon’s policies. In 2010 Obolon JSC took engineering, technical and organizational measures to improve occupational health worth UAH 5,164,000. In 2010 Obolon JSC took engineering, technical and organizational measures to improve occupational health worth UAH 5,164,000. It assessed 141 workplaces, trained and tested the knowledge of 4,675 employees. In addition, Obolon actively involves its employees in the process of ensuring occupational health. For example, April 2011 was declared occupational health month. Its outcomes were laid out on 28 April, the World Day for Safety and Health at Work. This month’s events included a thematic contest aimed at finding the best units and encouraging others to meet occupational health rules. The best work units and the best managers were established during comprehensive inspections and analysis in terms of occupational health. staff and working conditions 29 Obolon’s practice of providing equal opportunities of womObolon for equal opportunities en and men Traditionally, quite a lot of women have always worked in the food industry. Obolon JSC is no exception — over 28% of our staff are women. The company understands that supporting women’s rights to their families, rest, etc. will motiof men and women vate them even more to work. Thus, their performance goes up, and the company only benefits. Furthermore, a clever gender policy improves the atmosphere in the company’s team. Fundamental rights of women and men have always been laid out in the collective bargaining agreement which has been in place at Obolon JSC ever since it started operations. Equal labor rights were set for everyone, men and women alike, from the outset. With time, the company only expanded opportunities and improved working conditions. For example, as concerns child care, a family vacation etc. Gender equality is achieved even in terms of both sexes’ equal access to maternity leave. Though it is women who traditionally go on maternity leave in Ukraine, there are cases when our men took the responsibility of childcare. The main thing, however, is that the company holds their job until they return from leave — this is very important now. The new collective bargaining agreement in effect from early 2010 introduces the position of ombudsman for gender issues. By the way, Obolon came first among the best employers which implement principles of fair gender policies. In December 2010, Kyiv hosted the summary meeting of the first National Competition ‘Equal Opportunities: Best Employer 2010.’ This competition was held to single out Ukrainian companies with the best policy for promoting equality of women and men. The competition was held under the auspices and with the active support of the Ministry of Labor and Social Policies of Ukraine, the project of the EU and International Labor Organization called ‘Equality of Women and Men in the World of Labor’ and the European Business Association. Obolon got top recognition in the category ‘Equal Opportunities — the Best Employer (Over 1,000 Employees)’. Obolon’s 2011 plans include development of the company’s gender program to generalize men’s and women’s employment rights and introduce new practical steps to improve the existing practices. 30 staff and working conditions Corporate A unique corporate culture based on highest human and patriotic Culture values has evolved in Obolon Corporation after many years. Publication of a corporate magazine, the Obolon Newsletter, is and Volunteers among the components of internal corporate communications at Obolon. It deals primarily with developing the corporate culture and raising employee awareness. In addition, employees go to football games of the Obolon Football Club in the new Obolon Arena stadium. Implementation of the Green Office principles is one of the modern aspects of the corporate culture’s development. In 2010 all employees of the Corporation celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Kyiv-based Obolon brewery. staff and working conditions 31 The event was held in Kyiv, in the Obolon Arena football stadium, How Obolon celebrated its and involved over 2,000 Obolon staff members. Guests came with special invitation cards that entitled them to participate in a drawing and win valuable prizes. The celebration was in the form of a grand family picnic. Invitees 30th anniversary could fully enjoy cool beer, kvass and other drinks, as well as sample hot barbecue snacks. Apart from tasty treats, guests were in for beer competitions such as tug-of-war, ball games, volleyball etc. Anyone could leave their message for the future in the Time Capsule and make a unique festive commemorative T-shirt. The official section started with greetings from Oleksandr Slobodian, President of Obolon Corporation, who wished all Obolon staff members ‘good health, great human happiness, success for their families, their company and mother Ukraine!’. The President concluded his greeting with a toast ‘For Obolon!’ and raised a goblet of beer. He was supported by 2,123 employees. This was a new Ukrainian record. The festive mood was promoted by the Masters of Ceremonies, Serhiy Prytula and Andriy Molochnyi, by the humor duo Faina Ukraina, and the positive festive wave was further elevated by bands such as Mandry and Mad Heads XL. The celebration’s highlight was a group photo of employees in the form of a heart. Then it moved on to a drawing where one could win valuable prizes. The main prize was a certificate for UAH 5,000 for a trip around Ukraine for two. At the end, guests were given some rock drive by Vopli Vidopliasova and their frontman, Oleh Skrypka. Obolon encourages and supports the involvement of its employees in volunteer efforts and there are a variety of social programs aimed at improving social welfare. Corporate volunteerism is part of corporate charity within which the company voluntarily assigns resources (including volunteers) to support socially meaningful areas, so that social welfare can be improved and a favorable public opinion of the company can be formed. The 10-year-old donor movement ws one of the first manifestations of corporate volunteerism at Obolon. 32 staff and working conditions Corporate Our society is of the opinion that the problem of donated blood volunteerism: has been solved in the modern world. People think that hospitals’ need for donor blood is fully catered for, especially the contribution for the most widely spread blood types — O and A. In fact, there is a constant lack of donor blood worldwide, while in Ukraine this is an acute problem. of Obolon Any of us may need a blood transfusion. Every day the lives of thousands of sick people are at risk because of a lack of employees blood donations. Also, blood is needed to make a lot of vital medicines. to blood donation According to the WHO, 12-15 ml of blood is required for one resident, while we have only 8-8.5 ml. Sometimes, potential donors refuse to give blood in the belief that nobody needs their blood type. However, the more widely spread a blood type is (O or A), the larger the need for it because there are more sick people with this type than with others. Obolon has a rich corporate culture, and our employees have taken part in Donation Days for almost 10 years now. The company supports and encourages the good intentions of its employees. We are proud that increasingly more Obolon staff members are involved in the donor movement! staff and working conditions 33 The donor movement was organized in the Kyiv-based brewery of Obolon as early as in 2001, and every year increasingly more Obolon staff members become donors. Every year in November, the facility houses a mobile laboratory of the Kyiv City Center for Blood Transfusion. All volunteering employees give their blood. This does not harm their main activities, since the schedule is approved by their supervisors, and all workflows are set up beforehand to cater for the donors’ absence from their workplace. The administration fully meets all statutory requirements and provides donors not only with a day-off on the date they give blood but also an additional vacation day. Obolon PC’s donor movement is extremely meaningful for Kyiv because, in addition to a large volume of blood donations, our donors are on the list of the Kyiv City Center for Blood Transfusion and give blood again when there is an urgent need. Sometimes it happens that an employee or their family member urgently needs donor blood. This is when our company comes to help at once. In such cases doctors have access to the database of donors who are brought by buses to the Blood Giving Center. In 2010 the Donation Days were held in Obolon’s Kyiv-based brewery on 23-24 June. 73 employees of the company gave their blood to become donors. 34 Comprehensive environmental culture Obolon JSC invariably follows principles of harmonious coexistence, interaction and continuous dialogue with society. We are aware of our responsibility for our natural environment. This is why Obolon Corporation promotes a comprehensive Matrix of environmental culture supported by the implemented stanenvironmental dard of environmental management systems ISO 14000. performance This has resulted in a consistent reduction in our specific impact on the environment (production of waste, consumption of energy and water, emissions into the air). Workflow ecology Basics of environmental management observed by Obolon Corporation water resources air continuous control and environment analysis of the impact production has on the environment Innovative improvement environmental of technologies projects to account for environmental aspects production waste minimization of harmful emissions by using state-ofthe-art equipment plastic bottles alternative energy raising the staff’s environmental awareness by providing reference Promotion of information, environmental instructions and awareness training materials team continuous radiation control at all levels of the manufacturing Green Office process external events Obolon Corporation spent UAH 75 mln. on environmental protection in five years and UAH 21 mln. in 2010. comprehensive environmental culture 35 Atmosphere Workflow Atmospheric emissions are also a relevant issue, because the Corporation’s main facility is based in densely populated Kyiv. Ecology Our Corporation shows how responsible it is on this issue, too. Our main air pollutants are the heat station, the grain elevator and vehicles. The heat station that produces steam for beer brewing is ultramodern and uses gas. So any emissions the heat station produces are so reduced that are much lower than allowed rates. Even though the heat station has been commissioned already, its construction is not over yet, since there are plans to expand its capacity. Engineers regularly introduce innovations to capture and reuse heat energy. The grain elevator has the most effective dust cleaning systems which reduced grain dust emissions by 40%. The car fleet also reduces emissions into the atmosphere both through logistics and replacement. For example, the truck fleet gradually is moving from gas and liquid fuel to electricity. Water resources Water consumption for production purposes Water is the foundation not only of life but also of our Corpo(in liters per liter of finished product) ration’s production. This is why ours is a very special and frugal attitude to every drop of water. It is manifested in recycled and reverse use of water to achieve maximum econ4,0 3,62 omy of water resources and in the regular modernization of 3,5 technology. 3,20 3,20 3,0 The results speak for themselves: the percentage of water re2,88 2,65 cycled by Obolon PC grew 89% in two years. Thus, 67% of 2,5 water is reused by the company. 2,0 The average water consumption at Obolon JSC to produce 1 li2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ter of product is about 2.7 liters. On average, the industry spends 5 liters of water per 1 liter of the finished product worldwide. During beer brewing, which is more costly, Obolon PC uses an average of 3.5 liters of water to produce one liter of the finished product. 36 comprehensive environmental culture Energy efficiency Obolon regularly implements measures to reduce energy conat Obolon brewery: sumption. The company’s energy policies not only meet Ukrainian laws but also take into account international stanthe heat recycling dards and best practices. In addition, the difficult situation the beer industry has been facing over the past couple of years and repeated raises of excise taxes drive Obolon to project be even more active in reducing costs and improving performance. This is supported by implementation of energy efficiency programs that not only increase workflow effectiveness but reduce the impact of production on the environment. This time we are speaking about the energy recuperation system at boilers of the Kyiv-based brewery. Energy recuperation involves two stages: the preliminary wort warm-up installation and the vacuum vaporization installation. 22% — steam savings for 1 boiling round after the energy recuperation technology was implemented in Obolon brewery. The preliminary wort warm-up installation allows for accumulating heat energy of secondary steam from the wort-boiling boiler in an energy accumulation tank. This accumulated energy is channeled to warm up wort, thus reducing total Recuperation means recovery of steam consumption. part of energy for reuse in the The vacuum vaporization installation allows additional vaporizasame manufacturing process. tion of humidity from wort and, as such, a savings of primary heat energy (steam). These installations are run on 2 and 3 boiler sections of the Kyivbased brewery. The project was completed in September 2010. The energy recuperation equipment cost EUR 1 mln. and was supplied by a German company, Ziemann. Commissioning of the energy recuperation system offers significant economy — 22% of steam for one boiling process. comprehensive environmental culture 37 Energy resources Managing consumption of energy resources became especially acute two years ago when energy carriers got more expensive and the economic crisis broke out. Obolon Corporation is continuously improving workflows to save resources, thereby providing a sizeable positive environmental effect in addition to the economic one. For example, the Kyiv-based brewery has installed new powerful and economical boiler sections which reuse heat and save 633,000 cubic meters of natural gas a year or UAH 1.7 mln. Furthermore, wort-boiling rooms are equipped with installations that capture heat generated when wort starts boiling. The heat so generated is channeled to maintain temperature required to keep wort boiling. This minimizes environmental impact and helps reduce heat consumption. Apart from the above examples of introduction of energy-saving equipment, Obolon JSC looks further for ways to reduce consumption of energy resources. For example, it expects to reconstruct the hot water supply system for the facility using the heat of secondary steam. Environmental impact The result we are proud of is that Obolon sells, processes and reuses over 84% of the waste it produces, thus demonstrating its responsible attitude to environmental problems in Ukraine. Specific generation of waste Specific waste generation is among the significant indicators of (tons per thousand decaliters) how effective the Corporation’s measures are in the environmental area. This figure consistently goes down, proving 10 that Obolon Corporation’s environmental policies are successful. 9 8,590 8,990 8,550 In 2010 as a whole, Obolon achieved a lot in reducing its environ8 7,920 mental footprint: 7 decreasing grain dust emissions from the elevator 6 by 33%; 5,010 decreasing generation of wet grain waste by 43%; 5 reducing overall generation of waste by 21%. 4 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 38 comprehensive environmental culture Innovative Obolon Corporation makes significant investments in environEnvironmental mental projects which not only improve the environment but also are useful for the company’s core activities. We Projects are aware of Ukraine’s environmental problems. This is why Obolon responsibly treats both the production culture and its product at all stages of its life-cycle. We are aware that Ukraine’s environmental problems are caused not only in air pollution but also generation of household waste. So, we are developing a collection and recycle system for the package in which our products are distributed, thus minimizing environmental impact. Grain recycling Obolon is the first company in Ukraine to start recycling of grain (brewing waste). This innovative technology allows for recycling production waste into an environmentally friendly product used by farms as nutritious fodder for cattle. The dry granule installation has been operating in the Kyiv-based facility since April 2008. It can process up to 700 tons of wet grain a day without any harmful impact on the environment. This results in a significant reduction in generation of wet grain waste — by 71% in three years — and improvement in the sanitary condition of the area; plus reduction of atmospheric emissions of vehicle exhaust through transportation of a lesser quantity of wet grain. comprehensive environmental culture 39 PET bottle recycling and collection Aware of its responsibility to society, Obolon has been independently recycling PET bottles since 2002, which is a unique phenomenon for the Ukrainian market. In 2003 the facility in Oleksandria installed equipment to recycle used PET bottles. First it only involved crushing bottles and selling the so-called flake for export, where it was further processed abroad. However, in 2008 the company decided to make the end product from flake itself. For this purpose it purchased modern German equipment with the capacity of 125 kg an hour to produce strips from 100% recycled flakes. This is the first strip manufacture in Ukraine. In a year, this facility recycles over 800 tons of PET packages into raw materials. In one year, Obolon Corporation recycles an equivalent of 23 mln. plastic bottles. Also, for a couple of years Obolon JSC has been implementing an environmental project of PET bottle collection in Kyiv, involving installation of special containers. Alternative energy: fuel production from plastic waste To promote this area, the Corporation set up Obolon Oil, an energy company which built a research and industrial installation for production of fuel from polymer waste in Horodok, Khmelnytskyi Oblast. It can process and recycle both industrial and household secondary polymer waste. In the future, we plan to invest in increasing production of alternative energy sources on an industrial scale to provide for our own needs for fuel and recycling of harmful waste. To this end, we are looking for suppliers of such raw materials. 40 comprehensive environmental culture Promotion Over the past two years, Obolon has become more active in raisof Environmental ing environmental awareness of its staff and of the population in general. Awareness For a few years already, the Corporation’s facilities have been implementing energy-saving technologies not only in production, but also in buildings and offices. A caring attitude to the environment is among the elements of corporate culture. Environmental knowledge is mandatory for all officials whose work is related to use of natural resources and has a bearing on the natural environment. All employees have been made aware of the Green Office principles within the internal communications program and put them into practice. comprehensive environmental culture 41 Environmental statistics Description Unit 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thousand 3 535 37 131 5 047 7 828 20 920 Environmental UAH protection costs тон 141 519 196 081 131 442 103 449 66 923 Total generation of waste % 90,09 86,83 75,72 88,66 84,29 Own processing, sale and recycling of waste Atmospheric emissions tons 32 521 35 181 46 940 47 426 54 188 from heat and steawm production th.cub.m. 4 409 4 608 4 525 3 614 3 537 Water consumption th.kWh. 78 008 78 165 83 255 64 558 68 759 Energy consumption th.cub.m. 15 960 18 532 23 160 24 829 26 260 Natural gas consumption For more information, go to Obolon Corporation’s official website at http://www.obolon.ua/ukr/corporate-responsibility/ecology/ 42 Social investments Obolon Corporation has been actively investing in social projects for over fifteen years. This is the company’s area of versatile activities that include educational projects, aid to socially vulnerable strata of the population, promotion of the revival of spiritual values, historical and cultural heritage and development of sports. Every year Obolon puts together a social budget and assigns part of its products within socially focused projects. Promotion The program of development of the revival of Ukrainian book publishing of high spiritual Over the past 15 years Obolon supported publication of over two hundred textbooks, guides, collections, catalogs, reference books, fiction, scientific, historical and children’s literature. values, historical and Special emphasis is put on supporting books that encourage national awareness, Ukrainian textbooks, historical litcultural heritage erature. Support of historical and architectural monuments Obolon is involved in renovation of historical and architectural monuments, such as the Temple of the Protecting Veil of the Mother of God in Mariupol, the Church of Volodymyr the Great in Vyshgorod, Saint George Monastery on Cossack Graves in Pliasheva (Rivne Oblast), Saint Panteleimon Church in Lubny (Poltava Oblast), the Church of Saint Martyr Liudmyla in Horodok etc. The company also helps establishments of culture, for example, the National Museum of Taras Shevchenko in Kyiv, the Museum of Hetmans, the National Museum of Ukrainian Folk Decorative Arts and the Museum of Ivan Honchar. social investments 43 We are very proud that Obolon Corporation promotes children’s Development of Ukrainian football in Zmina SDUShOR, which trains children aged 7 to 18. The company also sponsors international sport comsports petitions, including the International Football Tournament for Children and Adolescents held 15 times already at Kyiv School No. 170 and the Zmina Sports School. Obolon, a professional football club that plays in the Supreme League, has a special place in the Corporation’s system of social investments. In addition, the company’s funds were used to build the modern Obolon Arena stadium for the club in the Obolon District of Kyiv. Now this football complex can host high-profile games and will be one of the training bases for Euro-2012. In 2010 Obolon Corporation continued cooperating with the Supreme League as the general sponsor of the Football Championship of Ukraine. For a few years in a row, Obolon has supported the Petro Yatsyk Educational projects International Contest of the Ukrainian Language held by the League of Ukrainian Sponsors. Every year the company offers prizes for the contest’s winners — children from all over Ukraine and the Diaspora. Obolon supports Kyiv Arts School No. 5, where artistically gifted children study. In 2010 Obolon supported Sviatoslav Vakarchuk’s Foundation, The People of the Future, within the Education Around the Country project. The Corporation maintains partnerships with NGOs that bring Aid to socially vulnerable strata together orphaned children, the disabled and people with special needs, veterans. of the population It also provides aid to individuals, families with many children and three family-type orphanages. This is special targeted aid provided directly to families. This format of cooperation is more effective and, most importantly, long-term. Obolon never stopped and continued financing family-type orphanages even during the crisis. 44 social investments The list of main History, culture and arts partner International Charity Foundation League of Ukrainian Sponsors Ivan Franko National Academic Drama Theater organizations Literaturna Ukraina, a newspaper of Ukraine’s writers that regularly The Church of Saint Mykola (Prytyska) in Kyiv The Temple of the Protecting Veil of the Mother of God in Mariupol receive in-kind The Church of Volodymyr the Great in Vyshgorod and financial Saint George Monastery on Cossack Graves in Pliasheva (Rivne Oblast) aid from Saint Panteleimon Church in Lubny (Poltava Oblast) The Church of Saint Martyr Liudmyla in Horodok Obolon JSC (Khmelnytskyi Oblast) The Church of the Protecting Veil of the Mother of God in Teofipol (Khmelnytskyi Oblast) The Church of Saint Mykolay in Fastiv (Kyiv Oblast) The Church of Assumption of Virgin Mary in Okhtyrka (Sumy Oblast) The Ukrainian Institute of National Memory The National Museum of Taras Shevchenko in Kyiv The Museum of Hetmans The National Museum of Ukrainian Folk Decorative Arts The Museum of Ivan Honchar Education and sports Kyiv City Center of Social Services for the Family, Children and Young People The Office for the Affairs of the Family and Young People at Obolon District State Administration Zmina Sports School DGO Obolon-Grand Master The Foundation for Development of Rugby for Children and Young People in Ukraine Kyiv School No. 170 Children’s School of Arts No. 5 in Kyiv The International Charity Foundation ‘Sports and Children’ ‘In Children’s Palms’ NGO The All-Ukrainian Youth NGO ‘Leadership, Youth, Novation’ Student Fraternity of the National University of KyivMohyla Academy Shyshaky Oblast Gymnasium-Type Boarding School for Gifted Children (Poltava Oblast) social investments 45 The placement center for homeless minors within the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Kyiv Mostysche Specialized Grade I-II Boarding School The National Foundation of Social Protection of Mothers and Children — ‘Ukraine for Children’ Charitable Organization ‘Children — Our Future’ Saint Mary’s International Charitable Foundation Organizations of the disabled Society of Disabled Mothers ‘Soniachnyi Promin’ [Sunray], Obolon District of Kyiv The Art Association of Children and Young People with Limited Abilities ‘Dimfo’, Kyiv The Rehabilitation Society of Disabled Children ‘Dytynstvo’ [Childhood], Kyiv Obolon District Organization ‘Dity Chornobyla’ [Children of Chornobyl] The Foundation of the Chornobyl Disabled, Obolon District of Kyiv Kyiv Association of the Disabled with Cerebral Palsy ‘KASITsEPS’ NGO Rehabilitation Center for the Spinal Disabled ‘Vidrodzhennia’ [Renaissance] Podillia District Center of the Disabled ‘Yednist’ [Unity] Kyiv Organization of the Ukrainian Society of the Blind Kyiv Organization of the Ukrainian Society of the Deaf The Association of NGOs of the Disabled in Kyiv Dniprovskyi District Society of the Disabled with Disorders of the Musculoskeletal System Children’s NGO ‘Cerebral’, Darnytsia District of Kyiv Kyiv Center of Vocational Guidance for Children with Disabilities NGO ‘Horytsvit’ (Novobilychi Psychoneurologic Male Boarding School) Veterans The All-Ukrainian Association of WW2 Veterans Kyiv City Charitable Foundation for Social Protection of Prisoners and Victims of Nazi Persecution The Organization of the Disabled of War and Military, Obolon District in Kyiv The Society of Afghan War Veterans, Obolon District in Kyiv Kyiv Hospital for the WW2 Disabled 46 Prizes Received in 2010 Competition, Subject of Prize exhibition recognition Obolon TM (the largest beer output) Amber Star, diploma Zhyvchyk TM (the largest beverage output ) Zhyvchyk TM Honorable Cup, (the best design of appearance) diploma BeerMix Raspberry Obolon Zhyve [Live] Zhyvchyk Pear Grand prix, Obolon Pshenychne [Wheat] diploma Obolon Soborne [Cathedral] Obolon Mitsne [Strong] BeerMix Lemon BeerMix Energy BeerMix Grapefruit Obolon Svitle [Light] Beer Fest-2010 “hike premium” Gold Medal, (Kyiv, Ukraine) “hike premium light” diploma Obolon Pineapple drink Obolon Premium Bitburger Premium Beer Magnat Zhyvchyk Lemon Zhyvchyk Apple Zhyvchyk Still Obolonska water Zibert Svitle [Light] Zibert Bavarske [Bavarian] Zibert Bile [White] Obolon Oksamytove [Velvet] Bohatyskyi kvass Prozora soda water Prozora still water Okhtyrska potable water “Cosmopolitan” Icelife Grapefruit Pidhirna potable water Zhyhulivske Obolon Bezalkoholne [Non-alcohol] Desant Svitle [Light] Silver Medal, Okhtyrske Svitle [Light] diploma 47 Competition, Subject of Prize exhibition recognition Diploma ‘For Impeccable Conformity to Business Corporate website Goals’ Contest ‘Best Corporate Media Diploma ‘For the Style of Ukraine 2010’ Social Report for 2009 and Quality of Design’ Magazine ‘Obolon Bulletin’ Grand prix, diploma Gratitude from Era FM radio station for exclusive partnership in broadcasting the World Footbal Championship, FIFA 2010 Obolon JSC Gratitude Diploma for the Ukrainian Record ‘Hike The Ukrainian Book Dance With Most People’ of Records hike ТМ 1,300 people XIII Berdiansk International Oleksandr Slobodian, Film Festival Obolon JSC Diploma of the Partner Oleksandr Slobodian, DZOV Lisova Pisnia Obolon JSC Gratitude 2010 Ukraine's Most Reputable Companies Award Obolon JSC Diploma (12th place) Diploma, award ‘Equal Opportunities — (Gold winner for a the Best Employer category of 2010’ Obolon JSC 1,000+ employees) Gratitude for contribution to the development Ukrainian Umbro of amateur football in League Obolon JSC Ukraine 20th anniversary Commemorative of the State Employment plate, diploma Service of Ukraine Obolon JSC (Best Employer 2010) 48 Table of Conformity to GRI This Report of Obolon Corporation was prepared in compliance with international standards of non-financial reporting for sustainable development, GRI v3, and meets Grade B criteria. You can find the complete expanded table of conformity of this Social Report to GRI standards on the official website at: http://obolon.ua/ukr/corporate-responsibility/ social-reporting/ GRI Page UNGC GRI Page UNGC GRI Page UNGC 4.15 * Strategy and analysis 4.15 7 Labor relations 1.1 6 4.17 9 LA1 24 1.2 1, 9 LA2 24 6 Characteristics Economic figures LA3 (add.) 24, 25 of the organization EC1 14 LA4 * 1, 3 2.1 48 EC3 25 LA5 * 3 2.2 14 EC5 (add.) 25 1 LA6 (add.) 24, 28 2.3 9 EC6 22 LA7 24, 28 2.4 48 EC8 42 LA8 28 2.5 18 EC9 (add.) 42 LA9 (add.) * 2.6 9 LA10 24 2.7 18 Environmental safety LA13 24, 28 1, 6 2.8 9 EN1 41 8 LA14 24, 28 1, 6 2.9 9 EN2 35, 41 8, 9 2.10 46 EN3 36,38 8 Human rights EN4 38 8 HR5 25,* 1, 2 Report parameters EN5 (add.) 36 HR6 25,* 1, 2, 5 3.1 7 EN6 (add.) 38 HR7 25,* 1, 2, 3, 4 3.2 7 EN7 (add.) 36, 41 3.3 7 EN8 41 8 Social aspects 3.4 48 EN9 (add.) 35 8 SO3 10 10 3.5 7 EN10 (add.) 41 8, 9 SO4 10 10 3.6 7 EN16 41 8 SO7 (add.) 10 10 3.7 7 EN17 38 8 Product and consumers 3.8 7 EN18 35 8, 9 3.9 7 EN20 41 8 PR1 20 1 3.10 7 EN21 41 8 PR2 (add.) 20, 22 1 3.11 7 EN22 41 8 PR5 (add.) 22 3.12 47 EN23 41 8 PR6 22 Interaction EN26 31 8, 9 with stakeholders EN27 31 8, 9 4.1 7 EN29 (add.) 33 8 4.2 * EN30 (add.) 31,33 8, 9 4.3 * 4.4 * 4.8 6, 30 4.11 35 4.12 7 Indicators that were not covered 4.13 * in the Report are not shown in the Table. 4.14 3 * — the issue is covered on the corporate website at www.obolon.ua 2007/08 2009 Obolon Public Company 3 Bohatyrska Str., Kyiv 04655 Ukraine You can leave your comments and suggestions or order a copy of the Social Report by contacting Obolon Corporation’s relevant officer: Manager for Corporate Social Responsibility Oleksiy Yatsiuk +38 044 201 47 81 E-mail: csr@kiev.obolon.ua, o.iatsyuk@kiev.obolon.ua Text and photo (с) Obolon Public Company Designed by: Iv Design Translated into English by: ABBYY-Ukraine
