2 0 1 0 A N N UA L R E P OR T Contents FirstRand Limited WHEN READING THIS REPORT 002 FirstRand’s strategy and This year’s report includes new philosophy information, designed to present 004 Financial and non financial an “integrated investment picture” highlights to shareholders. This includes: 005 Group at a glance • A description of the Group’s strategy 006 Chairman’s statement FNB 035 and investment proposition. 010 CEO’s report RMB 043 • A comprehensive and high level 014 COO & CFO’s report WESBANK 046 overview of the Group’s risk profile OUTSURANCE 049 is included for the first time in the 028 Ten year review­­ COO & CFO’s report. This elevates 032 S  tatement of earnings from MOMENTUM 051 risk considerations to a strategic continuing and discontinued level and links financial performance operations and risk with strategy formulation DIRECTORS’ INTEREST 070 033 D  escription of normalised and overall performance. earnings DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS 084 • Key performance indicators, both 034 Group structure EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ INTEREST 086 financial and non financial, which 035 Review of operations the Group believes are key to RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT benchmarking performance, are 054  orporate governance and C REPORT 114 included in COO & CFO’s report sustainability and the review of operations. ACCOUNTING POLICIES 232 CONSOLIDATED INCOME • Mini indexes can be found FirstRand Group STATEMENT 259 at the beginning of reports. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT • A list of abbreviations and 107 Annual financial statements OF FINANCIAL POSITION 261 definitions has been supplied on pages 427 to 430 for ease of reference. FirstRand company STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 408 407 Annual financial statements STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 409 FirstRand Limited ANALYSIS OF ORDINARY 431 Shareholders’ information SHAREHOLDERS 435 NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 439 FirstRand is differentiated from its peers by its owner-manager culture and track record for entrepreneurship and innovation. This underpins its objective to build long term franchise value. Since the creation of FirstRand in 1998 the diversified earnings base of the group has delivered strong growth in earnings, assets and dividends. The Group’s track record has been achieved through a combination of organic growth, acquisitions, and creating extra sources of revenue through the startup and development of completely new businesses. The Group has a portfolio branding strategy and there are a number of leading brands within the Group. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 001 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review FIRSTRAND’S STRATEGY AND PHILOSOPHY A powerful recipe for success The Group’s strategy for growth FirstRand’s vision is to be the African financial services group of choice, creating long term franchise value and delivering superior and sustainable economic returns to our shareholders within acceptable levels of volatility. This vision is driven through two clear growth strategies: • Become a predominant South African player focusing on both existing markets and those markets where we are currently under represented. • Further grow our existing African franchise, targeting those markets that are expected to produce above average domestic growth and are strongly positioned to benefit from the trade and investment flows between Africa and Asia, particularly China and India. We execute these strategies through our operating franchises. These franchises represent a portfolio of separately branded profit centres and each franchise strives to be a leader in their respective markets through the delivery of: • superior and sustainable economic profits; • positive recognition by employees, customers and other stakeholders; and • flawless execution. The collective leadership of FirstRand, including the FirstRand CEO, COO and the franchise CEOs, determines the Group strategy and is accountable for the overall performance of the Group. Each franchise then takes ownership of their respective strategies, which are executed within the boundaries of the Group’s vision and shared business philosophy. This ensures that the Group generates economic value greater than the sum of its parts. Our Philosophy We believe in empowering our people to run their businesses as if they are their own. These businesses are aligned through the Group strategy, shared values and principles. Our philosophy is reflected in our owner-manager culture and our track record for entrepreneurship and innovation, our primary points of differentiation from our peers. Accordingly, we encourage our passionate and committed people to balance profit growth with sustainable development. 002 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability The demonstration of this philosophy in our business is through: our 0 owner-manager culture FirstRand has an empowering owner-manager culture with a bias for action. Empowerment requires accountability and we are committed to rigorous performance management. While fully aligned to Group strategy the operating franchises retain ownership of, and accountability for, their strategies, operational decisions and financial performance. 0 our commitment to entrepreneurship and innovation We strive to ensure that innovation is the hallmark of strategic and operational plans. Accordingly, FirstRand recruits and develops entrepreneurial self starters who have a passion for what they do. By liberating talented people we have created a legacy of entrepreneurial action that has built excellent businesses. 0 our people FirstRand holds at its core the belief that people are critical to its success. We attract, develop and retain the best industry talent. We empower our people, hold them accountable, and reward them appropriately. As the champions of FirstRand’s values, employees act with integrity and practice fair play. We promote and value diversity among our people, particularly as it contributes to innovative thinking and builds inclusive relationships. FirstRand’s philosophy is underpinned by our belief in the following values and principles: • respecting and empowering individuals; • collective and individual accountability; • integrity in our care for the business; • prudent and accurate scorekeeping; • ensuring that the business case always prevails through open communication, vigorous debate and participative non hierarchical decision making; • being a good corporate citizen – seeing sustainable development and sustainable profit growth as complementary objectives; and • helping to create a better world that is socially and environmentally viable in the long term. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 003 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Financial highlights R million 2010 2009 % change Continuing and discontinued operations Attributable earnings to shareholders 9 444 6 501 45 Headline earnings 9 453 6 939 36 Normalised earnings 9 963 7 151 39 Diluted headline earnings per share (cents) 178.3 133.1 34 Diluted normalised earnings per share (cents) 176.7 126.8 39 Ordinary dividend per share (cents) 77.0 56.0 38 Normalised return on equity (%) 18 14 Assets under management or administration 1 006 475 965 484 4 Normalised net asset value per share (cents) 1 045.6 938.4 11 Continuing operations Headline earnings 8 075 5 490 47 Normalised earnings 8 569 5 836 47 Diluted headline earnings per share (cents) 151.3 104.6 45 Diluted normalised earnings per share (cents) 152.0 103.5 47 FirstRand’s financial performance and socio economic value add is under­scored by non financial performance indicators. These relate to FirstRand’s relationships with its major stakeholders and the Group’s contribution to socio economic transformation and Black Economic Empowerment. The table below shows the non financial highlights for the year ended 30 June 2010: NON FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2010 2009 % change Economic value added to society (R million) 88 594 49 671 78 Total workforce 42 548 42 783 (1) % ACI (African, Coloured & Indian) employees (SA) 67 66 – Skills development investment (R million) 289 227 27 Retail customers (000) 13 875 11 732 18 BBBEE procurement spend (%)1 61% 53% – Carbon emissions (Kw/h – 000)2 330 561 389 835 (15) Energy saved (R million)2 4.5 6.6 (32) 1 Data reflects 2009 calendar year per dti (“Department of Trade and Industry”) reporting. 2 2010 figures adjusted to provide like-for-like comparison with 2009 calculations. See page 95 for detail. 004 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability GROUP AT A GLANCE Normalised earnings by franchise 2010 ROE based Normalised Normalised Cost to on normalised Impairment Non performing earnings earnings income ratio earnings charge loans (“NPLs”) contribution (R million) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) Banking Group 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 FNB 4 303 3 756 60.4 57.5 32 26 1.70 2.39 7.8 8.7 51 62 FNB Africa 524 514 56.6 52.0 23 27 0.37 0.58 2.1 2.5 6 9 RMB 3 261 1 536 45.2 56.6 24 12 0.16 0.43 0.9 1.0 38 25 WesBank 953 324 51.9 53.8 15 7 2.21 2.86 5.5 5.0 11 5 Bank support and divisions disclosed elsewhere (506) (74) – – – – – – – – (6) (1) Total Banking Group 8 535 6 056 57.1 58.1 18 13 1.30 1.81 5.0 5.6 100 100 Normalised Normalised New Funds received Net flow Embedded earnings earnings business from clients of funds value contribution (R million) (R million) (R million) (R million) (R million) (%) momentum 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Insurance and asset management operations 1 530 1 328 56 774 60 470 65 262 68 086 (18 129) (34 030) 17 683 16 086 85 81 Investment income on shareholders’ assets 280 321 – – – – – – – – 15 19 Total Momentum Group 1 810 1 649 56 774 60 470 65 262 68 086 (18 129) (34 030) 17 683 16 086 100 100 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 005 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Chairman’s statement BANKS MUST BUILD CONSTRUCTIVE RELATIONSHIPS When I begin the process of writing my Chairman’s statement, I sometimes browse for a quotation relevant to my topic, by someone with more wisdom than myself. This year, for the first time, I googled quotations on banking and it came as somewhat of a surprise to discover that out of the first 150 quotations I found, 99.9% were highly damning of both the principles and institutions of banking. In addition, and in some ways even more interesting, almost can create moral hazard through a perception that banks are too every US President, from Thomas Jefferson to John F Kennedy, big to fail and will always be bailed out whatever decisions they argued rigorously against the power and influence of the banking take to get to that point. system. For example Jefferson said; “ If the American people ever My own view is that banks hold a very significant place within the allow private banks to control the issue of their money, first by economy and, whether we like it or not, governments and their inflation and then by deflation, the banks and corporations that will designated regulators will always look to establish the levels of grow up around them, will deprive the people of their property control and influence they believe to be appropriate. This is not until their children will wake up homeless on the continent their necessarily a bad thing, as long as that influence seeks to protect fathers conquered.” the economy, depositors and shareholders rather than further It is not so much the fact that many wise people believe that banks populist political agendas. Banks globally must make peace with are fundamentally “bad” for society that resonates with me, it is the fact that they face a deep public anger that will take a very long more that the relationship between governments and banks is one time to dissipate and governments and regulators will use this fraught with conflict but at the same time totally symbiotic, and time to make some far reaching changes to the industry. The ways this has been the case since the days of Aristotle (who also, for the that some of these changes are implemented may be, by their record, held the practice of usury in complete contempt). nature, flawed. Banks will argue against them as they see their wings are increasingly clipped and the cost of increased regulation One of the most significant results of the financial crisis was that, becomes more onerous. However, many banks brought this upon to quote the Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation (“CSFI”), themselves, by pursuing strategies of excessive leverage and poor “the dash by governments to rescue their banks may have staved credit extension, and they must now face the consequences. off a collapse of the system but it has left the banking industry deeply politicised”. In the CSFI’s highly regarded “Banking Banana Although the South African banks weathered the storm and Skins 2010”, aptly titled “After the Quake”, the 400 regulators, emerged in pretty good shape, we do anticipate that some of these bankers and observers of the banking sector who contributed to changes are likely to materialise locally, particularly given our G20 the survey cited “political interference” as the most significant risk membership. As an example, the South African Reserve Bank is facing banks. According to the survey, political risk has many expected to implement the Basel Committee on Banking negative connotations; it can distort commercial judgement by Supervision’s proposals on capital and liquidity, (the so-called “politicising” lending thus increasing the credit risk profile and it Basel III proposals). 006 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Laurie Dippenaar [Chairman] What has been extremely reassuring is that our government and banks agreed to work together to investigate the impact of these FirstRand’s diverse portfolio proposals in the local context, particularly given the structural of banking and insurance funding issues in the South African banking system. A joint task team was set up to consider issues relating to the lack of retail businesses produced savings, the disintermediation of banks which resulted from a strong performance. the growth in money market funds and the different regulatory treatment of banks and money market funds. The combination of interest rate cuts, the modest recovery FirstRand participated in the quantitative impact study that the inhouse prices (mainly during the latter half of the financial year) Basel Committee conducted and preliminary calculations carried and higher equity prices did ease the pressure on consumers. This out as part of this exercise show that if the current proposals are had a positive impact on retail bad debts, but credit growth implemented there would be a reduction in both Tier 1 and total remained extremely subdued. Whilst South African corporates capital adequacy ratios. I am pleased to report however that have been extremely resilient, investment activity in most sectors whilst the new regulatory minimum has not yet been finalised, is limited. FirstRand believes it will be adequately capitalised to meet the new requirements. Group performance – all of our banking franchises did well FirstRand’s operating environment – it’s still Against this difficult, albeit improving, macroeconomic background challenging out there for everyone FirstRand’s diverse portfolio of banking and insurance businesses The macroeconomic environment is another issue that weighs on produced a strong performance. Normalised earnings improved the minds of bankers, particularly as our earnings are significantly 39% to R9.96 billion with a normalised return on equity (“ROE”) geared to GDP growth. The global economy did stage a recovery of 18%. during the year under review, driven by the respective radical In trying to unpack this performance, although we did experience fiscal and monetary policy responses in many developed some modest topline growth, most of this years’ earnings recovery economies. However, the positive sentiment associated with the was driven by the reversal of the two most significant negative recovery was tempered towards the latter part of the financial issues from the previous comparative period. One of these, year, as it became increasingly evident that global activity will namely the “unwind” of the bad debts emanating from the large experience severe “growth headwinds” over the next few years. retail lending books, is mainly due to the changing environment. While emerging markets were not isolated from these events, The other, reducing losses from certain offshore trading portfolios balance sheets in these economies are generally healthier and in within our investment bank relates to the “own goals” I discussed a better position to sustain growth at or above long term growth in last year’s statement and I would like to spend some time on trends. South Africa lagged the global recovery somewhat, this issue. emerging from recession during the third quarter of 2009 with growth supported by significant monetary and fiscal policy stimulus and external trade. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 007 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review There are many strategies within the Group which are designed to grow revenues in an environment that is expected to be challenging for the topline. Whilst I do not want to dwell for too long on the past, it does have Merging Momentum with Metropolitan – some relevance to our current strategy. May I remind you of what I unlocking shareholder value said last year; “Going forward there will be an increased focus on The earnings of our insurance subsidiary Momentum were helped client driven activities and a healthier balance between these by a recovery in equity markets, particularly in the first half of the activities and proprietary trading or investment activities. In year, combined with a continued strong operational performance. addition, secondary market activities will link to client activities or This translated into overall normalised earnings increasing 10% to leverage the existing primary market position. Whilst it is likely R1.81 billion with the ROE remaining ahead of Momentum’s target that this shift may result in lower ROE’s, it will improve quality of at 22%. earnings and reduce volatility and still produce acceptable returns to shareholders”. During the year under review we announced our intention to merge Momentum with Metropolitan and unbundle the merged entity This shift in focus is particularly relevant to our investment bank’s from FirstRand. Contrary to the endless speculation by press business and you will see in the operational review of RMB on page and analysts that FirstRand motivated to unbundle Momentum 43 that they have rigorously followed through on this approach. As because we want to clean up our structure and give up on our part of its strategy to rebalance its business and improve the bancassurance strategy, the merger was actually motivated to quality of its earnings, RMB has significantly strengthened its FirstRand by Momentum’s management and Board. The company domestic client driven activities and scaled its trading activities in needs to pursue new growth initiatives, particularly in the lower line with its risk appetite framework. This has allowed RMB to income markets, and this is where Metropolitan has built a strong proactively manage the trade-offs between earnings, volatility, franchise. Much has been said and written on the benefits of the profitability and growth and I believe this approach will generate merger, which I do not intend to repeat here. Suffice to say that we the appropriate returns for shareholders and ensure that the “bull consider the creation of a new player in the market to be very market” strategies of the past will not be repeated. exciting from a growth perspective and I reiterate that FirstRand remains fully committed to growing our successful bancassurance There are many strategies within the Group which are designed to business between Momentum and FNB, on a preferred grow revenues in an environment that is expected to be challenging relationship basis. for the topline. The earnings of FNB, our commercial and retail bank, are currently benefiting from the massive reduction in bad I recently looked at some data that showed the level of growth Momentum achieved from 1992 – when it merged with RMB, to debts. However, FNB recognises that once that unwind begins to date. Earnings in 1992 were R21 million compared to this year’s lose momentum, meaningful and innovative responses will be number of R1.8 billion representing a compound growth rate of required. As a result, FNB is aggressively growing its franchise in 28%. What this shows is that Momentum has produced excellent certain segments of the South African market and expanding its returns for FirstRand shareholders over the years, and we have footprint in high growth African markets. been very fortunate to have an insurance subsidiary of such FNB also continues to benefit from a strong focus on efficiencies quality, with an excellent and longstanding management team, in and sustainable containment of cost growth. This should be of our “stable” for so long. particular interest to those market watchers that believe that the effective management of costs is not in the DNA of FirstRand. Bankers’ pay – finding the proper alignment of Whilst I acknowledge that as an entrepreneurial culture we do get interests excited about growing the topline, it is important to appreciate the I now want to return briefly to a topic that I discussed in some significant progress FNB has made in maintaining cost growth to detail in last year’s report – that of remuneration. I am sure if I well below inflation for two years running, with the absolute increase googled this topic I would find hundreds of blogs dedicated to in costs in the year under review the lowest in recent history. the vilification of bankers, their hubris and their greed. As a banker myself, it is tough to be self righteous in the face of such So our banking businesses are in good shape and are taking all the strong public anger and the only thing I can say in FirstRand’s necessary actions to deliver sustainable returns to share­holders. defence is that as a Group founded and managed for over 20 years I would now like to turn to our insurance subsidiary, Momentum. by owner-managers with a significant personal stake in the 008 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability business, we have always tried to align employee reward with clear accountability. With unwavering political will and strong shareholder returns. leadership by Danny Jordaan and his team, South Africa really did rise to the occasion, and hopefully this has finally put to bed the In the Report of the Remuneration Committee (“Remco”) on perception that Africa is low tech, undisciplined and corrupt. The page 79 the committee’s Chairman, Pat Goss states; “The Group stadiums were all finished in time and were world class, matches believes that the “deferral” of certain components of performance started on time, supporters weren’t mugged every time they payments will ensure senior and executive management focus on visited Soweto, the transport system worked, the TV networks creating medium to long term value for stakeholders. Therefore didn’t fall down – so many examples of this country’s “big match during the year under review, for the first time, FirstRand temperament”. increased the deferral period of a component of variable pay to a period longer than 12 months. Remco is of the view that the I am not the first person to ask why we cannot keep this “delivery” balance between short term incentives and equity based long term mindset for executing on our other infrastructure plans in the deferred incentives represents a healthy mix which will encourage areas of service delivery, electricity and water, which are critical to focus on sustainability of profits and performance.” the long term prosperity of the country. Can we learn and improve In line with this statement, between 20% and 40% of all performance on what FIFA gave us? I hope we can, as South Africa is competing payments above R1.5 million was deferred in FirstRand shares with a number of high growth emerging markets for investment for two years. In addition 40% of performance payments above flows, and we need to invest in our own capacity to deliver growth R1.5 million made to the FirstRand Executive committee was in the longer term. deferred in FirstRand shares for two years, with more than 40% of Looking forward, the South African external economic environment performance payments made to the CEO and COO being deferred seems to have stabilised, but topline growth in the medium term for two years. I believe that this structure should provide share­ will remain challenging. The unwind of bad debts in the retail holders with comfort that the executive management of this franchises will continue to provide support to the Group’s current Group are appropriately motivated to grow long term value. earnings recovery, however growth in advances will remain low as This is further underlined by the proposed purchase by FirstRand levels of consumer indebtedness are still at historic highs and senior management of ordinary shares currently owned by the corporates remain cautious. Group’s founders, namely myself, GT Ferreira and Paul Harris, at a Despite these “headwinds”, and in line with our strategy, we total value of R398.4 million. continue to invest in our infrastructure in South Africa, particularly where significant growth opportunities have been identified and we continue to grow our footprint and client franchise in other selected African markets. In his CEO’s report on page 10, Sizwe Nxasana Much of FirstRand’s success since inception can be attributed to provides more detail on the current execution of this strategy. the “owner-manager” culture that has been embedded in the Group over many years. This culture has been critical to the spirit In closing… of innovation and entrepreneurship that has differentiated the I would like to thank the FirstRand executive management team Group from its peers. The transference of ownership of these and the many people we employ throughout the Group for producing shares to FirstRand senior management goes some way towards this strong performance in what were challenging conditions. My creating the next generation of “owner-managers” to take the last words remain for Van Zyl Slabbert, who passed away this year businesses forward, and in addition, as senior management’s own after serving for eight years on our Board. On hearing of his death, capital is now at stake, the interests of executives and shareholders someone remarked to me that it felt as though a Prime Minister continue to be closely aligned. had died, such was the stature of the man. In the years that he served on the FirstRand Board he made an irreplaceable Looking back briefly before looking forward contribution to our debates, particularly the potential impact of Before I conclude my report with a comment on the Group’s social and political changes on our business. His was a formidable prospects I would just like to briefly discuss the World Cup. This intellect, and both FirstRand and South Africa will miss that event proved to be everything we hoped it would be; a positive wisdom in the years to come. window on our country in the eyes of the world; a flexion point of immense pride for every South African and, despite the hopes of many a naysayer around the world, an incredibly efficient and well run tournament. Much of the credit for this must rest with FIFA as they provide an extremely tight framework for the host country, Laurie Dippenaar characterised by ruthless oversight, non negotiable deadlines and Chairman FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 009 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review CEO’s report It’s all about delivering a sustainable performance over the longer term FirstRand’s performance this year was most satisfactory and I am extremely pleased that we have regained our position as a leading financial services group, delivering sustainable returns to our shareholders within acceptable levels of volatility. A detailed explanation of our financial performance can be found in the COO & CFO’s report on page 14. One of the most critical aspects of running a business that provides most appropriate skills; providing an excellent service to our employment to thousands of people and is core to broader socio customers and maintaining constructive relationships with economic development is ensuring the long term sustainability of govern­ments, providers of capital and the broader community. All that business. As we have seen all too recently, when banks fail the of these considerations are embedded in our strategic thinking economic stability of nations and indeed the entire global financial and operational execution. system are threatened. This has brought the issue of “sustainability” Stakeholders require management to prove the sustainability of into sharp focus. Sustainability has been considered somewhat of their business through a rigorous examination and explanation of a “soft” topic until fairly recently, an addendum to the normal the specific linkages between strategy, operational execution, risk course of running a business and relying too heavily on anecdotal management, customer and staff satisfaction, and financial evidence rather than measurable benchmarks. This approach is performance. This ultimately represents a truly “integrated” now a thing of the past. investment picture, and this year’s annual report builds on FirstRand’s efforts to present such a complete investment picture. The new King III Code on Corporate Governance in South Africa, I believe this is particularly important for a business such as ours, which is recognised as a highly progressive standard internationally, given the importance of banks to the economies and communities calls for integrated sustainability reporting among other governance they serve. requirements. Underlying this is the need for management to show how social, economic and environmental issues impact on growth Against this background, in my CEO’s report this year I would like drivers, as well as how they are managing these issues as to cover three topics I believe are key to FirstRand’s future success an inseparable function of business strategy and risk and sustainability, namely our owner-manager culture, our management. approach to transformation and our strategy. These topics do not in any way represent an exhaustive list but they are aspects of At FirstRand we recognise that delivering our growth objectives is our business that will ensure we thrive as an organisation over contingent on our approach to sustainability. As a large financial the longer term. Elsewhere in the annual report you will find services group, the health of our business depends on a stable explanations of other key issues such as financial performance and political and fiscal environment; our ability to attract the best and risk management (the COO & CFO’s report, starting on page 14), 010 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability SIZWE NXASANA [CEO] operational execution (Review of Operations, pages 35 to 53) and principles. Evidence suggested that a synergistic business governance (starting on page 55). relationship between franchisor and franchisee had the ability to release entrepreneurial talent, resulting in: FirstRand’s “owner-manager” culture – critical to delivering franchise value and • increased customer growth and product holding by customers; superior returns • significantly improved customer service and satisfaction; On the cover of this annual report we list the key components of our investment proposition – through our owner-manager culture • engaged and energised staff; and and innovation we are successfully building franchise value. • sustainable growth in profits. I strongly believe that this linkage is a powerful and positive differentiating factor for FirstRand. Much has been made of the negative aspects of our business model and “empowering” culture, with some commentators suggesting that the losses the Group incurred in 2009 were a direct FNB embarked on the roll out of the Associate Model early in 2009, result of our operating model. Their criticism supposed that our identifying the top 20% revenue earning branches and placing the controls became too loose, people were overly empowered and most experienced and proven managers in these branches to run able to ignore risk limits and frameworks. It is important them with an underlying owner-manager mandate. to understand that the disappointing performances from our international portfolios related to poor judgement rather than The table below demonstrates that the owner-manager culture a breakdown of risk controls. This can happen in a centralised makes a significant difference. All key financial measures such structure as much as in a federal model such as FirstRand’s. as net profit before tax, cost growth and non interest revenue growth reflect favourably compared with other branches. Customer FirstRand’s owner-manager culture is unique. It is rooted in the service and leadership also showed an overall improvement. belief held by the founders of the Group that if a manager runs a business as if they are an owner, the manager will make decisions Traditional Associate that are tightly aligned to the interests of shareholders. They are Measure branch branch also likely to be more entrepreneurial and innovative if they take NPBT growth (excl B/D) 8% 10% 3 ownership of the success (or failure) of the enterprise. Direct cost growth 8% 5% 3 NIR growth 9% 10% 3 It is worth spending some time explaining how this ownerLeadership index 80.48 81.61 3 manager concept translates practically into financial performance. Last year FNB implemented an initiative designed to put the This is one of many such initiatives throughout the Group and we Group’s owner-manager culture to work in its branches. Known as believe that they contribute meaningfully to the sustainability of the Associate Model it was designed around global franchising the business. Not only does this approach provide real financial FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 011 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Our strategic intent is now very clear: to be the African financial services group of choice, creating long term franchise value and delivering superior and sustainable economic returns to shareholders within acceptable levels of volatility. returns but it also manifests in a strong track record of innovation, imperative and will remove barriers in employment practices, our ability to start completely new businesses that often change procedures, policies and organisational attitudes for the benefit of the shape of entire industries, and the superior ROE that the Group the effectiveness of our workforce and the social consciousness of has produced since listing in 1998. the individuals who comprise it. Our culture is also why we are fortunate to attract and retain some Another example, at a product level, is FirstRand’s strategy to of the best people in the financial services industry. One of the “take banking to the people” through products such as FNB’s cell statements I made last year in my report was “It is important that phone banking and eWallet. These products enable broad access FirstRand continues to attract and retain the best industry talent, to financial services for customers living in remote areas and the and key to this is ensuring that the Group’s empowering “ownertake up has been significant as evidenced in the fact that FNB manager” culture remains intact.” has two million customers for its cellphone banking product in South Africa. We anticipate that the war for talent will only intensify, particularly as major international banks focus seriously on South Africa and Our vision for transformation goes beyond compliance and scorecards – it’s about making a positive difference in all of the Africa. We are hopeful that the empowering environment we communities we serve. provide to smart, motivated people will result in good retention in the face of inevitable poaching by increasing competition. Our refined strategy – effective execution in SA and gaining traction elsewhere Transformation – a genuine approach One of the topics I covered extensively in my report last year was A critical component of sustainability is our approach to the refinement of Group strategy following FirstRand’s relative transformation. We view our role in society as one which must underperformance in the financial year to June 2009. contribute positively and respond effectively to the needs of every country in which we operate. The Group therefore has the objective of conducting business in such a way that its activities help to create better lives for all of the people of South Africa and our Our strategic intent is now very clear: to be the African financial other chosen markets. Meeting this broader objective also has services group of choice, creating long term franchise value and positive implications for FirstRand’s viability as a business since delivering superior and sustainable economic returns to share­ transformation initiatives help to ensure that we remain an holders within acceptable levels of volatility. organisation with which present and future decision makers, client bases, employees and other stakeholders can identify positively. At This is driven through two clear growth strategies: a product and services level we also understand the competitive advantages associated with facilitating socio economic • Become a predominant South African player focusing on development and demographic transformation within the entire both existing markets and those markets where the Group is financial services value chain. currently under represented. • Further grow our existing African franchises, targeting those One practical example of our integrated approach to transfor­ markets that are expected to produce above average domestic mation is our employment equity and diversity management growth and are strongly positioned to benefit from the trade programme. FirstRand is committed to complying with the letter and investment flows between Africa and Asia, particularly and the spirit of the Employment Equity Act of South Africa, and China and India. moving from procedural compliance to substantive compliance. We strive to acknowledge, understand, accept, value and celebrate We continued to make significant progress on these growth plans, differences among our people with respect to age, class, ethnicity, which are executed through our operating franchises, and are gender, physical and mental ability, race, sexual orientation unpacked in more detail by each franchise in the Review of and spiritual practice. We regard transformation as a strategic Operations section on pages 35 to 53. 012 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Given a key aspect of the Group’s overall objective is to grow in certain domestic markets where we are currently under Our business plans in represented I would like to focus on two particular strategies we Nigeria, Zambia, Angola believe will drive growth going forward. and Tanzania are on track The first is FNB’s increased focus on the lower end of the market. and our China-Africa corridor During the year FNB continued to invest in its domestic footprint, particularly electronic channels and cellphone banking which strategy has resulted in has been particularly successful in the mass market where FNB a number of transactions has built a strong franchise in transactional banking but has historically been under represented in lending. This is being and a healthy deal pipeline addressed through new strategies such as the rollout of the Easy going forward. Plan branches and products. The second relates to our objective to rebalance our portfolio Looking ahead – we remain cautious through a greater weighting in the corporate sector, and the We expect revenue growth in the medium term to remain creation of a Corporate and Investment Banking Unit (“CIB”). Over challenging, despite the improvement in the retail credit environ­ the past 10 years FNB Corporate Banking Group (“CBG”) and RMB ment. Growth in retail advances will remain low as levels of have built excellent independent franchises in transactional consumer indebtedness persist at historic highs and growth in banking and investment banking respectively. Through these corporate advances is expected to also be subdued. franchises corporate customers have had access to ‘best of breed’ solutions spanning the entire spectrum of their banking needs. Given these anticipated pressures on the topline the Group is However, the lack of alignment between RMB and FNB CBG extremely cognisant of the need to manage costs and we are resulted in insufficient coordination of client activities and this will focusing on optimising operational leverage across our entire be fully addressed by CIB. portfolio. We believe there is significant room for improvement. FNB CBG’s and RMB’s existing management teams and reporting However, the Group remains committed to growing the “muscle” structures have remained fully intact and continue to benefit in its business, even as it cuts as much “fat” out of the system as from separate support functions and operate under two brands. possible. We will continue to invest in our infrastructure in South This allows the two businesses to maintain and preserve their Africa, particularly in segments with high growth prospects and respective identities and cultures. However, to manage the growing our footprint and client franchises in other selected interface with the customer we have created a combined “client African markets will remain a priority. coverage” team which will focus on maximising value from the full suite of CIB products for our corporate customers and will operate I believe that the combination of our current growth plans, the across all of our targeted geographic markets. The team is quality of our underlying client franchises and the energy and supported by the existing wholesale credit team, which already commitment of management and staff will allow the Group to services both FNB CBG and RMB clients. deliver on its strategy over the short, medium and longer term. We I am confident that this integrated approach to servicing our have a dynamic and exciting business with a strong and sustainable corporate clients will allow us to enhance service levels, increase investment proposition. our competitive advantage, deliver a superior offering to clients and significantly improve our share of revenues in the corporate, institutional and interbank markets. In support of this strategy we have increased our risk appetite and adjusted certain prudential limits in investment grade and defensive counters. With regards to our strategy to grow outside South Africa, the Group’s international expansion is gaining traction. Our business plans in Nigeria, Zambia, Angola and Tanzania are on track and our China-Africa corridor strategy has resulted in a number of transactions and a healthy deal pipeline going forward. FirstRand India is developing into a meaningful franchise for the Group, focusing equally on investment and trade flows as part of its Sizwe Nxasana strategy to build a robust client base. Chief excecutive officer FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 013 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review COO & CFO’s report ACTIVELY MANAGING A DIVERSE PORTFOLIO THROUGH THE CYCLE This report represents a high level overview of FirstRand Limited’s financial performance, the drivers of that performance – both in terms of macro environment and Group strategy, the composition of the Group’s portfolio and its current risk profile. Performance commentary Financial performance FirstRand’s diverse portfolio of banking and insurance businesses produced a strong performance. Normalised earnings improved 39% to R9.96 billion with a normalised return on equity (“ROE”) of 18%. GROUP KEY RATIOS 2010 2009 % change Normalised earnings (R million) 9 963 7 151 39 Normalised return on equity (%) 18 14 Normalised earnings per share (diluted) (cents) 176.7 126.8 39 The Banking Group’s results for the period under review reflect a significant recovery in profitability in comparison to the 12 month period ended 30 June 2009. The total banking portfolio produced R8.5 billion of normalised earnings, representing an increase of 41% compared to the previous comparative period. This recovery in earnings was driven mainly by a modest increase in topline and the reversal of the two most significant negative issues from the previous comparative period, namely bad debts emanating from the large retail lending books and losses from certain offshore trading portfolios within the investment bank. Many of the banking operations also showed strong operational performances and a significant private equity realisation positively impacted earnings, despite further impairments that were created against certain portfolios. Overall impairments decreased 29% from R8.0 billion to R5.7 billion, primarily in the retail franchises of FNB and WesBank, reflecting the positive benefits of the lower interest rate environment. A breakdown of bad debts by product and segment is reflected in the table below. 014 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability JOHAN BURGER [COO & CFO] 6 months to 6 months to 6 months Percentage of average advances June 2010 Dec 2009 to June 2009 Retail 1.41 2.08 2.97 – Residential mortgages 0.73 1.17 1.76 – Credit card 5.73 8.14 12.51 – Vehicle and asset finance 1.45 2.20 2.70 Wholesale* 0.81 0.71 0.90 Total bad debt ratio 1.13 1.51 1.99 * Includes WesBank Business and Corporate. In addition, non interest income increased 32% from R20 billion to R26 billion representing a strong recovery in RMB’s trading activities and the realisation of Life Healthcare which produced R1.25 billion of profit. Pressure remained on the net interest income component of the earnings base, due mainly to declining asset growth and the negative impact of lower interest rates on capital and endowment balances. This was, however, partly offset by successful repricing strategies across all lending portfolios. BANKING GROUP KEY RATIOS 2010 2009 % change Normalised earnings (R million)1 8 535 6 056 41 Normalised return on equity (%)2 18 13 Return on assets (%) 1.24 0.80 Credit loss ratio (%) 1.30 1.81 Cost to income ratio (%) 57.1 58.1 1 Before deducting preference share dividends. 2 After deducting preference share dividends and capital. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 015 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review The earnings of the insurance subsidiary Momentum were positively impacted by a recovery in equity markets, particularly in the first half of the year, combined with a continued strong operational performance. Overall normalised earnings increased 10% to R1.81 billion with the return on equity remaining ahead of Momentum’s target at 22% (2009: 23%). Volumes of new savings and retirement annuity business were subdued, as consumers remained under pressure, however, lump sum inflows showed strong growth and FNB insurance continued to perform well. MOMENTUM KEY RATIOS 2010 2009 % change Normalised earnings (R million) 1 810 1 649 10 Normalised return on equity (%) 22 23 Return on embedded value (%) 14.9 3.3 CAR cover (times) (before dividend)¹ 2.1 1.8 A breakdown of earnings from each operating franchise is shown below: R million 2010 2009 % change FNB 4 303 3 756 14 FNB Africa 524 514 2 RMB 3 261 1 536 >100 WesBank 953 324 >100 Corporate Centre (506) (74) (>100) Banking Group 8 535 6 056 41 Momentum Group 1 810 1 649 10 FirstRand Limited (38) (90) (58) Dividends paid on non cumulative non redeemable preference shares (344) (464) (26) Total normalised earnings 9 963 7 151 39 Performance drivers This rapidly improving trend reflects the impact and benefits of the The main drivers underlying the Group’s performance can be lower interest rate environment and the resultant gradual broken down into three key areas; the current macro environment, deleveraging of consumers and contributed R2.4 billion to the the continuing reduction in losses from offshore and local legacy Group’s pre tax profit. portfolios and the successful execution on certain strategies. Reducing legacy portfolios Improving macro environment Absolute growth in the Group’s non interest income was mainly Whilst the macro environment continues to improve, high levels of driven by client/primary market activities, (representing 87% consumer indebtedness and corporate capacity remain in the of normalised non interest revenue), however, the significant system and this resulted in very subdued lending during the year turnaround in fair value income resulted from reduced losses in under review. This in turn placed pressure on net interest income, RMB’s offshore legacy portfolios, which was achieved despite which was also adversely affected by the negative endowment further derisking and write downs in the local Dealstream portfolios. effect on capital and deposits due to lower average interest rates, The remaining portfolio size was R1 739 million at 30 June 2010 as well as the impact of higher term funding costs. (2009: R3 213 million), which management believes is manageable These negatives were offset by a 29% decrease in bad debts, in the overall context of the Group, but it will still take time to primarily in the large retail lending books of FNB and WesBank. realise value. 016 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Banks have to focus on increasing the return on assets part of ROE. The Group uses certain key performance indicators to monitor progress of strategy. These include: When the Group analyses ROE, it also takes into account the The Group’s target is nominal GDP + 3% to 5%. relationship between ROA and gearing levels. Growth in NIACC is the Group’s internal benchmark for assessing The Group monitors efficiency through the cost to income measure, performance. taking into account both revenue and cost growth. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 017 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Refined strategy – rebalancing the portfolio Chart 1 (below) shows that the Group’s portfolio now exhibits a more appropriate balance between revenues from client, In last year’s annual report the Group outlined its refined strategy investment and trading businesses compared to three years and addressed specific issues relating to the composition of ago. The growth in revenue from client activities resulted in an FirstRand’s portfolio at the time. This year the CEO’s report improvement in the quality of earnings and was largely driven by a updates shareholders on the progress of that strategy (see page change in strategy in the investment banking franchise. As part of 12). The execution of growth plans in South Africa and Africa are its strategy to rebalance its business and improve the quality of its explained in further detail by each operating franchise in the earnings, RMB strengthened its domestic client driven activities review of operations on pages 35 to 53. and scaled its trading activities in line with its risk appetite framework. The key objectives of the new risk appetite framework A key component of the refined strategy is to improve quality of are to manage the trade-offs between earnings, volatility, earnings and reduce volatility and the results for the year under profitability and growth, and aim for a targeted business mix of review demonstrate that the Group has started to deliver on this 60% client income, 25% investing income and 15% trading income. component of its strategy. RMB’s current mix can be seen in Chart 2. Chart 1: Group generating greater proportion of gross revenue from client activities compared to three years ago Chart 2: Shift in gross revenue composition of RMB over the past three years Growing geographical diversification Approximately 90% of Group earnings are generated in South Africa. As a result, the Group’s fortunes are closely linked to that of the South African economy. Given that the medium-term outlook for GDP growth in South Africa is muted, the Group is focused on growing its African franchise, targeting those markets which are expected to deliver above average growth and returns and that will benefit most from China/ India/Africa trade and investment flows. Despite the current dominance of South Africa in the Group’s earnings profile, Chart 3 below does illustrate some progress in this regard and that the contribution from the rest of Africa is gradually increasing. 018 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Chart 3: Geographical diversification – change in mix over the past three years Strategy and risk profile aligned On a regular basis, depending on certain macro dynamics or specific internal issues, the Group assesses whether the risk The strategic planning process profile or business mix within its portfolio is optimal to deliver on FirstRand believes that effective risk management is of primary its strategy; if not, it will take actions to adjust accordingly. importance to the success of the Group and is a key component A recent example of this is RMB’s deliberate action to increase its of the delivery of sustainable returns to its shareholders. It is focus on client driven activities rather than proprietary trading or therefore deeply embedded in the Group’s tactical and strategic investment activities in both the South African and international decision making. operations. In addition, RMB’s secondary market activities will link to client activities, or leverage the existing primary market As discussed previously and outlined in detail in the CEO’s report, position. Whilst it is likely that this shift may result in slightly lower FirstRand’s overall objective is to be the African financial services ROEs, it will improve the quality of earnings, reduce volatility, group of choice. To execute on these strategies, the Group will and still produce superior returns to shareholders. In another actively assume certain risks – including credit, market and example, the large retail books in FNB and WesBank were too investment risk. As a consequence of its banking activities it exposed to both cyclical and structural dynamics. Both businesses also incurs funding and liquidity, operational, interest rate and responded by improving the risk profile and repricing for new reputational risk. These risks are predominantly within South business. Such adjustments by WesBank and FNB will also reduce Africa and other select African markets. earnings volatility. In addition to the above risks, the Group’s strategy can also be Applying the basic disciplines affected by external risks such as regulatory changes, political A critical objective of the Group is to maintain a robust balance shifts and macroeconomic conditions. sheet and earnings profile through the cycle. To achieve this, the Group adheres to some basic disciplines: The collective leadership of FirstRand, including the FirstRand CEO, COO and the franchise CEOs, determines the Group’s strategy • it holds appropriate levels of core capital; and is accountable for the overall performance of the Group. The • manages liquidity prudently; strategy is approved by the FirstRand Board. The determination of • manages its diversified portfolio on a holistic basis, utilising the Group’s strategy is a dynamic process as illustrated by the natural hedges and business mix to ensure sufficient loss diagram on the next page. It is designed to achieve superior, absorbing earnings capacity; sustainable economic returns to shareholders, within acceptable levels of earnings volatility. The Group’s strategy is executed • manages its asset profile in line with risk appetite ranges; through its portfolio of leading franchises. The Group seeks be • drives operational efficiencies across its portfolio; and represented in all significant earnings pools across all chosen • rebalances its portfolios for different macro scenarios. market segments playing across the full value chain (lending, transactional, savings and risk taking), therefore, this portfolio The Group ensures that the quality and diversity of the earnings must represent the appropriate business mix and risk profile to profile is such that it can absorb losses resulting from risk taking deliver on this strategy. activities. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 019 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Determination of Group strategy Strategy When necessary Determines changes strategy risk profile business mix Earnings New business (credit composition and origination and client quality Results in target profile transaction activities) Balance sheet Existing in-force profile business As illustrated in the diagram below, the Group views earnings as stress events. The Group aims to back all economic risk with Tier 1 its first defence against adverse outcomes. capital, as it offers the only real capacity to absorb losses. Currently, at least 90% of the Tier 1 ratio is equity capital. Loss Limits per BUs Macro shifts impact risk appetite Earnings absorption and Group capacity and strategy Significant shifts in the macro environment are also critical to any Centrally strategic adjustments. FirstRand manages its business based Tail risk Rare events managed hedging on a single “house view” which inputs into the budgeting and protection adverse loss strategy limits forecasting process, informs credit origination strategies, funding strategies and capital stress testing, directs the interest rate Centrally positioning of the banking book, and is used for tail risk strategies. Capital Capital managed levels adequacy There is a central unit tasked with formulating and communicating and gearing this macroeconomic view. It provides the business units with a forecast of key variables that impact the balance sheet and Beyond targeting suitable earnings streams, the Group can also spans a three year forecast horizon. Given the volatility of enhance value by understanding, managing and mitigating tail the macroeconomic environment, a core forecast and two risk risks to earnings stability. As part of its forecasting process, the scenarios are presented to the business units for each key Group considers outcomes beyond its core and risk scenarios variable. A severe scenario is also included for stress testing which might have large adverse effects. As an additional layer purposes. of defence against tail risk, the Group also implements certain hedges. The Group believes that it is critical to align its strategy with its economic view by focussing on the key macro drivers of earnings. In addition to earnings, capital provides a further buffer against Based on fundamental research the Group assesses the macrounexpected losses. The Group is appropriately capitalised under a economic environment against the long-run trends and cycles of range of normal and severe scenarios, as well as under a range of the economy which are defined as “highways”. This allows the 020 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability The Group believes that it is critical to align its strategy with its economic view by focussing on the key macro drivers of earnings. Based on fundamental research the Group assesses the macroeconomic environment against the long-run trends and cycles of the economy which are defined as “highways”. Group to take a counter cyclical approach by adjusting strategy Given the macro growth challenges in its domestic market, the when the macro drivers move outside of their respective highways. group continues to focus on driving operational leverage. Where business units have high operational volumes, emphasis is By way of an example; the Rand’s current strength has introduced being placed on ensuring that platforms are scalable, operational a cyclically low inflation and interest rate environment, which in performance is excellent and that risk appetite is appropriate. turn has pushed debt servicing cost to a cyclical low. Despite these Management feels that some of its platforms are not achieving key data points sitting at the bottom of their respective highways, optimal operational leverage or efficiency and this is a significant the Group will adjust its credit origination strategy only on the basis that this reflects a cyclical rather than structural shift. area of focus in the coming financial year. Refinements to business models Group risk profile A further focus area is to understand at business unit, franchise Income statement/earnings profile and Group level, the relationship between financial/operating In line with the Group’s objective to maintain a well diversified leverage, risk capacity/appetite and business mix (or portfolio earnings pool across a broad range of business activities, the composition) (see diagram below). current earnings profile is made up of revenue relating to credit lending activities (net interest income or “NII”) and revenue as a result of transactional and client activities (non interest revenue Low risk Fundamental or “NIR”). High financial capacity, understanding leverage thus low risk of risk/reward Both revenue components are dependent on macroeconomic appetite relationship conditions: • The interest rate and general credit environment will impact Low-margin, Operational high volume excellence, NII in terms of endowment and impairment levels (which High business with scalable, efficient operational are impacted by consumer indebtedness/affordability levels, low tolerance platforms, leverage for operational flawless unemployment, etc.), as well as the level of advances growth. losses execution • Transactional income and fee and commission income (sources of annuity NIR) are more stable although dependent It is an improved understanding of these linkages which led on the level of economic activity. RMB to reconfigure its business model to focus more on client activity and reduce its reliance on trading income (thus improving For the year ended 30 June 2010, normalised gross revenue diversification and loss absorption capacity). These actions have comprised 38% NII and 62% NIR. The larger proportion of NIR improved the quality of RMB’s earnings and enhanced the is appropriate as it relates to transactional revenues that have sustainability of the franchise. low volatility and stable annuity profiles and this contributes A more thorough understanding of FNB HomeLoans’ risk capacity significantly to capacity to absorb the impact of risks resulting and macroeconomic constraints has enabled management to from credit lending and other activities. NIR has been stable adjust strategy and risk appetite appropriately, reducing the during the recent financial crisis and continues to grow at earnings volatility of the business unit, FNB and the Group overall. acceptable levels. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 021 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Balance sheet structure deal structuring activities. The majority of these positions are FirstRand’s earnings are substantially driven by its balance sheet, offsetting from a risk profile perspective. The Group also has a and, through its integrated balance sheet management approach, private equity investment portfolio of approximately R6 billion. the Group ensures appropriate alignment between credit, capital and funding strategies within the appropriate risk framework. Liabilities The Bank’s liabilities are comprised of: The Group’s growth strategy can impact the composition of the balance sheet. The current profile is explained below. • deposits from its retail, commercial and corporate customers (the nature and term of which are a function of customers’ Assets preferences); Loans and advances • institutional funding (over which the bank can exert more Advances resulting from lending activities constitute the largest influence, although it is limited by the structural constraints of portion (approximately two thirds) of assets on the Group’s the market in South Africa – more about this in the Funding and balance sheet. More than 90% of these advances relate to the liquidity risk section); and South African market with the performance of the Group’s • short trading positions and derivatives, which represent the advances thus largely dependent on macroeconomic conditions accounting based disaggregation relating to deal structuring and the state of the South African economy. Approximately two activities as described in the Assets section above. thirds of advances result from retail lending activities. As a result, adverse conditions such as high interest rates and debt servicing Financial risks cost, unemployment and asset price shocks could negatively impact the financial performance of the Bank. Credit risk Credit strategy is managed as part of the broader balance sheet Trading, investment and liquid assets management process and is aligned with the Group’s view of Investments, investment securities, derivatives, cash and other trends in the wider economy. The Group’s current origination assets make up the remainder of the balance sheet. More than strategies are resulting in improving credit quality across all retail half of investment security assets relate to instruments the Bank portfolios (as evidenced in the vintage analyses for the large retail holds in compliance with liquidity and prudential requirements. portfolios on pages 164 to 165). These portfolios were also positively The remainder of derivatives, investment securities and cash impacted by interest rates continuing to trend downwards, income holdings together with corresponding derivative liabilities represent growth and increasing wages. However, job losses also continued, an accounting based disaggregation of the Bank’s portfolio of client albeit at a slower rate. 022 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Interest rate reductions, which started in 2008 and continued into • Credit risk capacity and appetite: the Bank’s own credit risk 2010, resulted in a reduction in NPL inflows and consequently in capacity and appetite for wholesale lending activities has been the credit impairment charges of most retail portfolios (the chart determined considering an acceptable level of earnings below shows the decline in NPL inflows at FNB HomeLoans, the volatility resulting from credit related losses. Group’s largest retail lending book). The level of NPLs remained • Counterparty debt capacity: the client’s debt capacity, ability high, however, due to the debt counselling process. As a result of and willingness to repay its debt is a key consideration. the improvement in credit quality, the Group’s retail portfolios now A counterparty’s prudential limit will be capped at its own fall within the Group’s desired credit appetite ranges. debt capacity. • Risk sharing: the Bank’s appetite to participate in the counter­ part’s debt capacity is informed by when, and to what extent, the Bank will share risk with other banks. The Wholesale portfolio has remained resilient in the face of the market downturn in the year under review, as can be seen in the graph on wholesale credit quality below. The majority of negative credit migrations were experienced in specific subsectors, such as property development and transportation, while most of the exposures in other industries showed resilience against the downturn. The strategy of rebalancing the Wholesale portfolio to more investment-grade lending has also already started paying off. Lending appears likely to remain tepid as corporates maintain high levels of cash and investment spending remains subdued. Despite the reduction in debt servicing costs as a result of lower interest rates, the subsequent improvement in affordability and underlying asset recovery (e.g. house price growth), credit appetite has not increased considerably. Consumers remain leveraged and vulnerable to shifts in the external economic environment and concerns remain with regards to unemployment prospects and the timing and strength of the recovery. Large corporate credit exposures arise mainly from: • term-lending activities in RMB’s Investment Banking division; • short term exposures from overdraft and working capital facilities provided in FNB Corporate and Transactional Banking; and • short term money market exposures in FICC. In addition, exposures resulting from financial market activities, such as cash placements by Group Treasury at other institutions, In line with the Group’s objective to rebalance its portfolio, it is and credit exposure resulting from positive mark-to-market increasing its exposure to large corporate credit. The existing inmovements on derivatives and securities financing activities force book, which has been originated by the investment bank, has (e.g. reverse repos) are also managed as part of the wholesale historically performed well, but, due to the natural run-off profile credit process. of these exposures, capacity is available to write more high-quality credit. To support this initiative, the Group has created a The performance of the Group could be negatively impacted by a corporate and investment banking unit, with an integrated large wholesale exposure default. These exposures are, however, client coverage team and has adjusted certain prudential limits diversified and actively managed to mitigate this risk. In addition, in investment-grade and defensive counters. risk management processes and prudential limits are in place to limit the loss in the event of default for each exposure. Prudential Market risk limits for wholesale credit exposures are set considering the The financial performance of the bank and its ability to realise following: positions at a favourable return is dependent on market conditions FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 023 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review The South African market is characterised by a low discretionary savings rate. However, there is a higher degree of contractual savings, which are captured by institutions such as pension funds, provident funds and asset management providers. and the environment in which it operates. The Bank’s business in Dealstream (a clearing client), which were written down in the the market risk space is, in the main, affected by the level of current year, resulting in a significant derisking of this portfolio – underlying market activity and client flows, volatility of underlying the value in use at 30 June 2010 amounted to R320 million (2009: markets, and the absence or presence of clearly trending R1 019 million). markets. Funding and liquidity risk FirstRand’s market risk sits predominantly within the trading The South African market is characterised by a low discretionary activities of RMB with the bulk resulting from activities in equity savings rate. However, there is a higher degree of contractual and fixed income markets in South Africa. As can be seen from the savings, which are captured by institutions such as pension funds, chart showing the daily regulatory trading book earnings vs. provident funds and asset management providers. A portion of this 1 day 99% VaR (page 176), the level of risk decreased towards translates into wholesale funding for banks, which is more the end of the financial year, mainly reflecting market conditions expensive and has a shorter term than traditional retail deposits. characterised by decreasing market volatility and reduced All major banks in South Africa are thus reliant on a significant opportunities. portion of short term, expensive institutional deposits to fund Going forward it is expected that RMB’s increased focus on longer dated assets such as mortgages. In other words, liquidity corporate client acquisition will result in increased client flows for risk in the South African banking system is structurally higher the trading units, and therefore increased capacity for taking risk. than in most other markets. This situation is to some extent mitigated by the following factors (which helped the country to Equity investment risk weather the global financial crisis without any disruptions to the The majority of the Group’s investment risk is represented by interbank market): RMB’s private equity portfolio. All private equity investments use an on balance sheet model, as opposed to a third party standalone • The so-called “closed rand” system, whereby all rand fund model. This provides RMB with optimal flexibility in terms of transactions (whether physical or derivative) have to be timing of investments and realisations. cleared and settled in South Africa. FirstRand Bank is one of the major clearing/settlement agents. The payments and RMB takes sufficient stakes to allow it to exert a meaningful settlement system in South Africa is currently only open to influence in medium sized counters, and it follows a partnership registered banks in South Africa. model. There are a number of different private equity teams, which • The institutional funding base is fairly stable as it is, in effect, concentrate on separate sectors and investment styles. This is recycled retail savings. reflected in the vintage profile of the portfolio and provides investment and realisation flexibility through the cycle and a level • The country has a prudential exchange control framework in of protection from earnings volatility. place. The portfolio is equity accounted, which results in lower volatility • South Africa has a low dependence on foreign currency funding in the portfolio’s earnings stream. The appetite for investment risk (i.e. low rollover risk). has remained constant. There is still significant unrealised value Against this backdrop, FirstRand’s objective is to fund its activities in the private equity portfolios (R1.4 billion at 30 June 2010). in a sustainable, efficient, diversified and flexible manner, Other sources of equity investment risk include listed equity stakes underpinned by strong counterparty relationships. The Group has totalling R1.38 billion at 30 June 2010, and the three large a strong and stable deposit franchise, which spans the consumer, investments acquired by RMB in 2008, following the default of commercial and corporate segments. Institutional funding 024 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability represents a third of the Group’s total funding. This reliance on were on average 3.9 percentage points lower than in the comparative funding from the institutional market remains a risk concentration period. that is actively managed through the holding of appropriate The endowment risk is managed as part of the holistic balance liquidity buffers and continued focus on lengthening the term sheet management approach, in conjunction with other factors profile of this funding. The Group conducts scenario and stress such as credit impairments and balance sheet growth, and in simulations to ensure it has a prudent liquidity buffer over and accordance with the Group’s house view. If required, the interest above the minimum statutory requirement. The term structure of rate profile is adjusted through hedging strategies. From an liabilities is driven by the funding profile requirements of the Bank, interest rate mismatch perspective, the Bank also hedges its and any associated interest rate risk that arises is managed as residual fixed-rate position, which has been adjusted for optionality part of the banking book’s net interest rate profile (discussed in the (e.g. prepayments). next section). Over the past year the Bank continued to lengthen its funding Non financial risks profile (as shown in the chart below), and further increased Operational risk liquidity buffers. Operational risk relates to the risk of loss arising from short­ comings or failures in internal processes, people or systems, or from external events. Banks have to be able to process large numbers of simple and complex transactions on a daily basis. The ability to process these transactions effectively could be impacted by failure of IT systems, internal or external fraud, large litigation, business disruption or process failure. Disruption in power supply, complex systems and interconnectivity with other financial institutions and exchanges increase the risk of operational failure. Operational risk could also cause reputational damage, and therefore efforts to identify, manage and mitigate operational risk should be equally sensitive to reputational risk as well as the risk of financial loss. The Group manages operational risk using group-wide control standards supported by commitment of senior management, Increased issuance by Government to fund the budget deficit independent oversight by ERM, active participation by deployed and infrastructure investment places upward pressure on yields, segment and divisional risk managers, and training of staff in however this has been tempered by the global shift in asset a process of identifying, measuring, monitoring and reporting allocation to emerging markets. Liquidity premiums remain at operational risk. In this process, the Group uses a variety of bestlevels higher than previous years but have significantly retraced in-class approaches and tools in the assessment and management from their peaks. Where the term is less than one year premiums of operational risk. ERM, a risk management function independent have moderated as banks favour longer term funding and asset of the revenue-producing units, is also responsible for developing growth is expected to remain subdued. and implementing the framework to manage operational risks, and provides regular reports of operational risk exposures to Interest rate risk in the banking book the board. Interest rate risk in the banking book is made up of two Given the ever changing and complex nature of its business and components, namely the endowment effect and interest rate processes, the Group employs a dynamic approach to managing mismatch. operational risk, and this approach results in almost continuous change or renewal. It is common practice, when implementing The endowment effect results from a large proportion of change of this nature, to proactively address less than optimal “endowment” liabilities (including sticky deposits and equity) that operational procedures with meaningful adjustments to risk fund variable-rate assets (e.g. Prime-linked mortgages), therefore management. The Board and management are not satisfied with bank earnings are vulnerable to declining interest rates. The the current level of operational losses, albeit in line with industry endowment effect currently accounts for approximately 80% of the experience, and have therefore embarked on a consistent and interest rate risk in the banking book. The negative endowment disciplined approach of linking business processes to the effect had a severe impact on NII in the year to June 2010, as rates operational risk and control environment. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 025 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Going forward the Group will execute on its stated strategy, leveraging off an existing platform of diverse revenue streams and strong operating franchises. In the process, management aims to rebalance the current portfolio to achieve an appropriate mix. Risk arising from the changing regulatory amendments positively, as they reduce the potential for market environment disruptions inherent in the original proposals. The Group is subject to extensive regulation in the environments Government and industry have agreed to set up a task team to where it operates. Most notably this includes the Banks Act 94 of investigate the structural funding issues in the South African 1990 (as amended), the Regulations thereto and the Basel II banking system. The task team will consider issues relating to framework. In terms of the Basel II framework, the Bank is subject the lack of retail savings, the disintermediation of banks which to Tier 1 and Tier 2 minimum capital requirements. resulted from the growth in money market funds, and the different regulatory treatment of banks and money market funds. The Group continues to monitor developments, search for opportunities to engage with regulators, and assess the impact of FirstRand participated in the quantitative impact study (“QIS”) that regulatory changes on its business operations. Two of the most the BCBS conducted to assess the impact of the new proposals on significant regulatory changes impacting the bank are discussed banks. Preliminary calculations carried out as part of this exercise below. show that if the current proposals are implemented there would be a reduction in both the Tier 1 and total capital adequacy ratios. Basel Committee on Banking Supervision However, FirstRand Bank and the Banking Group would remain proposals on capital and liquidity well above the current regulatory minimum requirement. Although The recent global financial crisis is expected to result in increased the new regulations and new regulatory minimum have not yet political and regulatory pressure on banking systems worldwide. been finalised, FirstRand believes it will be adequately capitalised Some of these pressures are likely to materialise in South Africa, to meet the new requirements. particularly given its G20 membership. For example, the South African Reserve Bank (“SARB”) is expected to implement the Basel Exchange control reforms Committee on Banking Supervision (“BCBS”) proposals on capital Reforms to exchange control (which involve a shift to a system of and liquidity. prudential regulation) were recently announced, which are part of the National Treasury’s ongoing exchange control modernisation The impact of the proposed new requirements is expected to policy. Whilst these reforms do not represent the abolition of be especially significant from a liquidity perspective. Given the exchange controls, they are extremely positive developments structural funding challenges in South Africa, banks would not be for South Africa as whole. They introduce greater flexibility and able to comply with the net stable funding ratio and liquidity efficiency to foreign exchange transactions, and further strengthen coverage ratio as set out in the original December 2009 proposals. international confidence in South Africa’s financial system. This The revisions to the proposals outlined in July 2010 have gone should facilitate, over time, increased foreign flows into and out some way in addressing banks’ concerns, and the most significant of the domestic economy. Customers will also benefit as the change affecting the South African banking sector relates to administrative procedures previously carried out by the SARB will the implementation of new liquidity requirements. The Liquid now be managed by Authorised Dealers such as FirstRand Bank Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) will be revised by September 2010 to (and its divisions FNB and RMB), which means that foreign specifically cater for jurisdictions such as South Africa, where exchange transactions can now be serviced directly by existing there are not sufficient liquid assets to meet the standard. The branch networks to a much greater degree. implementation of the Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”) has been postponed to 2018. Combined with changed assumptions for The introduction of the new exchange control prudential limit, run-off rates on deposits, funding for residential mortgages and which allows banks to invest up to 25% of adjusted liabilities the treatment of interbank funding, FirstRand views these in foreign currency assets, created new growth opportunities 026 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability (the Bank’s current utilisation is approximately 4%). Increased utilisation of the prudential limit will be subject to the Bank’s internal limits and risk appetite. Whilst effective management of risks incurred directly or indirectly is considered a key determinant of successful execution, certain Conclusion external risk factors can impact on these objectives. The Group As a large financial services provider in South Africa, it is constantly monitors all of these risk factors and will adjust its imperative that FirstRand establishes a risk and earnings profile strategy accordingly. that protects it from undesirable volatility in its financial results, which may adversely affect its reputation. The macro environment going forward is likely to present challenges to topline growth for the Group. Banking earnings are The Group operates in an environment which results in certain particularly sensitive to domestic GDP growth and the South balance sheet concentrations, e.g. the reliance of the SA banking African economy is driven largely by consumer activity. Domestic market on institutional funding and large/lumpy wholesale credit households remain highly indebted and advances growth is exposures. In response to these concentrations, the Group aims to therefore expected to lag economic activity. Corporate balance safeguard its reputation, targets a credit rating of A-, and manages sheets continue to be robust, but investment levels remain muted, its balance sheet profile such that it is in line with its peer group. new employment sluggish, and this could constrain growth in the medium term. Going forward the Group will execute on its stated strategy, leveraging off an existing platform of diverse revenue streams and strong operating franchises. In the process, management aims to rebalance the current portfolio to achieve an appropriate mix between: • retail and corporate assets; • mass, consumer and wealth revenue streams within retail; • client flows and secondary markets within corporate and investment banking; • originating assets and liabilities; and Johan Burger • South Africa and the rest of Africa. Chief operating officer and Chief financial officer FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 027 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Ten year review R million 2001 2002 2003 Statement of financial position Total assets 222 791 374 766 393 674 Advances 102 667 175 161 188 112 Deposits and current accounts 117 559 201 404 215 637 Total equity 14 134 20 306 20 793 Treasury shares 1 272 1 272 1 272 Dividends 1 035 1 415 1 715 Total equity before dividends and treasury shares 16 441 22 993 23 780 Total equity excluding perpetual preference shares 14 134 20 306 20 793 Assets under administration 303 683 473 094 488 242 Income statement Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 3 056 4 495 4 516 Headline earnings 2 947 4 734 4 847 Normalised earnings 2 947 4 186 5 379 Earnings per share (cents) – Basic 56.1 82.5 86.2 – Diluted 56.1 82.5 84.5 Headline earnings per share (cents) – Basic 54.1 86.9 92.5 – Diluted 54.1 86.9 90.7 Normalised earnings per share (cents) – Basic 54.1 76.9 102.6 – Diluted 54.1 76.9 100.7 Dividends per share (cents) – Interim 9.0 13.5 16.5 – Final 10.0 15.0 18.5 Dividend cover 2.8 28.5 35.0 Perpetual preference dividends per share (cents) – February – – – – August – – – Net asset value per ordinary share 2.60 3.73 3.97 Shares in issue 5 445.3 5 445.3 5 445.3 Weighted average number of shares in issue 5 445.3 5 445.3 5 241.3 Key ratios Return on average ordinary equity (%) 24.3 25.2 22.6 Price earnings ratio 13 10 7 Price to book ratio 2.7 2.1 1.9 Market capitalisation (R million) 38 117 41 657 41 602 Closing share price (cents) 700 765 764 028 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Compound 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 growth % 424 821 462 231 602 596 721 559 823 944 809 851 845 240 13 208 874 221 851 313 885 387 020 446 286 416 488 434 793 15 219 061 245 793 332 113 421 568 488 423 478 083 512 469 15 23 912 29 910 36 530 43 548 48 689 50 004 55 951 14 1 590 3 786 5 792 6 149 6 023 5 976 6 077 19 1 956 2 767 3 114 3 795 4 523 3 764 2 955 11 27 458 36 463 45 436 53 492 59 235 59 744 64 983 15 23 912 26 918 32 011 39 029 44 170 45 485 51 432 14 529 039 616 348 794 693 900 148 1 022 088 965 484 1 006 475 12 5 676 7 137 8 825 11 511 11 309 6 501 9 444 11 5 727 7 129 8 334 10 854 9 922 6 939 9 453 11 6 097 7 276 8 958 11 845 10 583 7 151 9 963 13 109.3 137.3 171.6 222.9 218.2 124.9 179.9 12 106.8 134.5 166.0 216.6 214.1 124.7 178.1 12 110.3 137.1 162.1 210.2 191.5 133.3 180.1 11 107.7 134.3 156.7 204.2 187.8 133.1 178.3 11 117.4 132.4 159.4 210.2 187.8 126.8 176.7 12 115.3 131.4 159.2 210.1 187.7 126.8 176.7 12 19.3 26.6 32.0 39.5 44.3 34.0 34.0 13 26.8 28.5 34.0 43.0 38.2 22.0 43.0 15 46.1 55.1 66.0 82.5 82.5 56.0 77.0 14 – 228.00 356.00 409.70 477.77 518.94 342.30 – 360.00 363.00 431.00 511.30 423.09 355.00 4.61 5.18 6.22 7.56 8.52 8.74 9.80 14 5 476.4 5 613.6 5 634.1 5 635.7 5 637.8 5 637.9 5 637.9 5 192.1 5 199.9 5 142.7 5 163.9 5 182.0 5 206.9 5 248.2 25.4 25.2 25.1 28.1 21.5 13.7 17.8 9 10 11 11 7 11 10 2.2 2.7 2.7 3.0 1.5 1.5 1.7 55 805 77 861 95 216 127 367 74 983 79 269 101 821 1 019 1 387 1 690 2 260 1 330 1 406 1 806 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 029 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review R million 2001 2002 2003 Banking Group Return on average ordinary equity (%) 26.0 27.2 22.2 Cost to income ratio (%) 59.9 57.6 57.0 Bad debts as a percentage of advances (%) 0.9 1.1 0.8 Bad debts as a percentage of average advances (%) 1.0 1.1 0.8 Non interest revenue as a percentage of total income (%) 53.7 55.1 42.6 Return on average total assets (%) 1.6 1.6 1.5 Interest margin on average advances (%) 4.8 4.3 5.0 Momentum Group Return on average ordinary equity (%) 27.4 28.6 27.0 New business 28 740 31 151 25 975 Funds received from clients 32 751 35 848 30 307 Net flow of funds 4 685 3 724 2 247 Embedded value 10 306 9 532 10 002 Exchange rates Rand/US$ – Closing 8.07 10.31 7.56 – Average 7.42 9.19 8.89 Rand/£ – Closing 11.35 15.75 12.47 – Average 10.81 14.81 14.12 Statement of financial position1 US$ Total assets 33 647 36 350 52 090 Advances 15 290 16 989 24 890 Deposits and current accounts 17 536 19 535 28 532 Total equity 2 056 1 851 2 751 Assets under administration 46 294 45 887 64 603 Income statement2 US$ Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 482 489 508 Headline earnings 497 515 545 Normalised earnings 465 456 605 Statement of financial position1 £ Total assets 23 912 36 350 31 564 Advances 10 866 16 989 15 082 Deposits and current accounts 12 462 19 535 17 289 Total equity 1 461 1 851 1 667 Assets under administration 32 900 45 887 39 146 Income statement2 £ Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 331 489 320 Headline earnings 341 515 343 Normalised earnings 319 456 381 1 The statement of financial position is converted using the closing rates as disclosed. 2 The income statement is converted using the average rate as disclosed. 030 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Compound 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 growth % 24.2 24.2 23.6 27.4 21.5 13.1 17.8 57.5 56.6 53.8 51.7 52.6 58.1 57.1 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.7 1.3 1.9 1.8 0.4 0.3 0.5 0.8 1.2 1.8 1.3 49.1 52.7 56.3 56.5 52.9 50.7 60.2 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.9 1.5 0.8 1.2 4.5 4.3 4.0 4.0 4.1 4.1 3.7 24.3 24.5 24.1 25.3 30.3 22.6 21.9 28 734 42 689 59 403 56 097 65 338 60 470 56 774 8 33 171 47 226 64 661 62 268 72 098 68 086 65 428 8 727 3 562 2 069 (40 011) (9 689) (34 030) (18 129) – 9 666 11 856 14 438 15 453 16 039 16 086 17 683 6 6.18 6.68 7.13 7.07 7.82 7.73 7.66 6.77 6.19 6.44 7.21 7.3 8.88 7.59 11.2 11.97 13.15 14.17 15.6 12.71 11.48 11.83 11.5 11.48 13.99 14.66 14.08 11.96 68 741 69 243 84 516 102 059 105 364 104 794 110 379 14 33 798 33 234 44 023 54 741 57 070 53 893 56 779 16 35 447 36 820 46 580 59 628 62 458 61 864 66 923 16 3 869 4 481 5 123 6 160 6 226 6 470 7 307 15 85 605 92 330 111 458 127 319 130 702 124 933 131 435 12 838 1 152 1 370 1 597 1 549 732 1 245 11 846 1 085 1 260 1 450 1 359 781 1 246 11 900 1 175 1 391 1 643 1 450 805 1 313 12 37 932 38 622 45 825 50 922 52 817 63 689 73 657 13 18 650 18 537 23 870 27 313 28 608 32 749 37 889 15 19 560 20 537 25 256 29 751 31 309 37 604 44 658 15 2 135 2 499 2 778 3 073 3 121 3 933 4 876 14 47 238 51 499 60 433 63 525 65 518 75 940 87 708 12 480 621 769 823 771 462 790 10 484 585 707 776 677 493 791 10 516 633 780 847 722 508 833 11 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 031 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Statement of earnings from continuing and discontinued operations for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 % change Attributable earnings to ordinary equity holders 9 444 6 501 45 Adjusted for: 9 438 (98) Impairment of goodwill 153 110 Gain from a bargain purchase (203) – Loss due to the fair value adjustment of a non current asset held for sale 100 – Loss on the disposal of property and equipment 2 4 (Gain)/loss on the disposal of subsidiaries (115) 27 Impairment of assets in terms of IAS 36 175 – Impairment of intangible assets 12 71 Gain on disposal/impairment of available-for-sale assets (177) (2) Loss on sale of MotorOne Finance advances book – 203 Loss on sale of Private Label book – 39 Other 4 10 Tax effects of adjustments 55 (11) Non controlling interest adjustments 3 (13) Headline earnings 9 453 6 939 36 Adjusted for: 510 212 >100 IFRS 2 Share based payment expense/(income) 241 (120) Treasury shares 269 332 – consolidation of staff share schemes 313 437 – FirstRand shares held by policyholders and client trading activities (44) (105) Normalised earnings* (unaudited) 9 963 7 151 39 Segmental normalised earnings Banking Group 8 535 6 056 41 FNB Life** 416 334 25 FirstRand Limited (company) (38) (90) (58) Dividend paid to non cumulative non redeemable preference shareholders (344) (464) (26) Normalised earnings from continuing operations 8 569 5 836 47 Momentum Group 1 394 1 315 6 Normalised earnings from continuing and discontinued operations* 9 963 7 151 39 * The definition of normalised earnings is provided on page 33. ** For segmental purposes FNB Life is included in Momentum. 032 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Description of normalised earnings The Group believes normalised earnings more accurately reflects held long or sold short by the Banking Group. The Momentum operational performance. Headline earnings are adjusted to take Group may invest in FirstRand shares on behalf of its policyholders into account non operational and accounting anomalies. in terms of policies that offer a linked return to the policyholders. These adjustments are consistent with those reported at In terms of IAS 32, FirstRand Limited shares held by either the 30 June 2009. Banking Group or the Momentum Group are deemed to be treasury shares for accounting purposes. For the statement of Share based payments and treasury shares: financial position this means that the cost price of FirstRand Consolidation of staff share schemes shares held long is deducted from equity and the consideration IFRS 2 – Share-based payments requires that all share based received from selling FirstRand shares short is added back to payments transactions for goods or services received must be equity. In the income statement all gains and losses on FirstRand expensed with effect from financial periods commencing on or shares are reversed. after 1 January 2005. FirstRand hedges itself against the price risk Changes in the fair value of Group shares and dividends declared of the FirstRand share price in the various staff shares schemes. on these shares affect the fair value of client trading positions and The staff schemes purchase FirstRand shares in the open market the liability to policyholders reflected in the statement of financial to ensure the company is not exposed to the increase in the position, unless the client trading position is itself an equity FirstRand share price. Consequently, the cost to FirstRand is the instrument. The change in the client trading position or liability to funding cost of the purchases of FirstRand’s shares by the staff policyholders is recognised in the income statement. However, share trusts. These trusts are consolidated and FirstRand shares because of the rules relating to treasury shares, the corresponding held by the staff share schemes are treated as treasury shares. change in assets held to match the client trading or policyholder For purposes of calculating the normalised earnings, the liability position are reversed or eliminated. This results in a consolidation entries are reversed and the Group shares held by mismatch in the overall equity and income statement of the Group. the staff share schemes are treated as issued to parties external to the Group. For purposes of calculating normalised earnings, the adjustments described above are reversed and the Group shares held for client The normalised adjustments: trading positions or on behalf of policyholders are treated as • add back the IFRS 2 charge; and issued to parties external to the Group. • add back the treasury shares to equity. Where the client trading position is itself an equity instrument then neither the gains nor losses on the client trading position or Treasury shares: FirstRand shares held for the Group shares held to hedge the client trading position are policyholders and client trading activities reflected in the income statement or in the fair value on the FirstRand shares may be acquired by either the Banking Group or statement of financial position. For purposes of calculating the Momentum Group in specific instances. The Banking Group normalised earnings, adjustments are made to reflect the client would invest in FirstRand shares to offset its exposure as a result trade positions and Group shares to hedge the position as if the of client trading positions. Depending on the nature of the client client trading positions and hedge were in respect of a share other trading position and the resulting risks, FirstRand shares may be than a Group share. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 033 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Group structure at 30 June Listed holding company (FirstRand Limited, JSE: FSR) 100% 100% 100% FirstRand Investment FirstRand Bank Momentum Group Holdings (Pty) Limited Holdings Limited Limited* (”FRIHL”) Insurance and Banking Other activities5 Asset Management 100% FirstRand Bank Limited 90% RMB Private Equity Holdings 100% Momentum Insurance1 First National Bank1 91% RMB Private Equity FNB Life1 Rand Merchant Bank1 100% RMB Stockbroking 85% Advantage Asset Managers WesBank1 FirstRand Bank India 2 100% FirstRand International 100% Momentum Medical FirstRand Bank London 2 Wealth Management Scheme Administrators FirstRand Bank Dubai 3 100% AdviceAtWork 40% Eris Property Holdings FirstRand Bank Shanghai 3 50% RMB Morgan Stanley 100% RMB Asset Management FirstRand Bank Nigeria3 FirstRand Bank Angola3 75% Rentworks 100% Momentum Africa 100% FNB Lesotho 33% Tracker 50% Momentum Short Term Insurance 62% FNB Namibia6 49% Momentum Life 100% FNB Swaziland Insurance Namibia6 70% FNB Botswana 100% FNB Moçambique 100% FNB Zambia 47% OUTsurance4 100% FNB Insurance Brokers 100% FirstRand International Ireland Mauritius Australia 100% eBucks Structure shows effective shareholding (consolidated) * The Group has announced the proposed unbundling of Momentum which was 1 Division approved by shareholders on 2 Branch 28 September 2010, but remains subject 3 Representative office to certain conditions precedent being met. 4 Effective shareholding in FirstRand Short Term Insurance Holdings Limited 5 For segmental analysis purposes entities included in FRIHL are reported as part of Banking Group Supersegment within the respective franchise results 6 Includes 51% of Momentum Life Insurance Namibia 034 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BANKING GROUP > FNB RMB WESBANK OUTSURANCE MOMENTUM Review of operations FNB’s strategy is fully aligned with the overall FirstRand strategy to grow its domestic franchise in market segments where it is currently under represented. It enters these markets focusing on innovative products and delivery channels, especially favouring electronic platforms. michAEl jordaan [CEO, First National Bank] FNB – SOUTH AFRICA AND Africa Market dynamics FNB has identified certain growth opportunities within the During the year to June 2010 FNB’s operating environment Mass, Wealth and Corporate segments and executed a number remained challenging. Within South Africa, despite lower interest of operational initiatives during the year under review. rates providing some relief to households, the consumer remains Over the past five years FNB was very successful in growing its highly leveraged and this has resulted in muted retail credit franchise in the Mass market and now has over three million appetite. Corporate demand for credit was also slow, as customers in this segment. It achieved this through a strong focus corporates have strong balance sheets and investment activity on delivering innovative and low cost transactional banking remains limited. services, however, it remains relatively underweight in lending The global crisis, particularly the impact of falling commodity activities to these customers. To address this “gap” it has now prices, continued to have a residual effect on some of the African commenced the rollout of its Easy Plan strategy which represents territories in which FNB operates. Whilst some economic a low cost banking offering to Mass segment customers. The Easy recovery, particularly in Botswana, is evident, this is at a very early Plan branches are well positioned in mass market activity hubs, stage and foreign currency flows and trade activity have not yet are open longer than the traditional branches and are supported by returned to previous levels. low cost channels for lending, insurance, savings and transactional products and services. Despite these macro pressures the FNB businesses continued to produce robust profitability, through the proactive manage­ment of credit and related impairments, increasing transactional volumes The Wealth segment also offers growth opportunities and during and the containment of operating expenses. the year FNB made an offer to acquire 100% of Barnard Jacobs Mellet’s (“BJM”) highly regarded private client and stockbroking Progress on strategy business. FNB will incorporate the businesses and skills of BJM FNB’s strategy is fully aligned with the overall FirstRand strategy into its Wealth segment which will enable FNB to offer its to grow its domestic franchise in market segments where it is customers a holistic wealth offering. currently under represented. It enters these markets focusing on innovative products and delivery channels, especially favouring FNB already has a successful online share trading offering to its electronic platforms. lower, middle and upper income segments via FNB Share Investing. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 035 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review The acquisition will enable bond and equity trades for the its wealthier customers and will result in access to the wealth of experience embedded in BJM. FNB’s substantially larger client base in this segment will also see existing BJM customers benefiting from the greater economies of scale and wider delivery platforms across FNB’s business units. In terms of its strategy in Africa, FNB continues to expand its operating platform in Zambia and Moçambique, recently established a representative office in Angola, and is awaiting regulatory approval to establish full banking operations in Tanzania. In line with FirstRand’s strategy, FNB is focusing on countries with strong domestic growth potential which are also well positioned to capture flows from Asia, particularly China and India. Key performance indicators • Growth in customers and cross sell for • ROE – South Africa and Africa FNB South Africa ROE is a key performance management ratio for the Group and FNB’s strategy to focus on customer relationships, supported by FNB’s ROE remains well above FirstRand’s hurdle rate. The appropriate product and channel innovation, continues to produce turnaround in the South African ROE in the year to June 2010 is positive results, as evidenced in the ongoing growth in customer largely driven by improved profitability together with efficient numbers. The success of this strategy is also reflected in the capital management. strong improvement in cross sell. The deterioration of the Africa ROE results from the additional • Revenue and cost to income operating expenses incurred as part of FNB’s expansion of its operating footprint. FNB continues to benefit from the execution of certain specific strategies in response to the current macro environment which include a strong focus on efficiencies and sustainable containment of cost growth. FNB has maintained cost growth to well below inflation for two years running and the absolute increase in costs in the year under review is the lowest in recent history. Whilst the cost to income ratio has deteriorated year-on-year, this reflects pressure on revenues and FNB believes that the current cost initiatives it is implementing will support profitability in the medium term as topline growth will remain challenging. 036 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BANKING GROUP > FNB RMB WESBANK OUTSURANCE MOMENTUM Financial highlights FNB – South Africa FNB – Africa R million 2010 2009 % change 2010 2009 % change Net interest income 9 512 10 359 (8) 1 590 1 564 2 Non interest revenue 14 518 13 664 6 1 516 1 241 22 Operating expenses (14 583) (13 838) 5 (1 763) (1 460) 21 Income before indirect tax 6 134 5 317 15 1 283 1 252 2 Indirect tax (301) (257) 17 (32) (30) 7 Income before direct tax 5 833 5 060 15 1 251 1 222 2 Normalised earnings 4 303 3 756 17 524 514 2 Gross advances 199 113 204 370 (3) 19 645 17 519 12 Total deposits 194 014 192 550 1 26 626 25 326 5 Assets under management 45 837 41 927 9 1 473 1 280 15 Cost to income (%) 60.4 57.5 56.6 52.0 NPLs (%) 7.8 8.7 2.1 2.5 ROE based on normalised earnings (%) 32 26 23 27 Operational highlights The decrease in bad debts is in line with expectations and resulted • Cellphone banking’s registered customer base reached two from a strong recovery in FNB HomeLoans and Card. The overall million in May 2010 and prepaid sales grew 77%. charge and ratio for residential mortgages is detailed below. • Following the launch of FNB’s Easy Plan in August 2009, Impairment to 15 branches were opened by June 2010. average • Affordable housing advances grew 37% as a result of increased Gross Impairadvances R million advances ment (%) market share and residential development projects initiated by FNB Commercial. Affordable Housing 6 260 25 0.46 HomeLoans 108 558 1 181 1.08 • Send Money (banking without the need for a bank account, Wealth 37 482 210 0.60 only a cellphone number) was launched in November 2009 and transactions through this channel have exceeded R100 million. Total residential mortgages – June 2010 152 300 1 416 0.94 • FNB’s collaboration with Pay Pal, a global online payment Residential mortgages – facilitator, went live in March 2010, a first in the South African December 2009 (6 months) 149 484 869 1.17 market. Residential mortgages – June 2009 147 937 2 375 1.62 Performance commentary – South Africa The increase in non interest revenue reflects good growth in customers as well as higher transactional volumes across FNB produced a strong performance for the year under review all segments. However, revenue continued to be impacted by with both profit and ROE increasing. These results were driven customers switching to less expensive electronic channels. This mainly by a 30% decrease in bad debts and 6% growth in non was a deliberate FNB strategy to incentivise and educate interest revenue. These positives were, however, partly offset by customers. contracting deposit margins due to the endowment impact, and lower net interest income resulting from lower balance sheet Operating expenses growth at below inflation was assisted by the growth. 2.3% decrease in total head count which contained staff cost FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 037 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review growth to 6%. However, this benefit was partly offset by higher Mass (Smart Solutions) variable costs associated with increased transactional volumes, property, cash conveyance and collections related expenses, Financial highlights % together with the impact of infrastructure and process R million 2010 2009 change investments. Net interest income 1 071 1 241 (14) Advances were down year-on-year reflecting low levels of retail Non interest revenue 3 620 3 260 11 credit appetite in the Consumer segment as customers continue to Operating expenses (2 991) (2 858) 5 deleverage, however, good advances growth was achieved in the Wealth and Mass segments. Corporate advances showed Income before direct tax 1 161 1 214 (4) negative growth as corporates are currently cash flush and investment activity remains limited. Bad debts as % of advances 6.03 5.90 NPLs (%) 6.5 10.2 Deposit growth was muted due to the allowed setoff of balances in Gross advances 9 232 7 496 23 Corporate and Public Sector Banking. Excluding this impact, the Deposits 8 592 8 075 6 deposits increased R3 billion (5%) as a result of growth in current and money market accounts, while the term investment book Smart and Mzansi accounts remained flat. Microloans (SmartSpend) Cellphone banking and Prepaid products Segment performance Housing finance (SmartBond & Smart Housing Plan) FNB Life FNB FNB Connect Income before direct tax % FNB EasyPlan R million 2010 2009 change This segment focuses on individuals earning less than R100 000 Mass segment 1 161 1 214 (4) per annum and is principally serviced by FNB Smart branded Consumer segment 1 722 (176) >100 products and services. – HomeLoans (318) (1 753) (82) The Mass segment’s performance was mainly impacted by the – Card Issuing 468 (109) >100 reduction in interest income due to margin squeeze on the – Other Consumer 1 572 1 686 (7) endowment products. Despite increasing competition both Wealth segment 305 276 11 advances and non interest revenue growth was robust reflecting Commercial segment 2 144 2 777 (23) the strong franchise FNB has developed in this market. The Corporate segment 625 679 (8) increase in advances was driven mainly by growth in affordable FNB Other and Support (124) 290 (>100) housing where sales increased 88%. Excellent ongoing growth FNB – South Africa 5 833 5 060 15 in prepaid airtime turnover and revenue from bancassurance FNB Africa 1 251 1 222 2 strategies also contributed positively. FNB Life continued to show good growth, despite increased policy lapse rates, with in-force Total FNB 7 084 6 282 13 policies increasing 30% to 3.9 million, driven mainly by funeral policies. As previously reported, FNB’s segment view is not a “pure” indication of FNB’s penetration into each segment as it depends The increase in the bad debt charge is in line with manage­ment on the product segment categorisation as well as internal service expectations and the final charge is still within tolerance levels. level and revenue arrangements. Further, continuous segment The decrease in NPLs is largely due to the acceleration of the refinement occurs, such as the cutoff between Consumer and writeoff policy. Wealth and the transfer of business units. A portion of the increase in operating costs resulted from investment in future growth strategies such as Cellphone Banking and Easy Plan. 038 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BANKING GROUP > FNB RMB WESBANK OUTSURANCE MOMENTUM Consumer Advances contracted as a result of market conditions remaining fairly subdued. Although second half sales were slightly up from that of the first half, new business is expected to remain under Financial highlights % R million 2010 2009 change some pressure in the medium term. Net interest income 4 217 4 459 (5) HomeLoans new business market share steadily improved Non interest revenue 4 578 4 213 9 through 2009 from around 15% to 20%, however, the current origination strategy is resulting in better quality credit. Repricing Operating expenses (4 877) (4 704) 4 of new business resulted in improved margins. Income before direct tax 1 722 (176) >100 Operating expenses declined 13% due to the active focus on cost HomeLoans profit management as well as restructure benefits which included before direct tax (318) (1 753) (82) headcount reductions. Card Issuing profit before direct tax 468 (109) >100 Card Issuing Card’s performance was also largely driven by the reduction in Bad debts as % of advances 1.74 3.20 NPLs and bad debts. Non interest revenue growth was excellent NPLs (%) 8.6 10.5 given that the active card holder base reduced, and the focus on Gross advances 122 305 125 865 (3) efficiencies and cost containment resulted in lower operating Deposits 58 715 55 633 6 expenses. Cheque and Transmission products Wealth (including overdrafts) Investments and Equity products Financial highlights % Personal loans (including Student loans) R million 2010 2009 change FNB Insurance Brokers (previously First Link) eBucks Net interest income 867 693 25 HomeLoans (including One Account) Non interest revenue 725 713 2 Card Issuing Operating expenses (1 067) (1 054) 1 Electronic banking (FNB Online) Income before direct tax 305 276 11 This segment focuses on providing banking and insurance solutions to customers with incomes ranging from R100 000 to Bad debts as % of advances 0.60 0.21 R1 100 000 per annum as well as certain subsegments (youth and NPLs (%) 6.7 6.4 Gross advances 37 482 32 732 15 teens, students, graduates and seniors). Deposits 15 772 16 365 (4) The single largest contributor to the Consumer segment’s Assets under management 45 837 41 927 9 improved performance was the significant decrease in bad debts of over R1.9 billion, due to decreasing NPLs. RMB Private Bank FNB Private Clients NII decreased as a result of low balance sheet growth which FNB Trust Services reflects the high levels of indebtedness that still prevails in this Ashburton and FirstRand Trustees segment and customers are focusing on deleveraging. This segment focuses on providing banking and investment NIR growth reflects good levels of transactional banking activity, solutions to customers with incomes above R1 100 000 per annum driven mainly by growth in customer accounts and increased as well as certain trust, fiduciary and offshore investment interchange revenue. services to all retail customers. The increase in deposits resulted from solid growth in Current Whilst this segment produced a resilient performance it was Accounts (+14%) and Notice Deposits (+10%). impacted by higher bad debts. HomeLoans Advances increased due to successful new client acquisition and HomeLoans’ performance resulted from the significant reduction conversions, and this, combined with improved margins due to in NPLs to 9.0% and the bad debts charge reducing R1.1 billion. repricing strategies, resulted in healthy net interest income growth. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 039 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Non interest revenue increased only marginally, mainly due to Deposit growth was partly driven by increased spend during exchange rate fluctuations and subdued growth on value of estates the 2010 Soccer World Cup™ period, as well as higher deposit administered, although these were partly offset by robust growth balances due to customers limiting investments in working in transactional volumes. capital or capacity. Deposit growth was negatively impacted by higher yields in Corporate alternative investments in the current low interest environment and customers focusing on repaying debts. Financial highlights % Operating expenditure was well contained as a result of cost R million 2010 2009 change curtailment measures implemented, including a headcount Net interest income 549 577 (5) reduction. Non interest revenue 1 292 1 263 2 Operating expenses (1 175) (1 077) 9 Assets under management continue to grow due to good investment selection, despite the negative impact of exchange rate fluctuation. Income before direct tax 625 679 (8) Commercial segment Bad debts as % of advances 0.68 0.59 NPLs (%) 0.1 1.0 Financial highlights % Gross advances 1 697 8 373 (80) R million 2010 2009 change Deposits 33 067 35 275 (6) Net interest income 2 913 3 590 (19) Corporate transactional banking services and Non interest revenue 3 395 3 344 2 Operating expenses (3 693) (3 749) (1) associated working capital solutions Electronic Cash Solutions (SmartBox) Income before direct tax 2 144 2 777 (23) International banking Custody services Bad debts as % of advances 1.60 1.52 Hyphen NPLs (%) 6.7 6.0 Gross advances 28 590 27 216 5 This segment provides large corporate customers, financial Deposits 63 680 60 928 5 institutions and certain state owned enterprises, as defined in schedule 2 of the PFMA, with transactional banking capabilities as Small Business, Business and Medium Corporate well as cash flow optimisation and working capital solutions. transactional and overdraft products The Corporate segment’s performance was affected by low import/ Investment products SMMEs export activity due to subdued economic activity. Commercial property finance Interest income decreased due to pressure on margins, as well as Debtor finance a reduction in the average advance balances offset by an effective FNB Leveraged finance, BEE funding, Franchises, increase in deposit balances (excluding the impact of LROS setoff). Tourism, Agric, Start-ups SpeedPoint Non interest revenue growth was achieved despite pricing The Commercial segment is the provider of financial solutions, pressures. However, whilst transactional volume growth was including working capital, structured finance, investment products, strong in the electronic channels, it remains under pressure in transactional banking and term loans to Mid Corporate, Business traditional channels. and Small Business sub segments. Deposits (excluding the impact of LROS setoff) increased mainly as The Commercial segment’s performance was negatively impacted a result of lower utilisation of facilities by customers. by the endowment impact on deposit margins and lower balance To enhance interface with large corporate clients the Corporate sheet growth, contributing to the decline in interest income. segment has been more closely aligned with RMB through the The increase in non interest revenue reflects continued growth in formation of the new Corporate & Investment Banking (“CIB”) unit. transactional banking and SpeedPoint, although this was This unit now has an integrated Client Coverage team, which is offset by lower volumes and a decline in dealing margins in mandated to coordinate RMB’s and FNB Corporate’s combination International banking. of products and services to clients. 040 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BANKING GROUP > FNB RMB WESBANK OUTSURANCE MOMENTUM FNB Other and Support The public sector market was characterised by increased Included in FNB Other and Support is Public Sector Banking, competitor activity and weaker cash flows in Local Government. Branch Banking, Brand (marketing and communication) and However, the business achieved satisfactory growth in deposit Support. balances, excluding the impact of setoff, due mainly to resilient cash flows in National and Provincial Government, and a specific focus Public Sector Banking on customised client offerings. This segment offers transactional banking services and products to National, Provincial and Local Government. Other clients Branch Banking include state owned enterprises, universities and public schools. Branch Banking represents the infrastructure through which FNB It also provides working capital and other short and long term services most of its 6.8 million customers. Representation points finance products. such as branches reduced slightly during the year given the strategy to ensure optimisation of the overall locations, whilst the ATM footprint growth reflects FNB’s strategy to migrate customers to low cost, electronic channels. FNB – South Africa FNB – Africa Number 2010 2009 % change 2010 2009 % change Representation points (branches, agencies, Easy Plan) 657 687 (4) 95 91 4 ATMs 5 557 5 311 5 511 479 7 Performance Commentary – FNB Africa Net profit before tax in Pula remained flat at P537 million as a The consolidated results of FNB Africa comprise the subsidiaries result of balance sheet growth and increased transactional FNB Botswana, FNB Namibia, FNB Swaziland, FNB Moçambique, volumes offsetting the effect of reduced margins due to declining FNB Lesotho and FNB Zambia as well as the support centre in interest rates. The strengthening of the Rand had a negative Johannesburg and a representative office in Angola. impact, with Rand profits declining 8% to R599 million. Overall the African subsidiaries performed well growing profits Advances increased 18% (25% in Pula), particularly in the retail 2% despite significant investment activity across the portfolio. and property segments, and deposits decreased 9% (4% in Pula) as the bank consciously reduced its Bank of Botswana Certificate exposure to establish a more representative market share. As part of its strategy to grow the existing franchise and operating Impairments increased at a slower rate than that of lending as footprint further, FNB invested significantly in Zambia and credit quality remains a priority. Moçambique in the year under review. This investment phase is expected to continue in the medium term with a parallel focus on FNB Namibia service and electronic delivery channels to increase the customer Increased activity in the mining and quarrying sectors and a base and drive up volumes and resultant non interest revenue. continued strong performance in the construction sector are largely driving a moderate economic recovery in Namibia. Against FNB Botswana this improving background FNB Namibia’s group profits increased There are early signs of a recovery in the diamond industry and 21% to R667 million. this, together with continued infrastructure spending, means that the Botswana economy is slowly re-entering a growth phase. In the banking activities margin pressure was experienced as a FNB Botswana focused on growing its share of the retail market result of the declining interest rate cycle and profitability was where margins are higher and in the property market where risks negatively affected by costs relating to the completion of the core are lower. IT system implementation. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 041 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review Gross advances increased 7% resulting from growth in home loans Looking forward and personal loans. Surplus liquidity in the market is reducing The anticipated modest growth in the South African economy will appetite for lending as well as contributing to the increase in be driven mainly by further investment by government and some deposits of 14%. improvement in consumption levels. Whilst this is not expected to result in significant growth in advances, as levels of consumer The insurance business benefited from a recovery of world equity indebtedness are still at historic highs, FNB does expect this markets as this had a positive impact on Momentum’s capital increased economic activity to benefit its banking franchises. portfolio. A lower actual loss ratio resulted in improved growth in Corporate credit appetite may increase marginally on the back of the OUTsurance business. modest investment in capacity, however, business volumes overall FNB Swaziland will remain subdued. FNB will continue to pursue growth in those segments where it is underweight or under represented. FNB Swaziland performed well in a low growth economic However, achieving topline growth will be a challenge and, environment. Net profit before tax increased 10% to R104 million therefore, cost management remains a key focus for management. as a result of good margins, a healthy credit book with low impairments and good transactional volumes. In Africa, FNB will continue to expand its operating footprint supported by its South African platform; FNB Moçambique and Gross advances increased 39% as FNB Swaziland gained market FNB Zambia will continue to focus on consolidating newly opened share. Deposits increased 22% as a result of continued good market branches and the expansion of new branches, products and liquidity. services. Opportunities for expansion into East and West Africa as well as the trade corridors to India and China are being investigated. FNB Moçambique Significant investment in FNB Moçambique’s operating infra­ structure continued in the year under review and the network increased from eight to twelve branches with a corresponding increase in staff. This investment is expected to continue in the medium term which will place some pressure on profit growth, but position the business on a strong platform for future growth. The increased network has resulted in growth in volumes and forex commissions which positively impacted non interest income. FNB Lesotho A large portion of FNB Lesotho deposits are from financial institutions. The customer base is showing significant growth which results in strong NIR and net profit before tax. FNB Zambia Increased production and significant increases in copper prices, which is also having a positive effect on other sectors, is driving strong economic growth in Zambia. Against this positive backdrop growing its operating infrastructure is a priority for FNB Zambia and currently four branches are in operation. The deposit base has increased in line with the branch expansion and this is supporting sustainable growth in advances. 042 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BANKING GROUP > FNB RMB WESBANK OUTSURANCE MOMENTUM As part of its strategy to rebalance its business and improve the quality of its earnings RMB continued to strengthen its domestic client driven activities and scale its trading activities in line with its risk appetite framework. ALAN PULLINGER [CEO, Rand Merchant Bank] RAND MERCHANT BANK Market dynamics investment banking through the closer alignment of corporate Market conditions remained challenging during the year for a and investment banking (“CIB”) activities. CIB represents greater number of RMB’s divisions. Investment banking opportunities coordination across RMB and FNB’s corporate banking business, contracted due to lower levels of corporate activity and increased whilst preserving the respective strong brand equity and specialist competition for new transactions. The trading businesses skills within each. A key part of this new approach has been experienced reduced volatility and client flows and overall market the formation of an integrated Client Coverage team, which is volumes were down. mandated to coordinate and enhance RMB’s and FNB Corporate’s combination of products and services to clients. Despite these market pressures RMB delivered a very strong performance. All of its divisions exceeded prior year results RMB is increasing its exposure to wholesale credit. The existing resulting in overall profitability increasing significantly and ROE in-force book has historically performed well but is running off, moving back to above hurdle rates. so capacity now exists to write more high quality credit. To support this initiative RMB adjusted certain prudential limits in Progress on strategy investment grade and defensive counters. RMB continues to As part of its strategy to rebalance its business and improve the augment its principal risk trading activities to ensure that it keeps quality of its earnings RMB continued to strengthen its domestic pace with growth in the client business. client driven activities and scale its trading activities in line RMB also significantly increased its focus on capturing trade and with its risk appetite framework. The key objectives of the new investment flows from the Africa/India/China corridors. The CCB risk appetite framework are to manage the trade-offs between relationship continues to yield promising opportunities with a earnings volatility, profitability and sustainable growth. This gives number of notable transactions completed during the year under rise to an initial long term targeted business mix of 60% client review. income, 25% investing income and 15% trading income (see key performance indicators). India is also beginning to gain traction, and is yielding opportunities for cross border investment banking transactions and fixed income, In line with the Group’s strategy to rebalance its portfolio through currency and commodities activity in general. In June 2010, RMB a greater weighting in the corporate sector, FirstRand has entered into a strategic cooperation agreement with JM Financial significantly enhanced client interface across corporate and Limited, an Indian based boutique, to provide M&A advisory FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 043 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review services to Indian clients seeking to make investments into The divisional results and comparatives are summarised in the entities or transactions in Africa, and South African and African table below: clients seeking to make investments in entities or transactions in India. % R million 2010 2009 change RMB believes this partnership will unlock significant value for Investment Banking 2 522 2 207 14 both parties by leveraging the individual expertise and sharing FICC1 1 006 804 25 distinctive local market knowledge for the benefit of clients, and Private Equity 1 498 1 028 46 represents a significant step in furthering RMB’s strategy to grow Equity Trading 381 (782) >100 in the Africa/India corridor. Other (784) (1 202) 35 Key performance indicators 4 623 2 055 >100 As outlined above, RMB’s targeted long term business mix is 60% 1 Included in the comparative period are profits of R75 million client, 25% investing and 15% trading. The performance targets are relating to the Euroloan business which was transferred to FirstRand Group Treasury on 1 July 2009. a growth rate of nominal GDP plus 4%, appropriate earnings volatility and a target ROE well in excess of cost of capital. The Operational highlights graph below shows the current profile*. RMB continued to maintain a market leading position across many areas. Highlights were the listing of Life Healthcare, the largest IPO in SA history and Anglo Platinum, the largest rights issue in SA history. RMB also dominated the Equity Capital Markets (“ECM”) space recording the largest market share of ECM transactions over the year. Further, in the recent Mergermarket survey RMB led the market in M&A activity in the first six months of 2010 both in terms of value of deals and number of deals concluded. At the 2009 BESA Spire awards RMB won the Best Bond Repo Team, Best Inflation-Linked Debt House, Best Interest Rate * Mix excludes the legacy portfolios. Derivatives Sales & Structuring Team and Best General FixedIncome Analyst. Financial highlights A number of new innovations were brought to market this year % such as the first Exchangeable Bond and the first offshore R million 2010 2009 change referenced Credit Linked Note traded locally. The refinancing of the FirstRand Empowerment Trust also saw the largest Chinese Income before indirect tax 4 687 2 134 >100 participation (CCB) in a BEE transaction. Indirect tax (64) (79) (19) Income before direct tax 4 623 2 055 >100 Performance commentary Total assets 268 819 275 097 (2) Cost to income ratio (%) 45.2 56.6 Investment Banking Despite the high base created in the previous year, the Investment Banking Division (“IBD”) delivered another strong performance with good contributions from its advisory, debt financing and principal investing activities. The debt financing businesses achieved steady growth in the credit book and related earnings. 044 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BANKING GROUP > FNB RMB WESBANK OUTSURANCE MOMENTUM Impairments of the portfolio remained stable, with some key workouts and restructures being concluded during the financial year. The debt capital markets business remained steady in market conditions that reflected limited SA corporate borrowing Other opportunities coupled with reducing credit spreads. The corporate This includes further significant impairments on the remaining finance advisory business continued to perform extremely well in legacy portfolios, particularly in respect of the Dealstream tough market conditions with a particularly strong contribution acquired assets. from the equity capital markets team. IBD makes strategic principal investments aligned to its business focus and these Looking forward/prospects activities produced strong results through a combination of Looking forward RMB will continue to execute on its strategy to realisations and revaluations of the portfolio. grow its client franchises and revenues whilst maintaining an The increased focus on the Africa/China business resulted in appropriate balance with its investment and trading activities. In several significant deals being concluded. These include a the coming year it expects to leverage on the early positive signs R400 million property transaction with a large Chinese transport resulting from closely aligning corporate and investment banking company and RMB and CCB arranged $40 million funding for the activities. export of copper and cobalt from DRC to China. In addition RMB Leveraging off FNB’s operating platforms, RMB will mine further arranged CCB’s participation in the US dollar funding of AngloGold opportunities in Africa, mainly in FICC and investment banking Ashanti. activities. The relationship with CCB is expected to positively contribute to the investment banking deal pipeline and RMB will FICC continue to broaden its product set in India. FICC experienced a tough first half in an environment characterised by lower proprietary trading profits, uncertainty in the markets, a decline in client flows, tighter margins and a strong Rand. However, the second half showed a much improved performance on the back of better client flows, the conclusion of some large structured transactions and improved proprietary trading profits. In addition, gold related activities benefited from the Euro crisis. Private Equity Private Equity performed well on the back of a significant realisation, Life Healthcare, in the second half of the year. This realisation contributed R1.25 billion of profit. Equity accounted earnings remained under pressure, however, positives included an increase in unrealised profits to R1.4 billion (2009: R1.2 billion) and investments of R837 million being made in the past financial year. Equity Trading The Equity Trading division performance reflects a complete turnaround from 2009. This performance was driven mainly by the proprietary trading business, strong client business results and the derisking of the international legacy portfolios. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 045 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review WesBank has been developing strategies to grow in fleet management and full maintenance rental opportunities as well as with larger corporate asset finance customers. Additional market share growth in the retail vehicle space is being pursued through new alliances. brian rilEy [CEO, WesBank] WESBANK Market dynamics During the year the retail vehicle market showed significant signs • Volvo (Cars & Trucks); of recovery. New vehicle sales tracked up 24% compared to the • Renault; prior year, with passenger vehicle sales growing 28%. Retail demand for credit increased significantly, although credit • Jaguar/Land Rover; worthiness is mixed particularly with regards to affordability. • Hitachi; As expected, corporate demand remains subdued and in those • Babcock (Volvo Industrial Equipment); sectors deemed “stressed”, WesBank continued to exercise caution, both from an origination and ongoing risk management • Nissan Diesel; and perspective. These sectors include the construction sector, some • Imperial Fleet Services. agricultural sectors and the logistics and transportation sectors. In line with the Group strategy to target those domestic segments Progress of strategy where its operating franchises may be under represented, WesBank’s core strategy of partnering with key industry players WesBank has been developing strategies to grow in fleet and representation at the point of sale strengthened through the management and full maintenance rental opportunities as well as cycle. Additional alliances were signed with major motor industry with larger corporate asset finance customers. Additional market partners across the motor, corporate and fleet business divisions, share growth in the retail vehicle space is being pursued through including: new alliances. 046 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BANKING GROUP > FNB RMB WESBANK OUTSURANCE MOMENTUM WesBank’s UK operation, Carlyle, performed well during the year 2010 2009 2008 and contributed profit before tax of R120 million. Given the opportunities to unlock significant medium term value from this Net promoter score 59.7 52.1 51.5 operation, WesBank took the decision to retain Carlyle as part of its investment portfolio, which consists of other investments The net promoter score is based on customer responses and the primarily of a private equity nature. rating index is a universally used benchmark. WesBank’s scores are considered high against recognised benchmarks internationally WesBank continued to support the asset finance offering in those and are showing an improving trend. African jurisdictions where FNB has created or is in the process of creating a presence and will consider other opportunities within Financial highlights FirstRand’s targeted strategic international locations. % Two local non performing businesses, namely WorldMark South R million 2010 2009 change Africa and Norman Bissett & Associates were success­fully Income before indirect tax 1 426 438 >100 exited during the year. These two investments contributed non Loss on sale of MotorOne recurring losses in the current year in excess of R100 million. Advances book – (203) (100) WesBank also exited from its investment in WorldMark Australia, Income before indirect tax 1 426 235 >100 which was considered to be non core. Indirect tax (126) (105) 20 Key performance indicators Income before tax 1 300 130 >100 Advances 92 724 92 274 – WesBank considers key performance indicators to be ROE (both Cost to income ratio (%) 51.9 53.8 – on an actual and bad debt normalised basis), cost to income ratio, NPLs (%) 5.5 5.0 (12) market share and the expertise indicator (service levels index). Profits increased significantly over the prior year to R1.3 billion. This ROE % 2010 2009 2008 2007 performance was due to the commencement of the retail credit unwind, the non recurrence of the loss on sale of the Australian Actual results 15 7 12 18 advances book, good cost management, improving interest margins and a strong performance from Carlyle in the UK. Given the highly cyclical nature of its business, WesBank targets a The table below represents the relative contributions from the “through the cycle” ROE of 20 – 25% and, therefore, continues to local and international operations for the current and comparative focus on reducing cyclical volatility through better risk profile years. management and revenue diversification. % R million 2010 2009 change % 2010 2009 2008 2007 Overall cost SA operations 1 095 368 >100 to income 51.9 53.8 53.5 54.4 International operations 205 (238) >100 Lending cost to income 45.7 41.9 41.8 45.1 Operational highlights • “Perfecting the platform” resulted in increased automation of The cost to income ratio is a key performance for WesBank’s core front end acquisition processes, improving service delivery and finance business. Whilst in the current year the lending business decision making. Almost 80% of new business is now originated cost to income has worsened, this has been caused mainly by through electronic channels. specific cyclical issues and the decreasing trend is likely to return • Cost management initiatives which will benefit the business in the future. going forward. Headcount in the core lending business declined FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 047 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review 22% over the past 24 months. This was achieved without The non lending operations contributed R208 million compared compromising on capacity to manage new business volumes with R52 million in the prior year. This was largely due to the as they increase. improvement in the performance of Direct Axis, the origination business which receives a profit share from the personal loans • Better risk portfolio management and improved customer pricing across all portfolios. advances book. The sale of the two non performing investments will result in the non recurrence of losses totalling R100 million in • The effective management of accounts under debt review the year ahead. means that trends are reflecting a decline in inflows of new accounts under review and an improvement in payment Carlyle produced profits of R120 million compared with a loss in arrangements and repayment behaviour. the prior year of R31 million. This was brought about through an improvement in bad debts, significant repricing in the business, Performance commentary good new business growth and excellent cost management. WesBank’s overall profitability was impacted positively by an improving retail credit environment. This was countered to an Prospects extent by the increased level of defaults in the corporate business. The current year is expected to see a further unwind of retail bad However, there was still a significant improvement in the bad debt impairments which will continue to impact positively on debt charge. earnings. As the cycle progresses an improving lending landscape is anticipated across both corporate and retail portfolios. Bad debts in the local lending business decreased 25% from Profitability will also be positively impacted by the non recurrence R2.57 billion to R1.95 billion, and from 2.8% to 2.2% of advances. of losses from the exited under­performing businesses and an Retail bad debts showed a good improvement, while corporate ongoing improved performance from Carlyle. impairments reflected the opposite trend. The year ahead is expected to show continued reduction in retail provisions and the Specific areas of organic growth include mining intragroup commencement of an improving trend in corporate bad debts. synergies whilst cost management and efficiencies remain priorities. NPLs remained high and increased from 5.0% to 5.5%. This was entirely due to the longer period that accounts under debt counselling are remaining as non performing. 31% of total NPLs are now comprised of accounts under debt counselling and adequately provided against. Within the lending operations new business increased 14% over the comparative year. This comprised a 29% increase in retail new business and a 20% decline in corporate new business. Interest margins showed an improving trend as a result of the focus on written rates as well as the improvement in mix of fixed rate business. Improved interest margins were experienced across the retail, corporate and personal loans portfolios. Non interest revenue grew 5% in the local lending operations as a result of annuity insurance revenues as well as growth in monthly administration fees, which were only introduced in 2007 through the introduction of the National Credit Act. These were offset by the drop in revenues in the discontinued operations. Overall expenses increased 8%, and expenses in the lending business increased 14%, however, 6% of this related to increased profit share payments to alliance partners. There were numerous cost management initiatives across the businesses which resulted in sustainable cost benefits. 048 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BANKING GROUP > FNB RMB WESBANK OUTSURANCE MOMENTUM The personal and commercial lines businesses continued to grow market share during the year under review as premium increases were contained below industry inflation. WILLEM ROOS and HOWARD ARON [Joint CEOs, OUTsurance] FirstRand Short Term Insurance Holdings (“FRSTIH”) R million 2010 2009 % change Normalised earnings 580 654 (11) Return on equity based on normalised earnings (%) 29 43 Gross premiums written 5 057 4 242 19 Operating income (including investment returns) 984 975 1 Headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 580 654 (11) Expense/cost to income ratio (%) 23.7 19.7 Claims and OUTbonus ratio (%) 58.2 60.5 Effective percentage holding of FirstRand (%) 47 47 FRSTIH houses the Banking Group’s short term insurance After taking into account Youi’s startup loss of R290 million for the interests, including OUTsurance, Momentum Short Term Insurance year of the Group’s attributable and headline earnings is reduced (“Momentum STI”) and Youi, the startup direct insurance operation 8.1% and 11.3% respectively. in Australia. OUTsurance is the leading direct short term insurance Youi was launched as a startup direct short term insurer in August company in South Africa. 2008. To date the venture has performed in line with expectations. The FirstRand Banking Group, through FirstRand Bank Holdings, OUTsurance owns 47% of FRSTIH. Notwithstanding the tough economic conditions, OUTsurance has grown net earned premium income 13.5%. The personal and Performance commercial lines businesses continued to grow market share FRSTIH Group during the year under review as premium increases were FRSTIH’s South African operations produced excellent results for contained below industry inflation. the year under review growing attributable and headline earnings Expenses, as a percentage of net earned premium income, 20.2% and 16.7% respectively. Momentum STI maintained its decreased from 16.1% to 16.0% on the back of contained profitability and produced strong bottom line growth. marketing expenditure. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 049 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO & CFO’s report Ten year review The claims ratio (including OUTbonus costs) decreased from 60.5% to 58.2% for the year under review. A significant improvement in the claims ratio on the homeowners book contributed strongly to the lower claims ratio. Since the launch of Focus for the year ahead OUTsurance in 1998, the company has rewarded customers with • Continue to manage the Youi startup in line with business plan OUTbonuses in excess of R700 million. targets to achieve profitability within 5 years from launch; • Successfully introduce the underwritten life product to Due to most of OUTsurance’s investable assets being invested in the market; cash and cash equivalents, the company was exposed to the lower interest rate environment resulting in an 11% decrease in • Broaden the reach of Business OUTsurance; and investment income. • Continued focus on organic growth and operational efficiencies OUTsurance Namibia, which was launched in 2007, reached throughout all business units. profitability during the year under review. The recently launched credit life insurance business continues to grow strongly. The underwritten life business, which offers fully fledged life insurance products direct to the public, was launched on 1 August 2010. 050 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BANKING GROUP FNB RMB WESBANK OUTSURANCE MOMENTUM Momentum’s vision is to transform itself from successful to significant by becoming a leading provider of insurance based financial solutions, with a primary focus on Africa. NICOLAAS KRUGER [CEO, Momentum] MOMENTUM Market dynamics framework in South Africa. TCF has the potential of impacting the Although disposable income of households increased by an entire business of a life insurer, but the FSB has committed to annualised 5.1% in the first quarter of 2010, household debt as a extensive industry consultation to take account of the unique percentage of household income remained at historically high nature of the South African life insurance industry. levels. Life insurance new business volumes are unlikely to recover significantly until there has been a recovery in employment Progress on strategy numbers and a further rebalancing of consumers’ balance Momentum’s vision is to transform itself from successful to sheets. Lapses have however started to benefit from the significant by becoming a leading provider of insurance based improvement in disposable income. financial solutions, with a primary focus on Africa. The 19% recovery in equity markets from the ALSI’s level of 22 049 In order to effectively implement Momentum’s current core at 30 June 2009 to 26 259 at 30 June 2010 is positive and market strategy a number of growth objectives have been developed. An volatility has also reduced. Equity markets however lost example of recent external growth activity is the proposed merger momentum since the beginning of the year and declined by 5% with Metropolitan which will create the third largest South African insurer by assets. Internal (organic) growth initiatives comprise: from 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2010. The average level of the JSE ALSI during the year to 30 June 2010 was 19% higher than the • initiatives related to the “Proactively engaging clients” strategic average level during the corresponding period to 30 June 2009. objective, for example up selling, cross selling, retailisation Developments in the regulatory environment continue to have an and loyalty/reward programs; impact on the business of Momentum and other life insurers. The • objectives in respect of “Process and Financial excellence”, Financial Services Board (“FSB”) recently communicated their for example process innovation, expense management and intention to implement a “Treating Customers Fairly” (“TCF”) implementation discipline; and FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 051 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review • diversification initiatives in terms of new segments, channels, The return on equity of 21.9% remained well ahead of the Group’s products and geographies. targeted return, whilst the capitalisation level strengthened from 1.8 times the Capital Adequacy Requirement (“CAR”) at Key performance indicators 30 June 2009, to 2.1 times at 30 June 2010. Momentum’s key performance indicators comprise: The value of the new business written of R549 million for the % current year represents a new business margin of 1.8%, compared R million 2010 2009 change to the margin of 2% for the prior year. The decline in the new business margin is a result of more conservative actuarial Return on equity based on assumptions and a change in the business mix. normalised earnings (%) 21.9 22.6 CAR Cover (times) 2.1 1.8 The return on embedded value of 15% was impacted positively by Value of new business 549 544 1 both a strong operational performance and improved equity Return on embedded market returns. value (%) 14.9 3.3 Financial highlights R million 2010 2009 % change Normalised earnings 1 810 1 649 10 – Group operating profit 1 530 1 328 15 – Investment income on shareholders’ assets 280 321 (13) New business volumes 56 774 60 470 (6) – Retail 34 547 28 163 23 – Employee benefits 2 546 2 591 (2) – Asset management 19 681 29 716 (34) The increase in normalised earnings benefited from the recovery Performance commentary in equity markets and effective cost control, however the lower Momentum’s normalised earnings increased 10% to interest rates did impact negatively on the investment income R1 810 million for the year ended 30 June 2010. The ROE of 21.9% earned on shareholder capital. remained well ahead of the targeted return, whilst the capitalisation level strengthened from 1.8 times the CAR at 30 June 2009, to The reduction of 6% in new business inflows is mainly due to lower 2.1 times at 30 June 2010. institutional asset management inflows. The increase of 23% in retail new business inflows was particularly pleasing considering The operating profit growth of 15% reflects the positive impact of the challenging operating environment. the recovery in equity markets and expense efficiencies arising from the rationalisation and integration of systems in the Operational highlights employee benefits and health businesses. The most significant event for 2010 was the announcement of the proposed merger between Momentum and Metropolitan. The Momentum’s embedded value amounted to R17.7 billion at combination of these strategically complementary businesses will 30 June 2010. The return on embedded value of 14.9% was generate significant value for shareholders. impacted positively by both a strong operational performance and improved equity market returns. Momentum’s CAR cover of Expense control was also a key focus area, with total expenses 2.1 times (2.0 times after payment of the final dividend) at increasing by only 3%. 30 June 2010 exceeds the targeted range of 1.4 to 1.6 times CAR. 052 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BANKING GROUP FNB RMB WESBANK OUTSURANCE MOMENTUM The Momentum board however remains of the opinion that maintaining a buffer above the targeted range is appropriate in the current economic environment. Looking forward/prospects Whilst equity markets have recovered from their lows, there remains uncertainty in these markets as is evidenced by a more recent increase in volatility. The lack of job growth to support the economic recovery remains a concern, as this could have a direct impact on both new business volumes and persistency. Momentum however remains confident that consistent product and service focus, proven distribution partnerships, dynamic brand and dedicated people have positioned it well for the future. Significant value is expected to be realised for shareholders as a result of the proposed merger with Metropolitan, which, if approved, will create the third largest insurer in South Africa by bringing together strategically complementary businesses. The parties are currently awaiting regulatory and shareholder approval. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 053 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review Corporate governance corporate governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 055 Governance and sustainability 079 Role 056 Integrated control framework 080 2010 Highlights 057 Economic significance of operations 080 Deferral of variable pay 058 Communication with stakeholders 081 Review of remuneration practices 058 Memberships and associations 081 Aligning risk and reward BOARD OF DIRECTORS 081 Executive remuneration 059 Board of directors 082 Share incentive schemes 060 Skills and experience 082 Non executive director remuneration 067 Role of the board 083 Proceeding and performance review 067 2010 Highlights 084 Directors’ emoluments 068 Directors’ responsibilities 086 Executive directors’ interests 068 Subsidiary boards and board committees EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 070 Directors’ interests 087 2010 Highlights 071 Proceedings and performance review 088 Human resource management DIRECTORS’ affairs and 091 Customer relationships governance committee 094 Supply chain management 072 2010 Highlights 095 The natural environment 073 Corporate governance ethos 096 Proceedings and performance review 073 King III Code TRANSFORMATION MONITORING COMMITTEE 073 Governance effectiveness 097 2010 Highlights 073 Succession planning 097 Transformation performance scorecard 073 Appointment of directors 098 Ownership and management control 074 Ethics governance 099 Employment equity 074 Trading in company shares 100 Skills development 075 Proceedings and performance review 100 Preferential procurement AUDIT, RISK AND 100 Enterprise development COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE 101 Socio economic development 076 2010 Highlights 101 Self regulated components 077 Audit 101 Proceedings and performance review 077 Risk FIRSTRAND FOUNDATION 078 Compliance 102 2010 Highlights 078 Auditor independence 103 Review of operations 078 Proceedings and performance review 105 Proceedings and performance review INTERNAL AUDIT 106 Internal audit assurance statement 054 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Corporate governance and sustainability “FirstRand views sustainable development and sustainable profitability as complementary objectives. Excellent corporate governance, effective management of risks and opportunities, robust debate of the business case and a culture of “traditional values, innovative ideas” are the gatekeepers for ensuring that the relationship between sustainable profitability and the well being of FirstRand’s stakeholders remains positive over time.” Performance in respect of the Group’s financial and non financial objectives is overseen by the Board of directors and its committees. In addition to FirstRand’s subsidiary boards, the Board of directors has five committees. FIRSTRAND LIMITED BOARD OF DIRECTORS Page: 59 Investor relations Company secretariat 100% 100% 100% FirstRand Bank Momentum Group board FirstRand Investment Holdings board Holdings board Directors’ affairs and Audit, risk and Remuneration governance committee compliance committee committee Executive committee Page: 72 Page: 76 Page: 79 Page: 87 Transformation monitoring committee FirstRand Foundation Page: 97 Page: 102 The boards of subsidiary companies are subject to the same corporate governance criteria as the holding company. FirstRand Board committees include representatives from the subsidiary board committees and, where appropriate, divisional executive management. The Group structure including major operating divisions and local and international subsidiaries is set out on page 34. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 055 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review Governance structure effective 1 July 2010 Certain amendments have been made to FirstRand’s governance structure in order to accommodate corporate governance provisions applying in terms of the Banks Act of South Africa as a result of FirstRand Limited being registered as a bank controlling company from 1 July 2010. Significant changes include the replacement of the Audit, risk and compliance committee with two separate committees dealing with audit and risk issues respectively. These committees are the FirstRand Audit committee and the FirstRand Risk, capital and compliance committee. INTEGRATED CONTROL FRAMEWORK At FirstRand corporate sustainability is about business as usual and begins with sustainable profitability and the responsible provision of financial services to all sectors of the local economy and selected international markets. “The development and implementation of Group strategy is supported by an integrated internal control framework which aligns business strategy with financial value drivers, key non financial performance areas and risk metrics.” During the year under review progress was made in further integrating environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) risks within the Group’s internal control framework. The outcome of this approach is an even more integrated approach to managing and reporting on the financial and non financial performance of the Group. Business strategy Business Unit (BU) strategies are aligned Stakeholder engagement with Group funding strategy, financial and Strategy implementation requires BUs to non financial risk tolerances and strategic engage and transact with stakeholders value drivers Third line controls End to end independent assurance Second line controls First line controls Enterprise Risk Management provides BUs ensure that financial and non financial independent reports on financial and performance is managed in line with mandates non financial performance for Board oversight approved by the Board FirstRand’s Board of directors and its committees provide the highest level of oversight for ensuring that business strategy and risk tolerances are set in line with the realisation of sustainable profitability and the sustainable development of the Group’s operating environment. This allows the Group to view every transaction with every stakeholder as a sustainability opportunity. 056 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Economic significance of operations During the year FirstRand contributed R88.6 billion economic value to shareholders. Breakdown of economic value added 2010 2009 R million % R million % Value added by continuing operations Net interest income earned by FirstRand Banking Group 10 912 12.3 9 610 20.1 Loss by FirstRand Limited (205) (0.2) (230) (0.5) Value added by continuing operations 10 707 12.1 9 380 19.6 Non operating income 27 418 30.9 21 801 45.6 Non operating expenditure (11 069) (12.5) (10 563) (22.1) Value added by continuing operations 27 056 30.5 20 618 43.1 Value added by discontinued operations 61 538 69.5 27 233 56.9 Value added by continuing and discontinued operations 88 594 100.0 47 851 100.0 Value added To employees Salaries, wages and other benefits 15 092 17.0 13 023 27.2 To providers of capital Dividends to shareholders 3 299 3.7 4 228 8.8 To government 4 288 4.8 3 710 7.8 Normal tax 3 695 2 993 Value added tax 431 646 Capital gains tax 143 59 Other 19 12 To policyholders Policyholder claims and benefits 57 132 64.5 24 366 50.9 Insurance contracts 6 330 5 939 Investment contracts 37 187 24 952 Adjustment to liabilities under investment and insurance contracts 13 615 (6 525) To expansion and growth 8 783 9.9 2 524 5.3 Retained income 6 489 2 737 Depreciation and amortisations 1 766 1 369 Deferred tax 528 (1 582) Value added by continuing and discontinued operations 88 594 100.0 47 851 100.0 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 057 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review Precautionary principle presents results, to local and international shareholders and the The application of the precautionary principle means that investment community and answers questions in respect thereof. FirstRand understands the importance of preventing actions These occasions also provide an opportunity for shareholders based on dangerous assumptions about the sustainable and the investment community to interact directly with the chief development consequences of business actions. Simultaneous executives of FirstRand’s major operating divisions. The presentations recognition is given to the importance of innovation and trial and of both the interim and final results can be viewed live via satellite error for improving sustainable business processes. television and are available on the company website. COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS Shareholders are notified timeously of the annual general FirstRand has defined its stakeholders as meeting and its agenda where all voting takes place by way of a entities and individuals that are significantly ballot. Results of the voting are published immediately after the affected by its activities and those which meeting through a SENS announcement. Proceedings of the have the ability to significantly impact meeting are not broadcast via satellite television. For this reason FirstRand’s ability to implement strategies electronic voting is not available to shareholders. and achieve objectives. FirstRand has identified its stakeholders Stakeholder policies as government and regulators, shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, FirstRand’s stakeholder policies are developed and implemented communities and the natural environment. at both Group and subsidiary level. In cases where policies are required to address specific needs of business units and their Operating divisions are empowered to manage stakeholder stakeholders, these policies are developed and applied at interfaces in accordance with the particular needs of their business unit level with appropriate Group oversight via the businesses and their stakeholders with Group oversight ensuring that approaches are appropriately aligned. Divisional non financial Executive committee. performance and stakeholder engagement information is available in the reports to society from the Group’s major MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS operating divisions. These reports are available online: FirstRand is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact www.firstrandsustain.co.za. (“UNGC”), the Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”) and the Equator Principles (“EP”). The Group is actively involved in Black Economic At holding company level FirstRand has stakeholder interfaces Empowerment (“BEE”) through the application of the South with government and regulators, shareholders and investment analysts. FirstRand’s stakeholder engagement mechanisms are African Financial Sector Charter (“FSC”) and the Department of addressed by the Board committee dealing most directly with the Trade and Industry’s (“dti”) Codes of Good Practice (“CoGP”) and stakeholder group. participates in the determination of regulatory requirements in respect of BEE through membership of the Banking Association of Government and regulators South Africa. FirstRand is represented at the National Business Certain companies within the Group are subject to the oversight of Initiative (“NBI”), the Centre for Development and Enterprise, and the Registrar of Banks or the Financial Services Board. participates in the UNGC South African Advisory committee. In Compliance with the relevant regulations affecting financial addition FirstRand supports the South African Institute for Race services is regarded as being of the utmost importance. Relations, the Free Market Foundation, the Business Trust and FirstRand works closely with law makers and regulators to protect Business Against Crime. its stakeholders’ interests, avoid reputational damage and prevent During the year under review FirstRand became a signatory of or mitigate the potential negative impact of either new, or changes to existing statutes or regulations. the United Nations Environment Programme (“UNEP”) finance initiative. Shareholders and investment analysts Representation at these bodies is seen as being strategically FirstRand actively distributes information to shareholders and invest­ important for reinforcing ethical and sustainable business practice ment analysts through the Stock Exchange News Service (“SENS”), the print media and the company website (www.firstrand.co.za.). and responding to changes in local and international best practice. Disclosures are based on the principles of FirstRand’s non financial performance is evaluated independently openness and substance over form. Following the on an annual basis by the JSE Socially Responsible Investment publication of interim and year end financial results FirstRand (“SRI”) index. 058 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BOARD OF DIRECTORS “FirstRand’s Board of directors is the focal point of the Group’s corporate governance structure and has the paramount responsibility of overseeing the positive performance of the Group. In discharging their duties FirstRand’s directors take the interests of all of the Group’s stakeholders into account.” 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 059 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review Skills and experience “FirstRand’s Board of directors has the necessary depth of knowledge, skill, experience and financial services expertise to oversee the successful development and implementation of FirstRand’s business strategy.” 01. Lauritz Lanser Dippenaar (61) His experience in the financial services industry includes being a Non executive chairman non executive director of NBS Boland Bank from 1995 to 1998, a non MCom, CA (SA) executive director of the Development Bank of Southern Africa from Appointed May 1998 1995 to 1998 and chairman of Msele Hoskens Insurance Group from 1994 to 1996. He joined the board of FirstRand Bank Holdings Laurie Dippenaar graduated from Pretoria University, qualified as in 2003 and was appointed chief executive officer with effect from a chartered accountant with Aiken & Carter (now KPMG) and spent January 2006. three years with the Industrial Development Corporation before becoming a co-founder of Rand Consolidated Investments in 1977. In February 2006 he was appointed as an executive director of Rand Consolidated Investments acquired control of Rand Merchant FirstRand. Sizwe was appointed CEO of FirstRand in January 2010. Bank in 1985 and he became an executive director. He was FirstRand – committee memberships appointed managing director of Rand Merchant Bank in 1988 – Audit – ex officio which position he held until 1992 when RMB Holdings acquired a – Executive – chairman controlling interest in Momentum Life Assurers (“MLA”). – FirstRand Foundation – chairman He served as executive chairman of MLA from 1992 until the – Large exposures credit formation of FirstRand in 1998. He was appointed as the first chief – Risk, capital management and compliance – ex officio executive officer of FirstRand and held this position until the end of – Strategic executive – chairman 2005 when he assumed a non executive role. He was elected to the Directorships – FirstRand Group position of chairman of FirstRand in November 2008. – FirstRand Bank Limited – chief executive officer FirstRand – committee memberships – FirstRand EMA Holdings Limited (previously FirstRand Bank – Directors’ affairs and governance Holdings Limited) – FirstRand Investment Holdings (Proprietary) Limited – Remuneration – Momentum Group Limited Directorships – FirstRand Group – First National Bank* – chairman – FirstRand Bank Limited – chairman – Rand Merchant Bank* – chairman – FirstRand EMA Holdings Limited (previously FirstRand Bank Directorships – external Holdings Limited) – The Banking Association South Africa – FirstRand STI Holdings Limited – chairman – Momentum Group Limited – chairman * Divisional board – RMB Asset Management (Proprietary) Limited 03. Johan Petrus Burger (51) – First National Bank* Chief financial officer, Chief operating officer – Rand Merchant Bank* BCom (Hons), CA (SA) Directorships – external Appointed January 2009 – RMB Holdings Limited Johan Burger graduated from Rand Afrikaans University in 1983 * Divisional board and qualified as a chartered accountant after serving articles with PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc. 02. Sizwe Errol Nxasana (52) Chief executive officer He joined Rand Merchant Bank in 1986 and was appointed an BCom, BCompt (Hons), CA (SA) executive director in 1995. Following the formation of FirstRand in Appointed January 2006 1998, he was appointed financial director of the FirstRand Banking Group. In January 2009 he was appointed to the FirstRand board as Sizwe Nxasana started his career at Unilever. In 1989 he financial director and assumed the additional role of Group chief established Sizwe & Co, the first black-owned audit practice in operating officer in June 2009. Kwa-Zulu Natal. In 1996 he became the founding partner of Nkonki Sizwe Ntsaluba, the first black owned national firm of accountants, FirstRand – committee memberships and was national managing partner until 1998 when he joined – Audit – ex officio Telkom SA as chief executive officer. He held this position until – Credit August 2005. – Executive 060 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability – Large exposures credit appointed deputy chief executive officer of FirstRand Bank, a – Risk, capital management and compliance – ex officio position he held until his retirement in 2004. – Strategic executive FirstRand – committee memberships Directorships – FirstRand Group – Audit – FirstRand Bank Limited – Directors’ affairs and governance – FirstRand EMA Holdings Limited (previously FirstRand Bank – Large exposures credit Holdings Limited) – Remuneration – FirstRand Investment Holdings (Proprietary) Limited – Momentum Group Limited Directorships – FirstRand Group – First National Bank* – FirstRand Bank Limited – Rand Merchant Bank* – FirstRand EMA Holdings Limited (previously FirstRand Bank * Divisional board Holdings Limited) – FirstRand STI Holdings Limited 04. Deepak Premnarayen (64) – Makalani Holdings Limited – chairman Executive – First National Bank* BA Economics (Hons) India – WesBank – chairman* Appointed January 2009 * Divisional board Deepak Premnarayen started his career as a management trainee in 1968 with New India Assurance. He later moved to 06. Jurie Johannes Human (Jurie) Bester (68) Citibank and then Reckitt & Coleman in India, where he spent Independent non executive over ten years in sales, marketing and international business BSc Eng Elect (Pret), ISMP (Harvard) development leadership. Appointed July 2010 In the late 1980’s when India began its liberalisation process, he Jurie Bester is a seasoned banker with a broad range of chose to pursue entrepreneurial opportunities, which included experience and expertise in banking and the financial services, launching leading international luxury brands in India and exports risk management, risk modelling and risk quantification. He was of gems and jewellery. the Head of Risk Management at RMB and Risk and Audit Services of the FirstRand Banking Group from 1997 until he retired from the In 1998 he founded the ICS Group to pursue emerging infrastructure Group in 2005. development opportunities in India. ICS was subsequently involved in pioneering projects involving public-private partnerships, Subsequently he served as chairman or a member of a number of prominent among which is the publicly held Noida Toll Bridge risk and audit committees of the FirstRand Banking Group. Company. He continues to serve as the chairman of the ICS Group, which now has broadened its interests to include retail-centric FirstRand – committee memberships property services, investments and asset management in India. – Audit – Credit He has also been a strategic advisor to the wealth management arms of Citibank and CIBC in India. – Directors’ affairs and governance – Remuneration Mr Premnarayen acts as FirstRand’s representative in India and is – Risk, capital management and compliance a member of its advisory board in that country. Directorships – FirstRand Group Directorships – external – FirstRand Bank Limited – ICS Group – FirstRand Ireland Plc – Triangle Real Estate India Fund LLC (Mauritius) – Noida Toll Bridge Company Limited (India) 07. DAVID JOHN ALASTAIR CRAIG (62) Independent non executive 05. Vivian Wade Bartlett (67) British Independent non executive Appointed May 1998 AMP (Harvard), FIBSA Appointed May 1998 David Craig is a private investor with long experience of international investment markets, particularly in specialist areas Viv Bartlett started his career with Barclays Bank DCO South Africa, which in 1987 became First National Bank of Southern such as Private Equity, Hedge Funds, Event Driven and other Africa. After four years of overseas secondments he returned targeted investments across different capital classes of individual to South Africa in 1972 where he served as general manager companies. Until recently David served as managing director and and managing director in various group companies until being chief investment officer of Sand Aire Limited, a large multi-family appointed as group managing director and chief executive officer investment management office located in London, with a focus on of First National Bank of Southern Africa in 1996. In 1998, he was advanced asset allocation processes. In 1983 he set up IFM Asset FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 061 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review Management, the first major hedge fund group in London, which 09. PatricK Maguire Goss (62) he ran until the time of its sale in 1994. Prior to that time he Independent non executive was responsible for European Capital Markets activities first for BEcon (Hons), BAccSc (Hons), CA (SA) Hambros, the London merchant bank, then for JP Morgan. Appointed May 1998 FirstRand – committee memberships Pat Goss, after graduating from the University of Stellenbosch, – Directors’ affairs and governance served as President of the Association of Economics and Commerce Students, representing South Africa at The Hague Directorships – FirstRand Group and Basel. He qualified as a chartered accountant with Ernst – Rand Merchant Bank* and Young and subsequently joined the Industrial Development * Divisional board Corporation. Most of his active career was spent in Food Retailing and the Hospitality Industry. Resigned July 2010, and has agreed to serve on the RMB divisional board. He has served as a director of various group companies for the past 30 years. A former chairman of the Natal Parks Board, his 08. Leon Crouse (57) family interests include Umngazi River Bungalows and other Non executive conservation related activities. CA (SA) Appointed September 2008 FirstRand – committee memberships – Directors’ affairs and governance – chairman Leon Crouse studied at the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan – Remuneration – chairman University in Port Elizabeth and after obtaining a Certificate in the Theory of Accounting in 1976, he qualified as a chartered Directorships – FirstRand Group accountant in 1977. During his professional career of more that 30 – FirstRand Bank Limited years, he gained financial knowledge and experience by lecturing – Rand Merchant Bank* at the University of Stellenbosch and holding various financial Directorships – external management positions in the sectors of telecommunications, – RMB Holdings Limited luxury goods, chemicals and clothing and textiles. * Divisional board He joined the former Rembrandt Group in 1986 in which year 10. Nolulamo nabambiswano (Lulu) Gwagwa (51) he transferred to Switzerland to hold the position of financial Independent non executive controller of Compagnie Financiére Richemont AG and to be part BA (Fort Hare), MTRP (Natal), MSc (cum laude) (London), of the team that unbundled the luxury goods business from the PhD (London) Rembrandt Group to form Richemont and list it on the Swiss, Appointed February 2004 Luxembourg and South African Stock Exchanges. Lulu Gwagwa worked as a town planner in the private, public and In 1993, as a Rembrandt appointee, he returned to South Africa to NGO sectors between 1981 and 1986, where-after she proceeded become a founder member of the Vodacom Group executive team. to further her studies. In 1992 she joined the University of Natal Rembrandt, at the time, held a 5% interest in Vodacom. During his as a senior lecturer in the Department of Town and Regional nearly 15 year career at Vodacom, he served as general manager Planning. In 1995 she was appointed as a deputy director general finance between 1993 and 1996 and as chief financial officer in the national Department of Public Works, where she was from 1996 until March 2008. He joined Remgro in April 2008 as responsible for the national public works programme and the designate Director: Group Finance and was appointed to the transformation of the construction industry. Remgro board on 18 June 2008. From 1998 to 2003 she was the chief executive officer of FirstRand – committee memberships the Independent Development Trust. She is currently the chief – Audit executive officer of Lereko Investments. – Directors’ affairs and governance – Risk, capital management and compliance FirstRand – committee memberships – Directors’ affairs and governance Directorships – FirstRand Group – Transformation monitoring – chairperson – FirstRand Bank Limited Directorships – external Directorships – external – Lereko Investments (Proprietary) Limited – Dark Fibre Africa (Proprietary) Limited – Development Bank of South Africa Limited – Remgro Limited – Massmart Holdings Limited – Total South Africa (Proprietary) Limited – Sun International Limited 062 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability 11. Paul Kenneth Harris (60) – McConnell Dowell Corporation Limited Non executive – Trident Steel Holdings (Proprietary) Limited MComm Appointed May 1998 13. Ethel Gothamodimo Matenge-SebEsho (55) Independent non executive Paul Harris graduated from the University of Stellenbosch and MBA (Brunel); C.A.I.B (SA) joined the Industrial Development Corporation in 1974. He was a Appointed July 2010 co-founder of Rand Consolidated Investments (“RCI”) in 1977. RCI acquired control of Rand Merchant Bank (“RMB”) in 1985 and he Ethel Matenge-Sebesho started her career in banking with became an executive director. He spent four years in Australia Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Limited from 1973 to 1996, where he founded Australian Gilt Securities (later to become during which time she studied for an MBA from Brunel University RMB Australia) and returned to South Africa in 1991 as deputy of London. She has considerable experience in banking and managing director of RMB. In 1992, he took over as chief executive financial services, which was acquired in her role as director on officer. Subsequent to the formation of FirstRand, he was the boards of Oikocredit, an international development financial appointed chief executive officer of FirstRand Bank Holdings in institution based in the Netherlands from 2001 to 2007, Women 1999, a position he held until December 2005 when he was Finance House Botswana from 1989 to 1996, and Botswana appointed chief executive officer of FirstRand. Housing Corporation. FirstRand – committee memberships In November 1996 as general manager, Housing Institutions in the – Directors’ affairs and governance National Housing Finance Corporation Limited, she was part of the team that pioneered the concept of social housing in South Africa. Directorships – FirstRand Group From April 1998, she has held various management positions in – FirstRand Bank Limited the Home Loan Guarantee Company including marketing – Momentum Group Limited solutions for housing and housing finance-related problems to – RMB Asset Management (Proprietary) Limited new markets in Africa. Directorships – External FirstRand – committee memberships – Remgro Limited – RMB Holdings Limited – Audit – Directors’ affairs and governance committee 12. Roger William (Roger) Jardine (44) Independent non executive Directorships – FirstRand Group BSc (Physics), MSc (Radiological Physics) – FirstRand Bank Limited Appointed July 2010 – FNB Credit Guarantee Limited – Advantage Asset Managers (Proprietary) Limited Roger Jardine was national coordinator of science and – Momentum Ability Limited technology policy in the department of economic planning of the – Momentum Structured Insurance Limited African National Congress from 1992 to 1995. In 1995, he became – First National Bank* the director general of the Department of Arts, Culture, Science and Technology. He was chairman of the board of the CSIR and the Directorships – external Nuclear Energy Corporation between 1999 and 2005. In 1999, – Finmark Trust Roger joined Kagiso Media Limited as chief executive officer – Women’s Development Business and in 2006 became the chief operating officer of Kagiso Trust – Botswana Export Development and Investment Authority Investments. – Social Entrepreneurship Foundation * Divisional board Roger joined Aveng Limited as chief executive officer in July 2008 and is also a director of Aveng (Africa) Limited, McConnell Dowell 14. GUGU MOLOI (42) Corporation Limited and Trident Steel Holdings (Pty) Limited. Mr Independent non executive Jardine was appointed to the boards of FirstRand Bank during BA (Law), MA (Town and Regional Planning), 2004 and FirstRand Limited during 2010. Diploma (General Management) FirstRand – committee memberships Appointed February 2004 – Directors’ affairs and governance Gugu Moloi was chief executive officer of Umgeni Water from 2002 – Large exposures credit until 2006. Prior to that she was chief executive officer of the Directorships – FirstRand Group Government’s Municipal Infrastructure Investment Unit. She has – FirstRand Bank Limited considerable expertise in the field of development at both national and local level. She currently runs her own company Iman Africa, Directorships – External is chairperson of Soul City Investment company and chief – Aveng Limited executive officer of Drake & Scull. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 063 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review FirstRand – committee memberships – Mintbrooke Technologies (Proprietary) Limited – Directors’ affairs and governance – Paracon Holdings Limited – WDB Investment Holdings (Proprietary) Limited Resigned July 2010 and has agreed to serve on the FNB divisional board. 17. Kgotso Buni Schoeman (46) Non executive 15. Paul Nkuna (58) BA Economics, Advanced Financial Management Diploma Non executive Appointed May 2008 MAP (Wits Business School) Appointed May 2005 Kgotso Schoeman is currently the chief executive officer of Kagiso Trust. He has been involved with the trust for over 14 years. He led Paul Nkuna began his career as a teacher before joining the team that developed the new strategy of the trust from being a the mining industry in 1977. He joined the National Union of general conduit grant funding agency to a development and Mineworkers in 1984 and later served as treasurer general. He implementing agency in the early education and rural finance was instrumental in local government negotiations as chairman of development fields. He is currently heading negotiations with the management committee of the Brakpan Transitional Local the provincial education department and the private sector to Council. He also served in a number of executive structures within secure long term partnership for possible national rollout on a local government, including the Gauteng Association of Local programme to improve rural education. He has considerable Government and the South African Local Government Association. experience in programme design and management. He has over He joined the Mineworkers Investment Company as executive the past ten years participated as a team member or led a number chairman in 1997 and in 2003 became chief executive officer, a of projects including: the Alexandra Renewal Programme, the position he currently holds. Local Economic Development Study for the Amajuba Municipality in Newcastle, the Impact Study of the SMME Microfinancing sector FirstRand – committee memberships around the Tshwane area and the Public Participation Process that – Directors’ affairs and governance led to Robben Island gaining world heritage status. – Transformation monitoring FirstRand – committee memberships Directorships – external – Directors’ affairs and governance – BPSA (Proprietary) Limited – Transformation monitoring – Metrofile Holdings Limited – chairman Directorships – external – Mineworkers Investment Company – Kagiso Trust Investments (Proprietary) Limited – Primedia Limited – chairman – Kagiso Enterprises Rural Private Equity Fund (Proprietary) – Tracker (Proprietary) Limited Limited 16. Amanda Tandiwe Nzimande (39) – Kagiso Activ Training (Proprietary) Limited Non executive – Kagiso Trust Consultancy (Proprietary) Limited BCom CTA (UCT), CA (SA); H DIP Law (Wits) 18. KHEHLA CLEOPAS SHUBANE (54) Appointed May 2005 Independent non executive Tandi Nzimande is the chief financial officer at WDB Investment BA (Hons), MBA Holdings, the investment vehicle for the WDB Trust. Her role Appointed May 1998 includes overseeing the financial area of WDB Investment Khehla Shubane graduated at the University of the Witwatersrand. Holdings as well as executing transactions and monitoring of Prior to this he was a student at the University of the North where ongoing investment relationships. his studies were terminated following his arrest for political activities. He was convicted and served his term on Robben Island. She qualified in 1996 as a chartered accountant while with KPMG. Upon his release he was employed at Liberty Life for a short time. She was a senior associate in the investment banking division of He served on various political organisations until joining the Deutsche Bank where she spent five years gaining experience in Centre for Policy Studies in 1988. He is an author and has comergers and acquisitions internationally and in South Africa. authored several political publications, and is a member of the FirstRand – committee memberships board of the Centre for Policy Studies. – Directors’ affairs and governance FirstRand – committee memberships – Remuneration – Directors’ affairs and governance – Transformation monitoring Directorships – external Directorships – external – Johannesburg Roads Agency – Dinatla Investment Holdings (Proprietary) Limited – Maemo Motors (Proprietary) Limited Resigned July 2010 and has agreed to serve on FNB divisional – Masana Petroleum Solutions (Proprietary) Limited board. 064 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability 19. Ronald Keith (Tim) Store (67) – Momentum Medical Scheme Administrators (Proprietary) Independent non executive CA (SA) Limited – chairman Appointed May 2007 – Momentum Africa Investments (Proprietary) Limited – chairman – Momentum Group Limited Tim Store retired in 2004 from Deloitte, South Africa where he – RMB Asset Management (Proprietary) Limited – chairman completed his career as chairman of the board of Partners. He – Strategic Real Estate Management (Proprietary) Limited – founded the firm’s Financial Institutions Services Team in 1984. In chairman that capacity, he rendered regulatory, risk management and – First National Bank* corporate governance consulting services to Southern African banking institutions, central banks and the World Bank. Directorships – external – Distell Group Limited He has had an ongoing interest in training in regulatory, governance – Lewis Group Limited and risk management topics relating to banks. He has lectured – Naspers Limited in this capacity to most South African banks. Since 1997 he has – Pick ’n Pay Stores Limited convened a course with the University of Johannesburg (formerly * Divisional board RAU) where he holds an honorary professorship. 21. Jan Hendrik (Hennie) van Greuning (57) He is a member of the board of the National Credit Regulator. He Independent non executive was appointed curator for four failed South African Banks during DCom (Economics), the period 1991 to 2004. DCompt (Accounting Science), CA (SA), CFA FirstRand – committee memberships Appointed January 2009 – Audit Hennie van Greuning joined the World Bank in 1994 from the – Directors’ affairs and governance South African Reserve Bank where he served as financial manager – Large exposure credit – chairman (1986 – 1989) and Registrar of Banks (1990 – 1994). Prior to this he – Risk, capital management and compliance was a partner with Deloitte, where he spent ten years. Directorships – FirstRand Group During his World Bank career he worked in the Financial Sector – FirstRand Bank Limited Development department as well as the Europe and Central – Rand Merchant Bank* Asia region before moving to the World Bank Treasury, until his * Divisional board retirement in late 2008. He has worked extensively on financial regulatory, securities accounting and operational risk management 20. Benedict James van der Ross (63) issues. Independent non executive Dip Law (UCT) His World Bank publication on International Financial Reporting Appointed May 1998 Standards (IFRS – A Practical Guide) has appeared in five editions and he has co-authored “Analysing Banking Risk” (three editions), Ben van der Ross is a director of companies. He has a diploma in “Risk Analysis for Islamic Banks” (first edition November 2007) as Law from the University of Cape Town and was admitted to the well as International Financial Statement Analysis (CFA Institute Cape Side Bar as an attorney and conveyancer. He practiced for his – November 2008). Some of the books have been translated into own account for 16 years. He became an executive director with more than 15 languages. the Urban Foundation for five years up to 1990 and thereafter of the Independent Development Trust where he was deputy chief FirstRand – committee memberships executive officer from 1995 to 1998. He acted as chief executive – Audit – chairman officer of the South African Rail Commuter Corporation from 2001 – Directors’ affairs and governance to 2003 and as chief executive officer of Business South Africa – Risk, capital management and compliance from 2003 to 2004. He served on the board of The Southern Life Association from 1986 until the formation of the FirstRand Group Directorships – FirstRand Group in 1998. – FirstRand Bank Limited FirstRand – committee memberships 22. FREDERIK VAN ZYL SLABBERT (69) – Directors’ affairs and governance Independent non executive – Remuneration committee BS, BA (Hons) (cum laude), MA (cum laude), DPhil – Transformation monitoring Appointed November 2001 Directorships – FirstRand Group Frederik van Zyl Slabbert was a graduate of Stellenbosch University – FirstRand Bank Limited where he received a Doctorate in Philosophy in 1967. He lectured – Makalani Holdings Limited at various South African universities until 1974 when he was FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 065 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review elected to the South African Parliament as a member of the Progressive Party for the Rondebosch Constituency. At the time of his retirement from politics in 1986, he was the leader of the Progressive Federal Party, which was the official opposition in Parliament. He was a political analyst. He held Honorary Doctorates from the Simon Fraser University in Canada, the University of Natal and the University of the Free State. He was the author of a number of books dealing with demographics and change in South Africa and was also a member of the board of the Open Society of South Africa N.Y. FirstRand – committee memberships – Directors’ affairs and governance Directorships – external – Adcorp Holdings Limited – chairman – Caxton CTP Publishers and Printers Limited – chairman Retired November 2009 23. Matthys Hendrik (Thys) Visser (56) Non executive BCom (Hons) CA (SA) Appointed April 2009 Thys Visser is a chartered accountant who qualified with Arthur Young & Company in Cape Town before joining Rembrandt Group Limited where he held a number of positions, including financial director in 1991 and managing director in 1992. He is currently chief executive officer of Remgro Limited. FirstRand committee memberships – Directors’ affairs and governance – Remuneration Directorships – FirstRand Group – FirstRand Bank Limited Directorships – external – Distell Group Limited – Kagiso Trust Investments (Proprietary) Limited – Medi-Clinic Corporation Limited – PG Group (Proprietary) Limited – PGSI Limited – Rainbow Chicken Limited – chairman – Remgro Limited – RMB Holdings Limited – Unilever South Africa Holdings (Proprietary) Limited 066 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BOARD OF DIRECTORS Laurie Dippenaar, Chairman ROLE The fundamental responsibility of the Board is to improve the economic prosperity of the Group over which it has full and effective control. In terms of its charter, the Board is responsible for oversight of the effective functioning of the Group’s internal control framework, approving corporate strategy, major plans of action, monitoring operational performance and appointing the chief executive, chief operating officer and chief financial officer. “The Board’s role includes identifying risks which impact on the Group’s sustainability, the monitoring and management of these risks and associated internal controls. These responsibilities include oversight of corporate governance, annual budgets and key performance indicators established in terms of the Group’s strategic financial and non financial objectives.” The Board monitors major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals and any other matters that are defined as being material. The chief executive is fully accountable to the Board for the day-to-day running of the Group. 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Focus area Actions King III, ethics management and The Directors’ affairs and governance committee has overseen measures for ensuring safe whistle blowing implementation of the King III Code and the institutionalisation of a revised Group Code of ethics and Whistle blowing policy. Steps have also been taken toward a more clearly defined process for alternative dispute resolution. See page 73 for detail. Effectiveness of integrated The Audit, risk and compliance committee has overseen the effectiveness of integrated internal controls and governance financial and non financial controls. There has been a concerted effort to further strengthen of IT risks internal controls and systems in order to reduce avoidable operational losses throughout the Group. Steps have also been taken towards enhanced governance of IT risk. See page 77 for detail. Review of remuneration practices The Remuneration committee has conducted internal and external reviews of remuneration to ensure alignment with practices and has ensured that FirstRand’s remuneration practices are in line with the shareholder returns Financial Stability Board’s Principles for Sound Compensation Practices and the Financial Service Authority’s remuneration Code of Practice. Special attention has been paid to the alignment of risk and reward to ensure accord between remuneration and shareholder returns with a portion of variable pay being deferred for a period of more than one year for the first time. Operational efficiencies and FirstRand’s Exco has embarked on a drive to ensure that operational efficiencies are leveraging of Group strength harnessed through leveraging of the Group strength. Steps have been taken to promote the effectiveness of human resource management and procurement functions. Attention has also been paid to the Group’s relationship with the natural environment. See page 93 for detail. BBBEE transformation The Transformation monitoring committee has overseen the successful transition to reporting performance against the dti CoGP and the implementation of self regulation against key components of the FSC. See page 101 for detail. Corporate social investment The FirstRand Foundation has overseen the Group’s corporate social investment initiatives and grant making. Special efforts have been made to ensure ongoing engagement with beneficiaries and the monitoring of their progress. See page 103 for detail. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 067 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review DIRECTOR RESPONSIBILITIES provided. Mr Dippenaar is a major shareholder in RMB Holdings The directors have a fiduciary duty to act in good faith, with due Limited, which owns 30.06% of the issued share capital of FirstRand. diligence and care in the best interests of the Group and all of its Mr Dippenaar relinquished his position as chief executive of stakeholders. Directors are the guardians of the values and ethics FirstRand in November 2005. of the Company and its subsidiaries. All directors subscribe to A strong independent element of non executive directors exists the Code of ethics which can be found on the FirstRand website on FirstRand’s Board and those of its major subsidiaries. This (www.firstrand.co.za) and forms part of FirstRand’s Board charter. provides the necessary objectivity essential for their effective functioning. The roles of the chairman and chief executive officer In exercising control of the Group, the directors are empowered are separate and the composition of the Board ensures a balance to delegate. This is done through the boards of the major of authority precluding any one director from exercising unfettered subsidiaries, their respective chief executives and various board powers of decision making. committees including executive committees. A number of FirstRand directors are also directors of the major subsidiaries Each year one third of FirstRand’s non executive directors retire. thereby enhancing reporting between subsidiary boards and Three of the directors, Messrs Nkuna and Schoeman and FirstRand. The Board committees are structured to ensure that Ms Nzimande represent FirstRand’s three Broad Based BBBEE they include representatives from similar subsidiary board partners. These directors were nominated by the Trusts they committees. This ensures that there is a common understanding represent and their appointment was subject to the approval of the across the Group of the strategic imperatives that it faces, how rest of the Board. these are managed and the decisions that are being taken in The boards of the Group’s major subsidiaries and operating respect thereof. divisions are similarly constituted with the necessary mix of skills, Directors have full and unrestricted access to management and experience and diversity. There is also an appropriate mix between all Group information and property. They are entitled to seek executive and non executive appointments. independent professional advice in support of their duties at During the year Messrs DJA Craig and KC Shubane, Dr F van Zyl the Group’s expense. Directors may meet separately with Slabbert and Ms G Moloi retired from FirstRand’s Board of management without the attendance of executive directors. directors. Subsequent to his retirement Dr van Zyl Slabbert passed away. The Board would like to extend its condolences to his family Within the Banking Group non statutory advisory boards and reconfirm FirstRand chairman Laurie Dippenaar’s sentiments representing FirstRand’s major banking brands (First National that his contribution was immense and the Group is extremely Bank, Rand Merchant Bank and WesBank) provide further comfort grateful for his service. to FirstRand’s statutory boards. Mr Shubane and Ms Moloi’s skills and experience will be retained The directors of FirstRand and the Group’s divisional boards within the Group at FNB’s divisional board and Mr Craig remains endorse the Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct contained in on RMB’s divisional board. From 1 July 2010 new appointments the King Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa 2002 to FirstRand Limited’s board include Messrs Bester and Jardine (“King II Code”). The Directors are satisfied that the Group has and Ms Matenge-Sebesho who already serve on the board of complied with the provisions and the spirit of the King II Code. FirstRand Bank. In line with the JSE Listing Requirements and the Code of SUBSIDIARY BOARDS AND BOARD COMMITTEES Corporate Practices contained in the King Report on Corporate During the year under review FirstRand’s three major wholly Governance for South Africa 2009 (“King III Code”) processes are in owned subsidiaries were FirstRand Bank Holdings Limited, place to ensure that an independent lead director will be appointed Momentum Group Limited and FRIHL. Subsequent to the in the new financial year. unbundling of Momentum from FirstRand, FirstRand’s wholly owned subsidiaries are FirstRand Bank Limited, FRIHL and BOARD COMPOSITION FirstRand EMA Holdings Limited, each of which have suitably FirstRand has a unitary board. Its chairman is non executive, but constituted boards of directors. These boards assist FirstRand not independent in terms of the definitions stated below. The Limited’s Board in overseeing the activities of FirstRand’s Board believes that Mr Dippenaar’s specialist knowledge of the operating divisions which are also subject to the oversight of financial services industry and of the FirstRand Group makes it divisional advisory boards and their board committees. The appropriate for him to hold this position notwithstanding the fact banking activities of foreign operations are subject to the oversight that he is not regarded as independent in terms of the definition of incountry statutory boards. 068 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Board committees assist the directors in their • non executive directors are those who represent FirstRand’s BEE duties and responsibilities. In addition to the partners and those who are also directors of RMB Holdings and Executive committee (“Exco”), FirstRand’s are not classified in that company as independent; and Board has committees to deal with directors’ • independent non executive directors are all other directors. affairs and governance, remuneration, audit, This includes those directors who participate in the FirstRand risk compliance and transformation. These black non executive directors’ share trust established as part of committees have formal charters and report to FirstRand’s BEE transaction. the Board at regular intervals. With the exception of Exco, board committees are chaired by independent non The Board is satisfied that these classifications do not conflict with executive directors. The Transformation monitoring committee those of sections 3.84 (f) of the JSE Listings Requirements. includes the three non executive directors representing FirstRand’s BEE partners and does not have a majority of independent non Company secretary executive directors. Independent professional advice necessary to The Company secretary provides support and guidance to the support committee members in performing their duties may be Board in matters relating to governance and ethical practices obtained at the Group’s expense. across the Group. He assists the Board as a whole and directors individually with detailed guidance as to how their responsibilities Additional board committees exist at subsidiary level and are should be properly discharged in the best interests of FirstRand. established specifically for the purposes of managing risk. These He facilitates, where necessary, induction and training for directors include large exposure and credit committees in the Banking and assists the chief executive in determining the annual meeting Group and actuarial committees where subsidiaries are involved timetable. in insurance related activities. Reappointment to the committees The Company secretary is also the secretary to the board is not automatic and is subject to the approval of FirstRand’s committees and subsidiary boards. Directors’ affairs and governance committee. When FirstRand directors retire by rotation they automatically retire from the During the year Mr AH Arnott retired from his duties as FirstRand’s committees on which they serve. company secretary. With effect from 31 May 2010 he was replaced by Mr BW Unser who is suitably qualified, empowered and has Board committees conduct annual effectiveness surveys, the been the company secretary for FirstRand Bank and FirstRand results of which are reviewed by the Directors’ affairs and Bank Holdings since 1998. governance committee. Details of directors Definition of independence The names of the directors, their age, qualifications and other For the purpose of this annual report directors are classified as details appear on pages 60 to 69. follows: • executive directors are employed by, or contracted to, FirstRand Limited or any company in the FirstRand Group. This includes directors participating in share incentive schemes; FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 069 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS It is not a requirement of the Company’s Articles of Association or the Board charter that directors own shares in the Company. Certain directors have also disclosed their effective interest in FirstRand as a result of their shareholding in RMB Holdings Limited, which holds 30.06% (2009: 30.06%) of the issued share capital of FirstRand. According to the Register of Directors’ Interest, maintained by FirstRand in accordance with the provisions of Section 140A of the Companies Act, directors of FirstRand have disclosed the following interests in the Company at 30 June 2010. Where necessary, prior year figures have been amended to reflect the new disclosures required in terms of the JSE listings requirements. Ordinary shares (audited) Direct Indirect Held by Indirect via Total Percentage Total beneficial beneficial associates RMBH 2010 holding 2009 Director (‘000) (‘000) (‘000) (‘000) (‘000) % ’000 Executive director: JP Burger – 1 837 – 1 735 3 572 0.06 4 176 Non executive directors: VW Bartlett 3 693 376 – – 4 069 0.07 4 069 JJH Bester** 20 – – – 20 – – LL Dippenaar 2 355 1 200 6 126 960 130 521 2.32 130 521 PM Goss 1 – – 16 232 16 233 0.29 16 233 PK Harris 1 167 – 2 138 42 185 45 490 0.81 45 310 G Moloi* 1 – – – 1 – 1 AP Nkuna 15 – – – 15 – 15 KC Shubane* 41 – – 4 45 – 45 Total 7 293 3 413 2 144 187 116 199 966 3.55 200 370 * Resigned 1 July 2010 ** Appointed 1 July 2010 Directors’ interest remained unchanged since the end of the financial year to the date of this report. “B” preference shares (audited) Indirect Total Percentage Total beneficial 2010 holding 2009 Director (‘000) (‘000) % (‘000) Non executive director: LL Dippenaar 520 520 1.16 520 Total 520 520 1.16 520 Directors’ interest remained unchanged since the end of the financial year to the date of this report. 070 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BOARD PROCEEDINGS AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW The Board meets five times a year. The May meeting includes a review of the strategic plans and resulting budgets for the year ahead. Additional meetings are convened as and when necessary. Directors’ interests in contracts in terms of Section 234 of the Companies Act are disclosed at every meeting. Attendance during the year was as follows: Sep 2009 Nov 2009 Mar 2010 Mar 2010** Apr 2010 May 2010 LL Dippenaar – Chairman √ √ √ √ √ √ SE Nxasana √ √ √ √ √ √ JP Burger √ √ √ √ √ √ VW Bartlett √ √ √ √ A √ DJA Craig √ √ √ √ A √ L Crouse √ √ √ A √ √ PM Goss* √ √ A A √ √ NN Gwagwa √ A √ A √ √ PK Harris √ √ A √ √ √ G Moloi √ A A √ √ √ AP Nkuna √ √ √ A √ √ AT Nzimande √ √ √ A √ √ D Premnarayen √ √ √ √ √ √ KB Schoeman √ √ √ A √ √ KC Shubane √ √ √ √ √ √ RK Store √ √ √ √ √ √ BJ van der Ross √ √ √ √ √ √ JH van Greuning √ √ √ √ √ √ MH Visser √ √ √ A √ √ A = Apologies tendered and accepted * Director granted leave of absence for international travel ** Special board meeting During the year under review FirstRand’s Board of directors conducted an effectiveness survey and is satisfied that the committee has met the requirements of its charter. Signed on behalf of the Board LL Dippenaar Chairman, Board of directors 13 September 2010 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 071 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review DIRECTORS’ AFFAIRS AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE PAT GOSS, Chairman Composition FirstRand’s Directors’ affairs and governance committee comprises all of FirstRand’s non executive directors and is chaired by Mr Pat Goss who is an independent non executive director. Role The Directors’ affairs and governance committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relative to FirstRand’s corporate governance practices. “Corporate governance is overseen by the Directors’ affairs and governance committee and plays an integral role in FirstRand’s business philosophy.” During the year the chairman provided detailed reports to the Board on issues addressed by the committee. 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Focus area Actions King III and best practice in A gap analysis of current practices compared with those recommended in the King III Code has corporate governance been conducted and the committee has monitored progress in addressing any deficiencies. Particular attention has been paid to alternative-dispute-resolution and the institutionalisation of a revised Code of ethics and Whistle blowing policy. Governance effectiveness The committee has undertaken reviews of the effectiveness of the Board of directors and its and succession planning subcommittees and has implemented sound and effective succession planning at executive level. Appointment of new directors The committee has facilitated the appointment of Messrs Bester and Jardine and Ms MatengeSebesho to FirstRand’s Board of directors. Remuneration of non executive The committee has made recommendations to Remco about the remuneration of non directors and trading in executive directors and has monitored trading in company shares. company shares 072 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ETHOS In addition to overseeing the financial FirstRand’s philosophy upholds the values performance of the Group directors’ of ethical behaviour, participative decision responsibilities include careful consideration making, win-win relationships with all of environmental, social and governance stakeholders and the desire to be a world issues supporting the realisation of class financial services company. The sustainable profits. Directors’ affairs and governance committee The evaluations include an appraisal of the chairman of the Board ensures that this philosophy is incorporated or committee being evaluated. into the practice of corporate governance at FirstRand. Corporate governance is The performance of the chief executive is also formally evaluated standardised across the Group to ensure that at least once per year and is measured against a balanced the highest standards of corporate scorecard, which is described in the Remuneration committee governance are upheld and monitored report on page 79. The directors convey to the chairman any at all operations including international concerns that they might have in respect of the performance and operations. conduct of their peers. In terms of the Banks Act the directors FirstRand’s non executive directors acknowledge the need for of the FirstRand Banking Group Board are subject to formal their independence, while recognising the importance of good individual assessment. From 1 July 2010 this provision also applies communication and close cooperation with executive management. to the directors of FirstRand Limited. FirstRand’s annual strategy conference is attended by senior Evaluations conducted for the period under review found no management and all Group directors, including those of the material concerns in respect of Board and board committee subsidiary companies and divisional boards. performance. KING III CODE SUCCESSION PLANNING The directors of FirstRand and the Group’s divisional boards FirstRand benefits from an extensive pool of people and talent with endorse the Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct contained in diverse experience and competence at senior management level. the King Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa 2009 (“King III Code”). The Board is confident that it is able to identify suitable short term and long term replacements from within the Group when the need The King III Code comes into effect for FirstRand from 1 July 2010. arises. On 9 June 2009 FirstRand announced that Mr SE Nxasana, During the year under review significant progress has been made previously chief executive of FirstRand Bank would succeed Mr PK in respect of applying the King III Code. Harris by also becoming CEO of FirstRand Limited when, as previously indicated, Mr Harris retired on 31 December 2009. This includes the following: • Board and Board committee charters will incorporate APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS recommendations made in King III; and There is a clear policy in place detailing procedures for appoint­ ments to the Board. Such appointments are formal and a matter • an action plan for the implementation of King III in cases where for the Board as a whole, assisted by the Directors’ affairs and gaps have been identified. governance committee. Prior to the appointment of a new director Key areas being addressed include: a Nominations committee is appointed. This committee is responsible for interviewing the nominee and making recommen­ • enterprise-wide Information Technology (IT) governance; dations to the rest of the committee as to his or her suitability. • the formation of a Group ethics committee; During the year the Nominations committee, which comprised Messrs Dippenaar, Goss, van der Ross, and Dr Gwagwa met to • the strategic management of sustainability and stake­holder consider the nominations received in respect of Messrs Bester and considerations; and Jardine and Ms Matenge-Sebesho. The meetings were chaired by • the development of more clearly defined processes for Mr Goss. alternative-dispute-resolution and perceiving business relation­ ships as fundamental to good governance. When appointing directors, the Board takes cognisance of its needs in terms of different skills, experience, diversity, size and GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS demographics. A brief CV of each director standing for election During the year under review the Board and all of its committees or re-election at the annual general meeting accompanies the conducted evaluations to measure their effectiveness and that of notice of the meeting contained in the annual report. A staggered its members. rotation of directors ensures continuity of experience and knowledge. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 073 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review The reappointment of non executive directors is not automatic and FirstRand does not make donations to political parties. Guidance is subject to performance and eligibility for reappointment. on political donations and solicitation of gifts is provided in the Code. No issues of impropriety or unethical behaviour on the In terms of South African banking regulations all directors of a part of any of the directors were drawn to the attention of the bank or a bank controlling company must be approved by the South African Reserve Bank. The directors serving on the board of committee during the year. FirstRand Limited are subject to this regulation from 1 July 2010 as a result of FirstRand becoming a bank controlling company. FirstRand Group whistle blowing During the year the Directors’ affairs and governance committee programme oversaw the necessary actions for ensuring compliance with this Renewed emphasis has been placed on the issue of whistle requirement. blowing. FirstRand encourages safe and effective whistle blowing in the Code of ethics and strives to create an enabling environment The retirement age for non executive directors is set at age 70 and for whistle blowing through oversight of the Directors’ affairs can be extended if unanimous agreement is reached by the Board that the skills and experience of a director warrants their and governance committee. The committee has ensured that retention. There is no limit to the number of times that a director procedures exist for bringing unethical business practices by can be re-elected to the Board. Non executive directors are directors or employees to the attention of the board. expected to ensure that appointments to boards outside of the Progress is being made in implementing a Group whistle blowing FirstRand Group do not impinge on their ability to perform their duties as directors of FirstRand and do not present any material programme designed to enhance the detection of unethical conflicts of interest. conduct. An external service provider has been appointed to serve as an independent whistle blowing hotline service provider to the The appointment of all directors to the Board requires the approval Group. These consultants will manage the FirstRand Ethics Line in of shareholders at the annual general meeting. The directors are partnership with the Group Ethics office which will be able to accountable and responsible for all the actions of the Board accept confidential or anonymous reports of unethical conduct, committees. This is emphasised during the induction training including theft, fraud and corruption. A secure email address has provided to new directors. Other ongoing training and education courses allow them to familiarise themselves with FirstRand’s also been registered for this purpose. operations, the business environment, their fiduciary duties and Anonymous whistle blowing contact lines are: responsibilities and the Board’s expectations in respect of their commitment and ethical behaviour. Tel SA: 0800003312 Tel UK: 08082387500 ETHICS MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Tel India: 0008001007900 Group Ethics Office Email: report@firstrandethicsoffice.co.za During the year the committee oversaw the appointment of a Internet: www.firstrandethicsoffice.com Group ethics officer and formalised ethics management reporting lines within the Regulatory risk management function. TRADING IN COMPANY SHARES FirstRand has closed periods prohibiting trade in FirstRand The Group Ethics office reports into Regulatory risk management shares by directors, senior executives and participants in the and is responsible for institutionalising the commitment of top management to run an ethical and responsible business. The various share incentive schemes. The closed periods commence practical implementation of this commitment is facilitated through on 1 January and 1 July and are in force until the announcement of the application of FirstRand’s Ethics management framework. the interim and year end results. Closed periods also include any period where the Company is trading under cautionary or where FirstRand Group Code of ethics participants have knowledge of price sensitive information. Similar The FirstRand Group Code of ethics is the cornerstone of FirstRand’s prohibitions exist in respect of trading in RMB Holdings shares Ethics management framework. because of the relative importance of FirstRand in the earnings of RMB Holdings. All directors’ dealings require the prior approval of Upon joining the Group all directors are obliged to sign a pledge to adhere to the FirstRand Group Code of ethics. The Code addresses the chairman and the company secretary retains a record of all duties of care and skill, good faith, honesty and integrity, whistle such share dealings and approvals. Trading in securities by blowing, processes for dealing with conflicts of interest and the employees who are exposed to price sensitive information is need to always act in the best interests of the Group. subject to the Group’s personal account trading rules. 074 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability PROCEEDINGS AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW The committee met four times during the year. Membership and attendance was as follows: Sep 2009 Mar 2010 Apr 2010 May 2010 √ A √ √ LL Dippenaar √ √ √ √ VW Bartlett √ √ A √ DJA Craig √ √ A √ L Crouse √ √ √ √ NN Gwagwa √ A √ √ PK Harris A A √ √ G Moloi √ A √ A AP Nkuna √ √ √ √ AT Nzimande √ √ A A D Premnarayen √ √ √ √ KB Schoeman √ √ √ √ KC Shubane √ √ √ √ RK Store √ √ √ √ BJ van der Ross √ √ √ √ JH van Greuning √ √ √ √ MH Visser √ √ √ √ A = Apologies tendered and accepted. The Chairman attends the annual general meeting. The Directors’ affairs and governance committee is satisfied that they, and all board committees, have complied with the requirements of their charters. PM Goss Chairman, Directors’ affairs and governance committee 13 September 2010 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 075 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Tim Store, Chairman Composition The Audit, risk and compliance committee includes representatives of the Group’s major subsidiary audit and risk committees and is composed of independent non executive directors. In addition the chief executive and the chief financial officer attend committee meetings in an ex officio capacity. The external auditors and head of internal audit are present at all committee meetings and meet independently with the non executives as and when required. Role During the year under review FirstRand’s Audit, risk and compliance committee reviewed the findings and reports of the subsidiary company Audit and risk committees and addressed matters of both a Group and a head office nature. All of the subsidiary audit and risk committees have adopted terms of reference approved by their respective boards dealing with membership, structure, authority and duties. During the year the chairman provided reports to the Board on issues addressed by the committee. 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Focus area Actions Future governance of audit, risk As a result of FirstRand becoming a bank controlling company from 1 July the committee will and compliance be replaced by two separate committees dealing with audit and risk issues respectively. The committee has overseen the implementation of measures necessary to ensure the effective functioning of these two committees. King III and the governance Steps have been taken towards enhanced governance of Information Technology risk. of IT risks Effectiveness of integrated The committee has overseen the effectiveness of integrated financial and non financial internal internal controls controls. This has included oversight of ESG risks and underlying management controls. External auditors The committee has overseen the appointment of the external auditor and has monitored their independence and performance. Stakeholders are referred to the comprehensive risk management report set out from pages 115 to 231 for a detailed review of the risk and capital management processes and responsibilities undertaken in respect of the activities of FirstRand Bank and Momentum. 076 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Future governance of audit, Other activities undertaken during the year include oversight of: risk and compliance • the effectiveness of internal control systems ; The Registrar of Banks has granted approval for FirstRand to be registered as bank controlling company in terms of the Banks Act • the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function; with effect from 1 July 2010. Consequently, the Audit, risk and • the risk areas of the entities to be covered in the scope of the compliance committee will be dissolved and two separate internal and external audits; committees will be formed namely, the FirstRand Group Audit committee and the FirstRand Group Risk, capital management • the adequacy, reliability and accuracy of the financial information provided to management and other users of such and compliance committee. Both of these committees will information; comprise of a majority of non executive members dedicated to monitoring audit and risk issues, the majority of whom are • the accounting or auditing concerns identified as a result of the independent. external and internal audits; • reports from the internal auditors; and King III Code During the year under review the committee updated its charter to • further integration of internal financial and ESG reporting, ensure that new obligations in terms of the King III Code are met. including reporting in respect of ethical practices. Among responsibilities addressed by the charter are: The committee is also responsible for: • oversight of the governance of information technology and the • communicating any concerns it deems necessary to the board management of fraud and IT risk as they relate to financial and the external auditors; reporting; • reporting to shareholders at the annual general meeting; • provision of assurance for risk management processes; • confirming the internal audit charter and approving the audit • provision of assurance regarding the integrity of the internal plan; financial control framework; • encouraging communication between members of executive • oversight of integrated reporting and the provision of assurance management, the internal auditors and the external auditors; for the integrated report; and • conducting investigations within its terms of reference; • monitoring of ESG risks including matters relating to ethical • concurring with the appointment of the head of internal audit; practices. and These updates are also features of the new committee charters • setting the principles for using the external auditors for non for the Audit and Risk, capital management and compliance audit services. committees which replace the Audit, risk and compliance committee. RISK The committee has: AUDIT The committee undertakes statutory and non statutory duties in • ensured that appropriate systems are in place to identify and respect of audit responsibilities. During the year statutory monitor risks affecting the Group, including risks related to activities have included review of the: information technology; • evaluated the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management • integrity of the Group’s financial statements; processes; • appropriateness of the expertise and experience of the • monitored fraud risk and conducted trend analysis against financial director; internal and external loss data to understand the cause of loss • quality, independence and cost of the statutory audit; incidents and where corrective action should be taken, to derive lessons form other organisations and inform operational risk • appointments of the external auditors and the audit partner; assessments through scenario analyses; • services of the external auditors, including non audit services; • received reports from subsidiary risk committees; and • independence and objectivity of the external auditors; and • overseen the integration of ESG risks within the Group’s risk • results of the external audit. reporting framework. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 077 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review COMPLIANCE AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE The committee has: At the annual general meeting held in November 2009 share­ holders approved the committee’s recommendation for the • ensured that appropriate systems are in place to identify and reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc as auditors of the monitor compliance with legislation and the Group’s Code of Company until the next annual general meeting. Mr Fulvio Tonelli ethics; was appointed as the individual registered auditor undertaking the • evaluated the adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance Company’s audit for the year under review. framework; FirstRand believes that the auditors have observed the highest • overseen the appointment of a Group Ethics officer; and level of business and professional ethics. The committee is • reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s whistle blowing satisfied that the auditors have at all times acted with unimpaired mechanisms. independence. Details of fees paid to the external auditors are disclosed in note 4 of the Group annual financial statements, together with details of non audit services provided and the fees paid in respect thereof. PROCEEDINGS AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW Membership and attendance at the meetings held during the year was as follows: Sep 2009 Mar 2010 May 2010 RK Store – Chairman √ √ √ VW Bartlett √ √ √ BJ van der Ross √ √ √ JH van Greuning √ √ √ During the year under review FirstRand’s Audit, risk and compliance committee members conducted an effectiveness survey and are satisfied that the committee has met the requirements of its charter. RK Store Chairman, Audit, risk and compliance committee 13 September 2010 078 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability REMUNERATION COMMITTEE “We are cognisant of the fact there is an expectation from our stakeholders that the Group’s remuneration structures will appropriately reflect performance...” Chairman’s statement FSR Annual Report 2009 PAT GOSS, Chairman Key to the implementation of an effective remuneration strategy and policy is the role of the Remuneration committee which provides oversight of all forms of remuneration and reward to executive directors and senior management including fees, basic and variable pay, other benefits, and share awards. The committee is also responsible for reviewing proposals to the Board and shareholders on non executive director remuneration. In discharging its duties Remco aligns remuneration with stakeholder interests through overseeing appropriate adjustments to fixed, variable and long term remuneration arrangements relative to company performance and industry specific remuneration practices. Composition FirstRand is acutely aware of the need to align employee FirstRand’s Remuneration committee (“Remco”) membership is remuneration with shareholder returns and the Group’s composed of independent directors. Executives attending Remco remuneration policy specifically addresses the following factors to meetings do so in an ex officio capacity. ensure this alignment: Role • incentive pools shaped by Group profitability and performance metrics, divisional profitability, risk taken versus reward realised The committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relative to remuneration policies and practices, in the FirstRand and sustainable future profitability; Group. • individual performance measured against specific quantitative As a financial services group, FirstRand’s most critical asset, financial and non financial performance criteria, individual required for delivering on its proposition to customers, is its behaviour and competitive performance; human resources. Given the war for talent in the financial services arena, rewarding these resources appropriately is key • incentives which diminish or disappear in the event of poor to the sustainability of its business. Its remuneration strategy is Group, divisional or business unit performance; accordingly tailored towards: • no multi-year guaranteed incentives, substantial severance • attracting, retaining and motivating people with the ability, arrangements or remuneration linked to revenue generation by experience and skill to successfully implement business formula; strategy; • deferral of variable remuneration for highly paid employees; • creating recognisable alignment between rewards for employees, particularly executive directors and senior management, and the • significant investment of senior management in deferred risk exposure of shareholders and other stakeholders; instruments and long term share awards; and • incentivising employees to deliver consistent performance in • transparency to enable stakeholders to make reasonable line with strategic goals and risk tolerances and rewarding assessments of reward practices and underlying governance success appropriately; processes. • ensuring that compensation outcomes are consistent with risk FirstRand’s divisions operate across a variety of financial services outcomes; and activities, each with distinct employment and human resource • delivering compensation that is affordable and reasonable in pressures. Therefore the Group’s remuneration policy takes terms of the value created for shareholders; and encouraging account of the diverse needs of the Group’s divisions and devolves behaviour consistent with FirstRand’s Code of ethics, business the implementation of appropriate industry specific remuneration philosophy and corporate culture. practices in accordance with the Group’s remuneration policy. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 079 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review During the year to June 2010 the Group implemented the following actions pertaining to remuneration. These actions are specifically designed to continuously tighten the link between shareholder returns and executive pay, and between risk and reward. 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Focus area Actions Review of remuneration practices Remuneration practices were amended in line with the Financial Stability Board’s Principles for Sound Compensation Practices and the Financial Service Authority’s remuneration Code of Practice. Aligning risk and reward Subsequent to amendments to the Group’s governance structure, the chairman of the Risk, capital management and compliance committee has been appointed to Remco. This confirms that the risk element of FirstRand’s remuneration policy has been duly considered, whilst ensuring appropriate remuneration for risk managers and discouraging risky behaviour. Deferral of variable pay In line with its strategy to introduce additional deferral structures into executive management’s remuneration, between 20% and 47% of all performance payments above R1.5 million were deferred in FirstRand shares for two years; 40% of performance payments above R1.5 million made to FirstRand Exco members was deferred in FirstRand shares for two years, with more than 45% of performance payments made to the CEO and COO being deferred for two years. Share incentive schemes On 25 November 2009 FirstRand shareholders approved the Conditional Share Plan (“CSP”) which the Group believes is an appropriate mechanism for high level retention. The cost to shareholders is in line with previous schemes. DEFERRAL OF VARIABLE PAY Annual performance related payments are dependent upon a number of key financial, non financial and risk management measures and compensation payout schedules are sensitive to the time horizon of risks. The Group believes that the “deferral” of certain components of performance payments will ensure senior and executive management focus on creating medium to long term value for stakeholders. Therefore during the year under review, for the first time, FirstRand increased the deferral period of a component of variable pay for longer than 12 months. Remco is of the view that the balance between short term incentives and equity based long term deferred incentives represents a healthy mix which will encourage focus on sustainability of profits and performance. Profits and losses of different activities of the Bank are deferred over different periods of time. Variable compensation payments are deferred accordingly and payments are not finalised over short periods where risks can manifest over longer periods. For senior executives and all other employees whose actions have a material impact on the risk exposure of the Group a substantial proportion of compensation is variable and paid on the basis of individual business unit and Group wide performance indicators. 2010 deferral structure Payment date Performance payment Deferred in shares Aug 2010 Dec 2010 Jun 2011 Sep 2012 ≤ R500k No 100% – – – ≤ R1.5 million No R500k + 33% of 33% of balance 33% of balance – balance > R1.5 million 20 – 40% of amount R500k + 33% of 33% of balance 33% of balance Shares vest above R1.5 million balance > R1.5 million 40% of amount above R500k + 33% of 33% of balance 33% of balance Shares vest (FirstRand Exco R1.5 million balance members only, excluding executive directors) 080 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability There are no guaranteed bonuses for senior positions. Should an staff engagement, socio economic development, environmental employee resign or be dismissed from the Group’s employment, and ethics performance. unpaid bonus tranches are forfeited. In terms of FirstRand’s Remuneration practices in respect of employees in the risk current policy any unpaid portion of deferred bonuses is clawed functions have recently been reviewed and steps are being taken to back in the case of the applicable business unit making a loss ensure that their remuneration is market related and adequate to during the year in question. attract and retain qualified and skilled staff. REVIEW OF REMUNERATION PRACTICES The heads of enterprise risk management and regulatory risk Remco has access to local and international consultants to ensure management monitor the compensation levels of risk managers that it obtains independent advice on both general and specific across the Group with ultimate oversight provided by the Board via remuneration practices. the Remco. During the year, Remco conducted investigations to ensure EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION alignment between FirstRand’s remuneration practices and those recommended by the International Financial Stability Executive service contracts Board’s Principles for Sound Compensation Practices and the FirstRand’s executive directors are employed under the Company’s International Financial Service Authority’s remuneration Code of standard employment contract. The employment contracts for Practice. executive directors of the major subsidiary companies are similar in structure. Remuneration is benchmarked against industry PricewaterhouseCoopers’ Human Resources practice was peers and is subject to external professional advice when deemed engaged to provide independent analysis of FirstRand’s appropriate. The services of the chief executive are subject to one compliance with the Financial Stability Board’s Principles for month’s notice and no protection is provided in the event of an Sound Compensation Practices and Implementation Standards. unsolicited takeover. ALIGNING RISK AND REWARD Executive performance assessment The chairman of FirstRand’s Risk committee has provided formal The basis for remunerating executive directors is similar to that of confirmation that the risk element of FirstRand’s remuneration senior management and comprises a basic salary plus benefits, policy has been duly considered and does not encourage risky an annual performance related reward and participation in the behaviour. Group’s share incentive schemes. Remco ensures that total variable The scorecard for determining the compensation does not limit its ability performance related reward for FirstRand’s to strengthen its capital base and executives measures the effectiveness of compensation has been structured to account strategy implementation through evaluating for all types of risk including credit and financial and non financial performance liquidity risk. against business performance and business sustainability criteria. The size of the variable compensation pool and its allocation within the Group takes current and potential risks into account. These Business performance criteria include value drivers for financial include: performance and franchise quality and growth. Financial performance uses metrics reflecting delivery on financial objectives • the cost and quantum of capital required to support the risks within the Group’s risk/reward appetite. Franchise quality and taken; growth uses metrics for evaluating alignment with FirstRand’s strategic direction, collaboration with other Group companies and • the liquidity risk assumed in the conduct of business; and delivery on respective business strategy. • consideration of the timing and certainty of the realisation of accrued, but as yet unrealised, accounting profits included in Business sustainability criteria include value drivers for customer current earnings. orientation and employee perspectives. Customer orientation uses metrics for customer and brand appreciation and profitable Variable compensation also takes account of the achievement growth of customer bases. Employee perspectives include of annual objectives aligning short term performance with the metrics for employee satisfaction, internal values and talent creation of stakeholder value, including customer satisfaction, management. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 081 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES Share incentive schemes operated by the Group are a useful tool in retaining key people and aligning their interests with those of FirstRand’s shareholders. All of the share incentive schemes currently in operation within the Group have received the prior approval of FirstRand’s shareholders. A detailed description of all schemes currently in place is provided in note 33 to the annual financial statements. NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION Non executive directors receive fees for their services as directors and for services provided as members of board committees. These fees vary depending on the role of the committee. Non executive directors do not qualify for participation in share incentive schemes. Fees paid to non executive directors are based on current market practice. The fees are reviewed by the Directors’ affairs and governance committee and are approved in advance by shareholders at the annual general meeting. 2010 non executive directors’ fees relative to 2009 Fee per year (Rand) 2010 2009 % change Committee chairs Board 825 000 670 000 23 Directors’ affairs and governance 27 500 25 500 8 Audit, risk and compliance 82 000 76 000 8 Remuneration 82 000 76 000 8 Transformation monitoring 55 000 50 000 10 Committee members Board 137 000 127 000 8 Directors’ affairs and governance 13 750 12 750 8 Audit, risk and compliance 41 000 38 000 8 Remuneration 41 000 38 000 8 Transformation monitoring 27 500 25 500 8 082 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability BASIC SALARIES AND BENEFITS Salaries are reviewed annually in the context of individual and The assets of retirement funds are managed separately from the business unit performance, inflation and specific industry Group’s assets. Boards of trustees of the pension and provident practices and trends. Reference is made to independent industry funds include staff and pensioner representatives who oversee the salary surveys on a regular basis. management of the funds and ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. New employees joining the Group become members of a defined contribution pension and/or provident fund scheme operated All fulltime employees are required to belong to a medical aid under the control of the relevant governing legislation. All schemes scheme. On retirement, facilities exist for retired employees to are regularly valued by independent actuaries and are financially join medical aid schemes in their individual capacities. When, sound. Should the actuaries advise of any deficits within the old as a result of past practice, the Group is required to contribute to defined benefit schemes, such deficits are funded to ensure the post retirement medical aid costs, the present value of such ongoing soundness of the fund concerned. Retirement funding contributions is calculated and provided for. Current employment contributions are charged against expenditure when incurred. practice excludes post retirement medical aid contributions. PROCEEDINGS AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW The committee meets three times per year. Membership and attendance at the meetings held during the year was as follows: Jul 2009 Apr 2010 Jun 2010 PM Goss – chairman √ √ √ VW Bartlett √ A √ LL Dippenaar √ √ A PK Harris √ A √ BJ van der Ross √ √ √ MH Visser √ √ √ A = Apologies tendered and accepted. The chairman attends the annual general meeting During the year under review FirstRand’s Remuneration committee members conducted an effectiveness survey and are satisfied that the committee has met the requirements of its charter. The Chairman of FirstRand’s Risk, capital management and compliance committee has formally reported to the Remco that the risk element of FirstRand’s remuneration policy has been duly considered and that the quality of earnings has been taken into consideration when recommending bonus levels. FirstRand’s remuneration policies for the coming financial year will be put to shareholders vote at the annual general meeting to be held on 2 December 2010, details in respect of which are provided on page 439. PM Goss Chairman, Remuneration committee 13 September 2010 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 083 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS Information relating to each director’s remuneration for the year under review and details of share options and dealings in FirstRand shares are set out below: 2010 Directors’ emoluments Services as directors1 Retirement and Deferred medical in aid fund PerforFirstRand Cash contrimance Other Total Shares to R’000 FSR Group package2 butions related3 benefits4,5 2010 20126 Executive JP Burger 57 – 4 699 760 5 520 2 819 13 855 4 480 PK Harris (retired December 2009) – – 2 643 408 – – 3 051 – SE Nxasana 57 – 5 101 710 5 820 626 12 314 5 180 D Premnarayen7 350 910 – – – – 1 260 – Sub total 464 910 12 443 1 878 11 340 3 445 30 480 9 660 Non executive LL Dippenaar (Chairman) 863 2 599 – – – – 3 462 – VW Bartlett 271 964 – – – – 1 235 – DJA Craig 377 144 – – – – 521 – L Crouse 189 474 – – – – 663 – PM Goss 284 424 – – – – 708 – NN Gwagwa 216 – – – – – 216 – PK Harris 75 510 – – – – 585 – G Moloi 189 – – – – – 189 – AP Nkuna 216 – – – – – 216 – AT Nzimande 216 88 – – – – 304 – KB Schoeman 216 – – – – – 216 – KC Shubane 189 – – – – – 189 – RK Store 271 1 156 – – – – 1 427 – BJ van der Ross 324 1 770 – – – – 2 094 – JH van Greuning 429 1 445 – – – – 1 874 – F van Zyl Slabbert (deceased March 2010) 113 – – – – – 113 – MH Visser 189 375 – – – – 564 – Sub total 4 627 9 949 – – – – 14 576 – Total 5 091 10 859 12 443 1 878 11 340 3 445 45 056 9 660 1 Fees earned by South Africa based executive directors from FirstRand and its subsidiaries are waived and ceded to companies in the FirstRand Group and do not accrue to them in their private capacity. These fees are not reflected in the above schedule. 2 “Cash package” includes travel and other allowances. 3 “Performance related” payments are in respect of the year ended 30 June 2010, but will be paid (together with an interest factor) in three tranches, during the year ending 30 June 2011. 4 Other benefits comprise the profit share entitlement from the Group co-investment scheme (see note 33 to the Group annual financial statements). 5 Benefits derived by executive directors in terms of their share option schemes are disclosed below. No options are granted to executive directors who have attained the age of 57 by September of each year. Compensation is paid for the loss of this benefit and is included under other benefits. 6 Performance payments deferred in FirstRand shares vest in September 2012. Refer to page 80 for detail. 7 D Premnarayen is classified as an executive director due to his participation in FirstRand’s share scheme and does not participate in other executive remuneration arrangements. 084 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability 2009 Directors’ emoluments Services as directors1 Retirement and medical aid fund PerforCash contrimance Other Total R’000 FSR Group package2 butions related3 benefits4,5 2009 Executive JP Burger (appointed January 2009) – – 2 149 351 4 590 – 7 090 PK Harris – – 4 908 769 4 920 900 11 497 SE Nxasana – – 4 427 617 4 860 11 9 915 D Premnarayen (appointed January 2009)6 139 533 – – – – 672 Sub total 139 533 11 484 1 737 14 370 911 29 174 Non executive GT Ferreira (Chairman) (retired November 2008) 373 691 – – – – 1 064 LL Dippenaar – (Chairman) (appointed November 2008) 510 1 807 – – – – 2 317 VW Bartlett 246 895 – – – – 1 141 DJA Craig 360 171 – – – – 531 L Crouse (appointed September 2008) 157 366 – – – – 523 DM Falck (retired September 2008) 37 133 – – – – 170 PM Goss 274 407 – – – – 681 NN Gwagwa 210 – – – – – 210 G Moloi 180 – – – – – 180 AP Nkuna 205 – – – – – 205 AT Nzimande 165 – – – – – 165 KB Schoeman 213 – – – – – 213 KC Shubane 180 – – – – – 180 RK Store 256 941 – – – – 1 197 BJ van der Ross 311 1 718 – – – – 2 029 JH van Greuning (appointed January 2009) 120 606 – – – – 726 F van Zyl Slabbert 140 – – – – – 140 MH Visser (appointed April 2009) 35 77 – – – – 112 RA Williams (retired September 2008) 43 122 – – – – 165 Sub total 4 015 7 934 – – – – 11 949 Total 4 154 8 467 11 484 1 737 14 370 911 41 123 1 Fees earned by South Africa based executive directors from FirstRand and its subsidiaries are waived and ceded to companies in the FirstRand Group and do not accrue to them in their private capacity. These fees are not reflected in the above schedule. 2 “Cash package” includes travel and other allowances. 3 “Performance related” payments are in respect of the year ended 30 June 2009, but will be paid (together with an interest factor) in three tranches, during the year ended 30 June 2010. 4 Other benefits comprise the profit share entitlement from the Group co-investment scheme (see note 33 to the Group annual financial statements). 5 Benefits derived by executive directors in terms of their share option schemes are disclosed below. No options are granted to executive directors who have attained the age of 57 by September of each year. Compensation is paid for the loss of this benefit and is included under other benefits. 6 D Premnarayen is classified as an executive director due to his participation in FirstRand’s share scheme and does not participate in other executive remuneration arrangements. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 085 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS The current interests of executive directors in share incentive schemes, together with benefits derived from sales and redemptions during the year are as follows: Directors interests (Audited) Granted/ Opening taken up Closing balance Strike this year balance Benefit FirstRand Share Incentive (number of price (number of (number of derived Schemes shares) (cents) Expiry date shares) shares) (Rand) JP Burger 296 070 10.50 2009/10/01 (296 070) – 1 850 438 450 000 15.33 2010/10/03 – 450 000 – *800 000 16.33 2011/10/01 – *800 000 – *900 000 20.53 2012/10/01 – *900 000 – *1 500 000 14.01 2013/11/03 – *1 500 000 – – – 2012/09/17 **450 000 **450 000 – – – 2012/09/15 *** 596 519 ***596 519 – Total 3 946 070 750 449 4 696 519 1 850 438 PK Harris 394 760 10.50 2009/10/01 (394 760) – 2 455 447 540 000 15.33 2010/10/03 (540 000) – 1 549 800 *800 000 16.33 2011/10/01 *(800 000) – – Total 1 734 760 (1 734 760) – 4 005 247 SE Nxasana 2 000 000 13.29 2010/10/20 – 2 000 000 – *350 000 16.33 2011/10/01 – *350 000 – *1 000 000 20.53 2012/10/01 – *1 000 000 – *2 000 000 14.01 2013/11/03 – *2 000 000 – – – 2012/09/17 **600 000 **600 000 – – – 2012/09/15 ***642 405 ***642 405 – Total 5 350 000 1 242 405 6 592 405 – D Premnarayen *2 304 577 14.01 2013/03/11 – *2 304 577 – Total 2 304 577 – 2 304 577 – * APR ** CSP *** FSP Hurdle rates with regard to the share appreciation rights are disclosed in note 33 of the Group annual financial statements. The strike prices reflected above are those applying at the time that the options or share appreciation rights were granted. FirstRand management share transaction On 23 December 2009, the Company announced that, in a private transaction, a group of senior executives in FirstRand has agreed to purchase FirstRand ordinary shares from a consortium of RMBH and FirstRand directors, comprising Messrs GT Ferreira, LL Dippenaar and PK Harris. As a result of this transaction Mr SE Nxasana will receive 3.7 million FirstRand shares and Mr JP Burger 5 million FirstRand shares at a price of R16.06 per share. This transaction should have been executed in the first quarter of 2010 but, due to the Group remaining in a closed period from 1 January 2010 to 13 September 2010, it has not yet been executed. The transference of ownership of these shares to the senior management of FirstRand aims to ensure that the interests of management and shareholders continue to be closely aligned. 086 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Sizwe Nxasana, CEO Composition Exco is chaired by FirstRand’s chief executive and comprises the chief operating officer, chief executives of the Group’s major operating divisions, the heads of Enterprise risk, Regulatory risk, Investor relations and certain other members of senior management. “FirstRand’s Executive committee (“Exco”) is a team of individuals with the combination of skills, expertise and experience required for developing and successfully implementing the FirstRand business strategy.” During the year the composition of the committee was expanded to include the heads of FirstRand Human Resources and Capital Management. Role Exco develops and implements the strategies approved by the Board for managing the business of the Group. Of particular importance is the ongoing development and inculcation of an enduring and widely embraced Group business philosophy and value system which creates an enabling environment in which operating divisions can grow and prosper. In addition to the focus areas highlighted below the Exco oversees the synchronisation of divisional strategies and the optimisation of the Group’s capital base and financial resources. During the year the chief executive and chief operating officer provided regular and detailed reports to the Board on matters of material and strategic impact. 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Focus area Actions King III Exco has overseen a gap analysis of governance and management practices compared with those recommended in the King III Code. Measures have been taken to address gaps with the oversight of the Directors’ affairs and governance committee. Human resource management Steps have been taken to promote the effectiveness of human resource management with the creation of the FirstRand Strategic HR portfolio at Group level. Special attention has been paid to skills development, talent management and employment equity. Customer relationships Exco has overseen the Group’s customer relationships and the implementation of divisional strategies in respect thereof. Special attention has been paid to access to financial services, debt remediation, compliance with customer regulations and customer engagement. Corporate and Investment Banking Exco has also overseen the creation of a new Corporate and Investment Banking (CIB) unit to enhance service to corporate customers, increase competitive advantage, deliver a superior offering to clients and significantly improve FirstRand’s share of revenues in the corporate, institutional and interbank markets. Procurement FirstRand’s Exco has embarked on a drive to ensure that operational efficiencies are harnessed through further centralising the procurement function. BEE procurement practices have also been closely monitored by Exco with oversight of the Transformation monitoring committee. Relationship with the natural Exco has overseen the implementation of internal reporting and controls for ensuring environment compliance with the Equator Principles and the implementation of Environmental and Social Risk Analysis in affected transactions. Significant progress has also been made in energy management and carbon emissions reductions. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 087 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review King III Code During the year Exco amended its charter to include more formal management of obligations set out in the King III Code. Among the provisions made in the charter are: • ensuring the effectiveness of integrated financial and ESG controls; • ensuring the effective governance of Information Technology; • embedding processes for monitoring and managing the implementation of the Group’s Code of ethics; and • creating business opportunities through linking sustainability with business strategy. HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT During the year R15.1 billion, 17% of FirstRand’s economic value added to stakeholders accrued directly to employees and their dependents. FirstRand views human resource management as a line function and seeks to create an environment in which employees can secure their own employability inside or outside the organisation. 088 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Workforce movements 2010 2009 % change SA staff complement at 1 July (beginning of financial year) 39 177 38 863 1 New appointments 4 558 4 996 (9) Resignations (3 557) (3 539) 1 Retrenchments (449) (428) 5 Dismissals (511) (556) (8) Deaths or disability (81) (78) 4 Other (480) (81) 493 SA staff complement 30 June (end of financial year) 38 657 39 177 (1) Rest of Africa 3 563 3 239 7 Other countries 328 367 (11) Total workforce 42 548 42 783 (1) ACI employees (SA) 25 787 25 887 (<1) ACI as a percentage of SA workforce (%) 67 66 <1 During the year macroeconomic forces necessitated that further efficiencies be found in all aspects of the Group’s operations. In certain pockets of the organisation this has led to a reduction of staff numbers. Structured processes exist for ensuring that affected employees are redeployed within the organisation as far as is possible. The Group also has processes for assisting employees to take early retirement. Training and development In meeting skills development needs FirstRand supports the Business Leadership South Africa CEO Skills Commitment which aims to reinforce the sustained development of South Africa’s human capital for meaningfully reducing unemployment, significantly decreasing the number of South Africans living in poverty and sustaining periods of rapid economic growth. Skills development investment R million 2010 2009 % change ACI skills development investment 193 141 37 Other skills development investment 96 86 12 Total skills development investment 289 227 27 ACI skills development investment as % of payroll (%) 5.0 1.5 233 Note: skills development investment calculations have been refined to incorporate requirements in terms of the dti definitions. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 089 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review Training and development 2010 2009 % change Average training days per employee 6 3–6 – Students supported by FirstRand 1 497 1 400 7 Average age of employee graduates and diplomates 31 33 (6) Call centre trainees 317 1 800 (82) Average age of call centre trainees 38 29 31 Employee graduates and diplomates leaving the Group 1 430 1 700 (16) Average age of employee graduates and diplomates leaving the Group 30 32 (6) FirstRand has responded to this commitment through: Talent management and employment equity • continuously developing the Group’s existing skills base; Talent management is addressed through processes for attracting, growing, and retaining talent. Effective performance management • b uilding strong future skills pipelines for the Group’s expansion processes underpin the Group’s ability to achieve these objectives. and growth; FirstRand is implementing an enterprise wide human resource • opening skills acquisition to those not yet in employment; and management information system with a view to continually • engaging with government, trade unions, learning institutions improving the effectiveness of talent management practices. and other corporations in responding to South Africa’s skills Exco is responsible for developing and successfully implementing development challenge. the Group’s Employment Equity policy. Divisional CEOs provide Examples of additional financial services skills development quarterly reports on employment equity performance to the Board activities include: via the Transformation monitoring committee. • INSETA skills development programme; Detail in respect of the Group’s employment equity performance • BankSETA Letsema programme; and and profile is shown in the Transformation monitoring committee report on page 99. • BankSETA Kuyasa programme. FirstRand’s leadership development initiatives include: Operational health and safety (“OHS”) FirstRand’s operating divisions have officers who monitor health • junior board committees; and safety issues and implement measures to ensure optimal • mentoring and coaching by senior executives; health and safety conditions for the Group’s employees. • career enhancement programmes; Every quarter FirstRand’s divisional heads of compliance meet • leadership immersion programme; with subject matter experts, including an occupational health and • junior leadership programme; safety expert, to discuss all incidents of non compliance in order to • senior management development programme; ensure that incidents are resolved and that measures are taken to prevent reoccurrence. • executive development programme; and • industry specific compliance training. 090 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability HIV/AIDS Employee volunteers FirstRand has a comprehensive HIV/AIDS policy and management One in five of the Group’s employees are involved in voluntary work strategy covering all of the Group’s workforce. Key elements of under the banner “helping people to help themselves”. The the policy address the strategic and proactive management of community initiatives run by FirstRand’s Volunteers programme HIV/AIDS and ensuring that employees have access to holistic provide employees across the Group with the opportunity to and sustainable healthcare programmes. engage in community projects that they find meaningful. The The policy places special emphasis on divisional engagement Group’s Matched Funding programme and Annual Chairman’s surveys, education, prevention, non discrimination, confidentiality, Volunteer Recognition Awards programme help to facilitate, voluntary counselling and testing, incapacity management and support and inspire employees to continue to meet the needs of sick leave entitlement. our community. Employee engagement Stakeholders are referred to page 104 for a detailed review of the activities of FirstRand’s Volunteers programme. Methods for employee engagement include face-to-face communication, electronic media, employee surveys, circulars CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS and newsletters and interactive forums. FirstRand employees are FirstRand’s divisions operate in the key sectors of South Africa’s entitled to representation by the labour union of their choice and financial services market. These are retail and commercial FirstRand engages with employee representatives using similar banking, investment and corporate banking, moveable asset channels to those used for employees. Employees are enabled to finance, life and health insurance, asset management and short recommend operational improvements to Exco via innovation term insurance. initiatives such as the FNB Innovator’s awards. FirstRand holds regular seminars on the Group’s business Access to financial services philosophy at which newly appointed middle and senior managers FirstRand’s emphasis on innovation encourages new solutions for can engage the Group chief executive on issues relating to extending access to financial services to new markets through FirstRand’s corporate culture and values. The Group holds an innovative and convenient channels. The successful migration of annual conference at which senior management, the executive customers to convenience non branch banking channels such as and the Board of directors interact on the setting of strategic cellphone and internet banking has accompanied efficiencies in direction for the Group. the delivery of access to financial services. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 091 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review Retail banking access points 2010 2009 % change Retail representation points FNB 657 687 (4) FNB Africa 95 91 4 Total retail representation points 752 778 (3) ATMs FNB 5 557 5 311 4 FNB Africa 511 479 7 Total ATMs 6 068 5 790 5 Total retail banking access points 6 820 6 568 4 Retail customer performance indicators 2010 2009 % change Total retail customers (000) FNB 6 840 6 504 5 WesBank 632 645 (2) Momentum (direct customers) 5 583 3 900 43 OUTsurance 820 683 20 Total retail customers 13 875 11 732 18 Customer satisfaction FNB (net promoter score) (%)1 36 35 – WesBank (net promoter score) (%)1 60 52 – OUTsurance (% satisfied customers) 89 89 – 1 Net promoter score measures customer satisfaction as a percentage of customers who actively promote the brand. 092 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Corporate and Investment Banking Rehabilitation of home loan customers is an important focus and During the year FirstRand’s Exco has overseen the creation of a the Group assists customers to find financial solutions designed to new integrated Corporate and Investment Banking (“CIB”) unit. avoid home repossessions. Detail is available at www.fnb.co.za. The objectives of the integrated unit are to Regulation and compliance enhance service to corporate customers, FirstRand and its operating divisions implement a range of increase coverage and competitive procedures for ensuring compliance with regulations dealing with advantage, deliver superior offerings to customer relationships. These are overseen by the Group’s clients and significantly improve FirstRand’s compliance function, with Board oversight via the Audit, risk and share of revenues in the corporate, compliance committee. Customer protection provisions for which institutional and interbank markets. FirstRand’s operating divisions have implemented compliance measures include: The new CIB unit has been created through aligning FNB’s Corporate Banking Group activities to sit alongside the existing • the National Credit Act; CIB businesses within RMB. A combined Client Coverage team, operating across all targeted geographic markets, was also put in • the Code of Banking Practice; place to maximise value from the full suite of CIB products offered • the Financial Intelligence Centres Act; to corporate customers. • the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act; and Debt remediation • the Promotion of Access to Information Act. Advances are managed in line with the Group’s balance sheet management policy and credit controls, detail of which can be Customer engagement found on pages 114 to 231. FirstRand employs a broad range of communication channels for customers. Its operating divisions have the most direct interface with customers and each employs an appropriate mix of communication channels. These channels include face-to-face communication, electronic media, transactional communication, surveys, circulars and newsletters, conferences, media briefings and press releases. Where necessary use is made of independent survey specialists. During the year under review 13 208 consumers attended face-toface financial planning workshops provided by the Group. Debt counselling and rehabilitation processes and consumer education workshops are not purely reactive and aim to prevent over indebtedness through ensuring that customers understand the obligations associated with taking credit. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 093 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT FirstRand recognises good procurement practice as an effective way of contributing to economic development and the entrenchment of sustainable and ethical business practices within the Group’s supply chain. BEE procurement R million 2010 2009 % change BEE procurement spend BEE procurement spend 5 387 4 683 15 Other procurement spend 3 514 4 132 (15) Total procurement spend 8 900 8 815 1 BEE procurement spend as a % of total spend (%) 61 53 – Data reflects calendar year due to BEE reporting timeframes. FirstRand’s philosophy toward black economic empowerment of Climate change strategy suppliers is business and value based and not driven by legal “As a developing country we cannot miss the imperatives. FirstRand has a Group wide BEE procurement policy opportunity of transition towards a low which sets out guidelines for implementing BEE procurement carbon economy. Sustainable economic practices. FirstRand’s performance in respect of BEE procurement development is not a luxury, but a is also measured against the targets set by the dti Codes of Good requirement to strategically position our Practice. economy for this century.” – Sizwe Nxasana, CEO FirstRand has formal governance processes which position the The Group’s procurement practices make provision for ensuring Group to take early action on opportunities related to climate that high standards of ethical behaviour are observed by suppliers, change. The Group has a climate change policy, Board oversight of with certain minimum performance standards having been set for climate change performance, senior management responsibility, social and environmental performance. employee training and public disclosure for the implementation of the Group’s climate change strategy. THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT The scope of FirstRand’s carbon footprint calculation is constantly FirstRand defines its direct environmental impacts as the impact being extended and improved. This means that every year the on the natural environment resulting directly from operations and Group is able to account for more of the carbon emissions activities. Indirect impacts are those which result from the Group’s attributable to its operations. As a result of the constant extension relationships with stakeholders, notably customers and suppliers. of this calculation, demonstrating real changes in carbon emissions year-on-year require like-for-like comparisons. 094 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability The table below shows FirstRand’s carbon emissions in terms of the latest calculation with new items in scope. Comparable scope across 2009/2010 is included to show real changes in emissions during the year. Carbon emissions and energy management 2010 % change 2010 (Comparable (Comparable R million (New scope) scope) 2009 scope) Carbon emissions (Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalents)1 Fuel use 295 265 485 (45) Business fleet travel 9 321 9 321 11 173 (17) Electricity (owned buildings) 211 543 206 101 197 587 4 Electricity (leased buildings) 99 639 99 639 173 631 (43) Paper use 5 925 5 709 1 758 225 Business road travel 7 333 5 184 302 1 617 Business air travel 4 386 4 342 4 899 (11) Refrigerants 2 598 – Not in scope Not in scope Total carbon emissions 341 040 330 561 389 835 (15) Energy used (Kw/h) (000) 297 855 292 572 371 218 (21) Energy saved (Kw/h) (000) 14 612 14 529 18 584 (22) Value of savings (R’000) 4 708 4 463 6 632 (33) 1 All figures reflect the prior financial year due to the duration of the carbon footprint calculation. During the year under review FirstRand’s energy management enterprise-wide monitoring and reporting in respect of waste performance was recognised when the Group won the Eskom management. ETA Award for Energy Efficiency in the commercial sector. Energy consumption, and specifically electricity consumption, INDIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT constitutes one of FirstRand’s principal direct environmental Equator Principles and Environmental and impacts. In June 2009 the Group became a signatory of the Energy Social Risk Analysis Efficiency Accord and committed to reducing energy consumption FirstRand became an Equator Principles Finance Institution in by 12% before 2015. July 2009 by becoming a signatory to the Equator Principles. The FirstRand has set carbon intensity targets Equator Principles apply to all structured project finance activities, in order to monitor and manage its carbon as defined by Basel II, where the capital costs associated with the reduction from 10.2 metric tonnes of CO2 project are US$10 million or above. emissions per capita per full time employee in 2009 to 8.6 metric tonnes by 2012. Current FirstRand’s adoption of the Equator Principles demonstrates emissions are approximately the Group’s long term commitment to socially responsible 8.7 metric tonnes of CO2 emissions per capita banking practices. per full time employee indicating good progress toward the 2012 target. The Group has committed to extending Environmental and Social Risk Analysis (“ESRA”) practices beyond transactions accounted Waste management for in terms of the Equator Principles. The ESRA process is based On average the Group recycles approximately 180 tonnes of waste on the Equator Principles requirements and will form part of the per month. Processes are in place to ensure more effective loan application process for the affected lending activities. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 095 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review The roadmap below details our progress in implementing Equator Principles and ESRA processes. Equator Principles and ESRA roadmap Continuous Development Affected operations Implement monitoring of of policy for to implement recommendations compliance to set Development of a operations and improvement from continuous processes and FirstRand policy subsidiaries, recommendations monitoring annual review relating to the and capacity from internal gap of policies and management of building internally analysis processes environmental within FirstRand and social risks with a focus on Equator Principle Review of expansion in lending Implement of processes to other (July 2009) compliance initially First year of recommendations lending activities not complete from internal audit or included in ESRA statistics for internal assurance Internal gap processes analysis to be Equator conducted by Principles FirstRand Equator Principles Corporate Centre signatories (July 2009) in relation to ESRA and Equator Principles Year 2: Implemented systems, Year 4: Expansion of Year 1 (Grace Period): Develop corporate Year 3: Second year of reporting of data, internal audit review processes and divisional policy, build internal capacity, implementation – and assurance processes related and continuous and develop risk assessment processes process improvements to systems improvement For more detail on the Equator and the ESRA processes please visit www.firstrandsusrep.co.za. Stakeholder engagement During the year FirstRand engaged with the following external stakeholders in the development and implementation of measures for effectively managing the Group’s direct and indirect environmental impacts: The Banking Association of South Africa, Business Unity South Africa, South African National Business Initiative, The British High Commission and The British Commonwealth and Foreign Office, South African Department of Energy, South African Department of Water and Environmental Affairs and the United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative. For more detail regarding our stakeholders and our environmental resource management programs, please visit www.firstrandsusrep.co.za PROCEEDINGS AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW FirstRand’s Exco meets monthly. During the year under review Exco conducted an effectiveness survey and is satisfied that the committee has met the requirements of its charter. SE Nxasana Chief executive officer 13 September 2010 096 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability TRANSFORMATION MONITORING COMMITTEE Ben van der Ross, Chairman Composition FirstRand’s Transformation monitoring committee comprises non executive directors and executives from FirstRand and its major subsidiaries. The non executive directors include the three representatives from FirstRand’s BEE partners. The committee is chaired by an independent non executive director. Role The committee monitors the implementation of the Group’s strategy for realising its BEE transformation objectives and oversees all transformation related activities. “Responsibility for the implementation of strategies to achieve the objectives of the dti Codes of Good Practice (“CoGP”) rests with executive management.” During the year the chairman provided detailed reports to the Board on issues addressed by the committee. 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Focus area Actions Transformation performance The committee has overseen reports from FirstRand’s BEE credentials unit, which collates the scorecard data and information necessary to complete the scorecard against which the Group’s BEE credentials are measured. Operationalised transformation The committee has received quarterly reports via divisional chief executives on transformation objectives activities and progress made by their respective operating divisions. The committee has also provided strategic advice to executive management in respect of BEE objectives. Talent management and The committee has reviewed practices for facilitating enhanced talent management and employment equity employment equity. Self regulation on FSC The committee has defined processes for self regulation in respect of transformation components obligations formerly required in terms of the FSC. TRANSFORMATION PERforMANCE SCORECARD The 2009 calendar year represents the first year of reporting transformation performance against the dti scorecard. The table below describes FirstRand’s externally audited performance for the year ending 31 December 2009. FirstRand dti score Score Symbol Level ≥ 100% AAA+ Level 1 ≤ 85% – 100% AAA Level 2 FirstRand score ≤ 75% – 85% AA Level 3 ≤ 65% – 75% A Level 4 ≤ 55% – 65% BBB Level 5 ≤ 45% – 55% BBB Level 6 ≤ 40% – 45% B Level 7 ≥ 30% but ≤ 40% C Level 8 ≤ 30% D Non compliant While accurate comparisons against the Group’s 2008 FSC score are not possible, the committee is satisfied that these results represent an improvement on the previous year. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 097 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT CONTROL of BEE capital contributions, vendor and third party funding. According to the dti CoGP measurements, in December 2009 the Pursuant to the unbundling of Discovery Holdings Limited by FirstRand in 2007, FRET became the holder of 20.4 million audited direct black shareholding in FirstRand’s South African Discovery ordinary shares in addition to the 363.8 million operations was 18%. FirstRand ordinary shares it already held. BBBEE transaction As part of FirstRand’s BBBEE transaction 171.4 million FirstRand In 2005 FirstRand facilitated the acquisition of 6.5% of its issued shares were issued to black staff. 136.4 million shares were issued share capital (363.8 million FirstRand ordinary shares) by the to employees, 15 million shares to black non executive directors FirstRand Empowerment Trust (“FRET”) as part of its BEE and 20 million shares to FirstRand’s black staff assistance transaction. The BEE transaction was funded through a combination trust which combined constituted 3.55% of FirstRand. FirstRand’s BEE partners include broad based trusts, their investment companies and the FirstRand Empowerment Foundation as set out below: Direct BBBEE shareholding Participation Effective interest At 31 December 2009 in FRET in FirstRand Funder participation in FRET FirstRand Empowerment Foundation 32.3% 1.7% The Kagiso Charitable Trust 25.8% 1.3% Kagiso Trust Investment 6.4% 0.3% The WDB Trust 11.3% 0.6% WDB Investment Holdings 2.8% 0.1% The Mineworkers Investment Trust 12.3% 0.6% MIC Financial Holdings 3.1% 0.2% Performance linked units 6.0% 0.3% FRET total 100.0% 5.1% Employee share trust 3.5% Total direct BBBEE shareholding 8.6% FirstRand Empowerment Trust refinancing At the time of the transaction it was always envisaged that FRET would, subject to it being commercially feasible, refinance the third party funding in 2010 for a further 5 years since the BEE transaction contemplated a 10 year term maturing in 2014. In April 2010 FirstRand and FRET announced the successful refinancing of approximately R3.37 billion of existing third party funding. FirstRand and FRET believe that the refinancing will result in an optimal funding structure for the remaining term of the BEE transaction and will result in a robust and sustainable BEE transaction, particularly in light of increased market volatility. Following the implementation of the refinancing, FRET holds 5.1% of FirstRand. 098 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability Black employees share trust Staff assistance trust FirstRand’s black South African employees participate in the Black At the time of the FirstRand BBBEE transaction the Staff employee share trust which holds 136.4 million ordinary shares in assistance trust was established. The trust holds 20 million FirstRand. Comprehensive details relating to this scheme and FirstRand shares. Its main objective is to assist black employees of other share option schemes, the pricing thereof and the vesting the FirstRand Group with educational, healthcare and other needs. criteria are disclosed in note 33 to the Group annual financial This includes the granting of bursaries and scholarships for these statements. employees and their immediate families. Black non executive director participation EMPLOYMENT EQUITY Group black non executive directors are also participants in FirstRand has established, in terms of Sections 16 and 17 of the FirstRand’s BEE transaction. KC Shubane, SE Nxasana, BJ van Employment Equity Act, a Group Employment equity consultative der Ross, NN Gwagwa, G Moloi, AT Nzimande, N Langa-Royds, forum which is tasked with monitoring the progress of employment P Mjoli, W Jardine and S Sithole were each granted rights to equity plans and interventions of the Group and providing 1 million FirstRand ordinary shares in terms of the FirstRand recommendations to the Transformation monitoring committee. Black non executive directors’ trust deed. Subsequent to the first Employment equity and diversity management policies which allocation E Matenge-Sebesho was allocated 1 million shares as a provide clear guidelines for the management of human resource price of R17.60 when she joined the Board of FirstRand Bank development are in place. in August 2008. In accordance with the rules of the scheme Mr Nxasana has retained his rights since becoming an executive FirstRand addresses disability equity via a Group disability forum. director. The Group’s disability policies address recruitment, performance management, declaration procedures and measures necessary to The original rights entitle the non executive directors to receive the accommodate special needs of disabled employees. The Disability shares on 31 December 2014 at a price of R12.28 per share plus forum is also responsible for raising awareness in respect of the holding and other related costs less dividends received on the challenges faced by disabled people. shares by the trust. Following the Discovery unbundling the proceeds from the sale of Discovery shares, which would have Over the past year FirstRand embarked on an exercise to increase accrued to the participants, were used to reduce their financing disclosure of disabilities by employees in order to improve loans. accommodation of special needs. In the event of a director ceasing to be a director prior to 31 December 2014, the participation rights of that director are reduced by 10% in respect of each year prior to 31 December 2014 during which he/she is not a director. Breakdown of FirstRand’s 2010 South African workforce profile 2010 Male Female Foreign national Grand Occupational levels A C I W A C I W Male Female total Top management 5 1 6 37 4 – 2 5 1 1 62 Senior management 94 36 114 630 60 28 44 237 5 2 1 250 Middle management 803 315 702 2 476 680 644 743 2 189 24 9 8 585 Junior management 1 530 617 738 1 108 2 450 1 849 1 264 3 038 13 5 12 612 Semi skilled 2 843 775 631 855 5 132 1 971 975 2 202 21 3 15 408 Unskilled 347 50 6 7 278 48 2 1 – 1 740 Total permanent 5 622 1 794 2 197 5 113 8 604 4 540 3 030 7 672 64 21 38 657 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 099 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review The slow down in economic activity during the year impacted there have been changes to suppliers’ BEE ratings during the year employment growth and caused certain operating divisions to these changes are assessed and necessary actions are taken to scale down or place a moratorium on filling positions. This has ensure adherence to BEE procurement policy. negatively impacted the employment equity component of Detailed disclosure on FirstRand’s BEE procurement performance FirstRand’s BEE transformation performance. can be found on page 94. SKILLS DEVELOPMENT ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT Skills development investment is regarded as a strategic non Enterprise development focuses on providing financial and financial performance area at FirstRand. Detailed disclosure in mentoring support to exempt micro enterprises (“EMEs”) and BEE respect of the Group’s skills development performance can be qualifying small enterprises (“QSEs’). found on page 89 in the report from FirstRand’s Exco. During the year the committee approved the establishment of PREFERENTIAL PROCUREMENT an enterprise development fund which will deliver enterprise FirstRand’s Procurement committee conducts an annual review of development financing and support to EMEs and QSEs on behalf of BEE companies that have been awarded supplier contracts. Where the Group. 100 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability SOCIO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT More detail in respect of access to financial services can be found FirstRand has achieved maximum points for the Group’s Corporate on page 91. Social Investment/socio economic development programme. Details of the activities of the FirstRand Foundation can be found Empowerment financing on page 102. Various leadership roles are taken by FirstRand’s operating divisions with regard to empowerment financing depending on SELF REGULATED COMPONENTS (Former FSC their areas of expertise and focus. Empowerment financing obligations) includes delivery of low income housing finance, the financing of Access to financial services is addressed through: BEE small and medium sized enterprises and the provision of finance for emerging BEE agriculture. Participation in • extension of service points to rural areas; and transformational infrastructure finance in underdeveloped • delivering consumer financial literacy to previously disadvantaged regions is a focus area. BEE transactions include the facilitation of markets. BEE ownership and Equity deals. PROCEEDINGS AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW Membership and attendance of FirstRand directors at the committee meetings held during the year was as follows: Aug 2009 Nov 2009 Jan 2010 May 2010 BJ van der Ross – Chairman √ √ √ √ NN Gwagwa √ √ √ √ AP Nkuna A √ √ A AT Nzimande √ √ √ √ KB Schoeman √ √ A √ During the year under review FirstRand’s Transformation monitoring committee members conducted an effectiveness survey and are satisfied that the committee has met the requirements of its charter. BJ van der Ross Chairman, Transformation monitoring committee 13 September 2010 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 101 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review FIRSTRAND FOUNDATION Sizwe Nxasana, CEO Composition The FirstRand Foundation is professionally managed by Tshikululu Social Investments, an independent non profit corporate social investment consultancy. The trustees of the Foundation comprise eight executives from within the Group and four independent trustees with expert knowledge in the areas that the Foundation seeks to support. The Foundation is chaired by FirstRand’s CEO. “Given the challenges faced by South African society, FirstRand’s CSI strategy is not about marketing or publicity. It is about ensuring change for those who need it most.” – SE Nxasana Role The Foundation is the principal vehicle for FirstRand’s direct corporate social investment contribution to society. The Foundation has five funds, one for each of the Group’s major brands. Each fund has its own focus running in parallel to those of the other brands and operating in complementary ways. 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Focus area Actions Grant making and beneficiary The Foundation has overseen the granting of R73 million to beneficiary organisations. Special engagement programmes are in place to ensure ongoing engagement with these organisations. Employee volunteers The Foundation provides ongoing funding for FirstRand’s employee volunteers initiatives. Since the launch of the programme in 2003, employees have donated over R15 million. This amount has been matched by FirstRand with a further R15 million. Maths chairs and bursaries The Foundation has overseen the granting of R10 million in bursaries for 214 student beneficiaries. The Foundation has also overseen an initial R20 million endowment established in 2008 to create maths education chairs at South African universities as part of the tenth anniversary of the formation of FirstRand in 1998. 102 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability REVIEW OF OPERATIONS During the 2010 financial year the trustees approved grants across all provinces of the Republic of South Africa to the value of R73 million. A further R1.7 million was made available from separate endowments for the funding of a number of tertiary education scholarships. Grants and beneficiaries R’000 2010 2009 % change Grants made Business trust/skills development – 6 050 – HIV/AIDS and vulnerable children 12 945 12 831 1 Community care 7 260 7 340 (1) Education – maths, outreach programmes and early childhood development 13 023 15 066 (14) Bursaries 10 028 8 472 18 Arts culture and heritage 5 935 6 250 (5) Environment 3 855 4 982 (23) Agricultural livelihoods 3 730 4 130 (10) Prevention of substance abuse 2 300 2 300 0 People with disabilities 7 561 8 236 (8) Business Against Crime/Heartlines 1 750 1 990 (12) Policy formulation/advocacy 1 290 1 320 (2) Employee volunteers matched funds 3 000 4 000 (25) Total grants made 72 677 82 967 (12) During the year 205 students received funding for tertiary education and a further 13 for postgraduate study. Bursaries 2010 2009 % change Students receiving funding Students receiving funding for tertiary education 205 215 (5) Students receiving funding for postgraduate study 13 25 (48) Total number of students receiving funding 218 240 (9) FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 103 Strategy & philosophy Financial highlights Group at a glance Chairman’s statement CEO’s report COO &CFO’s report Ten year review Composition and management Momentum Fund The FirstRand Foundation was established in 1998 and is the A philosophy of self belief, and inspiring people to achieve dedicated legal vehicle through which FirstRand and its major success, forms the driving force behind the Momentum brand. brands direct social giving to meaningful development initiatives. As an enabler of success, the company continually strives to do The Foundation meets quarterly to receive reports from Tshikululu better for its staff, intermediaries, customers and the community Social Investments, approve grants, review requests for new at large. Momentum’s social investment initiatives are driven by funding and to receive evaluation reports on projects being the Momentum Fund and supported by the Momentum Volunteers supported. Programme. The programmes run by the Momentum Fund are: The companies within the FirstRand Group (FirstRand, First • disability programme; National Bank, Momentum, Rand Merchant Bank and WesBank) contribute 1% of their normalised earnings to the FirstRand • community orphaned and vulnerable children HIV/AIDS Foundation, which channels the funds to a variety of causes. programme; and • bursary programme. FNB Fund In line with the vision of being a great business helping to create FirstRand Fund a better world, FNB views its role within the country as going The FirstRand Fund has a number of strategic education, beyond that of a major player in the business environment. empowerment and policy partnerships, to best effect the An important element in achieving the goal of helping to create a development and empowerment of South African communities on stronger society is the work of the FNB Fund. The Fund has five a national scale. The key focus areas of the FirstRand Fund include flagship programmes to reflect its focus areas: support for strategic partners like the Business Trust, Business • tertiary bursary programme; Against Crime and the National Business Initiative. FirstRand also supports the area of policy development through organisations • community care programme; like the Centre for Development and Enterprise. The FirstRand • early childhood development programme; Fund programmes are the: • hospice (HIV/AIDS) programme; and • strategic partners programme; and • secondary schools maths and science initiative. • FirstRand Foundation SA Maths Education Chairs Initiative. RMB Fund Strategic partners programme As one of South Africa’s leading investment banks, RMB The FirstRand Fund has a number of strategic partnerships. The continually strives to be a good corporate citizen, and works to Fund has entered into meaningful funding relationships with a secure a sustainable future for its business, communities, the selected number of partners, on behalf of its group member funds, environment and our country. It celebrates South Africa’s diversity in order to best effect the development and empowerment of and heritage, with an emphasis on a richer world for future South African communities on a national scale. Support is given generations. The RMB Fund’s programmes are: to initiatives supported by the FirstRand BEE empowerment • arts, culture and heritage programme; partnerships. These investments line up with the overall strategy of the Foundation. The beneficiaries are: • environment programme; and • maths leadership programme (including the FirstRand • JB Marks Education Trust Fund (Mineworkers Investment Foundation SA Maths Education Chairs Initiative). Trust); • Mineworkers Development Agency (Mineworkers Invest­ment WesBank Fund Trust); WesBank believes that the need to empower communities to become selfsupporting is one of the most pressing needs in • Women’s Development Business (WBD Trust); and South Africa. Only in breaking the cycle of poverty and dependence • Beyers Naude Schools Development Programme (Kagiso can people regain their dignity and catch a glimpse of a brighter Trust). future. The WesBank Fund has developed three flagship programmes: Employee volunteers • agricultural livelihoods programme; Grants made include matched funding for work done by the FirstRand employee volunteers who give of their time, knowledge, • emergency relief and disaster management programme; and skills and money to a wide range of beneficiaries. During the year • substance abuse programme. volunteer activities included community river cleanups and tree 104 Normalised earnings Group structure Review of operations Corporate governance and sustainability planting ceremonies. During “Caring for our World Week”, FirstRand Foundation and its partners. The Initiative is being donations of food and clothing through the Group’s “Winter Drive”, co-funded by the FirstRand Foundation with the RMB Fund (37.5%), the funding and installation of bakeries and vegetable tunnels, the Anglo American Chairman’s Fund (37.5%) and the Department repairing and painting of schools and homes for the aged and the of Science and Technology (25%) to the total value of R2 million a funding and purchase of soccer equipment for schools across the year, per chair, for a five year period. country were some of the programmes implemented. Since the launch of the programme in 2003, employees have donated over Monitoring and evaluation R15 million. This amount has been matched by FirstRand with a Measuring the impact of work undertaken through the Foundation further R15 million. is taken very seriously by the Foundation and its constituent funds. FirstRand Foundation SA Maths Education Some projects lend themselves to easy measurement while Chairs Initiative others are less easily marked. The FirstRand Foundation assesses The FirstRand Foundation SA Maths Education Chairs Initiative is projects for funding, and their subsequent delivery, using the outcome of the commitment of the FirstRand Foundation, in stringent prefunding tests, along with postfunding reporting partnership with the RMB Fund, to mathematics education in assessments, on-site visits, face-to-face engagements, and South Africa, with a special focus on teacher education and the through the deployment of a dedicated inhouse Monitoring & improvement of learner performance. A national intervention, Evaluation Team using various methodological tools. “Making M4TH5 Count” is a multi-million Rand maths leadership public-private partnership, co-founded by the FirstRand Foundation PROCEEDINGS AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW and the RMB Fund (75%, split 50/50 at R15 million for FirstRand Despite the Foundation experiencing a decrease in contributions Foundation and R15 million for the RMB Fund) and the Department it was able to honour all its funding commitments and of Science and Technology (25%, at R10 million) to jointly fund relationships. The trustees are confident that the Foundation will SA mathematics education chairs at leading local universities. The be able to fulfil its multi-year grant obligations. Foundation has approved a special grant of R30 million (to include both FirstRand and RMB) over five years in support of this During the year the Foundation’s trustees conducted an innovative initiative. This special contribution forms part of the effectiveness survey and are satisfied that they have met the celebration of the Foundation’s 10 years of existence. requirements of its charter. FirstRand Foundation SA Numeracy and Literacy Chairs Initiative The South African Numeracy and Literacy Chairs Initiative is an outcome of the commitment of the FirstRand Foundation to numeracy and literacy in the foundation phase of primary school SE Nxasana education. It is being implemented in cooperation with Chairman, FirstRand Foundation the National Research Foundation, which will administer the SA Numeracy and Literacy Chairs Initiative on behalf of the 13 September 2010 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 105 INTERNAL AUDIT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Internal Audit performed an agreed-upon procedures review on Based on the results of the work performed on FirstRand’s 2010 the FirstRand Corporate Governance and Sustainability Statement. Corporate Governance and Sustainability Statement, Internal The scope and focus of the engagement was as follows: Audit confirms that: governance Report: • The level of data accuracy in the report content was found to be within satisfactory levels. Statements included in the report • identify material qualitative and quantitative statements in the that required improvement were identified and all suggested content of the report; and changes and identified anomalies and misstatements were • verify the accuracy and validity of the selected material corrected prior to the finalisation of the report. Additional statements to supporting evidence. improvements were recommended to management to reduce potential for anomalies and misstatements in future reports. Control Environment: • assess the adequacy of the procedures in place for collecting • Even though the data collection processes are not formally and processing Corporate Governance and Sustainability documented in all instances, reliance is placed on guidance information; provided by the GRI, the JSE SRI index, BEE transformation reporting requirements and the King III code. • assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the controls that have specifically been put in place to generate information for • As required by King III, stakeholders were identified and inclusion in the Corporate Governance and Sustainability report; adequately addressed in the report. • confirm that the report is approved and signed off in accordance • The report content includes information pertaining to the major with agreed approval and sign off processes; and operating divisions and local and international subsidiaries and is closely aligned to the Environmental, Social and Governance • assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the controls in place risks identified by FirstRand. over: – alignment of the report with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 guidelines, the JSE Socially Responsible Investment index (SRI), BEE transformation reporting requirements and the King III Code; J John – stakeholder inclusiveness; and Chief audit executive – boundary setting and completeness. 13 September 2010 106 FIRSTRAND GROUP FIRSTRAND GROUP ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FIRSTRAND GROUP FirstRand LIMITED 109 Directors’ responsibility statement 109 Group secretary’s certification 110 Independent auditor’s report 111 Directors’ report 114 Risk and capital management report 232 Accounting policies 259 Consolidated income statement 260 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 261 Consolidated statement of financial position 262 Consolidated statement of equity 264 Consolidated statement of cash flows 265 Consolidated statement of headline earnings and dividends 267 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements 408 Company annual financial statements 427 Definitions 429 Abbreviations Directors’ responsibility statement The directors of FirstRand Limited are responsible in terms of the Companies Act for preparation of the annual financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) which fairly present the state of affairs of the Company and the Group, as at the end of the financial year, and the net income and cash flows for the year. In preparing the accompanying financial statements suitable accounting policies have been applied and reasonable estimates made. The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep adequate accounting records which enables them to comply with the Companies Act. The directors are responsible for the Group’s system of internal control. To enable the directors to meet these responsibilities, the Board sets the standards for internal control aimed at reducing the risk of error or loss in a cost effective manner. The standards include the proper delegation of responsibilities within a clearly defined framework, effective accounting procedures and adequate segregation of duties to ensure an acceptable level of risk. The focus of risk management in the Group is on identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring all known forms of risk across the Group. Based on the information and explanations given by management and the internal auditors, the directors are of the opinion that the accounting controls are adequate and that the financial records may be relied on in preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS and maintaining accountability for the Group’s assets and liabilities. Nothing has come to the attention of the directors to indicate that any breakdown in the functioning of these controls, resulting in a material loss to the Group has occurred during the year and up to the date of this report. The directors have reviewed the Company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in the light of the current and anticipated economic conditions. On the basis of this review the directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future and on this basis they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the annual financial statements. It is the responsibility of the Group’s independent external auditors to report on the presentation of the financial statements. Their unqualified report appears on page 110. The financial statements of the Group and the Company which appear on pages 232 to 407 and 408 to 426 respectively and specified sections of the risk management report respectively were approved by the Board of directors on September 13, 2010 and are signed on its behalf by: LL Dippenaar SE Nxasana Chairman Chief executive officer Sandton 13 September 2010 Group secretary’s certification DECLARATION BY THE COMPANY SECRETARY IN RESPECT OF SECTION 268G (d) OF THE COMPANIES ACT I declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the Company has lodged with the Registrar of Companies all such returns as required of a public company in terms of the Companies Act and that all such returns are true, correct and up to date. BW Unser Company secretary 13 September 2010 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 109 Independent auditor’s report TO THE MEMBERS OF FIRSTRAND LIMITED The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, We have audited the group annual financial statements and annual including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of financial statements of FirstRand Limited which comprise the the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making consolidated and separate statements of financial position as at 30 those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control June 2010, and the consolidated and separate statements of relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are year then ended, a summary of significant accounting policies and appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of other explanatory notes, the directors’ report, as set out on pages expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal 111 to 426, and certain tables defined as “audited” in the risk control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of report on pages 114 to 231. accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall Directors’ responsibility for the financial statements presentation of the financial statements. The company’s directors are responsible for the preparation and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Companies Act of South Africa. This responsibility Opinion includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of material respects, the consolidated and separate financial financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate position of FirstRand Limited as at 30 June 2010, and its accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are consolidated and separate financial performance and its reasonable in the circumstances. consolidated and separate cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and Auditor’s responsibility in the manner required by the Companies Act of South Africa. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc whether the financial statements are free from material Director: Fulvio Tonelli misstatement. Registered auditor Sandton An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 13 September 2010 110 Directors’ report NATURE OF BUSINESS Dividends FirstRand Limited (“FirstRand”) is the holding company of the Ordinary shares FirstRand group of companies. These companies are engaged in The following ordinary cash dividends were declared in respect of diverse financial services such as retail, commercial and the 2010 financial year. investment banking, instalment finance, short term and life insurance. While the Group is predominantly South African based, Cents per share 2010 2009 it has operations in Namibia, Swaziland, Botswana, Zambia, Interim (declared 8 March 2010) 34.00 34.00 Moçambique, Lesotho, Mauritius, the United Kingdom, the Middle Final (declared 13 September 2010*) 43.00 22.00 East, Australia and India. 77.00 56.00 FirstRand is listed under “Financial – Banks (“FSR”)” on the * The last day to trade in FirstRand shares on a cum-dividend basis in Securities Exchange of JSE Limited (“JSE”) and the Namibian respect of the final dividend will be Friday 8 October 2010 the first Stock Exchange (“FSR”). day to trade ex-dividend will be Monday 11 October 2010. The record date will be Friday 15 October 2010 and the payment date Monday 18 October 2010. No dematerialisation or A simplified FirstRand Group organogram is shown on page 34. rematerialisation of shares may be done during the period Monday 11 October 2010 to Friday 15 October 2010, both days inclusive. GROUP RESULTS A general review of the financial results of the Group and the Preference shares operations of its subsidiaries commences on page 35. “B” Preference shares The financial results have been prepared in accordance with Dividends on the “B” preference shares are calculated at a rate of International Financial Reporting Standards. 68% of the prime lending rate of First National Bank. The “B1” preference shares were incorporated in the “B” preference shares Earnings effective 4 January 2010. The following dividends have been Headline earnings were as follows: declared and paid: % Cents per share 2010 2009 R million 2010 2009 change “B” “B” “B1” Banking Group 8 234 6 076 36 Period 26 August 2008 – FNB Life 416 334 25 23 February 2009 518.9 518.9 FirstRand Limited 28 1 >100 Period 24 February 2009 Consolidation of treasury – 31 August 2009 423.1 423.1 shares (259) (457) 43 Period 1 September 2009 – Dividend payment on non 22 February 2010 342.3 cumulative non redeemable Period 23 February 2010 preference shares (344) (464) 26 – 30 August 2010 355.0 Headline earnings from 697.3 942.0 942.0 continuing operations 8 075 5 490 47 Momentum Group 1 388 1 324 5 SHARE CAPITAL FirstRand shares held by Details of the company’s authorised share capital as at 30 June Momentum policyholders (10) 125 >100 2010 are shown in note 13 to the company’s financial statements. Headline earnings from continuing and Ordinary share capital discontinued operations 9 453 6 939 9 453 There were no changes to authorised or issued ordinary share Diluted headline earnings capital during the year. from continuing and discontinued operations per share (cents) 178.1 133.1 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 111 Directors’ report / continued Preference share capital the JSE and the necessary flexibility to realise its strategic There were no changes to authorised preference share capital objectives. during the year. Following the unbundling FirstRand remains committed to The issued “B1” non cumulative non redeemable preference pursuing the synergistic benefits that exist between banking, shares were incorporated in the “B” non cumulative non insurance and asset management activities with the merged redeemable preference shares effective 4 January 2010. entity, particularly given the success of FNB Insurance and the significant growth opportunities for the new entity. This will SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS be structured as a preferred strategic relationship based on The following shareholders have a beneficial interest of 5% or commercial terms. more in the issued ordinary shares of the company. The merger of Metropolitan and Momentum and the subsequent % 2010 2009 unbundling of the merged entity by FirstRand is expected to be completed by end of October 2010. RMB Holdings Limited 30.06 30.06 Financial Securities Limited (Remgro) 8.53 8.53 As a result the investment in Momentum Group Limited has been Public Investment Corporation 11.77 9.48 reclassified as a discontinued operation for the 2010 financial FirstRand Empowerment Trust and results, as required by IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and related parties 8.76 9.49 discontinued operations. A further analysis of shareholders is set out on page 435. Barnard Jacobs Mellet EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO REPORTING DATE On 21 June 2010 FirstRand announced its firm intention to purchase the issued share capital of BJM by way of a scheme of Momentum and Metropolitan arrangement in terms of section 311 of the Companies Act 61 of In March 2010 FirstRand, Momentum and Metropolitan announced 1973, as amended. On 23 August 2010 the scheme meeting held by that an agreement was reached to merge Momentum and BJM approved the scheme of arrangement. Metropolitan to create the third largest listed insurer in South Africa with an embedded value of around R30 billion. To facilitate In terms of the scheme of arrangement FRIHL, a wholly owned the transaction and unlock shareholder value, FirstRand will subsidiary of FirstRand Limited will acquire all issued BJM shares unbundle the new entity. Following implementation of the merger, for a cash consideration of R4.50 per share. Once the sale has FirstRand shareholders will hold 59.3% and current Metropolitan been finalised BJM shares will be delisted. shareholders 40.7% of the share capital of the merged entity. Based on this ratio, when FirstRand’s stake in the merged entity Legal restructure of FirstRand Group is unbundled, FirstRand shareholders can expect to receive Effective 1 July 2010, FirstRand Limited became a bank controlling 16.9 shares in the merged entity for every 100 ordinary shares held company in terms of the Banks Act. This change was approved by in FirstRand. The merger ratio is confirmed based on the the SARB and shareholders and has resulted in a streamlined consistently calculated embedded values of the two entities as at operational and governance structure. Refer to page 434 for the 31 December 2009. new Group structure. The new group will be renamed MMI Holdings but this will only No further matters which are material to the financial affairs of the apply to the listed entity. The brands of Momentum and Metropolitan company and the Group occurred between the statement of will continue to be used in the client-facing businesses, where both financial position date and the date of the approval of the financial have established strong and trusted legacies. statements. FirstRand believes this is a very positive transaction for share­ DIRECTORATE holders as it brings two businesses together that have created Details of the directors are on page 59. very successful franchises in different but complementary markets and facilitates a significant expansion of the growth prospects for The late Dr F van Zyl Slabbert retired as an independent non Momentum and Metropolitan. executive director effective 25 November 2009. The Group carefully evaluated the consequences of retaining Following the Group restructure and the designation of FirstRand ownership of the new entity within the FirstRand Group, however, as a bank controlling company: it reached the conclusion that shareholders benefit most from a complete unbundling. • Mr DJA Craig; • Mrs G Moloi; and Not only will it unlock any potential value trapped within FirstRand but will also ensure that the new entity has sufficient free float on • Mr KC Schubane, 112 resigned from the board but have agreed to serve on and have INSURANCE been appointed to FirstRand divisional boards. The Group protects itself against crime risks as well as professional indemnity by carrying large deductibles through a The following independent non executive directors who have all structured insurance risk financing programme. Levels of cover served on the FirstRand Bank board for a number of years were carried commensurate with the size and stature of the Group. also appointed to the FirstRand board, effective 1 July 2010: SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES • Mr JJH Bester; Interests in subsidiary and associate companies which are • Mr WR Jardine; and considered material in the light of the Group’s financial position and its results are on page 390. • Mrs EG Matenge-Sebesho. The board membership of certain FirstRand directors, who had COMPANY SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICES previously served on FirstRand Bank board, is subject to the Mr BW Unser was appointed as company secretary on 1 June 2010 approval of the Registrar of Banks, in view of FirstRand’s status after the retirement of Mr AH Arnott on 31 May 2010. FirstRand’s now, as a bank controlling company. These directors, are included business and postal addresses are on page 437 these are also the in the list of directors on page 437 are: address of the company secretary. • Dr NN Gwagwa; SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS DURING 2010 The following special resolutions relating to FirstRand Limited • Mr AP Nkuna; were passed during 2010: • Mrs AT Nzimande; • General repurchase of shares. • Mr D Premnarayen; and • Amendment to the Memorandum of Association of FirstRand • Mr KB Schoeman. Limited to enable it to register as a bank controlling company. • Amendment to Article of Association enabling FirstRand DIRECTORS’ INTEREST IN FIRSTRAND Limited to register as a bank controlling company. Details of the directors’ interest in the issued ordinary and • Amendment to the Article of Association to change the rights preference shares of FirstRand are on page 70. attached to the “B” and “B1” preference shares. DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS Directors’ emoluments and their participation in share incentive LL Dippenaar SE Nxasana schemes are on page 84. Further information relating to the Chairman Chief executive officer determination of directors’ emoluments, share option allocations and related matters are contained in the remuneration report on page 84. MANAGEMENT BY THIRD PARTIES The directors had no interest in any third party or company responsible for managing any of the business activities of the Group except to the extent that they are shareholders in RMB Holdings, which together with Remgro, has management control of FirstRand. DIRECTORS’ INTEREST IN CONTRACTS During the financial year, no contracts were entered into in which directors or officers of the company had an interest and which significantly affected the business of the Group. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT There is no change in the nature of the property and equipment of the Group or in the policy regarding their use during the year. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 113 Risk and capital management report FirstRand Limited 115 Introduction FirstRand BANKING Group 116 1. Definitions 117 2. High level overview of risk profile 117 3. Integrated risk and capital management 120 4. Risk management framework and governance structure 123 5. Risk profile 123 6. Strategic and business risk 125 7. Capital management 136 8. Credit risk 165 9. Securitisations and conduits 171 10. Counterparty credit risk 173 11. Market risk 176 12. Equity investment risk 179 13. Foreign exchange and translation risk 180 14. Funding and liquidity risk 187 15. Interest rate risk in the banking book 192 16. Operational risk 195 17. Regulatory risk MOMENTUM GROUP 197 1. Risk management philosophy 197 2. Risk management approach 201 3. Strategic and business risk 201 4. Capital management 203 5. Insurance risk 210 6. Credit risk 214 7. Market risk 222 8. Liquidity risk 229 9. Operational risk 231 10. Regulatory risk 231 11. Risk insurance 114 FIRSTRAND LIMITED INTRODUCTION FirstRand’s primary business objective is the generation of taking activities. This entails building revenue streams that are sustainable profits. The effective management of financial and non diverse and creating long term value via sustainable earning pools financial risk is fundamental to the successful and sustainable with acceptable earnings volatility. realisation of the Group’s strategic objectives. Risk taking is The Group defines risk widely – as any factor that, if not adequately an essential part of the Group’s business and FirstRand thus assessed, monitored and managed, may prevent it from achieving explicitly recognises risk assessment, monitoring and manage­ its business objectives or result in adverse outcomes, including ment as core competencies and important differentiators in the damage to its reputation. competitive environment in which it operates. As an integrated financial services provider and through a portfolio of leading FirstRand follows a comprehensive approach to risk and capital franchises, FirstRand wants to be appropriately represented in all management that comprises six core components, illustrated in significant earnings pools across all chosen market and risk the chart below. Components of FirstRand’s approach to risk and capital management risk appetite Best practice risk and capital Assurance through independent methodologies and approaches validation and audit Integration of sustainability, risk and Pervasive stress testing framework and finance in business processes embedding of scenario based thinking governance These core components are discussed further in the major information between individual risk areas and between risk sections of this report: and finance functions (see page 117). • FirstRand’s risk appetite frames all organisational decision • The Group is deploying a comprehensive, consistent and integrated approach to stress testing that is embedded as making and forms the basis for the refinement of risk a business planning and management tool, emphasising identification, assessment and management capabilities (see scenario based analyses in all its decision processes (see pages 119 and 201). page 118). • A strong governance structure and policy framework foster the • I ndependent oversight, validation and audit functions ensure embedding of risk considerations in existing business a high standard across methodological, operational and process processes and ensure that consistent standards exist across components of the Group’s risk and capital management the Group’s operating units (see pages 122 and 200). process (see pages 121 and 199). • Best practice risk and capital methodologies have been Separate risk and capital management reports have been prepared developed in and for the relevant business areas (see pages 123 for the FirstRand Banking Group Super Segment (“the Banking and 201). Group”) – pages 116 to 196 – and Momentum Group – pages 197 (a • An integrated approach to sustainability and managing risk clear distinction is made between current practices in these two was established to facilitate the proactive exchange of entities where appropriate). FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 115 Risk and capital management report / continued FIRSTRAND BANKING GROUP This section of the risk and capital management report covers Risk in FRBH is managed on a group basis with FirstRand Bank the operations of the Banking Group. The Banking Group includes Limited (“FRB”) as its major subsidiary. Some differences the operations of FirstRand Bank Holdings Limited (“FRBH”) and between the practices, approaches, processes and policies of FirstRand Investment Holdings (Pty)Limited (“FRIHL”). Certain FRBH and FRB exist and these are highlighted by reference to banking interests in FRIHL are managed through the operations the appropriate entity, where necessary. All of the information in of the individual banking businesses in FRBH. These, therefore, the risk and capital management report has been audited, fall within the scope of risk management in the Banking Group. except where otherwise indicated. 1. DEFINITIONS The Banking Group is exposed to a number of risks that are inherent in its operations. Identifying, assessing, pricing and managing these risks appropriately are core competencies of the individual business areas. Individual risk types are commonly grouped into three broad categories, namely strategic and business risks, financial risks and operational risks. Page Risk category Risk components Definition reference Strategic and Includes strategic Strategic risk is the risk to current or prospective earnings arising from 123 business risks risk, business risk, adverse business decisions or the improper implementation of such reputational risk, decisions. macroeconomic risk Business risk is the risk to earnings and capital from potential changes in and environmental, the business environment, client behaviour and technological progress. It is social and often termed volume and margin risk and relates to the Banking Group’s governance (“ESG”) ability to generate sufficient levels of revenue to offset its costs. This risks. includes the risk of adverse changes in the macro and global economic conditions. Reputational risk is the risk of reputational damage due to compliance failures, pending litigations or bad press reports. Macroeconomic risk is the risk to the business due to changes in macroeconomic conditions, global economic conditions or credit shocks. ESG risks focus on the environmental, social and governance issues which impact the Banking Group’s ability to successfully and sustainably implement business strategy. Financial risks Capital The Banking Group manages capital by allocating resources effectively in 125 management terms of its risk appetite and in a manner that maximises value for shareholders. The overall objective of capital management is to maintain sound capital ratios and a strong credit rating, ensure confidence in the solvency of the Banking Group during calm and turbulent periods in the economy and financial markets. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of loss due to the non performance of a counterparty 136 in respect of any financial or performance obligation. For fair value portfolios, the definition of credit risk is expanded to include the risk of losses through fair value changes arising from changes in credit spreads. Credit risk also includes credit default risk, presettlement risk, country risk, concentration risk and securitisation risk. Counterparty credit Counterparty credit risk is defined as the risk of a counterparty to a bilateral 171 risk contract, transaction or agreement defaulting prior to the final settlement of the transaction’s cash flows. Market risk Market risk is the risk of adverse revaluation of any financial instrument as 173 a consequence of changes in market prices or rates. Equity investment Equity investment risk is the risk of an adverse change in the fair value of an 176 risk investment in a company, fund or any other financial instrument, whether listed, unlisted or bespoke. 116 Page Risk category Risk components Definition reference Financial risks Foreign exchange Foreign exchange risk is the risk of losses occurring or a foreign 179 and translation risk investment’s value changing from movements in foreign exchange rates. A bank has net open positions in foreign exchange, and as such is exposed to currency risk in its foreign currency positions and foreign investments. Translation risk is the risk associated with banks that deal in foreign currencies or hold foreign assets. The greater the proportion of asset, liability and equity classes denominated in a foreign currency, the greater the translation risk. Funding and Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will not be able to meet all payment 180 liquidity risk obligations as liabilities fall due. It is also the risk of not being able to realise assets when required to do so to meet repayment obligations in a stress scenario. This definition of liquidity risk is expanded in the Funding and liquidity risk section on page 180. Interest rate risk in IRRBB is defined as the sensitivity of a bank’s financial position and 187 the banking book earnings to unexpected, adverse movements in interest rates. (“IRRBB”) Operational Operational risk Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate 192 risk or failed internal processes and systems or from external events and human error. It includes fraud and criminal activity (internal and external), project risk, legal risk, business continuity, information and IT risk, process and human resources risk, but excludes strategic, business and reputational risks. Regulatory risk Regulatory risk is the risk of statutory or regulatory sanction and material 195 financial loss or reputational damage as a result of a failure to comply with any applicable laws, regulations or supervisory requirements. 2. high level overview of risk profile The reader is referred to the COO/CFO report on pages 14 to 27, strength and the Banking Group is adopting a management which provides a high level overview of the Banking Group’s risk approach that seeks to balance independent franchises with strong profile and management approach. central oversight aimed at ensuring optimal outcomes. This is necessary since the optimisation of each individual 3. INTEGRATED RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT franchise’s value does not necessarily ensure the maximisation of the Banking Group’s value, given potential natural offsets as well Focus on sustainability and integration of risk as concentrations across the businesses and efficiency gains and finance available from aggregating, mitigating and managing risks at a A key lesson from the recent developments in the international Banking Group level, where appropriate. financial markets is that failure to take a comprehensive and integrated view, not only across different risk types, but also The franchises are ultimately responsible for maximising risk across the traditionally separate functions of risk and finance, adjusted returns on a sustainable basis, within the limits of the substantially increases the risk of financial underperformance or risk appetite. Significant shifts in the macro environment are also organisational failure. critical to any strategic adjustments. FirstRand manages its business based on a single “house view” which inputs into the The Banking Group considers the sustainability of its earnings budgeting and forecasting process, informs credit origination within acceptable volatility as a core objective and key performance strategies and capital stress testing, directs the interest rate measure. The value of its franchises is ultimately driven by financial positioning of the banking book, and is used for tail risk strategies. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 117 Risk and capital management report / continued There is a central unit tasked with formulating and communicating • embedding the risk culture at all levels in the organisation; this macroeconomic view. It provides the business units with a • t he effective allocation and management of capital in the forecast of key variables that impact the financial position and organisation; spans a three year forecast horizon. Given the volatility of the macroeconomic environ­ment, a core forecast and two risk • t he development of plausible stress tests to provide useful scenarios are presented to the business units for each key variable. information which act as early warning signs and triggers so A severe scenario is also included for stress testing purposes. that contingency plans can be implemented; and These scenarios and forecasts are debated and then communicated • t he determination of the capital management strategy and how to the business units. The outlook is monitored on a daily basis and the organisation will manage its capital including during is updated on a quarterly basis, or more frequently if required. periods of stress. Capital Management and Group Treasury within Corporate Centre Stress testing and scenario based analysis are responsible for the management of the Banking Group’s The evaluation of business plans and strategic options at a Banking capital and liquidity position. The capital position provides the final Group and business level, as well as the choice of tactical steps buffer against adverse business performance under extremely towards implementing these plans is a process that is intrinsically severe economic conditions. For the purpose of determining the linked to the evaluation and assessment of risk. Thinking through strategy with respect to capital management actions and the potential scenarios and how these may evolve based on changes in setting of its dividend policy, scenario analyses are extensively the economic environment, changes in competitors’ strategies as employed as supplements to budgets based on consistent planning well as on the basis of unforeseen events is an integral part of the assumptions and stress scenarios. strategy setting and planning and budgeting processes. The Banking Group, through a combined initiative of its finance, The core scenario reflects the Banking Group’s view on the risks capital and risk functions, continues to integrate financial, capital that are central to its business and which it assumes and manages and risk data and information on a common platform. This accordingly. In addition, several stress scenarios are prepared to information, both actual and through the budget process, is used supplement the core view and inform management action at as a basis for risk, capital and financial analysis and stress testing. a business and Banking Group level with respect to potential The practices instituted are intended to ensure that capital and deviations from budget and the potential implications for earnings liquidity related decisions can be taken in a well coordinated, volatility. In addition reverse stress test scenarios provide proactive manner on the basis of a consistent, integrated view management and regulators with a structured view on potential incorporating aspects of both finance and risk domains. developments that may threaten the stability of the institution. Internal capital adequacy assessment process The Banking Group also recognises the fact that it is exposed to a number of risks that are difficult to anticipate and model and that An important lesson learnt by FirstRand from the financial turmoil, are, therefore, difficult to manage and mitigate economically. is that the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (“ICAAP”) These risks are collectively denoted as “event risks” and are not is key to managing its business. ICAAP is not seen as merely strongly related to the economic environment or the Banking meeting regulatory requirements and this process allows and Group’s strategy. The stress testing framework provides for facilitates: proactive and continuous identification of such potential events • t he link between business strategy, risk introduced and capital and establishes a process in which these are evaluated, discussed required to support the strategy; and escalated across the businesses and the strategy. • t he establishment of frameworks, policies and procedures for Stress testing and scenario analyses have been integrated across the effective management of material risks; the traditionally separate domains of risk and finance. 118 Risk appetite These two measures define the risk capacity and this expression of The level of risk the Banking Group is willing to take on – its risk risk appetite is calibrated against broader financial targets. appetite – is determined by the Board, which also assumes As a function of the business environment and stakeholders’ expectations and together with the primary risk appetite responsibility for ensuring that risks are adequately managed and measures, these provide firm boundaries for the organisation’s controlled through the FRBH Risk, capital and compliance chosen path of growth. committee (“RCC committee”) and its sub­committees, as described in the Risk governance structure section on page 122. In setting the risk appetite, the Executive committee and the Board balance the organisation’s overall risk capacity with a bottom up The risk appetite framework sets out specific principles, objectives view of the planned risk profile for each business. It is in this and measures that link diverse considerations such as strategy process that the Banking Group ultimately seeks to achieve an setting, risk considerations, target capitalisation levels and optimal trade off between its ability to take on risk and the acceptable levels of earnings volatility. As each franchise is sustainability of the returns it delivers to its shareholders. ultimately tasked with the generation of sustainable returns, risk Earnings volatility thresholds were refined for the major risk types appetite acts as a constraint on the assumption of ever more risk and a number of changes to business practices were made to in the pursuit of profits – both in quantum and in kind. For example, ensure that activities remained within its risk appetite. a marginal increase in return in exchange for disproportionately more volatile earnings is not acceptable. Similarly, certain types Risk appetite measures are included in all management reports of risk, such as risks to its reputation, are incompatible with the across the businesses, as well as at board level. These measures business philosophy and thus fall outside its risk appetite. are continually refined as more management information becomes available and stress test results are reported and discussed. In addition to these considerations, risk appetite finds its primary quantitative expression in two measures, namely: Within the Banking Group context, earnings are seen as the primary source of loss absorption under adverse conditions. The Banking • the level of earnings growth and volatility the Banking Group is Group’s capacity to absorb earnings volatility and fluctuations is willing to accept from certain risks that are core to its business; therefore supported by the generation of sustainable profits. and The earnings buffer and capital provide protection against • the level of capitalisation it seeks to maintain and the return unexpected events for stakeholders. The chart below illustrates achieved on capital allocated. the strategy to manage earnings volatility through the cycle. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 119 Risk and capital management report / continued 4. RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK AND GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Risk governance The Banking Group’s Board retains ultimate responsibility for across all franchises. These are overseen by an independent, ensuring that risks are adequately identified, measured, central risk control function, Enterprise Risk Management monitored and managed. FRBH believes that a culture focused on (“ERM”). risk paired with an effective governance structure is a prerequisite for managing risk effectively. 3. Independent assurance – The third major control point involves functions providing independent assurance on the adequacy In addition, effective risk management requires multiple points of and effectiveness of risk management practices across the control or safeguards that should be applied consistently at various levels throughout the organisation. There are three Banking Group. These are the internal audit functions at a primary lines of control across the Banking Group’s operations: business and at a Banking Group level. 1. Risk ownership – Risk taking is inherent in the individual The risk management structure described above is set out in the businesses’ activities. Business management carries the Business Performance and Risk Management Framework primary responsibility for the risks in its business, in particular (“BPRMF”). As a policy of both the Board and the Executive with respect to identifying and managing risk appropriately. committee, it delineates the roles and responsibilities of key 2. Risk control – Business heads are supported in this by stakeholders in business, support and control functions across the deployed risk management functions that are involved in all various franchises and the Banking Group. The BPRMF explicitly business decisions and are represented at an executive level recognises the three lines of control, illustrated in the chart below. 120 Lines of risk control in the Banking Group First line Second line Third line of risk control of risk control of risk control Head of business: Enterprise Risk Management Group Internal Audit Primary Risk Owner Embeds risk management as a core Provides independent oversight and monitoring across the Provides independent assurance of discipline and gives consideration to Banking Group on behalf of the Board and relevant committees: the adequacy and effectiveness of potential risks in business • headed by Banking Group CRO who is a member of the risk management practices: decisions: executive committee; • headed by Chief Audit Executive • ensures the entity acts in • takes ownership of and maintains risk frameworks; and reports to the Board through accordance with mandates the FRBH Audit committee approved by the Board or its • agrees deployed and divisional risk plans; chairman; delegated authority; • challenges risk profiles through review of risk assessments, • reviews risk assessment results • indentifies and quantifies key evaluation of risk management processes and monitoring of of the business entities; risks to business under normal exposures and corrective actions; • assesses compliance with the and stress conditions; • reports risk exposures and performance vis-à-vis directives of the BPRMF; • specifies and implements management of risk exposures to relevant committees; • evaluates the development and appropriate risk management • ensures appropriate risk skills throughout the Banking Group implementation of policies and processes; alongside an appropriate risk management culture for risk procedures for risk management • specifies and implements early taking; in line with policies of the Board warning measures, associated • performs risk measurement validation and maintains risk or relevant committees; reporting, management and governance structures; and • reviews the integrity, accuracy escalation processes; • manages regulatory relationships with respect to risk matters. and completeness of risk reports • implements risk control and to the RCC committee and the mitigation strategies; Board; • implements corrective actions as Deployed segment and divisional risk managers • monitors results of internal and required; external audit processes; • reports risk information to the Support business unit management in identifying and • coordinates audit process with executive committee and the quantifying significant risks: ERM, RRM and external auditors; governance committee structure • attends various governance and • divisional risk heads have direct reporting line to Banking as appropriate through to the management committees to Group CRO and head of respective division; boards; and remain informed and align risk • represented on divisional executive committees, primary based audit approach; • ensures staff understanding of focus on risk identification, measurement and control; responsibilities in relation to risk • conducts work in accordance with management. • approve risk assessment and risk management processes; globally recognised internal audit • ensure that board approved risk policies and risk tools are standards; and implemented and adhered to; • internal audit practices and Corporate centre • ensure that performance, risk exposures and corrective activities are annually assessed functions actions are reported in an appropriate format and frequency; by external auditors. • monitor appropriate implementation of corrective action; Supports business owners, the • identify process flaws and risk management issues and Board and Executive committee in initiate corrective action; and the implementation of the Banking Group strategy across the portfolio • ensure all risk management and loss containment activities from an operational perspective and are performed in a timely manner as agreed with ERM. comprises: • The central unit tasked with formulating and communicating Regulatory Risk Management the Banking Group’s macroeconomic view and associated Ensures that business practices, policies, frameworks and risk scenarios, used for planning approaches across the organisation are consistent with and stress testing purposes. applicable laws: • Group Treasury is responsible for Regulatory Risk Management is an integral part of managing management of funding and risks inherent in the business of banking and forms part of the liquidity, interest rate risk in the second line of risk control. banking book, exchange control and strategic relations with The risks, responsibilities and processes of Regulatory Risk respect to liquidity and funding. Management are discussed in the regulatory risk section. • Capital Management is responsible for capital planning and advises the Board and the executive committee on potential capital actions, dividend strategy and other capital management related topics. The individual franchises: FNB, RMB and WesBank also take responsibility for managing risks in the unregulated entities within FRIHL. These entities are subject to the same risk management policies and procedures of the respective franchises and are governed consistently across the Banking Group. Risks in these entities are, however, reported through the risk governance structure of the Group through the FirstRand Audit, risk and compliance committee. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 121 Risk and capital management report / continued In line with the Banking Group’s corporate governance framework, the FRBH Board retains ultimate responsibility for ensuring that risks are adequately identified, measured, managed and monitored across the banking operations. The Board discharges its duty through relevant policies and frameworks as well as several board committees and subcommittees, as illustrated in the chart below. Risk governance structure FRBH board 1FRBH Risk, capital and 1Large exposures 1Audit committee 3FRBH Credit committee compliance committee credit committee board committees • considers the annual financial • approves risk management policies, • approves credit exposures in excess • credit approvals of group or individual statements for approval by the standards and processes; of 10% of Banking Group’s capital. credit facilities in excess of subBoard; and • monitors Banking Group risk committee mandates and limits; and • monitors the quality of the internal assessments; • approves all credit products and controls and processes of FRBH • monitors the effectiveness of risk product policies. and the implementation of management and high priority corrective actions. corrective actions; • monitors the Banking Group’s risk profile; and • approves risk and capital targets, limits and thresholds. 3FRBH Credit risk 3Market and 1Model risk 1Asset and 1Capital 2FRBH management investment risk and validation liability management 2Operational risk Regulatory committee committee committee committee committee committee risk committee SUBCOMMITTEES OF FRB RISK, • approves credit • approves market • Considers and • approves and • approves policies • monitors risk • approves regulatory risk management and investment risk approves all monitors and principles management risk management policies, standards, management policy, material aspects effectiveness of relating to the processes, principles, processes and new standards and of model validation management capital management operational risk frameworks, business origination processes work including policies and process of management, plans, policies and within the risk • monitors the credit rating and processes for accounting capital, effectiveness of standards; and appetite; effectiveness of the estimation, internal interest rate risk regulatory capital risk management, • monitors the • monitors the market and models for market in the banking and economic process breakdowns effectiveness of CAPITAL AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE effectiveness of investment risk risk and advance book and for capital; and and corrective regulatory risk the credit risk management policy, measurement liquidity risk. • approves buffers actions. management, management standards and operational risk over regulatory breaches and processes, the processes; models for the capital and monitors corrective action credit risk profile establishment of capital adequacy taken across the • monitors the market regulatory capital. and impairment and investment risk ratios. Banking Group. charges; and profile; and • monitors scenario • approves market and sensitivity and investment risk analysis, stress tests, related limits. credit economic capital and credit concentrations. DIVISIONAL RISK, AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEES Support FRBH committees in the third line of controls across the Banking Group Financial management and optimisation INDEPENDENT RISK OVERSIGHT INDEPENDENT Assurance Balance sheet Enterprise Risk Regulatory Risk Finance Group Internal Audit management process Management Management • proposes group wide • Macro Portfolio Management • central independent • ensures that business Ensures that: accounting policies for defines the Banking Group’s oversight and risk control; practices, policies, approval by the Audit • risks are identified and macroeconomic view. • challenges practices, frameworks and managed; committee; approaches are consistent • Group Treasury is responsible assumptions and results • financial information is Corporate Centre • proactively manages and for Banking Group’s funding provided by businesses; with laws and regulations; mitigates accounting and accurate; and liquidity management, • drives the implementation • proactively manages non reporting risks emanating interest rate risk compliance risks; and • resources and assets are from changing accounting of more sophisticated risk appropriately utilised and management in the banking assessment methodologies; • aims to establish a practices; book, exchange controls and protected; and compliance culture in the • ensures compliance with manages strategic relations Banking Group’s operations. • employee’s actions are in IFRS; with respect to liquidity and • deployment of skilled risk compliances with policies, funding. management personnel in laws and regulations; • controls and manages franchises. central database of group • Capital Management is • legislative/regulatory issues financial information; and responsible for capital are recognised and planning and advises the addressed; and • responsible for Financial Board and management on Regulatory returns to • effectiveness of governance, capital actions and dividend risk and control frameworks the SARB. strategy. are rigorously assessed. 1 Chairperson is a non executive board member. 2 Chairperson is an independent non executive member. 3 Chairperson is executive management. The FRBH Credit and Credit risk management committees have non executive board representation. 122 The primary board committee overseeing risk matters in the Regular risk reporting and challenge of Banking Group is the FRBH RCC committee. It has delegated current practices responsibility for a number of specialist topics to various As part of the reporting, challenge, debate and control process, subcommittees, as outlined in the chart above. The RCC ERM also seeks to drive the implementation of more sophisticated committee submits its reports and findings to FirstRand’s Audit, risk assessment methodologies through the design of appropriate risk and compliance committee for review. Refer to Audit, risk and policies and processes, including the deployment of skilled risk compliance committee section on page 76 for a description of its management personnel in each of the franchises. role and responsibilities. The role of the RCC committee and its subcommittees is described further with reference to The functions of ERM, together with the review by the independent the applicable governance structures and processes for each audit functions, ensure that all pertinent risk information is particular risk type in the major risk sections. A number of captured accurately, evaluated and escalated appropriately in the individual committees’ members are non executives, further a timely manner. This enables the Board and its designated strengthening the Banking Group’s central, independent risk committees to retain effective management control over the oversight and control functions. Banking Group’s risk position at all times. Additional risk, audit and compliance committees exist in each 5. RISK PROFILE franchise, the governance structures of which align closely with The following detailed sections provide in depth descriptions of the that of the Banking Group. The board committees are typically approaches, methodologies, models and processes used in the staffed by members of the respective committees of the individual identification and management of capital and each major risk. franchises’ boards so as to ensure a common understanding of the Each section also describes the applicable governance and policy challenges businesses face and how these are addressed across framework and provides an analysis of the respective portfolios the Banking Group. and the risk profile with respect to the type of risk under consideration and the capital position. 6. STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISK Key developments and focus Strategic and business risks Developments under the strategic risk realm include the phased implementation of Oracle HR across the Group to address human resource strategic and governance imperatives. Initial recipients of this were FNB, FirstRand Corporate Centre, RMB, Momentum and FNB Africa. Although the economic climate has improved, the pace of organic growth is slow and cost management remains a key area of focus. As a result, the pace of recruitment is subdued which will put pressure on transformation targets. This is being closely monitored at divisional executive level and by the Transformation committee. Reputational risk Banks continue to undergo local and international media scrutiny following the financial crisis. Ongoing emphasis is placed on reputational risk and stakeholder management. Macroeconomic risk The slowdown in economic recovery and concerns about sovereign risks globally could undermine stability gains as nations begin to reach the limits of public sector support for the financial system. ESG risks During the year FirstRand’s operating franchises identified and rated the principal ESG risks affecting each franchise’s ability to successfully and sustainably implement business strategy. Regular internal reporting against these risks is integrated into existing risk reporting structures on an ongoing basis. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 123 Risk and capital management report / continued Introduction and objectives Reputational risk The risk of choosing of an inappropriate strategy or failing As a financial services provider, the Banking Group’s business is to execute the chosen strategy appropriately is inherent in all one that is inherently built on trust and close relationships with its business endeavours. The Banking Group’s objective is to minimise clients. Safeguarding its reputation is therefore of paramount this risk in the normal course of business. importance to ensure continued prosperity and is thus seen as the responsibility of every staff member. Reputational risks can arise Business risk is considered in the strategic planning process and from ESG or as a consequence of financial or operational risk as a part of regular and pervasive stress testing and scenario events. analyses carried out across the businesses. The objective is to develop and maintain a portfolio that delivers sustainable earnings The Banking Group’s reputation is built on the way in which it and thus minimises the chance of any adverse scenario occurring. conducts its business and it protects its reputation by managing and controlling these risks across its operations. It seeks to avoid Organisational structure and governance large risk concentrations by establishing a risk profile in its The development and execution of business level strategy is the operations that is balanced both within and across risk types. In responsibility of the individual business areas, subject to approval this respect, potential reputational risks are also taken into by the Board. This includes the approval of any subsequent account as part of stress testing exercises. The Banking Group material changes to strategic plans, budgets, acquisitions, aims to establish a risk and earnings profile within the constraints significant equity investments and new strategic alliances. of its risk appetite and seeks to limit potential stress losses from credit, market, liquidity and operational risks that may otherwise Business unit and executive management, as well as functions introduce an undesirable degree of volatility in its financial results within Corporate Centre, review the external environment, industry and adversely affect its reputation. trends, potential emerging risk factors, competitors’ actions and regulatory changes as part of the strategic planning process. Environmental, social and governance risk Through this review, as well as regular scenario planning and management stress testing exercises, the risk to earnings and level of potential During the year an ESG risk management process was adopted. business risk faced is assessed. Reports on the results of such The process involves the identification of the key ESG risks exercises are discussed at various business, risk and board affecting each of the operating franchises. This process informs a committees and are ultimately taken into account in the setting of view of the top ESG risks affecting the ability to successfully risk appetite and in potential revisions to existing strategic plans. implement business strategy and influences the measures taken for managing, mitigating and avoiding these risks. Assessment and management Strategic risk is not readily quantifiable and is, therefore, not a risk The management and reporting of, the most significant ESG that an organisation can or should hold a protective capital buffer risks are integrated into existing risk reporting structures and for. The risk to earnings on the other hand can be assessed, and management frameworks. This process is supported by the this forms an explicit part of the Banking Group’s risk appetite and inclusion of more extensive non financial reports into existing ICAAP. reporting processes. These provide objective quantitative and qualitative information in respect of ESG performance. Each Business risk is assessed regularly as part of ICAAP. It is managed business unit defines tolerances for its principle ESG risks and strategically at a Banking Group level through the development, action plans for addressing these in line with particular review and updating of the strategy in light of the organisation’s circumstances and risk appetite. evolving view of the business environment. The integrated management of ESG risks within the ERM structure For capital purposes the past history of revenues and costs on a provides the foundation for a focused approach for ensuring suitably adjusted basis is reviewed to determine whether it is likely that the non financial and stakeholder performance is managed that revenues would be insufficient to cover costs in a very severe comprehensively and efficiently on a day-to-day basis. scenario. At present, projections indicate an adequate coverage of the projected cost base and no buffer or additional economic capital is therefore held against this risk type. 124 The top five inherent ESG risks are: Sustainability also refers to the business’ capacity to withstand periods of severe stress characterised by very high levels of • employment equity; unexpected financial and economic volatility, which cannot be • employee satisfaction; mitigated by earnings alone. Capitalisation ratios appropriate to • customer satisfaction; safeguarding its operations and the interests of its stakeholders are maintained. In this respect, the overall capital management • governance effectiveness; and objective is to maintain sound capital ratios and a strong credit Equator Principles compliance. rating to ensure confidence in the solvency of the Banking Group during calm and turbulent periods in the economy and financial The impact and likelihood of these risks are evaluated taking into markets. account measures for management, mitigation and avoidance. This residual risk profile demonstrates that all risks with a major The optimal level and composition of capital is determined after potential impact are unlikely to arise given the internal controls taking into account business units’ organic growth plans – provided in place. financial targets are met – as well as expectations of investors, Tolerances and mitigating actions are defined at divisional and targeted capital ratios, future business plans, plans for the Banking Group level and progress in respect of these is tracked issuance of additional capital instruments, the need for appropriate through existing risk reporting structures. During the year under buffers in excess of minimum requirements, rating agencies’ review board oversight of these processes was provided by considerations and proposed regulatory changes. FirstRand’s Audit, risk and compliance committee. This committee will be replaced by two committees dealing with audit and risk The effectiveness of capital allocation decisions and the efficiency issues separately from 1 July 2010. The FirstRand Risk, capital and of its capital structure are important determinants of the ability to compliance committee will oversee the management of ESG risks generate returns for shareholders. The Banking Group seeks to and will regularly update the FirstRand Audit committee. hold limited excesses above the capital required to support its medium term growth plans (including appropriate buffers for 7. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT stresses and volatility) and future regulatory changes. Key developments and focus The Banking Group includes both regulated and unregulated Capital management continues to focus on maintaining strong entities. FRBH is the regulated entity and includes all regulated solvency levels, with a particular focus on the quality of capital. bank subsidiaries and other entities. This is reflected in the Tier 1 ratios for FRB and FRBH which remained above target levels throughout the year. Tier 1 continued Dividends to exceed economic capital requirements for a range of normal and The total capital plan includes a dividend policy, which is set in severe scenarios as well as for stress events. Performance order to ensure sustainable dividend cover based on sustainable measurement is aligned with risk and is continually enhanced to normalised earnings, after taking into account volatile earnings drive the desired behaviour. Economic profit or net income after brought on by fair value accounting, anticipated earnings yield on capital charge (“NIACC”) is embedded in the management of the capital employed, organic growth requirements and a safety business. During 2010 the Banking Group returned to positive margin for unexpected fluctuations in business plans. NIACC generation which created value for shareholders. The impact of the new Basel proposals on Tier 1 and total capital Organisational structure and governance adequacy ratios was assessed through the Basel quantitative impact study (“QIS”). The Banking Group will continue to operate Allocating resources, including capital and risk capacity effectively above the current regulatory minimum capital requirement if the in terms of risk appetite targets and in a manner that maximises principles, as included in the broad agreement reached in July value for shareholders is a core competence and key focus area. 2010, are implemented. Sound capital management practices, therefore, form an important component of its overall business strategy. Introduction and objectives The Banking Group targets a particular earnings profile that will Capital is freely transferable within the Banking Group, subject to allow it to generate sustainable returns within appropriate levels the approval of exchange control authorities for entities outside of volatility. the common monetary area. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 125 Risk and capital management report / continued The Board approved capital plan is reviewed as part of the Banking Supply of capital – Tier 1 Group’s ICAAP, with the stress testing framework being an The Banking Group aims to back all economic risks with Tier 1 extension to the process. These processes are under continuous capital as it offers the greatest capacity to absorb losses. review and refinement and continue to inform the targeted buffer. Consequently, required Tier 1 capitalisation levels are used as the primary driver of performance measurement across the various Capital adequacy and planning businesses. Tier 1 capitalisation ratios benefited from higher The year under review levels of profitability during the year. The Banking Group’s capital planning process ensures that the total capital adequacy and Tier 1 ratios remain within approved Supply of capital – Tier 2 ranges or above target levels across economic and business The current pricing of subordinated bond instruments, the inability cycles. FRBH is appropriately capitalised under a range of normal of these instruments to absorb losses, and the Banking Group’s and severe scenarios as well as under a range of stress events. reduced risk appetite make the issuance of these instruments unattractive at present. Accordingly, no new Tier 2 instruments With increased focus on Tier 1 during the year, FRBH achieved were issued during the year. It is the Banking Group’s intention to a very strong Tier 1 ratio of 13.5%. Stronger internal capital redeem all instruments on call date. On 16 August 2010, SARB generation through earnings, offset to an extent by an increase in approval was received to call the FRB01 and FRB02 subordinated credit and operational risk weighted assets, led to an overall bonds on 31 August 2010. The table below provides more detail on increase in the Tier 1 and total capital adequacy ratios for FRBH. In the Banking Group’s capital instruments. the prevailing uncertain environment the Group would prefer to maintain capital ratios at the upper end of its targeted band. Characteristics of capital instruments (unaudited unless otherwise indicated) Nominal Capital type Instrument (million) Rate type Coupon rate Maturity rate Other Tier 1 Non cumulative 3 000 Floating 68% of prime Perpetual non redeemable preference share capital** Upper Tier 2 FRBC21 628 Fixed 12% 21 Dec 2018 FRBC22 440 Floating 3 month JIBAR + 300bps 22 Dec 2018 Lower Tier 2 FRB01* 700 Fixed 13% 31 Aug 2010 (Subordinated FRB02* 300 Floating 3 month JIBAR + 71.5bps 31 Aug 2010 bonds) FRB03 1 740 Fixed 9% 15 Sept 2014 FRB05 2 110 Fixed 9% 21 Dec 2018 FRB06 1 000 Floating 3 month JIBAR + 65bps 5 Nov 2012 FRB07 300 Floating 3 month JIBAR + 65bps 6 Dec 2012 FRB08 100 Floating 3 month JIBAR + 70bps 10 Jun 2016 FRB09 100 Floating 3 month JIBAR + 70bps 10 Jun 2017 FNBB001 108 Fixed 11% 1 Dec 2016 FNB17 260 Fixed 9% 29 Mar 2012 * Approval received from the SARB to call the FRB01 and FRB02 on 31 August 2010. ** Audited. 126 Demand for capital • strengthening the resilience of the banking sector; With the introduction of Basel II, capital requirements expressed • enhancing the current Basel II framework; and as a percentage of risk weighted assets (“RWA”) have become • revising the market risk framework. more risk sensitive and more cyclical than under the previous The BCBS conducted a QIS to assess the impact of these regime. This cyclicality is to a large extent driven by external proposals on participating banks. The results of this study aim to factors that affect the risk measures across various portfolios and produce a fully calibrated set of requirements for implementation therefore, drive capital requirements. in 2012. The BCBS announced during July 2010 that it had reached broad agreement on some of the capital and liquidity proposals The overall increase in RWA for both FRBH and FRB was driven released during 2009. The full details of the proposals as well as predominantly by the following factors: the outcome of the QIS are expected by the end of 2010. A further • credit risk – increased due to volume growth and “Countercyclical capital buffer proposal” was issued in July 2010 with the consultation period closing in September 2010. recalibrations; • operational risk –increased risk profile for FRB and gross FRBH participated in the QIS process and preliminary calculations show a reduction on the Tier 1 and total capital adequacy ratios of income for other businesses under the Standardised the Banking Group, however, both FRB and FRBH remain above Approach; and the current regulatory minimum. The current proposals form part • market risk – derisked financial positions at FRB. of the ongoing capital planning of the Banking Group. Targeted capital ratios may be revisited as more information becomes Regulatory developments available. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“BCBS”) proposals The SARB issued a draft set of regulations due to be implemented published during 2009 and 2010 in response to the global financial at the start of 2012 that currently cover the revised market risk and crisis, which would impact bank’s capital, focused on: securitisation frameworks. Regulatory capital The targeted capital levels as well as the current ratios at 30 June 2010 are summarised in the table below. Capital adequacy position FRBH FRB* Regulatory R million Actual Target Actual Target minimum Capital adequacy ratio (%) 15.6 12 – 13.5 14.0 11.5 – 13.0 9.5# Tier 1 ratio (%) 13.5 10.0 11.7 9.5 7.0 * Reflects solo supervision, i.e. FRB excluding branches, subsidiaries and associates. # The regulatory minimum excludes the bank specific (Pillar 2b) add on and capital floor. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 127 Risk and capital management report / continued The following table shows the composition of regulatory capital (financial resources) for FRBH at 30 June 2010, while the subsequent tables provide a breakdown of RWA and capital requirement. Composition of qualifying capital and capital ratios of FRBH (unaudited unless otherwise indicated) FRBH 2010 2009 R million % % Ordinary shareholders equity as per IFRS* 44 448 41 045 Less: non qualifying reserves (1 174) (2 747) Cash flow reserve* 466 285 Available-for-sale reserve* (310) (393) Share based payment reserve* (447) (502) Foreign currency translation reserve* (647) (712) Other reserves* (205) (567) Unappropriated profits (4) (858) Ordinary shareholders equity qualifying as capital 43 274 38 298 Ordinary share capital and share premium* 6 064 5 672 Reserves 37 210 32 626 Non controlling interest* 1 831 1 517 Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares* 3 100 3 100 Less: total impairments (2 089) (2 303) Excess of expected loss over eligible provisions (50%) (379) (325) First loss credit enhancements in respect of securitisation structures (50%) (207) (260) Goodwill and other impairments (1 503) (1 718) Total Tier 1 capital 46 116 13.5 40 612 12.3 Upper Tier 2 instruments 1 068 1 068 Tier 2 subordinated debt instruments 6 666 6 642 Other reserves 196 193 Less: total impairments (586) (493) Excess of expected loss over eligible provisions (50%) (379) (325) First loss credit enhancements in respect of securitisation structures (50%) (207) (260) Other impairments – 92 Total Tier 2 capital 7 344 2.1 7 410 2.2 Total qualifying capital and reserves 53 460 15.6 48 022 14.6 * Audited. 128 RWA by risk type of FRBH (unaudited) FRBH 2010 2009 Capital Capital R million RWA requirement# RWA requirement# Credit risk 246 875 23 453 241 447 22 937 Operational risk 51 058 4 851 47 125 4 477 Market risk 10 853 1 031 13 246 1 258 Equity investment risk 17 729 1 684 13 649 1 297 Other risk 15 093 1 434 14 037 1 334 Total RWA 341 608 32 453 329 504 31 303 # Capital requirement calculated at 9.5% of RWA. RWA calculation approach for each risk type of the Banking Group The following table provides a list of the Basel II approaches applied to each risk type for FRB and the other regulated entities of FRBH. RWA calculation approach for each risk type Risk type FRB Other regulated entities (FRBH) Credit risk Advanced Internal Ratings Based Approach (“AIRB”) Standardised Approach Operational risk Advanced Measurement Approach (“AMA”) Domestic operations: AMA Offshore operations: Standardised Approach Market risk Internal Model Approach Standardised Approach FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 129 Risk and capital management report / continued The following table provides the RWA numbers per Basel II approach for each risk type of FRBH. RWA numbers per Basel II approach for each risk type (unaudited) RWA R million 2010 Credit risk 246 875 AIRB Approach 210 328 Corporate, banks and sovereigns 86 446 SME 37 860 Residential mortgages 39 266 Qualifying revolving retail 9 639 Other retail 32 191 Securitisation exposure 4 926 Standardised Approach 36 547 Equity investment risk 17 729 Standardised Approach 894 Simple risk weighted method 16 835 Operational risk 51 058 Standardised Approach 6 845 AMA 44 213 Market risk* 10 853 * Includes banking and trading book. 130 The following table shows the composition of regulatory capital (financial resources) for FRB at 30 June 2010, while the subsequent tables provide a breakdown of RWA and capital requirement. Composition of qualifying capital and capital ratios of FRB (unaudited unless otherwise indicated) FRB* 2010 2009 R million % % Ordinary shareholders equity as per IFRS** 33 085 29 681 Less: non qualifying reserves (477) (1 178) Cash flow reserve** 466 337 Available-for-sale reserve** (532) (279) Share based payment reserve** (411) (532) Unappropriated profits – (704) Ordinary shareholders equity qualifying as capital 32 608 28 503 Ordinary share capital and share premium** 10 969 10 821 Reserves 21 639 17 682 Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares** 3 000 3 000 Less: total impairments (2 323) (1 782) Excess of expected loss over eligible provisions (50%) (379) (325) First loss credit enhancements in respect of securitisation structures (50%) (45) – Qualifying capital in branches (1 732) (1 297) Goodwill and other impairments (167) (160) Total Tier 1 capital 33 285 11.7 29 721 10.7 Upper Tier 2 instruments 1 068 1 068 Tier 2 subordinated debt instruments 5 914 5 872 Less: total impairments (424) (234) Excess of expected loss over eligible provisions (50%) (379) (325) First loss credit enhancements in respect of securitisation structures (50%) (45) – Other impairments – 91 Total Tier 2 capital 6 558 2.3 6 706 2.4 Total qualifying capital and reserves 39 843 14.0 36 427 13.1 * Reflects solo supervision, i.e. FRB excluding branches, subsidiaries and associates. ** Audited. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 131 Risk and capital management report / continued RWA by risk type of FRB (unaudited) FRB* 2010 2009 Capital Capital R million RWA requirement# RWA requirement# Credit risk 210 328 19 981 205 472 19 520 Operational risk 38 223 3 631 35 000 3 325 Market risk 4 669 444 7 809 742 Equity investment risk 16 835 1 599 17 469 1 660 Other risk 13 690 1 301 12 071 1 147 Total RWA 283 745 26 956 277 821 26 394 * Reflects solo supervision, i.e. FRB excluding branches, subsidiaries and associates. # Capital requirement calculated at 9.5% of RWA. Capital adequacy position The graph below depicts the current capital adequacy position for FRBH. Capital adequacy position and composition of qualifying capital (unaudited) * Excludes the Bank specific (Pillar 2b) add on and capital floor. 132 The graph below provides a historical overview of the capital adequacy for FRBH and FRB. * Information for comparative years – prior to the Basel II implementation on 1 January 2008 – is on a Basel I basis. The capital adequacy position of FRBH and its subsidiaries is set out below. RWA and capital adequacy position for FRBH and its subsidiaries (unaudited) 2010 2009 Risk Total capital Risk Total capital weighted adequacy weighted adequacy R million assets % assets % Basel II FirstRand Bank Holdings Limited* 341 608 15.6 329 504 14.6 FirstRand Bank Limited (South Africa) 283 745 14.0 277 821 13.1 FirstRand Bank UK (London Branch) 5 210 12.8 3 144 21.4 FirstRand India 241 247.5 126 157.2 FirstRand (Ireland) Plc 5 042 31.0 8 355 18.2 RMB Australia Holdings Limited 4 887 21.5 4 611 19.5 FNB (Namibia) Limited 9 910 20.1 – – Basel I** FNB (Botswana) Limited 6 834 17.4 6 031 19.1 FNB (Lesotho) Limited 228 17.9 214 19.1 FNB (Moçambique) S.A. 699 12.9 466 17.4 FNB (Namibia) Limited – – 8 789 20.3 FNB (Swaziland) Limited 1 467 20.9 1 026 24.7 FNB (Zambia) Limited 173 64.5 48 168.0 * FRBH successfully implemented Basel II at the beginning of January 2008. The registered banks in FRBH must comply with the SARB regulations and those of their home regulators, with primary focus placed on Tier 1 capital and total capital adequacy ratios. ** Entities operating under Basel II are subject to a minimum capital requirement of 9.5% (excluding the Pillar 2b add on). FNB Africa subsidiaries (excluding FNB (Namibia) Limited) currently report under Basel I – these entities are subject to a 10% minimum capital requirement in terms of local rules, except FNB (Botswana) Limited, where the minimum capital requirement is 15%. These entities also report under Basel II and are included on this basis for the consolidated position of FRBH. FNB (Namibia) Limited implemented Basel II on 1 January 2010. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 133 Risk and capital management report / continued Economic capital In addition to the regulatory capital requirements disclosed in The graph below provides an overview of the evolution of economic the previous section, economic capital requirements are also capital requirements and Tier 1 capital (available financial calculated on the basis of a number of internally developed resources) for FRBH. models. Economic capital is defined as the level of capital that must be held commensurate with its risk profile under severe stress conditions. This will provide comfort to a range of stake­ holders that the Banking Group will be able to satisfy all its obligations to third parties with a desired degree of certainty and will continue to operate as a going concern. Regular reviews of the economic capital position are carried out across the businesses and the Banking Group remains well capitalised in the current environment, with levels of Tier 1 capital exceeding the level of economic capital required. The Banking Group aims to back all economic risks with Tier 1 capital. Furthermore, it uses the allocation of capital based on risk capacity as a steering tool and for performance measurement purposes. ICAAP assists in the attribution of capital in proportion to the risks inherent in the respective business units with reference to both normal economic circumstances and times of potential stress, which may lead to the realisation of risks not previously Normalised return on equity considered. This process is also supported by the stress testing The Banking Group achieved a normalised ROE of 18% compared and scenario based analysis described on page 118. to 13% for the prior year. The allocation methodology for economic capital is broadly based The Banking Group’s total shareholders’ equity and reserves on the approaches set out as part of the AIRB component of Basel (excluding non controlling interests) totalled R52 077 million as at II, with the exception of credit risk, which is considered at a product 30 June 2010 (2009: R47 213 million). The average ordinary level. A number of assumptions are necessarily made in the shareholders’ equity and reserves for the period amounted to R46 attribution and allocation. These are reviewed periodically and any 544 million (2009: R43 999 million). Ordinary shareholders’ equity changes will have a direct impact on business unit level measures comprises share capital and premium, distributable and non such as economic profit or NIACC. The economic capital framework distributable reserves. incorporates aspects of the portfolio’s composition in its calibration and reflects the effects of risk concentrations and diversification benefits. 134 Economic profit The Banking Group’s performance measures are aligned with risk considerations. The use of economic profit or NIACC is embedded across the businesses and management culture. As a function of normalised earnings and capital utilised in the businesses, economic profit provides a clear indication of economic value added by a transaction or business unit. Positive internal capital generation through earnings at a marginally higher cost of equity produced economic value for shareholders during the year under review. The following table and chart provide an overview of the relevant calculation and creation of economic profit over time. Economic profit and normalised return on equity (unaudited) R million 2010 2009 Normalised earnings 8 535 6 056 Preference dividends (230) (309) Normalised earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 8 305 5 747 Charge for capital* (6 643) (6 221) Net economic profit/(loss)** 1 662 (474) Average ordinary shareholders’ equity 46 544 43 999 Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity (%) 17.8 13.1 Average cost of equity (%) 14.3 14.1 * Capital charge based on average cost of capital. ** Economic profit = normalised earnings – (average cost of equity x average ordinary shareholders equity and reserves). FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 135 Risk and capital management report / continued 8. CREDIT RISK 136 Key developments and focus 137 Organisation structure and governance 138 Assessment and management 138 Calculation of internal ratings and ratings process 142 Model validation, credit risk mitigation and concentration risk 143 Monitoring of weak exposures 143 Use of credit tools and measures 145 Discussion of risk portfolio 146 Credit assets 147 Credit quality 150 Impairment of financial assets and non performing loans 150 Fair value sensitivity of wholesale advances due to credit risk 152 Geographic and industry concentration risk 154 Segmental analysis of advances 156 Basel II disclosure 156 Credit rating systems and processes used for Basel II 157 PD, EAD and LGD profiles 161 Maturity breakdown 162 Actual versus expected loss 163 Selected risk analysis Key developments and focus During the year under review there was significant focus on further • Risk control: Appropriate limits are placed on the assumption refining the risk appetite framework. Bottom up and top down of credit risk and steps are taken to ensure the accuracy of analyses produced risk appetite thresholds for all major business credit risk assessments and reports. Deployed and central units, which will in the future be monitored at both the business credit risk management teams fulfil this task. units and the centre. The Banking Group’s credit risk appetite and • Management: Credit risk is taken within the constraints of the the corresponding origination strategies are continuously refined. risk appetite framework. The credit portfolio is managed at an aggregate level to optimise the exposure to this risk. Business Introduction and objectives units and deployed risk functions, overseen by the Banking Credit risk is one of the core risks assumed in pursuit of the Group Credit Risk Management (“GCRM”) function within ERM Banking Group’s business objectives. It is the most significant risk and relevant board committees, as well as the unit responsible type in terms of regulatory and economic capital require­ for the house macro view (“BSM unit”) and the Performance ments. The objectives of its credit risk management practices Measure­ment function within Corporate Centre, fulfil this role. are two fold: 136 The scope of credit risk identification and management practices across the Banking Group therefore spans the entire credit value chain, as illustrated in the chart below. Scope of credit risk management and identification practices Origination Ongoing risk Origination Measurement Portfolio strategy and credit management and Reporting and approval of risk management risk appetite workout • credit origination/sales process • in-force and new business is • in-force and new business and approval channels controlled evaluated with respect to the reporting in terms of pertinent by delegation of approved portfolio and market outlook via risk characteristics and trends; mandates and prudential limits risk appetite thresholds; and set based on risk appetite; and • forecasts, tracking of • internal and external reporting to • ongoing monitoring of risk expectations and capital support strategic and tactical appetite. consumption through scenario decision processes. and stress analyses; and • execution of portfolio actions, where appropriate. • formulation of strategy in terms • risk quantification through rating • management of excesses, expired of target market and products, as systems and supporting models; limits and covenants; well as appetite in terms of loss • risk as a key pricing dimension; • prioritisation of high risk client thresholds, target risk profile, actions; impairment rates and implied • ongoing collection of data for the earnings volatility bands; and validation and refinement of • collections and workout of existing models as well as the delinquent or defaulted accounts, • monitoring of risk appetite, development of new models; and and restructuring where challenge and feedback appropriate; and mechanism into strategy. • validation of relevant models. • independent oversight of the workout process. Organisational structure and governance The Banking Group Credit Risk The RCC committee regularly receives and reviews reports on the Management function (“GCRM”) adequacy and robustness of credit risk identification, management The GCRM function in ERM provides independent oversight of and control processes, as well as on the current and projected the credit risk management practices in the deployed risk credit risk profile across the various businesses. The credit management functions in the businesses. It is the owner of the risk management governance structures, related roles and CRMF and related policies and monitors the implementation of responsibilities as well as lines of accountability are set out in the credit risk related frameworks. In addition, its responsibilities Credit Risk Management Framework (“CRMF”). Approved by the include: RCC committee, the CRMF is a policy of the Board and integrates with the BPRMF (see page 120). • monitoring of the credit components of the risk appetite framework; Two credit focused board committees, the FRBH Credit committee • monitoring and reporting of the credit risk profile; and the Large exposures credit committee as well as two subcommittees of the RCC committee, the FRBH Credit risk • reviewing all credit rating systems and independent revalidation management committee and the Model risk and validation of credit rating systems; committee, support the RCC committee in its task. For a • management of relationships with external stakeholders such description of the role and responsibilities of these committees as relevant regulators with respect to credit matters; refer to the governance structure on page 122. • supervision of the credit impairment process; and • regulatory reporting. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 137 Risk and capital management report / continued The GCRM function is supported by deployed, segment level credit Assessment and management functions that are responsible for the implementation of relevant Calculation of internal ratings and rating process credit risk frameworks and policies in the various businesses, The assessment of credit risk across the Banking Group relies including the implementation of adequate credit risk controls, heavily on internally developed quantitative models for regulatory processes and infrastructure required to allow for the efficient purposes under Basel II, as well as for addressing business needs. management of credit risk. Responsibilities specifically include: Credit risk models are widely employed in a number of areas such • formulation of credit strategy and assessment of business level as the assessment of capital requirements, pricing, impairment credit risk appetite (together with MPM and Performance calculations and stress testing of the portfolio. All of these models Measurement and within the constraints of the overall credit are built on a number of client and facility rating models in line risk appetite, see below); with Basel II AIRB requirements and the FRB Model building • maintaining and monitoring implementation of methoframework. The Banking Group was granted regulatory approval dologies, policies, procedures and credit risk management under Basel II for the approaches as shown in the table below. standards; Remaining • validation of credit rating systems and associated processes as FRBH well as other decision support tools, such as economic capital, Basel approach FRB subsidiaries stress testing and provisioning models; AIRB √ • ownership of the credit regulatory reporting process; and Standardised Approach √ • maintaining the credit governance structure. Even though only FRB has regulatory approval to use the AIRB Performance Measurement function/BSM unit Approach, the same or similar models in FRB are applied for the The Performance Measurement function and BSM unit within internal assessment of credit risk in the remaining FRBH Corporate Centre is responsible for management of the balance subsidiaries on the Standardised Approach. The models are used sheet with respect to credit risk and fulfils both an operational and for the internal assessment of the following three primary credit a central coordination role. Its mandates include: risk components discussed in the following sections: • the formulation of the macroeconomic and credit outlook used • probability of default (“PD”); for planning and stress testing purposes; • exposure at default (“EAD”); and • the quantification and allocation of credit economic capital • loss given default (“LGD”). including the credit risk assessment employed for ICAAP and the assessment of appropriate capital buffers; Management of the credit portfolio is heavily reliant on these three credit risk measures. PD, EAD and LGD are inputs into the portfolio • active participation in the formulation of credit and origination and Banking Group level credit risk assessment where the strategies, in particular with a view to the implementation and measures are combined with estimates of correlations between management of the Banking Group’s credit risk appetite individual counterparties and industries to reflect diversification across the business units; benefits across the portfolio of credit risks. • credit risk related stress testing, scenario analysis and portfolio modelling; • assessment, analysis, forecasting and reporting of impairments; and • credit risk reporting to stakeholders such as the Credit risk management committee. 138 Probability of default • Point in time (“PIT”) PD measures reflect default expectations PD is defined as the probability of a counterparty defaulting on any in the current economic environment and thus tends to be more volatile than TTC. PIT PD’s are typically used in the of its obligations over the next year and is a measure of the calculation of impairments for accounting purposes. counterparty’s ability and willingness to repay facilities granted to it. A default, in this context, is defined along two dimensions: Exposure at default • time driven: the counterparty is in arrears for more than 90 The EAD of a particular facility is defined as the expected exposure days or three instalments as appropriate; and to a counterparty through a facility, should the counterparty default over the next year. It reflects commitments made and • event driven: there is reason to believe that the exposure will facilities granted that have not been paid out and that may be not be recovered in full, and has classified it as such (this drawn over the time period under consideration (i.e. off balance includes the forfeiting of principal or interest as well as a sheet exposures). It is also a measure of potential future exposure restructuring of facilities resulting in an economic loss. on derivative positions. This definition of default is consistently applied across all credit Tailored to the respective portfolios and products employed, a portfolios as well as in the recognition of NPLs for accounting number of EAD models are in use across the Banking Group. purposes. These have been developed internally and are calibrated to the historical default experience. For communication and reporting purposes, the Banking Group employs a granular, 100 point, master rating scale which has been Loss given default mapped to the continuum of default probabilities, as LGD is the third major credit risk component estimated on the illustrated in the table below. basis of internal models. It is defined as the economic loss on a particular facility upon default of the counterparty. It is typically International expressed as a percentage of exposure outstanding at the time scale of default. FR rating Midpoint PD mapping* In most portfolios, LGD is strongly dependent on: FR 1 – 12 0.04% AAA, AA, A FR 13 – 25 0.27% BBB • the type, quality, and level of subordination; FR 26 – 32 0.77% BB+, BB FR 33 – 37 1.34% BB• the value of collateral held compared to the size of the overall FR 38 – 48 2.15% B+ exposure; and FR 49 – 60 3.53% B+ • the effectiveness of the recovery process and the timing FR 61 – 83 6.74% B of cash flows received during the workout or restructuring FR 84 – 91 15.02% Bprocess. FR 92 – 94 Below BFR 95 – 100 100% D (defaulted) A number of models are used to assess LGDs across various * Indicative mapping to the international rating scales of Fitch and portfolios. These models were developed internally and the Standard & Poor’s. outputs are calibrated to reflect both the internal loss experience, where available, and external benchmarks, where appropriate. A FirstRand (“FR”) rating of 1 is the lowest PD and a FR rating of 100 is the highest. External ratings have also been mapped to the Typically, a distinction is made between the long run expected master rating scale for reporting purposes. These mappings are LGDs and an LGD reflective of downturn conditions. The latter is a reviewed and updated on a regular basis. more conservative assessment of risk, which incorporates a degree of interdependence between PD and LGD that can be found In line with international best practice, the Banking Group in a number of portfolios (i.e. instances where deteriorating distinguishes between the two measures of PD, both used for the collateral values are also indicative of higher default risk). It is this management of exposure to credit risk: more conservative measure of LGD applicable to downturns, which is used in the calculation of regulatory capital estimates. • Through the cycle (“TTC”) PD measures reflect long term, average default expectations over the course of the economic Expected loss (“EL”) cycle. TTC PDs are typically an input to economic and EL, the product of the primary risk measures PD, EAD and LGD, is regulatory capital calculations. a forward looking measure of portfolio or transaction risk. It is FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 139 Risk and capital management report / continued used for a variety of purposes across the businesses alongside eliminate the risk and mapped to one of four supervisory other risk measures. categories. Less than 1% of the book is subject to the slotting approach. Specialised lending Where the Banking Group finances an entity created to finance Rating process and/or operate physical assets, the slotting approach is applied A consistent rating process is employed across the various where: businesses, differentiated by the type of counterparty and the type of model employed for rating purposes. For example, retail • the primary source of repayment of the obligation is the income portfolios are segmented into homogeneous pools in an automated generated by the assets (i.e. specialised lending); and process. Based on the internal product level data, PD’s are then • the PD and LGD cannot be determined. estimated (and continuously updated) for each pool. The following table summarises the processes and approaches employed and Specialised lending relates mainly to project and commodity provides an overview of the types of exposures within each of finance. In terms of the slotting approach, the exposure is rated the portfolios. after assessing the risks and mitigants applied to reduce/ Rating process of credit portfolios Portfolio and type of exposures Description of rating system Large corporate portfolios The default definitions applied in the rating systems are aligned to the requirements (Wholesale: FNB Corporate, of Basel II. Corporate Centre and RMB) Rating process: Exposures to private sector • The rating assignment to corporate credit counterparties is based on a detailed counterparties including individual assessment of the counterparty’s creditworthiness. corporates and securities firms • This assessment is performed through a qualitative analysis of the business and and public sector counterparties. financial risks of the counterparty and is supplemented by internally developed statistical A wide range of products give rise rating models. to credit exposure, including loan • The rating models were developed using internal and external data covering more than facilities, structured finance 10 years. The qualitative analysis is based on the methodology followed by international facilities, contingent products and rating agencies. derivative instruments. • The rating assessment is reviewed by the FRBH Credit committee and the rating (and associated PD) is approved by this committee. • No overrides of the ratings or the PDs are possible after approval by this committee. • LGD and EAD estimates are based on modelling of a combination of internal and suitably adjusted international data. Low default portfolios: sovereign The default definitions applied in the rating systems are aligned to the requirements and bank exposures of Basel II. (Wholesale: FNB Corporate, Rating process: Corporate Centre and RMB) • Expert judgement models are used in combination with external rating agency ratings Exposures to sovereign and bank as well as structured peer group analyses which form a key input in the ratings process. counterparties. The analysis is supplemented by internally developed statistical models. • The calibration of PD and LGD ratings is based on a mapping to external default data as well as credit spread market data. • The rating assessment is reviewed by the FRBH Credit committee and the rating (as well as the associated PD) is approved by this committee. • No overrides of the ratings or the PDs are possible after approval by this committee. 140 Portfolio and type of exposures Description of rating system Specialised lending portfolios The default definitions applied in the rating systems are aligned to the requirements of (Wholesale: FNB Corporate, RMB Basel II. and FNB Commercial) Rating process: Exposures to private sector • The rating system is based on hybrid models using a combination of statistical cash flow counterparties for the financing simulation models and qualitative scorecards calibrated to a combination of internal data of income producing real estate. and external benchmarks. • The rating assessment is reviewed by the FRBH Credit committee and the rating (as well as the associated PD) is approved by this committee. • No overrides of the ratings or the PDs are possible after approval by this committee. Commercial portfolio The default definitions applied in the rating systems are aligned to the requirements of (SME corporate and SME retail Basel II. counterparties in FNB SME retail rating process: Commercial and WesBank) • The retail portfolio is segmented into homogeneous pools and subpools through an Exposures to SME clients. automated scoring process using statistical models that incorporate product type, A wide range of products give customer behaviour and delinquency status. rise to credit exposure, including • PDs are estimated for each subpool based on internal product level history associated loan facilities, contingent with the respective homogeneous pools and subpools. products and term lending products. • LGD and EAD estimates are applied on a portfolio level, estimated from internal historical default and recovery experience. SME corporate rating process: • PD: Counterparties are scored using Moody’s RiskCalc, the output of which was calibrated to internal historical default data. • LGD: Recovery rates are largely determined by collateral type and these have been set with reference to internal historical loss data, external data (Fitch) and Basel II guidelines. • EAD: Portfolio level credit conversion factors (“CCF”) are estimated on the basis of the Banking Group’s internal historical experience and benchmarked against international studies. Residential mortgages Rating process and approach: (Retail portfolios in FNB • These retail portfolios are segmented into homogeneous pools and subpools through an HomeLoans, RMB Private Bank automated scoring process using statistical models that incorporate product type, loan exposures and mortgage characteristics, customer behaviour, application data and delinquency status. exposures in the Mass segment) • PDs are estimated for each subpool based on internal product level history associated Exposures to individuals for with the respective homogeneous pools and subpools. the financing of residential properties. • No overrides of the PD’s are possible. The only potential override is not that of the PD, but rather of the automated decision to lend or not. Such overrides may be done on the Qualifying revolving retail basis of the credit manager’s judgement in a structured process supported by pertinent exposures business reasons. (Retail portfolios in FNB Card, • LGD and EAD estimates are based on subsegmentation with reference to the collateral FNB Consumer overdrafts and or product type as well as associated analyses and modelling of historical internal RMB Private Bank) loss data. Exposures to individuals Additional notes on qualifying revolving retail exposures: providing a revolving limit through a credit card or overdraft • These exposures are unsecured and therefore only the efficiency of the recovery facility. processes impacts on the level of LGD. Other retail exposures • EAD measurement plays a significant role in the assessment of risk due to the typically (Retail portfolios in FNB high level of undrawn facilities that are characteristic for these product types. EAD Personal Loans, Smart Products estimates are based on actual historic EAD, segmented appropriately (e.g. straight vs. and WesBank retail auto finance budget in the case of credit cards). and personal loans) FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 141 Risk and capital management report / continued Model validation • FNB Commercial credit facilities are secured by the assets of Rating models are recalibrated and independently validated on an the SME counterparties, and commercial property transactions annual basis to ensure validity, efficacy and accuracy. The rating are typically supported by the property financed and the cash models used across the credit portfolios incorporate an flows generated by it; appropriate degree of conservatism, which was achieved through • working capital facilities in FNB Corporate are often not the prudent choice of model parameters and the inclusion of secured by claims on specific assets, but risk in structured downturn periods such as 2001 and 2007 – 2009 in calibration. facilities granted by RMB is mitigated by financial or other The independent validation of the rating systems is carried out by collateral such as guarantees or credit derivatives; and GCRM in ERM. It is responsible for reviewing all rating systems • credit risk in RMB’s FICC business is mitigated through the use and a comprehensive revalidation of all material rating systems on of netting agreements and financial collateral. an annual basis. An actuarial auditing team in Group Internal Audit The Banking Group employs strict policies governing the valuation (“GIA”) carries out additional reviews of the rating systems as and management of collateral across all business areas. well as sample revalidations. The results of these analyses are Collateral is managed internally so as to ensure that title is reported to the Model risk and validation committee. As part of this process, extensive documentation covering all steps of the model retained over collateral taken over the life of the transaction. All development lifecycle from inception through to validation is items of collateral are valued at inception of a transaction and at maintained. This includes: various points throughout the life of the transaction, either through physical inspection or indexation methods, as appropriate. • developmental evidence, detailing processes followed and For wholesale and commercial portfolios, valuations are data used to set parameters for the model. GCRM is the reassessed as part of the annual facility review. For mortgage custodian of these documents, which are updated on at least an portfolios, collateral valuations are updated on an ongoing basis annual basis by the model development teams; through statistical indexation models. For all retail portfolios, • independent validation reports, documenting the process collateral is also revalued by physical inspections in the event of followed during the annual validation exercise as well as default and at the start of the workout process. results obtained from these analyses; and Management of concentration risk • model build and development frameworks are reviewed and, Aggregated monitoring of concentration risk takes place at where required, updated annually by GCRM. These frameworks Banking Group level through the GCRM function of ERM and the provide guidance, principles and minimum standards which the Performance Measurement function. Concentration risk is model development teams are required to adhere to. managed in the respective credit portfolios as outlined below. Credit risk mitigation In the wholesale credit portfolio through: Since the taking and managing of credit risk is a core component of the Banking Group’s business, it aims to optimise the amount of • single name limits for large exposures; credit risk it takes to achieve its return objectives. The mitigation • evaluation of country and industry concentrations; of credit risk is an important component of this process, which begins with the structuring and approval of facilities for only those • a sophisticated, simulation based portfolio model; clients and within those parameters that fall within the risk • securitisation structures; and appetite. • credit derivatives. In addition, various instruments are used to reduce exposure in In the commercial portfolios through: case of a counterparty default. These include, amongst others, financial or other collateral, netting agreements, guarantees and • maintaining an appropriate balance of exposures across credit derivatives. The type of security used depends on the industries with a view to mitigating residual risks at a Banking portfolio, product or customer segment, for example: Group level, where appropriate and economically feasible; • mortgages and instalment sale finance are secured by the • reliance on a small number of collateral types; and assets financed; • monitoring and management in the respective business • personal loans, overdrafts and credit card exposures are segments (e.g. exposure to geographical areas and loan to unsecured or secured by guarantees and suretyships; value (“LTV”) bands for mortgage portfolios). 142 Monitoring of weak exposures Commercial and other portfolios of clients that fall between the Credit exposures are actively monitored throughout the life of the corporate and retail segments are treated in a hybrid manner, respective transactions. As indicated above, the management of dependent on the number of exposures and the size of individual credit risk is largely carried out at a business unit level, and, transactions. therefore, the processes for the identification and management of Reports on the overall quality of the portfolio are monitored closely weak exposures differ slightly across the various franchises. at a business unit as well as at a Banking Group level. As indicated Across the wholesale credit portfolios: previously, the Performance Measurement function within Corporate Centre is actively involved in the determination of credit • watch lists of high risk clients; strategy and required changes thereto, so as to ensure that the • specific and detailed action plans for each client which are credit portfolio is managed within the constraints of the Banking actively monitored and updated on at least a monthly basis; Group’s credit risk appetite. • restructuring of facilities where appropriate; Use of credit risk tools and measures • use of credit derivatives; Credit risk measures are used in a large number of business processes, including pricing, the setting of impairments, in • an efficient workout; and determining capitalisation levels and in determining business • the realisation of collateral value in the event of default. strategy, risk appetite and the choice of appropriate return In retail credit portfolios: targets. Credit risk tools and measures are used extensively in the determination of the current credit risk profile and credit risk • monitoring on a (homogeneous) portfolio basis; appetite (see chart below). • restructuring of weak exposures to increase the projected realised value; • reduction or removal of undrawn facilities in areas such as HomeLoans and Credit Cards; and • revaluation of properties before approval of additional facilities. Use of credit risk tools and measures focus on Risk profile management Potential management actions: • insurance portfolio • credit derivatives in-force business management • securitisations Tools: • LGD models • LTV targets security and • netting agreements new business structuring • structured deals Tools: • target markets client • approval rates new business creditworthiness • affordability FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 143 Risk and capital management report / continued The following table describes the use of credit risk concepts and measures across a number of key areas and business processes related to the management of the credit portfolio. Use of credit measures in the credit lifecycle Area Wholesale Retail Credit approval Ratings form an explicit and integral component of the approval Credit approvals are largely decision, both with respect to the targeted portfolio composition in automated on the basis of terms of applicable risk appetite limits (e.g. ratings profile) and application scorecards and with respect to the value proposition based on the projected risk applicable policy. These are adjusted return on economic capital (for which PD, EAD and LGD reflective of PD, EAD and LGD. are key inputs). Determination of The setting of limits at a client level and the ongoing evaluation of See Wholesale. In addition, retail individual and industry and geographical concentrations are key aspects of the portfolios are regularly evaluated portfolio limits determination of the overall credit strategy (see below). Ratings with respect to modelled vs. actual are an important consideration in this process and risk related experience in the setting of credit limits on the composition of the portfolio are used to ensure risk appetite. compliance with the Banking Group’s credit risk appetite. Reporting to senior Portfolio reports are collated on an ongoing basis and these are See Wholesale. Reports are also management and the presented to and discussed regularly at relevant business and submitted to the Retail and SME Board deployed risk committees. Quarterly portfolio reports are also credit risk technical committee submitted to the FRBH Credit risk committee, the Wholesale and the RCC committee. credit technical committee and the RCC committee. Provisioning PD and LGD estimates are used extensively in the assessment of PIT PD, long run LGD and roll impairments and thus in the calculation of provisions. rates are used in the derivation of specific, portfolio and IBNR provisions. Regulatory and As the primary credit risk measures PD, EAD and LGD are the See Wholesale. economic capital most important inputs for both regulatory and economic capital allocation models. Profitability analysis The primary risk measures are the core parameters of the pricing PIT PDs, downturn LGDs and EADs and pricing decisions calculator used for each transaction. For each application a value are used in assigning appropriate proposition section has to be completed that provides a cogent price points to each risk rating. rationale for the transaction on a risk adjusted basis. Profitability is assessed in terms of economic profit. Credit monitoring The monitoring of exposures is dependent on the risk assessment See Wholesale. Extensive analysis and risk as given by PD, EAD and LGD. FR grades are updated on a regular of portfolio and risk movements is management basis to reflect the organisation’s assessment of obligor risk. The carried out on a monthly basis. risk parameters are also used in the Banking Group’s portfolio These are used in portfolio model as well as other tools which attribute additional capital to management and credit strategy large transactions or to deals that further increase the decisions. concentration of risk in the portfolio. Determination of Credit portfolio strategy is driven by the assessment of overall See Wholesale. Credit models are portfolio and client portfolio credit risk, which is based on a portfolio model driven by also used to determine loss acquisition strategy the primary risk measures. In this context, acquisition and overall thresholds across retail portfolios, strategy are set in terms of appropriate limits so as to ensure that which are a direct consideration in the credit portfolios remain within the overall risk appetite the setting of credit risk appetite. prescribed by the Board. Performance The primary risk measures are key parameters for the calculation See Wholesale. By necessity, measurement and of deal pricing and are also used in the assessment of economic analyses tend to be carried out at a compensation value added by a transaction or a business unit. From an portfolio level but performance is operational perspective, each deal is evaluated with respect to the measured consistently on the basis value added and compensation structures are tied to the of capital consumption and measures. economic value added in the form of economic profit. 144 Discussion of credit risk portfolio Despite the reduction in debt servicing costs as a result of lower Credit strategy is managed as part of the broader balance sheet interest rates, the subsequent improvement in affordability and management process and is aligned with the Banking Group’s underlying asset recovery (e.g. house price growth), credit view of trends in the wider economy. The Banking Group’s current appetite has not increased considerably. Consumers remain origination strategies are resulting in improving credit quality leveraged and vulnerable to shifts in the external economic across all retail portfolios (as evidenced in the vintage analyses for environment and concerns remain with regards to unemployment the large retail portfolios on pages 164 and 165). These portfolios prospects and the timing and strength of the recovery. were also positively impacted by interest rates continuing to trend downwards, positive income growth and increasing wages. Wholesale portfolios However, job losses also continued, albeit at a slower rate. During the year under review the corporate portfolios were resilient, however, lending appears likely to remain tepid as The commercial market remains fragile. Improvement is expected corporates maintain high levels of cash and investment spending to follow the consumer spending growth recovery. remains subdued. Commercial market NPLs and impairments have increased since June 2009 due to the lagged impact of the Retail credit portfolios economic cycle. Interest rate reductions, which started in 2008 and continued into 2010, resulted in a reduction in NPL inflows (see chart on page 23) and consequently in the credit impairment charges of most retail portfolios. The level of NPLs remained high, however, due to the debt counselling process. As a result of the improvement in credit quality, the Banking Group’s retail portfolios now fall within the desired credit appetite ranges. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 145 Risk and capital management report / continued Credit assets The following table provides a breakdown of the Banking Group’s credit assets by segment, including off balance sheet items. Credit assets by type and segment (audited) R million 2010 2009 Cash and short term funds 22 707 22 018 Money at call and short notice 2 136 1 423 Balances with central banks and guaranteed by central banks 11 513 12 559 Balances with other banks 9 058 8 036 Gross advances 443 750 429 815 FNB 199 113 204 370 FNB Retail 168 659 166 093 FNB Corporate* 1 864 11 415 FNB Commercial 28 590 26 862 WesBank 92 724 92 274 RMB 130 312 112 989 FNB Africa 19 645 17 519 Other 1 956 2 663 Derivatives 39 764 60 229 Debt investment securities (excluding non recourse investments) 90 275 79 218 Accounts receivable 5 706 5 255 Loans to Insurance Group 5 428 6 115 Reinsurance assets 524 287 Credit risk not recognised on the balance sheet 84 024 84 179 Guarantees 24 036 19 085 Acceptances 299 279 Letters of credit 5 541 5 576 Irrevocable commitments 52 809 57 786 Underwriting exposures – 2 Credit derivatives 1 339 1 451 Total 692 178 687 116 * Includes public sector. Reconciliation of gross advances to net advances R million 2010 2009 Gross advances after interest in suspense 443 750 429 815 Less total impairment (refer Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page 289) (8 972) (9 591) 434 778 420 224 Consolidation adjustment 15 (3 736) Net advances (refer consolidated statement of financial position on page 261) 434 793 416 488 For further information on the fair value of investment securities refer to Note 13 to consolidated financial statements on investment securities and other investments. 146 Credit quality Advances are considered past due where specific payment dates were not met or where regular instalments are required and such payments were not received. A loan payable on demand is classified as overdue where a demand for repayment was served but repayment was not made in accordance with the stipulated requirements. The following table provides an age analysis of exposures classified as past due as at 30 June 2010. Age analysis of advances (audited) 2010 Past due but not impaired Neither Renegopast nor tiated 1 – 30 31 – 60 > 60 R million impaired but current days days days Impaired Total Age analysis of advances FNB Retail 144 067 783 5 773 2 701 1 717 13 618 168 659 FNB Corporate 1 863 – – – – 1 1 864 FNB Commercial 26 347 – 261 34 21 1 927 28 590 FNB 172 277 783 6 034 2 735 1 738 15 546 199 113 WesBank 85 284 – 1 577 647 118 5 098 92 724 FNB Africa 17 269 – 1 149 459 360 408 19 645 RMB 129 409 1 31 17 6 848 130 312 Other 1 928 – – – – 28 1 956 Total 406 167 784 8 791 3 858 2 222 21 928 443 750 2009 Past due but not impaired Neither Renegopast nor tiated 1 – 30 31 – 60 > 60 R million impaired but current days days days Impaired Total Age analysis of advances FNB Retail 135 348 2 715 6 481 3 170 2 316 16 063 166 093 FNB Corporate 11 328 – 2 1 – 84 11 415 FNB Commercial 24 979 – 125 60 75 1 623 26 862 FNB 171 655 2 715 6 608 3 231 2 391 17 770 204 370 WesBank 84 423 – 2 212 944 95 4 600 92 274 FNB Africa 15 692 – 946 191 260 430 17 519 RMB 111 367 267 61 20 97 1 177 112 989 Other 2 317 64 16 10 6 250 2 663 Total 385 454 3 046 9 843 4 396 2 849 24 227 429 815 The classification of advances past due follows the standards set Renegotiated advances are advances where, due to the out in applicable accounting policies. A distinction is drawn deterioration in a counterparty’s financial condition, FRB granted a between accounts past due for technical reasons (e.g. insufficient concession where the original terms and conditions of the facility payments due to debit orders not having been updated for were amended. The objective of such an amendment is to mitigate changes in interest rates) and normal arrears (i.e. accounts in the risks where the current situation could result in the arrears by one to three full repayments). The split provided in the counterparty no longer being able to meet the terms and conditions tables above includes both types of arrear accounts. Total exposure originally agreed. As part of the risk management and workout to technical arrears included in this analysis was R4.5 billion (2009: approach, the Banking Group enters into arrangements with R5.3 billion) and was primarily driven by retail exposures. clients where concessions are made on payment terms FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 147 Risk and capital management report / continued (e.g. a reduction in payments for a specified period of time, conditions. These advances are considered as a separate category changes in the payment profile, or debt counselling payment for purposes of impairments and are not considered with the plans). There are formally defined eligibility criteria appropriate Neither past due nor impaired category. for individual products to determine when clients are eligible for The renegotiated advances exclude any advances where the such arrangements. These accounts are monitored in a separate facility terms were extended or renewed as part of the ordinary portfolio in each product segment and the performance is tracked course of business on terms and conditions equivalent to the for management and impairment purposes. Reclassification of current terms or conditions for new debt with similar risk. The NPLs into the renegotiated advances category is not allowed. following table presents an analysis of the credit quality of The renegotiated advances disclosed above include all loans performing advances (i.e. those classified as neither past due nor renegotiated to date and for which the renegotiated terms have not impaired). Please refer to page 139 for the mapping of FR grades yet expired. All of these advances are within the revised terms and to rating agency scales. Credit quality of performing advances (audited) 2010 Total FNB neither past due nor R million impaired Retail Corporate Commercial WesBank RMB FNB Africa Other FR 1 – 25 76 539 4 864 173 2 347 801 67 607 59 688 FR 26 – 91 307 614 129 645 1 676 23 145 74 824 60 374 16 721 1 228 Above FR 92 22 015 9 558 14 855 9 659 1 428 489 12 Total 406 168 144 067 1 863 26 347 85 284 129 409 17 269 1 928 2009 Total FNB neither past due nor R million impaired Retail Corporate Commercial WesBank RMB FNB Africa Other FR 1 – 25 123 298 49 532 4 730 2 354 1 141 64 076 2 1 463 FR 26 – 91 243 706 81 107 6 598 22 278 72 661 45 391 15 235 436 Above FR 92 18 450 4 709 – 347 10 621 1 900 455 418 Total 385 454 135 348 11 328 24 979 84 423 111 367 15 692 2 317 148 Year-on-year trends will be impacted by the risk migration in the counterparty risk ratings, which explains the migration observed existing book (reflecting changes in the economic environment), above. Since December 2009, counterparty risk ratings have, quality of new business originated and any model recalibrations however, improved significantly for the majority of the retail implemented during the course of the year. Rating system portfolios, due to the positive impact from lower interest rates on recalibrations were implemented for the majority of the retail the existing book and the high quality of new business originated. portfolios during the first half of the financial year. The recalibrations incorporated the higher defaults experienced in The following table provides an overview of the credit quality of recent times. This resulted in a once off deterioration in other financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired. Credit quality of other financial assets (audited) 2010 Cash and Loans to ReInvestment short Insurance insurance R million securities* Derivatives term funds Group assets Total Credit quality of financial assets (excluding advances) neither past due nor impaired AAA to BBB 42 954 18 847 19 896 5 428 524 87 649 BB, B 46 023 20 111 2 513 – – 68 647 CCC – 108 76 – – 184 Unrated 1 298 698 222 – – 2 218 Total 90 275 39 764 22 707 5 428 524 158 698 2009 Cash and Loans to ReInvestment short Insurance insurance R million securities* Derivatives term funds Group assets** Total Credit quality of financial assets (excluding advances) neither past due nor impaired AAA to BBB 26 584 19 162 19 124 6 115 287 71 272 BB, B 52 526 40 594 2 786 – – 95 906 CCC 102 120 – – – 222 Unrated 6 353 108 – – 467 Total 79 218 60 229 22 018 6 115 287 167 867 * Excludes non recourse investments. ** Reinsurance assets arising in the Group’s Namibian operations were classified from accounts receivable to a separate line, reinsurance assets, in the statement of financial position. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 149 Risk and capital management report / continued Impairment of financial assets and facilities decrease the credit impairment charge in the income non performing loans statement in the year of the recovery. Refer to policy for impairment of financial assets in the Accounting The graph below shows the history of the credit losses reflected by Policy section on page 240 and to Note 12 Impairment of advances the impairment charge and non performing loans percentages. on page 294 of the consolidated annual financial statements for the analysis of movement in impairment of advances and NPLs. Adequacy of impairments is assessed through the ongoing review of the quality of the credit exposures. Although credit management and workout processes are similar for amortised cost advances and fair value advances, the creation of impairments for these differs. For amortised cost advances, impairments are recognised through the creation of an impairment reserve and an impairment charge in the income statement. For fair value advances, the credit valuation adjustment is charged to the income statement through trading income and recognised as a change to the carrying value of the asset. Specific impairments are created for non performing advances for which objective evidence that an incurred loss event will have an Impairment charges are reflected before insurance proceeds adverse impact on the estimated future cash flows from the asset, where applicable. was identified. Potential recoveries from guarantees and collateral are incorporated into the calculation of the impairment figures. Fair value sensitivity of wholesale advances due to credit risk All assets not individually impaired, as described, are included in RMB recognises a significant portion of wholesale advances at fair portfolios with similar credit characteristics (homogeneous pools) and are collectively assessed. Portfolio impairments are value through profit or loss. The fair value adjustments made to created with reference to these performing advances based on these advances directly impacts the income statement and the historical patterns of losses in each part of the performing book. value of the advance. For risk management purposes a term Points of consideration for this analysis are the level of arrears; structure of default probabilities and migration matrices are used arrears roll rates; PIT PDs; LGDs; and the economic environment. to estimate the fair value impact of changes in credit risk. The Loans considered uncollectable are written off against the reserve matrix contains probabilities of downgrading or upgrading to for loan impairments. Subsequent recoveries against these another rating category. 150 The main benefits of using the migration matrix to estimate the The graph below sets out the fair value impact based on actual fair value impact of credit risk are: observed rating migrations from Standard & Poor’s over the long term. Based on this scenario the average fair value impact is a loss • downgrades are more realistic because better rating grades of approximately R53 million while the fair value impact at the 75th are less likely to be downgraded compared to more risky rating percentile (i.e. a 25% probability of exceeding this value) is a loss of grades; approximately R106 million. • migration matrices take into account the higher volatility of more risky rating grades; • rating migration can be positive or negative; • rating migration is not restricted to one notch only and in extreme cases includes default risk; and • migration matrices can be based on different economic conditions. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 151 Risk and capital management report / continued Geographic and industry concentration risk Geographically, most of the Banking Group’s exposure originates in South Africa. The following charts provide the geographical and industry split of gross advances after deduction of interest in suspense. The Banking Group seeks to establish a balanced portfolio profile and monitors concentrations in the credit portfolio closely. 152 The following table provides a breakdown of credit exposure across geographies as at 30 June. Concentration of significant credit exposure (audited) 2010 South Other United Other North South R million Africa Africa Kingdom Ireland Europe America America Other Total Advances 410 264 22 741 7 186 68 660 819 391 1 621 443 750 Derivatives 26 364 257 6 128 2 5 070 1 696 11 236 39 764 Debt securities 74 044 7 742 471 – 6 004 999 – 1 015 90 275 Guarantees, acceptances and letters of credit* 26 631 2 608 – – 282 – 5 350 29 876 Irrevocable commitments* 48 339 3 195 78 – 1 149 38 – 10 52 809 The average advances for the year under review R418 667 million 2009 South Other United Other North South R million Africa Africa Kingdom Ireland Europe America America Other Total Advances 393 803 20 965 10 381 381 2 204 320 445 1 316 429 815 Derivatives 37 219 278 12 591 2 8 184 1 874 4 77 60 229 Debt securities 64 174 8 731 357 – 5 005 789 – 162 79 218 Guarantees, acceptances and letters of credit* 22 772 2 153 – – – – – 15 24 940 Irrevocable commitments* 54 139 3 046 255 13 80 119 8 126 57 786 * Significant off balance sheet exposures. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 153 Risk and capital management report / continued Segmental analysis of advances The following table provides a breakdown of credit exposure by Banking Group segment. 2010 Impairments NPLs as Total as % of a % of impairment average R million/% Advances NPLs advances charges advances FNB 199 113 15 546 7.81 3 421 1.70 FNB Retail 169 019 13 674 8.09 2 873 1.71 Residential mortgages 152 300 12 553 8.24 1 416 0.94 FNB HomeLoans (Consumer segment) 108 558 9 737 8.97 1 181 1.08 Wealth 37 482 2 520 6.72 210 0.60 Affordable housing (Mass segment) 6 260 296 4.73 25 0.46 Credit card 10 705 672 6.28 776 6.92 Personal banking 3 042 148 4.87 202 6.18 Mass (secured and unsecured) 2 972 301 10.13 479 16.22 FNB Commercial 28 590 1 927 6.74 446 1.60 FNB Corporate banking 1 697 1 0.06 34 0.68 FNB Other (193) (56) 29.02 68 5.45 WesBank 92 724 5 098 5.50 2 048 2.21 WesBank asset backed finance 88 761 4 778 5.38 1 722 1.94 WesBank Retail 53 391 2 882 5.40 929 1.77 WesBank Business and corporate 30 415 1 760 5.79 697 2.21 WesBank International 4 955 136 2.74 96 2.09 WesBank loans 3 963 320 8.07 326 8.47 RMB 130 312 1 126 0.86 195 0.16 FNB Africa 19 645 407 2.07 68 0.37 Corporate centre 1 956 28 1.00 (46) (2.01) Total 443 750 22 205 5.00 5 686 1.30 154 2009 Impairments NPLs as Total as % of a % of impairment average R million/% Advances NPLs advances charges advances FNB 204 370 17 769 8.69 4 920 2.39 FNB Retail 166 093 16 062 9.67 4 545 2.76 Residential mortgages 147 937 13 626 9.21 2 375 1.62 FNB HomeLoans (Consumer segment) 110 642 11 322 10.23 2 295 2.05 Wealth 32 732 2 087 6.38 64 0.21 Affordable housing (Mass segment) 4 563 217 4.76 16 0.38 Credit card 11 726 1 444 12.31 1 355 11.18 Personal banking 3 497 444 12.70 429 12.12 Mass (secured and unsecured) 2 933 548 18.68 386 14.85 FNB Commercial 27 216 1 623 5.96 389 1.52 FNB Corporate banking 8 373 84 1.00 70 0.59 FNB Other 2 688 – – (84) (2.11) WesBank 92 274 4 600 4.99 2 745 2.86 WesBank asset backed finance 88 536 4 355 4.92 2 222 2.41 WesBank Retail 51 601 2 906 5.63 1 539 2.77 WesBank Business and corporate 32 690 1 273 3.89 505 1.57 WesBank International 4 245 176 4.15 178 4.00 WesBank loans 3 738 245 6.55 523 13.40 RMB 112 989 1 177 1.04 523 0.43 FNB Africa 17 519 430 2.45 96 0.58 Corporate centre 2 663 251 9.43 (260) ( 9.91) Total 429 815 24 227 5.64 8 024 1.81 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 155 Risk and capital management report / continued Basel II disclosure Credit rating systems and processes used for Basel II The Banking Group uses the AIRB Approach for the exposures of FRB and the Standardised Approach for all other legal entities in the Banking Group for regulatory capital purposes. Due to the relatively smaller size of the subsidiaries and the scarcity of relevant data, the Banking Group plans to continue using the Standardised Approach for the foreseeable future for these portfolios. The following table provides a breakdown of credit exposure by type, segment and Basel II approach. The figures are based on IFRS accounting standards and differ from the exposure figures used for regulatory capital calculations, which reflect the recognition of permissible adjustments such as the netting of certain exposures. Credit exposure by type, segment and Basel II approach (unaudited) AIRB Standardised Approach subsidiaries Regulated bank London branch FirstRand entities within and other R million 2010 Bank FNB Africa subsidiaries Cash and short term funds 22 707 18 832 1 820 2 055 Money at call and short notice 2 136 1 230 555 351 Balances with central banks and guaranteed by central banks 11 513 10 605 898 10 Balances with other banks 9 058 6 997 367 1 694 Gross advances 443 750 404 340 19 645 19 765 FNB 199 113 194 298 – 4 815 FNB Retail 168 659 164 845 – 4 814 FNB Corporate 1 864 1 863 – 1 FNB Commercial 28 590 28 590 – – WesBank 92 724 85 937 – 6 787 RMB 130 312 122 382 – 7 930 FNB Africa 19 645 – 19 645 – Other 1 956 1 723 – 233 Derivatives 39 764 38 843 50 871 Debt investment securities 90 275 73 944 8 328 8 003 Accounts receivable 5 706 2 808 235 2 663 Loans due by holding company and fellow subsidiaries – 14 396 2 508 (16 904) Loans to Insurance Group 5 428 1 100 – 4 328 Reinsurance assets 524 – 50 474 Credit risk not recognised on the balance sheet 84 024 76 120 5 380 2 524 Guarantees 24 036 21 986 2 006 44 Acceptances 299 299 – – Letters of credit 5 541 5 362 179 – Irrevocable commitments 52 809 47 503 3 195 2 111 Underwriting exposures – – – – Credit derivatives 1 339 970 – 369 Total 692 178 630 383 38 016 23 779 156 For portfolios using the Standardised Approach, rating scales class. The parameters reflect through the cycle PDs and downturn from Fitch Ratings, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s are used. LGDs. The scale used from 1-25 per the Basel II accord is for External ratings are not available for all jurisdictions and for performing assets, with 1 being the lowest risk and NPL certain parts of the portfolio other than corporate, bank and representing the defaulted exposures. sovereign counterparties. Where applicable, the Banking Group uses its internally developed mapping between FR grade and The graphs provide a summary of the EAD distribution by rating agency grade. prescribed counterparty risk bands. The EAD weighted downturn LGD and the EAD weighted PD for the performing and total book The following table provides the breakdown of exposures rated are also shown. Comparative information for the prior year is through the Standardised Approach in FNB Africa by risk bucket, provided in the charts. after taking risk mitigation into account: Year-on-year trends will be impacted by the risk migration in the FNB Africa exposures by risk bucket (unaudited) existing book (reflecting changes in the economic environment), quality of new business originated and any model recalibrations Exposure implemented during the course of the year. Risk bucket R million For the majority of the retail portfolios there was significant 0% 555 positive risk migration since December 2009. This was, however, 10% – negated by model recalibrations implemented during the financial 20% 3 170 year, incorporating relatively high defaults experienced in recent 35% 7 360 times. 50% 1 101 75% 2 161 Over the year under review, the performance of the credit portfolio 100% 23 471 was in line with that of the industry. Specific impairments 198 The risk profile reflects the revised credit origination strategy that Total 38 016 selectively targets areas providing an appropriate risk/return profile in the current economic environment. PD, EAD and LGD profiles A summary of credit risk parameters as reported for regulatory capital purposes is shown below for each significant AIRB asset EAD weighted performing PD% 2.66% EAD weighted total book PD% 6.31% EAD weighted performing LGD% 28.66% EAD weighted total book LGD% 28.83% Performing book EL/EAD 0.76% Total book EL/EAD 1.82% FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 157 Risk and capital management report / continued EAD weighted performing PD% 1.64% EAD weighted total book PD% 2.52% EAD weighted performing LGD% 37.35% EAD weighted total book LGD% 37.37% Performing book EL/EAD 0.61% Total book EL/EAD 0.94% EAD weighted performing PD% 0.14% EAD weighted total book PD% 0.14% EAD weighted performing LGD% 32.20% EAD weighted total book LGD% 32.20% Performing book EL/EAD 0.05% Total book EL/EAD 0.05% 158 EAD weighted performing PD% 4.63% EAD weighted total book PD% 5.58% EAD weighted performing LGD% 34.69% EAD weighted total book LGD% 34.75% Performing book EL/EAD 1.61% Total book EL/EAD 1.94% EAD weighted performing PD% 2.69% EAD weighted total book PD% 11.06% EAD weighted performing LGD% 40.44% EAD weighted total book LGD% 41.17% Performing book EL/EAD 1.09% Total book EL/EAD 4.55% FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 159 Risk and capital management report / continued EAD weighted performing PD% 3.47% EAD weighted total book PD% 13.37% EAD weighted performing LGD% 13.18% EAD weighted total book LGD% 13.88% Performing book EL/EAD 0.46% Total book EL/EAD 1.86% The risk profile in the above chart appears to be deteriorating. This is due to rating system recalibrations implemented in September 2009, resulting in an increase in PDs due to the inclusion of the relatively high defaults experienced in recent times. Subsequent to September 2009, the risk profile improved and PDs decreased consistently, due to positive risk migration, with the lower interest rate environment positively impacting the existing portfolio. In addition, stricter lending criteria resulted in higher quality new business. Monthly trend analyses from July 2009 to June 2010 show a once off increase in PDs in September 2009, due to the recalibration, thereafter a consistent decrease due to the positive migration. EAD weighted performing PD% 2.72% EAD weighted total book PD% 5.53% EAD weighted performing LGD% 65.42% EAD weighted total book LGD% 65.67% Performing book EL/EAD 1.78% Total book EL/EAD 3.63% 160 EAD weighted performing PD% 6.85% EAD weighted total book PD% 13.07% EAD weighted performing LGD% 30.43% EAD weighted total book LGD% 31.12% Performing book EL/EAD 2.09% Total book EL/EAD 4.07% A significant proportion of the retail other asset class is made up of vehicle and asset finance which is secured by the underlying vehicle. As such, the LGD is lower than what would be expected in unsecured other retail portfolios. Maturity breakdown Maturity is defined as the average term to contractual cash flows weighted by the size of each of the cash flows. Maturity parameters, calculated for each account or exposure, are used as an input in the AIRB regulatory capital calculation for the wholesale portfolios. These are aggregated on an asset class basis for review and reporting purposes. The longer the maturity of a deal, the greater the uncertainty, and all else equal the larger the regulatory capital requirement. Maturity breakdown of AIRB asset classes within the wholesale credit portfolio is disclosed in the graph below. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 161 Risk and capital management report / continued Actual vs expected loss analysis Actual vs expected loss per portfolio segment To provide a meaningful assessment of the effectiveness of the (unaudited) internal ratings based models, expected loss is compared against 2010 losses actually experienced during the year. This is performed for R million Expected loss Actual loss all significant AIRB asset classes. Corporate (corporate, Expected loss here refers to regulatory expected loss. This banks and sovereigns) 801 187 provides a one year forward looking view, based on information SME (SME corporate available at the beginning of the year. and SME retail) 1 066 977 Residential mortgages 3 163 4 057 The risk parameters include: Qualifying revolving retail 1 995 2 065 • PDs, which are calibrated to long run default experience to Other retail 987 1 710 avoid regulatory models being skewed to a specific part of the WesBank 2 471 3 519 credit cycle; Total 10 483 12 515 • LGDs, which are calibrated to select downturn periods to reflect The composition used above differs slightly from that used in depressed asset prices during economic downturns; and the remainder of this section, due to impairment charges being available on business entity level as opposed to AIRB asset • EADs. class level. Actual losses experienced during the year consist of both the level It should also be noted that the regulatory expected loss shown of specific impairments at the start of the year 1 July 2009 and the above is based on the regulatory capital models that were applied as at 30 June 2009. The models currently applied have since net specific impairment charge recorded through the income incorporated the subsequent increase in defaults and resulted statement for the year ended 30 June 2010 as determined by IFRS. in an increase in expected losses. A restatement of the above The calculation is based on the assumption that the specific comparison using the capital models currently applied would provisions raised are a fair estimate of what final losses on result in a closer alignment of actual vs. expected losses. defaulted exposures would be, although the length of the workout period creates uncertainty in this assumption. This comparison is supplemented with more detailed analysis below, comparing actual and expected outcomes for each of the The measure of actual losses includes specific provisions raised risk parameters (PD, LGD and EAD) over the year under review. for exposures which defaulted during the year, but which did not exist at 30 June 2009. These exposures are not reflected in the Expected values are based on regulatory capital models applied as at June 2009. For PDs, this is applied to the total performing book expected loss value described below. as at June 2009. For LGDs and EADs, it is applied to all facilities The table below provides the comparison of actual loss to that defaulted over the next twelve months. regulatory expected loss for each significant AIRB asset class of Actual values are based on actual outcomes over the year July FRB. With PD models used for regulatory capital purposes being 2009 to June 2010. It should be noted that due to the length of the calibrated to long run default experience, it would be expected that workout period, there is uncertainty in the measure provided for actual losses are larger than regulatory expected losses during actual LGDs as facilities that default during the year would only the top of the credit cycle and lower than expected losses during have had between 1 and 12 months to recover to date – depending the bottom of the credit cycle, as is evident from the table below. on when the default event occurred. 162 The EAD estimated to actual ratio is derived as the ratio of nominal exposure at default for the same accounts. A ratio above 100% expected exposure at default (for all accounts that defaulted indicates an overestimation. during the July 2009 – June 2010 time period) to the actual nominal Risk parameters used to determine regulatory expected loss (unaudited) 2010 EAD estimated to actual PD LGD ratio Estimated Actual Estimated Actual Asset class % % % % % Corporate 1.55 – 37.73 n/a n/a Banks 0.15 – 31.00 n/a n/a SME corporate 3.45 4.38 44.98 32.07 110.58 SME retail 3.28 4.43 37.80 15.27 107.85 Residential mortgages 2.68 4.48 18.66 12.66 103.92 Qualifying revolving retail 3.53 3.62 64.47 64.82 122.92 Other retail 7.85 8.13 31.84 35.75 104.94 Total 3.06 3.52 32.04 24.66 106.25 No corporate or bank defaults were experienced during the year under review; hence actual LGDs and EADs are not applicable. PDs used for regulatory capital purposes are based on long run experience and would be anticipated to under predict actual defaults at the top of the credit cycle and over estimate actual defaults at the bottom of the credit cycle. The analysis is based on the regulatory capital models that were applied at 30 June 2009. The models currently being applied have since incorporated the subsequent increase in defaults and resulted in an increase in expected losses. A restatement of the above comparison using the capital models currently applied would result in a closer alignment of actual and expected PDs. Selected risk analyses This section provides further information on selected risk analyses of the credit portfolios. The graphs below provide the balance to value distribution for the residential mortgages over time, as well as the aging of the residential mortgages portfolios. The recent focus on the loan to value ratios for new business resulted in a slight improvement in the balance to original value distribution. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 163 Risk and capital management report / continued The following graph provides the arrears in the FNB HomeLoans portfolio. It includes arrears where more than one full payment is in arrears expressed as a percentage of the total advances balance (excluding NPLs). The balance to market value shows a significant proportion of the book in the lower risk category of below 70%. FNB HomeLoans arrears levels have exhibited a decreasing trend in recent months. Similar trends are also observed in the WesBank and Credit card portfolios. The following graphs provide vintage analyses for FNB HomeLoans and WesBank Retail respectively. Vintage graphs provide the default experience 3, 6 and 12 months after each cohort of business originated. It indicates the impact of origination strategies and the macro environment. The improvement in the residential mortgages age distribution is a direct result of the reduction in new loans written during the 2009/2010 year due to the credit and pricing policies followed and market demand. For FNB HomeLoans the 3, 6 and 12 month cumulative vintage analyses illustrate a marked improvement in the quality of business written since mid 2008, despite further deterioration in macroeconomic conditions. The more recent decreases in the default experience reflect a combination of credit origination strategies and the improvement in macroeconomic conditions. 164 The Banking Group’s South African repossessed properties In September 2009 and May 2010 respectively, the Banking Group increased from R178 million (670 properties) at 30 June 2009 to brought to a successful close Nitro Securitisation 1 (Pty) Limited R513 million (1 564 properties) at 30 June 2010. (“Nitro 1”) and Nitro Securitisation 2 (“Nitro 2”), the first and second securitisations of instalment sale agreements originated by WesBank. The objective of the Banking Group to obtain matched term funding at a time when its retail asset book was growing rapidly was achieved. The structures proved resilient despite the recent difficulties experienced in the retail consumer environment. A detailed description of the transaction is provided on page 168. Introduction and objectives The Banking Group uses securitisation transactions as a tool to achieve one or more of the following objectives: • enhance the liquidity position through the diversification of funding sources; • match the cash flow profile of assets and liabilities; • reduce credit risk exposure; • reduce capital requirements; or The WesBank retail 6and 12-month cumulative vintage analyses • manage credit concentration risk. reflect the noticeable improvement in the quality of business written since mid 2007, and the more benign macro environment From an accounting perspective, traditional securitisations are (i.e. lower rates). treated as sales transactions. At inception, the assets are sold to the special purpose vehicle at carrying value and no gains or In the asset finance business, repossession and stockholding losses are recognised. The securitisation entities are subsequently levels continued to decline relative to the previous comparative consolidated into FRBH for financial reporting purposes. For period. The gradually reducing trend is likely to continue into the synthetic securitisations, the credit derivatives used in the future as the economic environment improves. transaction are recognised at fair value, with any fair value adjustments reported in profit or loss. 9. SECURITISATIONS AND CONDUITS Key developments and focus Traditional and synthetic securitisations The following tables show the traditional and synthetic In July 2009, Moody’s downgraded all Aaaand Aa1-rated notes of securitisations currently in place as well as the rating distribution South African asset backed securities, residential mortgage asset of any exposures retained by the Banking Group. Whilst national backed securities, commercial mortgage asset backed securities scale ratings have been used in this table, global scale equivalent and repackaged securities to Aa2. This was as a result of Moody’s ratings are used for internal risk management purposes. All downgrading South Africa’s local currency ceiling for bonds and assets in these vehicles were originated by FRB and in each of deposits to Aa2 from Aaa. This action aligned the global scale these transactions FRB acted as originator, servicer and swap structured finance ratings with the revised ceiling. The rating counterparty. action affected notes in several of the Banking Group’s transactions listed on page 168 of this section. In November 2009 Nitro International Securitisation Company 1 Plc (“Nitro 1 Plc”) redeemed the total outstanding notes, which initiated the dissolution of Nitro 1 Plc. A detailed description of the transaction is provided on page 168. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 165 Risk and capital management report / continued Securitisation transactions (unaudited) Asset Year Expected Rating R million type initiated close agency Traditional securitisations Nitro 1 Retail: Auto loans 2006 2009 Moody's Nitro 2 Retail: Auto loans 2006 2010 Moody's Nitro 3 Retail: Auto loans 2007 2011 Moody's and Fitch Ikhaya 1 Retail mortgages 2007 2011 Fitch Ikhaya 2 Retail mortgages 2007 2012 Fitch Synthetic securitisations Procul Retail: Auto loans 2002 2010 Fitch Corporate Fresco II receivables 2007 2013 Fitch Total Rating distribution of retained securitisation exposure (unaudited) R million AAA (zaf) AA (zaf) A+ (zaf) A (zaf) Traditional At 30 June 2010 15 8 – 4 At 30 June 2009 56 1 – – Synthetic At 30 June 2010 17 991 180 53 – At 30 June 2009 18 083 189 52 4 It should be noted that while national scale ratings have been used in the information above, global scale equivalent ratings are used for internal risk management purposes. 166 Assets outstanding Notes outstanding Retained exposure Assets securitised 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 16 784 3 907 6 206 4 276 7 261 254 351 2 000 – 181 – 245 – 5 5 000 – 847 – 1 216 – 24 5 000 736 1 688 1 129 2 095 39 73 1 900 1 317 1 439 1 321 1 592 87 93 2 884 1 854 2 051 1 826 2 113 128 156 22 000 22 000 22 000 22 000 22 000 19 138 19 182 2 000 2 000 2 000 2 000 2 000 875 1 009 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 18 263 18 173 38 784 25 907 28 206 26 276 29 261 19 392 19 533 BBB+ (zaf) BBB (zaf) BBB(zaf) BB+ (zaf) BB (zaf) Not rated Total 15 – – – – 210 252 – – – – – 294 351 – – – – – 914 19 138 – – – 29 2 823 19 182 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 167 Risk and capital management report / continued Downgrades of South African structured finance Nitro 2 was launched on 8 September 2006 with a size of ratings by Moody’s R5 billion and an 8% subordination below the Aaa rated notes. FRB, The Moody’s downgrade affected notes in the following FRB the originator, held the subordinated loan of R95 million. There was transactions: an excess spread of 1.2%. By 12 May 2010, notes to the value of R440.9 million were outstanding, representing less than 10% of • Nitro 1 (Classes A14 and A15 downgraded to Aa2). the original principal amount. On 12 May 2010, the next interest payment date, Nitro 2 redeemed the total outstanding balance by • Nitro 1 Plc (Classes A downgraded to Aa2). exercising the clean up call option as outlined in Clause 7.3 of the • Nitro 2 (Classes A12, A13, A14 and A15 downgraded to Aa2). Offering Circular. • Nitro International Securitisation 2 Plc (Classes A down­graded This brought to a successful close the first and second to Aa2). securitisations of instalment sale agreements originated by • Nitro Securitisation 3 (Pty) Limited (Classes A9, A10, A11, A12, WesBank. The objective of the Banking Group to obtain matched A13, A14 and A15 downgraded to Aa2). term funding at a time when its retail asset book was growing rapidly was achieved. The structures proved resilient despite the Notably, Moody’s did point out that the action was not prompted by recent difficulties experienced in the retail consumer environment. concerns on the performance of the underlying portfolios. The rating actions were as result of Moody’s downgrade of South Investors in both securitisations were able to, without suffering Africa’s local currency ceiling for bonds and deposits to Aa2 from any losses, realise investments earlier than the legal maturity. Aaa. This action aligned the global scale structured finance ratings Given the recent turmoil in credit markets, credit spreads had with the revised ceiling. widened significantly compared to levels at inception of the transactions. The clean up calls enabled investors to benefit from Dissolution of Nitro International Securitisation reinvestment opportunities at more attractive credit spreads for Company 1 Plc similarly rated instruments. Nitro 1 Plc was launched on 27 November 2006 and issued e212 million in Secured Amortising Floating Rate Notes, due in Conduit programmes and fixed income funds 2012. On the payment date of 16 November 2009, Nitro 1 Plc The Banking Group’s conduit programmes are debt capital redeemed the total outstanding notes, which initiated the process market vehicles, which provide investment grade corporate South of the dissolution of Nitro 1 Plc. The secured parties (other than African counterparties with an alternative funding source to the note holders, the trustee and the corporate services company) traditional bank funding. It also provides institutional investors acknowledged and confirmed that the appointment as per the with highly rated short term alternative investments. The fixed transaction documents had ended. The dissolution of Nitro 1 Plc is income fund is a call loan bond fund, which offers overnight expected to be completed in the next financial year. borrowers and lenders an alternative to traditional overnight bank lending products on a matched basis. Exercise of clean up call option for Nitro 1 and 2 All the assets originated for the conduit programmes are Nitro 1 was launched on 28 March 2006 with a size of R2 billion and rigorously evaluated as part of the ordinary credit approval a 7% subordination below the Aaa rated notes. The subordinated process applicable to any other corporate exposure held by the loan of R20 million and the Class D notes (from March 2008) were Banking. held by the originator (FRB). There was an excess spread of 2%. By 14 September 2009, notes to the value of R186.5 million were The following tables show the programmes currently in place, the outstanding, representing less than 10% of the outstanding ratings distribution of the underlying assets and the role played by principal amount of the notes on issue date. Nitro 1 redeemed the the Banking Group in each of these programmes. All of these total outstanding balance by exercising the clean up call option, as capital market vehicles continue to perform in line with outlined in Clause 7.3 of the Offering Circular. All the outstanding expectations. notes were redeemed in full on 14 September 2009, which was also the next interest payment date. 168 Conduits and fixed income funds (unaudited) Non recourse Credit enhancement Transaction investments provided Year Rating Programme R million Underlying assets initiated agency size 2010 2009 2010 2009 Conduits iNdwa Corporate and structured finance term loans 2003 Fitch 15 000 7 373 7 287 – – iVuzi Corporate and structured finance term loans 2007 Fitch 15 000 5 772 5 017 758 679 Total 13 145 12 304 758 679 Fixed income fund iNkotha Overnight corporate loans 2006 Fitch 10 000 2 164 3 623 – – Total 2 164 3 623 – – Rating distribution of conduits and fixed income funds (unaudited) R million F1+ (zaf) AAA (zaf) AA+ (zaf) AA (zaf) AA(zaf) A+ (zaf) A (zaf) A(zaf) Total Conduits At 30 June 2010 – 1 436 633 1 487 4 683 1 480 2 592 835 13 146 At 30 June 2009 – 1 551 341 2 076 4 640 2 259 1 020 417 12 304 Fixed Income Fund At 30 June 2010 – 656 – – 1 194 – 116 197 2 163 At 30 June 2009 – 1 209 – – 1 107 – 1 002 305 3 623 FRB’s role in the conduits and the fixed income fund Credit Liquidity enhancement Swap Transaction Originator Investor Servicer provider provider counterpart iNdwa √ √ √ iNkotha √ iVuzi √ √ √ √ All the above programmes continue to perform in line with expectations. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 169 Risk and capital management report / continued Liquidity facilities The table below provides an overview of the liquidity facilities issued by FRB. Liquidity facilities (unaudited) R million Transaction type 2010 2009 Transaction Own transactions 10 442 9 540 iNdwa Conduit 5 898 5 653 iVuzi Conduit 4 544 3 887 Third party transactions Securitisations 1 577 2 160 Total 12 019 11 700 * It is important to note that from an accounting perspective, upon consolidation the underlying assets in the entities not recognised on the balance sheet are reconsolidated back onto FRB’s balance sheet. All liquidity facilities in the transactions given in the table above, rank senior in terms of payment priority in the event of a drawdown. Economic capital is allocated to the liquidity facility extended to iNdwa and iVuzi as if the underlying assets were held by FRB. The conduit programmes are consolidated into FRBH for financial reporting purposes. Additional information The following table provides the securitisation exposures retained or purchased as well as their associated IRB capital requirements per risk band. Retained or purchased securitisation exposure and the associated regulatory capital charges (unaudited) Exposure IRB capital Capital deduction R million 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Risk weighted bands = <10% 17 840 17 840 122 122 – – >10% = <20% 12 042 11 724 88 92 – – >20% = <50% 180 233 6 9 – – >50% = <100% 931 1 013 66 57 – – >100% = <650% 773 711 198 152 – – 1 250%/deduction 414 519 – – 414 519 Total 32 180 32 040 480 432 414 519 The table below provides a summary of the deductions arising from securitisation exposures. Deductions arising from securitisation exposures (unaudited) Retail: instalment Corporate Retail sales an R million receivables mortgages leasing Total Traditional – 187 38 225 Synthetic 190 – – 190 Total 190 187 38 415 The Banking Group has not securitised any exposures that were impaired or past due at the time of securitisation. None of the securitisations transactions are subject to the early amortisation treatment. 170 10. COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK To this end, appropriate quantification methodologies of potential future exposure over the life of a product, even under distressed Key developments and focus market conditions, are developed by a combined credit and market During the year under review, focus was placed on the interaction risk team and submitted to technical risk committees for approval. of risk factors in the counterparty risk domain. In depth reviews of the business, clients and processes were undertaken in all the Individual counterparty risk limit applications are prepared using trading areas. Improvements were made where necessary and the approved risk quantification methodologies and assessed and gaps were filled and a new, more conservative margining approved at the relevant credit committees, with appropriate methodology was implemented to account for the build up of executive and non executive representation. concentrations and illiquidity. Market risk based stress loss methodologies (liquidity adjusted distressed expected tail loss All counterparty credit risk limits are subject to annual review and plus event risk) were further embedded in counterparty risk counterparty exposures are monitored by the respective risk and margining requirement quantification in line with the functions on a daily basis. Overall counterparty risk limits are recommendations of the BCBS. In the next financial year the allocated across a number of products and desk level reports are consequential risk of trading activities will be subject to an in used to ensure sufficient limit availability prior to executing depth review. additional trades with a counterparty. Business and risk management functions share the following Introduction and objectives responsibilities in this process: Counterparty credit risk is closely related to credit risk in that it is concerned with a counterparty’s ability to satisfy its obligations • quantification of exposure and risk as well as management of under a contract that has a positive economic value to a bank at facility utilisation within approved credit limits; time of settlement. It differs from credit risk in that the economic • ongoing monitoring of counterparty creditworthiness to ensure value of the transaction is uncertain and dependent on market early identification of high risk exposures and predetermined factors that are typically not under the control of the bank or the facility reviews at certain intervals; client. • collateral management; Counterparty credit risk is a risk taken mainly in the Banking • management of high risk (watch list) exposures; Group’s trading and client execution businesses and the objective • collections and workout process management for defaulted of counterparty credit risk management is to ensure that risk is assets; and only taken within specified limits in line with the Banking Group’s • credit risk reporting. risk appetite framework as mandated by the Board. Limit breaches are dealt with in accordance with the approved Organisational structure and governance Excess Mandate. Significant limit breaches necessitate reporting Counterparty credit risk is managed on the basis of the principles, to the head of the business unit, the head of risk for the respective business unit and the RMB risk and compliance function. Any approaches, policies and processes set out in the Credit Risk remedial actions are agreed amongst these parties and failure to Management Framework for Wholesale Credit Exposure. remedy such a breach is reported to the RMB Finance, risk and capital committee, the ERM function and the RCC committee. In this respect, counterparty credit risk governance aligns closely with the Banking Group’s credit risk governance framework, with Counterparty credit risk mitigation mandates and responsibilities cascading from the Board through Where appropriate, various instruments are used to mitigate the RCC committee to the respective subcommittees as well as the potential exposure to various counterparties. These include deployed and central risk management functions. Refer to the financial or other collateral in line with common credit risk Risk management framework and governance section (page 120), practices, as well as netting agreements, guarantees and credit and the credit risk governance section (page 137) for more details. derivatives. Assessment and management The Banking Group uses International Swaps and Derivatives Association and International Securities Market Association Quantification of risk exposure agreements for the purpose of netting derivative transactions and The measurement of counterparty credit risk aligns closely with repurchase transactions respectively. These master agreements credit risk measurement practices and is focused on establishing as well as associated Credit Support Annexes (“CSA”) set out appropriate limits at counterparty level. internationally accepted valuation and default covenants, which FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 171 Risk and capital management report / continued are evaluated and applied on a daily basis, including daily margin For regulatory purposes, the net exposure figures are employed in calls based on the approved CSA thresholds. capital calculations, whilst for accounting purposes netting is only applied where a legal right to setoff and the intention to settle on a netted basis exist. Discussion of the risk profile The following table provides an overview of the counterparty credit risk arising from derivative and structured finance transactions of FRB. Composition of counterparty credit risk exposure (unaudited) R million 2010 2009 Gross positive fair value 90 367 134 055 Netting benefits (36 693) (60 925) Netted current credit exposure before mitigation 53 674 73 130 Collateral value (43 701) (54 513) Netted potential future exposure 14 511 16 328 Exposure at default 24 484 34 945 There was a change in the methodology used to populate the regulatory returns from product type to asset class, which resulted in a decrease from 2009 to 2010 in the netting benefits and the exposure at default. FRB employs credit derivatives primarily for the purposes of protecting its own positions and for hedging its credit portfolio, as indicated in the following table. Credit derivatives exposure (unaudited) 2010 Credit default Total return R million swaps swaps Other Total Own credit portfolio – protection bought 2 681 – 3 661 6 342 – protection sold 2 594 – – 2 594 Intermediation activities – protection bought – – – – – protection sold – – – – 2009 Credit default Total return R million swaps swaps Other Total Own credit portfolio – protection bought 2 264 – 5 694 7 958 – protection sold – – – – Intermediation activities – protection bought – – – – – protection sold 970 – – 970 172 11. MARKET RISK ETL measure used by RMB is a liquidity adjusted historical simulation measure assessing the average loss beyond a selected Key developments and focus percentile. RMB’s ETL is based on a confidence interval of 99% and RMB’s executive management team refined the approach used applicable holding periods. During the year holding periods used to determine market risk appetite and capacity. Absolute loss in the calculation were increased and are now based on an thresholds for market risk, as defined at the beginning of the assessment of distressed liquidity of portfolios. As a consequence, financial year, were embedded in daily operational processes and holding periods ranging between 10 to 90 days are used. Historical performance against these loss thresholds was successfully data sets are chosen to incorporate periods of market stress. monitored throughout the year. For the next financial year the Banking Group will be focusing on updating its market risk stress Value at Risk (“VaR”) calculations over holding periods of one day data set in line with the new regulatory requirements released and 10 days are used as an additional tool in the assessment of by the BCBS in July 2009, titled “Revisions to the Basel II market market risk. VaR triggers and absolute loss thresholds are used to risk framework”. Furthermore, the Banking Group is focusing highlight positions reviewed by management. on further integrating its global operations, specifically the Risk concentrations in the market risk environment are controlled African and Indian operations, into the overall market risk by means of appropriate ETL sublimits for individual asset classes management process. and the maximum allowable exposure for each business unit. In addition to the general market risk limits described above, limits Introduction and objectives covering obligor specific risk were introduced and utilisation Market risk exists in all trading, banking and investment portfolios against these limits is monitored continuously (based on the but for the purpose of this report, it is considered as a risk specific regulatory building block approach). to trading portfolios. Substantially all market risk in the Banking Group is taken and managed by RMB. The relevant businesses Stress testing within RMB function as the centre of expertise with respect to all Stress testing provides an indication of potential losses that could trading and market risk related activities and seek to take on, occur under extreme market conditions. The ETL assessment manage and contain market risk within guidelines set out as part provides a view of risk exposures under stress conditions. of the risk appetite. Additional stress testing, to supplement the ETL assessment, is Non trading interest rate risk in the banking book is managed by conducted using historical market downturn scenarios and Group Treasury and is disclosed as part of the interest rate risk in includes the use of historical, hypothetical and Monte Carlo type the banking book section of this report. simulations. The calibrations of the stress tests are reviewed from time to time to ensure that the results are indicative of possible Organisational structure and governance market moves under distressed market conditions. Stress and In terms of the market risk framework, a subframework of the scenario analyses are reported to and considered regularly by the BPRMF, responsibility for determining the appetite for market risk individual executive committees and the boards. vests with the Board, which also retains independent oversight of the market risk related activities through the RCC committee and Back testing its Market and Investment Risk subcommittee (“MIRC”). Back testing is performed in order to verify the predictive ability of the VaR calculations and ensure ongoing appropriateness of the Separate governance forums, such as the RMB Proprietary Board, model. The regulatory standard for back testing is to measure take responsibility for allocating these mandates further whilst daily profits and losses against daily VaR at the 99th percentile. The deployed and central risk management functions provide number of breaches over a period of 250 trading days is calculated, independent control and oversight of the overall market risk and, should the number exceed that which is considered process. appropriate, the model will be reassessed for appropriateness. Assessment and management Regulatory and economic capital for market risk Quantification of risk exposures The internal VaR model for general market risk was Market risk exposures are primarily measured and managed approved by the regulator for local trading units and is consistent using an expected tail loss (“ETL”) measure and ETL limits. The with the methodologies as stipulated under the Basel II FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 173 Risk and capital management report / continued framework. For all international legal entities, the Standardised Composition of ETL exposure (audited) Approach is used for regulatory market risk capital purposes. Economic capital for market risk is calculated using liquidity adjusted ETL plus an assessment of specific risk. Discussion of the trading book market risk profile The following chart shows the distribution of exposures per asset class across the Banking Group’s trading activities at 30 June 2010 based on the ETL methodology. VaR and ETL analysis by risk type The tables below reflect the VaR over a 10 day holding period and the liquidity adjusted ETL at a 99% confidence level for trading book activities. Results for 30 June 2010 reflect a downward trend in the second half of the year, predominantly arising from a reduction of risk exposures in the inflation book and the decision to aggregate equity investment risk positions subject to market price risk into a separate classification reporting category (see equity investment risk section on page 176.) 10 day 99% VaR analysis by instrument (audited) 2010 2009 R million Min1 Max1 Ave Period end Period end2 Risk type Equities 19.0 303.2 130.7 66.4 287.4 Interest rates 38.5 170.3 83.1 53.3 158.0 Foreign exchange 7.1 108.1 34.6 9.0 117.7 Commodities 4.0 52.0 22.3 7.1 71.2 Traded credit – 3.4 0.4 0.1 8.4 Diversification effect (52.9) (263.7) Diversified total 53.2 420.3 205.8 83.0 379.0 174 Distressed ETL analysis by instrument (audited) 2010 2009 R million Min1 Max1 Ave Period end Period end2 Risk type Equities 104.2 535.9 343.7 160.4 431.8 Interest rates 72.7 836.4 330.6 119.1 525.2 Foreign exchange 16.9 203.7 85.0 20.2 169.7 Commodities 8.3 92.8 40.5 11.1 108.9 Traded credit 0.1 13.7 1.9 1.6 15.0 Diversification effect (105.4) (457.2) Diversified total 134.7 1 081.4 600.1 207.0 793.4 Notes: 1 The maxima and minima VaR and ETL figures for each asset class did not necessarily occur on the same day. Consequently, a diversification effect was omitted from the above table. 2 ETL measures for the current period are not directly comparable to those reported in prior periods due to changes in the diversification methodology, as well as the introduction of liquidity adjusted ETL measures and the exclusion of banking book exposures managed by Group Treasury as these are reported under the banking book interest rate risk section. The diversified 90 day ETL measure for the equity investment book subject to market price risk as at 30 June 2010 is R574 million (interest rates: R1.4 million, equities: R588 million, foreign exchange: R56 million). The diversified 1 day 99% VaR as at 30 June 2010 is R43.2 million (interest rates: R21.4 million, equities: R25.0 million, foreign exchange: R6.8 million, commodities: R3.4 million, traded credit: R0.01 million). Distribution of daily trading earnings from trading units The histogram below shows the daily revenue for the trading units for the year under review. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 175 Risk and capital management report / continued Back testing: daily regulatory trading book earnings and VaR The Banking Group tracks its daily local earnings profile as illustrated in the chart below. Exposures were contained within risk limits during the trading period and the earnings profile is skewed towards profitability. Over the year there were no instances of actual trading losses 12. EQUITY INVESTMENT RISK exceeding the corresponding VaR estimate. This implies that Key developments and focus the Banking Group’s model provided reasonably accurate quantification of market risk. Governance and investment processes were robust throughout the year and reporting on this asset class received significant focus. FirstRand International The legacy assets suffered diminution in value for a variety of FirstRand Ireland Plc (“FRIE”) and FirstRand India (“FRIN”) hold reasons, most notably the continuing risk aversion and the most material exposure to market risk amongst the consequent illiquidity in global markets. Private Equity division international subsidiaries. The same approach is employed for earnings performance was dominated by the Life Healthcare the measurement and management of market risk as in the listing. Updated risk appetite and earnings growth targets were set local portfolio. Market risk exposures in FRIE have decreased by executive management. In the next financial year, the Banking substantially predominantly due to derisking coupled with the Group will focus on refining its portfolio based investment stress decision to wind down the operation. During the year under review, testing methodologies. market risk was contained within acceptable limits. Introduction and objectives FNB Africa subsidiaries Portfolio investments in equity instruments are primarily FNB Namibia and FNB Botswana are the only African subsidiaries undertaken in RMB, but certain equity investments have been with notable exposure to market risk. Market risk is measured and made by WesBank and a small residual portfolio is reported and managed in line with the Banking Group’s market risk framework. managed by Corporate Centre. Positions in unlisted investments During the year under review, market risk was contained within in RMB are taken mainly through its Private Equity, Resources and acceptable limits and was effectively managed by the Banking Investment Banking divisions, while listed investments are Group across its African subsidiaries. primarily made through the Equities division. 176 Organisational structure and governance Recording of exposures – accounting policies The responsibility for determining equity investment risk appetite IAS 39 requires equity investments to be classified as: vests with the Board. The following structures have been • financial assets at fair value through profit and loss; or established in order to assess and manage the equity investment risk: • available-for-sale financial assets. • The Prudential Investment Committee (“Investment The consolidated financial statements include the assets, committee”), chaired by the RMB Chief investment officer and liabilities and results of operations of all equity investments in its delegated subcommittees are responsible for the approval which the Banking Group, directly or indirectly, has the power to of all portfolio investment transactions in equity, quasi equity exercise control over the operations for its own benefit. or quasi debt instruments. Equity investments in associates and joint ventures are included • Where the structure of the investments also incorporate in the consolidated financial statements using the equity significant components of senior debt, approval authority will accounting method. Associates are entities where the Banking also rest with the respective credit committees and the Board’s Group holds an equity interest of between 20% and 50%, or over Large exposures credit committee, as appropriate. which it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not control. Joint ventures are entities in which the Banking Group • The RCC committee and the MIRC are responsible for the has joint control over the economic activity of the joint venture oversight of investment risk measurement and manage­ment through a contractual agreement. across the Banking Group. More detail on accounting policies regarding investments in • The RMB CRO, with support from the deployed and central risk associates and subsidiaries are discussed in Accounting Policy management functions, provides independent oversight and notes 3 and 4. reporting of all investment activities in RMB to the RMB Proprietary board, as well as the MIRC. WesBank’s Executive Measurement of risk exposures management monitors and manages its investments through The Banking Group targets an investment portfolio profile which is the financial reporting process. diversified along a number of pertinent dimensions, such as geography, industry, investment stage and vintage (i.e. annual Assessment and management replacements of realisations). Management of exposures Equity investment risk is measured on an ongoing basis in terms The equity investment risk portfolio is managed through a of exposure distribution, regulatory and economic capital rigorous evaluation and review process from inception to exit of a requirements, as well as scenario analyses of potential event risks transaction. All investments are subject to a comprehensive due and associated write downs in value. diligence, in which a thorough understanding of the target company’s business, risks, challenges, competitors, management Stress testing team and unique advantage or value proposition is developed. Economic and regulatory capital calculations are complemented with regular stress tests of market values, and underlying drivers For each transaction an appropriate structure is put in place which of valuation e.g. company earnings, valuation multiples and aligns the interests of all parties involved through the use of assessments of stress resulting from portfolio concentrations. incentives and constraints for management and the selling party. The Banking Group seeks to take a number of seats on the Regulatory and economic capital company’s Board and maintains close oversight through ongoing The Basel II simple risk weight (300% or 400%) approach or monitoring of the company’s operations. Standardised Approach is used for the quantification of regulatory capital. The investment thesis, results of the due diligence process, and investment structure are challenged at the Investment committee For economic capital purposes an approach using market value before final approval is granted. In addition, normal semi-annual shocks to the underlying investments is utilised to assess reviews are carried out and crucial parts of these reviews, such as economic capital requirements for unlisted investments after valuation estimates, are independently peer reviewed. taking any unrealised profits not taken to book into account. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 177 Risk and capital management report / continued Where price discovery is reliable, the risk of listed equity liquidity of trading positions, as well as improvements in the investments will be measured based on a 90 day ETL calculated quantification of listed investment exposures. These positions using RMB’s Internal Market Risk Model. The ETL risk measure were previously reported as part of the trading ETL process. The will be supplemented by a measure of the specific (idiosyncratic) ETL (on a total listed investment exposure of R1 376 million) risk of the individual securities per specific risk measurement amounted to R575 million at 30 June 2010. methodology. The estimated sensitivity of the remaining investment balances Discussion of the risk profile (i.e. those not subject to the equity investment risk ETL process) to a 10% movement in market value is an impact of R375 million on The overall macroeconomic environment resulted in low new investment fair values. business volumes during the year under review. During the past year RMB’s Dealstream portfolio was further FirstRand, through its RMB division, increased its stake in derisked through additional impairments raised. This portfolio Makalani Holdings Limited from 26% to 77% as part of Makalani’s was taken over in terms of Dealstream’s futures clearing delisting on 31 May 2010. FirstRand, through its Momentum agreement and applicable JSE rules when Dealstream, a former subsidiary, holds a further 14% stake in Makalani. clearing client, was placed into default in 2008. RMB continues to The most notable divestment was through the listing of Life hold and manage these exposures as part of its legacy portfolio to Healthcare as discussed in more detail in the RMB operating realise value over the longer term. Remaining exposures, in the review on page 45. legacy portfolio, amounted to R1 602 million at 30 June 2010 (R3 166 million at 30 June 2009). A number of listed investment positions were included in the equity investment risk ETL process during the current year, Total realised gains for the Banking Group recognised directly in following improvements made in the assessment of underlying the income statement for the year amounted to R567 million. The following table provides information relating to equity investments in the banking book of those entities regulated as banks within the Banking Group. Investment valuations and associated economic capital requirements (unaudited) 2010 2009 Publicly Privately Publicly Privately R million quoted held Total quoted held Total Carrying value disclosed in the balance sheet 2 415 4 106 6 521 2 179 4 861 7 040 Fair value* 2 415 6 708 9 123 2 179 7 958 10 137 Total unrealised gains recognised directly in the balance sheet through equity instead of the income statement** 769 93 862 666 132 798 Latent revaluation gains not recognised in the balance sheet** – 2 602 2 602 – 3 097 3 097 * Fair values for listed private equity associates based on their values in use exceeded the quoted market prices by R72 million (2009: R511 million). ** These unrealised gains or losses are not included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital. 178 13. FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND TRANSLATION RISK Organisational structure and governance Foreign exchange risk results from the activities of all the Key developments and focus franchises, but management and consolidation of all these As an authorised dealer in foreign exchange, the Banking Group positions occur at present in one of two business units. Client flow has a restriction on the gross amount of foreign currency holdings is consolidated under and managed by RMB FICC. Foreign and other foreign exposure it may hold, which is capped at 25 per currency funding, foreign exposure and currency mismatch are cent of its local liabilities. Furthermore, banking regulations consolidated under and managed by Group Treasury. regarding the net open forward position in foreign exchange (“NOFP”) limits the net open overnight position to no more than Market risk, foreign exposure and mismatch limits are approved 10 per cent of net qualifying capital. The two aspects (gross macro by the Board and the primary governance body is the RCC foreign exposure limit and the NOFP) overlay each other and committee. Trading risk is overseen by MIRC, a subcommittee of ensure a complementary prudential approach to foreign currency the RCC committee, and mismatch risk is governed through the risk management. In addition to the regulatory prudential limit on Asset and liability management committee (“ALCO”) process and foreign exposure, the Board has set internal limits on FirstRand’s its International ALCO subcommittee. In addition to the committee total foreign currency exposure, within the regulatory limit and structures, business units charged with frontline management of allowing opportunity for expansion and growth. The internal limits the risks have deployed risk managers within their units who and utilisation are continuously monitored and reviewed when assess the risks on an ongoing basis. necessary. Assessment and management The Banking Group’s NOFP position is also well within the Group Treasury and RMB’s FICC manage the mismatch and open regulatory limits of approximately $500 million. Senior positions on a daily basis within limits. Any breaches are reported management has also implemented an internal prudential limit, through the risk management structures and remediation is again well below the regulatory limit but large enough to cater for monitored by both the deployed risk manager and ERM. the hedging, settlement and execution positions of the business units. Group Treasury is the clearer of all currency positions in Discussion of risk profile FirstRand and manages foreign currency related risks and is, Over the past year no significant foreign exchange positions have therefore, tasked with the responsibility for both the prudential been run apart from the translation risk in strategic foreign limits on foreign exposure and the overnight open positions. investments and mismatches have been contained well within regulatory limits at all times. The NOFP internal management Introduction and objectives limit was recently adjusted upwards to cater for increased Foreign exchange risk arises from placement, lending and (unhedged) currency risk related to foreign investment positions investing activities in a currency other than the presentation held directly by the Bank and to cater for increased buffers and currency, foreign currency funding, from facilitating client foreign trading positions for RMB divisions. In addition, the macro foreign exposure of the Banking Group remained far below both regulatory exchange transactions and from authorised trading and hedging and board limits and there is significant headroom for expansion activities in a currency other than the presentation currency. The into foreign assets. objective of foreign exchange risk management is to ensure that currency mismatches are managed within the risk appetite for such risk and to ensure that it is overseen and governed in keeping with the risk governance structures. Translation risk is the risk to the Rand based South African reported earnings brought about by fluctuations in the exchange rate when applied to the value, earnings and assets of foreign operations. Translation risk is, at present, seen as an unavoidable risk consequent of having offshore operations. It is not an actively hedged risk in its own right in terms of Banking Group policy. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 179 Risk and capital management report / continued 14. FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY RISK The Banking Group’s principal liquidity risk management objective is to optimally fund itself under normal and stressed Key developments and focus conditions. During the year, a number of additional measures were taken to Organisational structure and governance further protect the Banking Group against negative stress events: Liquidity risk management is governed by the Liquidity Risk • During January 2010 an exercise was undertaken in conjunction Management Framework (“LRMF”), which provides relevant with members of the Banking Supervision Division of the SARB, standards in accordance with regulatory requirements and external consultants and FirstRand senior executives. The international best practices. As an ancillary framework to the exercise simulated a live stress event (based on a bank specific BPRMF, the LRMF is approved by the Board and sets out event) which resulted in a perceived loss of confidence in the consistent and comprehensive guidelines for outlining the Banking Group, and simulated how it would have managed over standards, principles, policies and procedures to be implemented a four day period. The exercise proved highly successful and throughout FRBH to effectively identify, measure, report and this method of readiness testing will be revisited from time manage liquidity risk. to time. The FRBH Board retains ultimate responsibility for the effective • Liquidity buffers have been enhanced, both in terms of management of liquidity risk. The Board has delegated its quantum and nature of the assets in the portfolio, which is now responsibility for the assessment and management of this risk to predominantly comprised of government treasury bills, stocks the RCC committee, which in turn delegated this task to the FRBH and debentures. ALCO. FRBH ALCO’s primary responsibility is the assessment, • Additional internal sources of stress funding were identified. control and management of both liquidity and interest rate risk for FRB, FNB Africa and international subsidiaries and branches, • Emerging effects of proposed new legislation, such as Basel III either directly or indirectly, through providing guidance, manage­ proposals received attention. The Banking Group has been ment principles and oversight to the ALM functions and ALCOs in closely engaged with regulatory authorities both locally and these subsidiaries and branches. internationally in order to gauge the effect on it and the markets in which it operates. FirstRand Bank Limited • The international financial position has also been carefully Liquidity risk for FRB (RMB, FNB and WesBank) is centrally managed, with liquidity buffers placed in European Central managed by a dedicated liquidity risk management team in Group Bank stocks considered to be safe havens even under stress Treasury. It is this central function’s responsibility to ensure that conditions. the liquidity risk management framework is implemented appropriately. ERM provides governance and independent Overall the Banking Group has not experienced untoward oversight of the central liquidity management team’s approaches, pressure in any of the jurisdictions it operates in. models and practices. Introduction and objectives The Banking Group’s liquidity position, exposures and auxiliary information are reported bi-monthly to the Funding executive The Banking Group applies a comprehensive definition of liquidity committee. In addition, management aspects of the liquidity risk and distinguishes two types of liquidity risk: position are reported to and debated by Group Treasury. The • funding liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will not be able to liquidity risk management and risk control teams in Group effectively meet current and future cash flow and collateral Treasury and ERM also provide regular reports to FRBH ALCO, which is the designated governance and risk management forum requirements without negatively affecting the normal course of for liquidity risk. business, financial position or reputation; and • market liquidity risk is the risk that market disruptions or lack of market liquidity will cause the bank to be unable (or able, but with difficulty) to trade in specific markets without affecting market prices significantly. 180 FNB Africa Liquidity mismatch analyses Individual ALCOs have been established in each of the FNB African The purpose of these analyses is to anticipate the mismatch businesses that manage liquidity risk on a decentralised basis in between payment profiles of balance sheet items under normal, line with the principles under delegated mandates from the stressed and contractual conditions. Three forecasting models for respective boards. Reports from these committees are presented this purpose have been developed: to FRBH ALCO on a regular basis and the management and control • Business as usual model: Forecasting the liquidity situation on of liquidity risk in the subsidiaries follow the guidance and an ongoing basis. This model provides an estimate of the funds principles that have been set out and approved by FRBH ALCO. required to be raised under routine circumstances, taking into account behavioural assumptions around the optionality International subsidiaries and branches inherent in some products. Similarly, liquidity risk for international subsidiaries is managed • Contractual maturity model: This model provides a forecast of on a decentralised basis in line with the Banking Group’s LRMF. the liquidity position based on the assumption that assets and Each international subsidiary and branch reports into International liabilities will be liquidated at the contracted date. ALCO, which is a subcommittee of FRBH ALCO and meets on quarterly basis to review and discuss region specific issues and • Stress test and event model: This model provides forecasts of the potential outflow of liquidity under extraordinary challenges for liquidity and interest rate risk. circumstances such as times of economic stress or event An application was lodged with the Financial Services Authority related adverse impacts on the Banking Group’s reputation. (“FSA”) seeking a waiver on a “Wholefirm Liquidity Modification For each of these categories, multiple key risk indicators are application” basis in respect of dispensation granted where the defined that highlight potential risks within defined thresholds FSA considers local risk reporting and compliance of the parent that distinguish two levels of severity for each indicator. Monitored bank sufficient to waive FSA requirements for the London branch. on a daily and monthly basis, the key risk indicators may trigger The outcome of the application is still pending. immediate action where required. Their current status and relevant trends are reported to the FRBH ALCO and the RCC Assessment and management committee on a monthly and a quarterly basis, respectively. As indicated in the preceding section, liquidity risk for FRB is managed centrally by a team in Group Treasury. The Banking Stress testing and scenario analysis Group explicitly acknowledges liquidity risk as a consequential Regular and rigorous stress tests are conducted on the funding risk that may be caused by other risks as demonstrated by profile and liquidity position as part of the overall stress testing the reduction in liquidity in many international markets as a framework with a focus on: consequence of the recent credit crisis. The Banking Group is, • quantifying the potential exposure to future liquidity stresses; therefore, focused on continuously monitoring and analysing the • analysing the possible impact of economic and event risks on potential impact of other risks and events on the funding and cash flows, liquidity, profitability and solvency position; and liquidity position of the organisation. • proactively evaluating the potential secondary and tertiary Measurement and assessment effects of other risks on the Banking Group. The following are the primary tools and techniques employed for the assessment of liquidity risk: FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 181 Risk and capital management report / continued Effective liquidity risk management Effective liquidity risk management begins with the establishment of a comprehensive and strong internal governance process for identifying, measuring and controlling liquidity risk exposure. The liquidity risk management infrastructure naturally considers business as usual, bank specific scenarios and stress test environments. The liquidity risk management process considers not only market and funding risks, but how risks are interconnected and can “compound” in ways that create elevated levels of risk and potential exposure. Measures of liquidity risk must be based on both structural condition and prospective cash flow measures. Liquidity risk governance business as usual environment Effective liquidity risk management begins with Financial the establishment of a comprehensive and strong internal governance process for identifying, measuring and controlling liquidity risk governance liquidity risk exposure. The Bank specific scenarios liquidity risk management Market infrastructure naturally liquidity considers business as risk usual, bank specific scenarios and stress test environments. The liquidity Operational Credit risk management process considers not only market Contingent Funding and funding risks, but how liquidity risk liquidity risk risks are interconnected and can “compound” in ways that create elevated levels of risk and potential exposure. Measures of liquidity risk must be based on both structural condition and prospective Reputational (i.e., forward looking) cash flow measures. stress test environment 182 The approach to liquidity risk management distinguishes between structural, daily and contingency liquidity risk, and various approaches are employed in the assessment and management of these on a daily, weekly and monthly basis as illustrated in the chart below. Aspects of liquidity risk management MANAGEMENT OF LIQUIDITY RISK Structural LRM Daily LRM Contingency LRM The risk that structural, long term Ensuring that intraday and day-to-day Maintaining a number of contingency on and off balance sheet exposures anticipated and unforeseen payment funding sources to draw upon in times cannot be funded timeously or at obligations can be met by maintaining of economic stress. reasonable cost. a sustainable balance between liquidity inflows and outflows. • liquidity risk tolerance; • managing intraday liquidity • managing early warning and key risk • liquidity strategy; positions; indicators; • ensuring substantial diversification • managing the daily payment queue; • performing stress testing including over different funding sources; • monitoring the net funding sensitivity analysis and scenario requirements; testing; • assessing the impact of future funding and liquidity needs taking • forecasting cash flows; • maintaining the product behaviour into account expected liquidity and optionality assumptions; • perform short term cash flow shortfalls or excesses; analysis for all currencies • ensuring that an adequate and • setting the approach to managing individually and in aggregate; diversified portfolio of liquid assets liquidity in different currencies and and buffers are in place; and • management of intragroup liquidity; from one country to another; • maintaining the Contingency • managing Central Bank clearing; • ensuring adequate liquidity ratios; Funding Plan. • managing the net daily cash • ensuring an adequate structural positions; liquidity gap; and • managing and maintaining market • maintaining a funds transfer access; and pricing methodology and processes. • managing and maintaining collateral. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 183 Risk and capital management report / continued Liquidity contingency funding planning As an outcome of these analyses, the current funding profile is adjusted through a range of short, medium and long term actions The formal contingency funding plan sets out policies and to ensure that the Banking Group remains within its chosen risk procedures as a blueprint for handling a potential liquidity crisis. profile. The cost of these actions is then transferred to the business Addressing both temporary and long range liquidity disruptions, it units through the internal matched maturity funds transfer pricing is a comprehensive framework that is tightly integrated with mechanism. It should be noted in this context that financial ongoing analyses, stress tests, key risk indicators and early transactions using special purpose vehicles are treated as part warning systems, as described above. It is reviewed, updated and of the balance sheet and are considered in the liquidity risk debated on a regular basis and structured to provide for reliable management cycle and thus managed consistently and but flexible administrative structures, realistic action plans and conservatively across the Banking Group. ongoing communication with key external stakeholders and across all levels of the Banking Group. Regulatory developments The recent global financial crisis is expected to result in increased Liquidity risk management cycle political and regulatory pressure on banking systems worldwide. These management activities are part of the liquidity risk Some of these pressures are likely to materialise in South Africa, management cycle, which is illustrated in the chart below. particularly given its G20 membership. For example, the SARB is expected to implement the BCBS proposals on capital and Liquidity risk management lifecycle liquidity (the so called “Basel III” proposals). The impact of the proposed new requirements is expected to be especially significant from a liquidity perspective and is discussed in the COO/CFO report on page 14. Contingency Liquidity risk funding plan appetite Discussion of the risk profile Undiscounted cash flow The table below presents the undiscounted cash flows of liabilities and includes all cash outflows related to the principal amounts as Stress Liquidity risk Risk strategy testing framework formulation well as future payments. These balances will not agree with the balance sheet for the following reasons: • the balances are contractual, undiscounted amounts whereas the balance sheet is prepared using discounted amounts; Early warning and Daily funding • the table includes contractual cash flows with respect to items KRI monitoring management not recognised in the balance sheet; • all instruments held for trading purposes are included in the “call to 3 month” bucket and not by contractual maturity because trading instruments are typically held for short The target liquidity risk profile is determined by the risk appetite periods of time; and framework. It is compared to the current risk profile as set out in the LRMF and evaluated under a range of scenarios and business • cash flows relating to principal and associated future coupon conditions, including economic and event stresses. These analyses payments have been included on an undiscounted basis. in turn inform the size of liquidity buffers held in excess of statutory requirements. Liquidity buffers are actively managed, high quality, highly liquid assets that are available as protection against unexpected events or market disruptions. 184 Liquidity cash flows (undiscounted cash flows (audited) 2010 Term to maturity Carrying Call – 3 – 12 >12 R million amount 3 months months months Maturity analysis of liabilities based on the undiscounted amount of the contractual payment EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Liabilities Deposits and current accounts 517 551 349 489 89 777 78 285 Short trading positions 16 735 16 735 – – Derivative financial instruments 37 034 33 027 2 151 1 856 Creditors and accruals 9 070 5 090 3 665 315 Long term liabilities 10 719 – – 10 719 Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 2 141 410 48 1 683 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 102 7 6 89 Loans from insurance group 5 866 3 044 2 303 519 Financial and other guarantees 29 876 23 414 3 511 2 951 Facilities not drawn 52 808 35 725 968 16 115 2009 Term to maturity Carrying Call – 3 – 12 >12 R million amount 3 months months months Maturity analysis of liabilities based on the undiscounted amount of the contractual payment EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Liabilities Deposits and current accounts 496 297 344 588 85 359 66 350 Short trading positions 23 434 23 434 – – Derivative financial instruments 55 402 50 639 1 222 3 541 Creditors and accruals 7 007 3 220 2 806 981 Long term liabilities 14 598 99 303 14 196 Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 1 669 202 27 1 440 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 77 5 8 64 Loans from insurance group 6 396 3 930 32 2 434 Financial and other guarantees 24 942 21 956 1 190 1 796 Facilities not drawn 57 786 48 851 215 8 720 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 185 Risk and capital management report / continued Contractual discounted cash flow analysis shorter term as more short term obligations than short term The following table represents the contractual discounted cash assets tend to mature. flows of assets, liabilities and equity for the Banking Group. In addition, therefore, to the analysis shown in the table above, Relying solely on the contractual liquidity mismatch when the Banking Group carries out an adjusted liquidity mismatch assessing a bank’s maturity analysis would overstate risk, since analysis, which estimates the size of the asset and liability this represents an absolute worst case assessment of cash flows mismatch under normal business conditions. This analysis is at maturity. also used as a framework to manage this mismatch on an Due to South Africa’s structural liquidity position, banks tend to ongoing basis. have a particularly pronounced negative (contractual) gap in the Contractual discounted cash flow analysis (audited) 2010 Term to maturity Carrying Call – 3 – 12 > 12 R million amount 3 months months months Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities based on the present value of the expected payment Total assets 653 155 227 041 68 335 357 779 Total equity and liabilities 653 155 420 436 98 352 134 367 Net liquidity gap – (193 395) (30 017) 223 412 Cumulative liquidity gap – (193 395) (223 412) – 2009 Term to maturity Carrying Call – 3 – 12 > 12 R million amount 3 months months months Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities based on the present value of the expected payment Total assets 646 833 248 044 56 664 342 125 Total equity and liabilities 646 833 438 796 86 780 121 257 Net liquidity gap – (190 752) (30 116) 220 868 Cumulative liquidity gap – (190 752) (220 868) – As illustrated in the table above, the negative contractual liquidity short term gap has improved in short end on a cumulative basis during the year under review. This is a consequence of the following market conditions and management actions during the year under review: • growing stable and long term funding; • building up stress funding buffers both locally and offshore; and • muted asset growth in the banking sector. 186 15. INTEREST RATE RISK IN THE BANKING BOOK are essential to the safety and soundness of the enterprise. To this end, various board and internal limits exist which limit both Key developments and focus current and long term risk taken. Where practical, the internal IRRBB is predominantly driven by the endowment effect caused by measures also include fair value limits of the banking book liabilities and capital that are rate insensitive. The effect arises instruments that can be fair valued. where falling interest rates result in lower interest earned, but interest paid does not drop to the same extent. To mitigate the The objective of interest rate risk management is, therefore, to effect, hedges are put into place that protect against falling interest protect the financial position and earnings level from potential rates. Conversely rising rates result in higher margins (before bad adverse effects arising from exposure to various components of debts) and do not require the same degree of hedging. Hedging can interest rate risk as described above. be performed in a number of ways. The two most common are to put derivative instruments into play (usually receive fixed, pay float Organisational structure and governance interest rate swaps) or to structure the financial position to The control and management of interest rate risk is governed by maximise fixed interest receipt product mix. Given the general the Framework for the Management of IRRBB, which is an consensus view held by the market for some time as to the ancillary framework to the BPRMF. Due to regulatory requirements direction of interest rate movements, it was very difficult to hedge and the structure of the Banking Group, different management economically. Nevertheless, by entering the market at opportune approaches, reports and lines of responsibility exist across the times, some derivatives hedging was achieved. These transactions various parts of the Banking Group, as discussed below. were timed to mature when the interest rate is expected to turn. In addition, particularly in entities where no derivative markets exist, All IRRBB related activities are overseen and reported to the FRBH the structure of the financial position has shifted as indicated. This ALCO, a subcommittee of the RCC committee, as illustrated in the is particularly the case in the sub Saharan African subsidiaries. governance structure on page 122. The FRBH ALCO is also The Banking Group also looks for natural hedges between its responsible for the allocation of sublimits on the basis of credit and endowment portfolios, but notes that there are normally mandates given by the RCC committee and it approves proposed large lead and lag effects. remedial action for any limit breaches, as appropriate. Whilst the margin and performance management aspects of Introduction and objectives interest rate risk management fall within the purview of the This risk is identified and categorised in the following components: respective businesses and the central Group Treasury function, ERM provides central oversight and control across the activities of • interest rate repricing risk arises from the differences in timing the deployed risk management functions and Group Treasury. between repricing of assets, liabilities and positions not recognised in the balance sheet; Interest rate risk, unlike credit risk, can only be sensibly assessed • yield curve risk arises when unanticipated changes in the and managed at an aggregate level. The net interest rate risk shape of the yield curve adversely affects the income or profile of the domestic banking book (i.e. FRB, excluding RMB) is underlying economic value; centrally managed by the unit responsible for the house macro view in Corporate Centre and Group Treasury. • basis risk arises from an imperfect correlation in the adjustment of the rates earned and paid on different instruments with RMB has a delegated mandate from FRBH ALCO for the similar repricing characteristics; and management of its interest rate risk (under the market risk • optionality is the right, but not the obligation, of the holder to framework) as well as for ensuring that the limits of the Banking alter the cash flow of the underlying position, which may Group’s risk appetite are observed. Interest rate risk management adversely affect the Banking Group’s position as the of both Group Treasury and RMB is overseen and controlled by a counterparty to such a transaction. team in the central ERM function. The RMB banking book interest rate risk exposure was R69.5 million on a 10 day ETL basis at The assumption and management of interest rate risk can be 30 June 2010. The Market risk section of this report provides a an important source of profitability and shareholder value, but description of the ETL methodology on page 173. excessive interest rate risk positions may pose a significant threat to the Banking Group’s earnings and capital base. Effective interest Individual ALCOs exist in each of the FNB Africa subsidiaries for rate risk management practices that contain the interest rate risk the purpose of interest rate risk monitoring and management. exposure within prudent levels, as stipulated by the risk appetite, Relevant reports are submitted by the subsidiaries to FRBH ALCO FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 187 Risk and capital management report / continued on a monthly basis. International subsidiaries and branches are static repricing gap analysis. Results from these analyses are overseen by the International ALCO, a subcommittee of FRBH reported to FRBH ALCO for review on a monthly basis. Additionally, ALCO, which provides central oversight and monitoring reflective daily MTM positions of the main risk portfolios are monitored of each region’s specific issues and requirements. daily and all risk measures are managed within defined risk appetite levels. Assessment and management The management and governance of interest rate risk is delegated A number of measurement techniques to quantify interest rate risk by FRBH Board to the RCC committee, which in turn delegates the as defined above, are employed focusing both on the potential risk responsibility to ALCO, Group Treasury, RMB and the regional earnings as well as the potential impact on overall economic value. ALCOs as illustrated in the following chart. In line with industry practice the pertinent analysis includes parallel rate shocks, yield curve twists, complex stress tests and Interest rate risk management and governance structure Approve Risk capital and compliance committee Review and recommend Group ALCO Approve Interest rate risk Liquidity risk framework framework Technical International Africa Alco Alco subs Review and recommend Group Treasury Forums Charters, mandates and policies: • Liquidity management policy Retail, Off • FTP policy Commercial Wholesale Africa International balance • Contingency funding policy • IRR portfolio mandate and Wealth sheet 188 The Banking Group’s activities around the management and assessment of interest rate risk are summarised in the following chart. Interest rate risk management and assessment governance and management Framework and mandates Modelling and analytics + Macroeconomic outlook (core and risk scenarios) Transfer economic risk (FTP) Hedging strategies and portfolio management Reporting The risk profile is adjusted by changing the composition of the differences in the recognition of income from the fair valued Banking Group’s liquid asset portfolio or through derivative hedges and the underlying exposures, which would be accounted transactions where possible based on the interest rate outlook as for on an accrual basis. well as its view on potential other risk factors that may impact its balance sheet. In this respect, it is important to highlight that Assumptions relating to loan repayments and interest rate risk can, in the Banking Group’s view, only be behaviour of core deposits effectively managed if it is understood in the context of other risks Modelling assumptions are made that affect both the and how the interaction may adversely impact its financial determination of interest rate risk incurred in the banking book position and, ultimately, its interest rate risk profile. and the hedging activity that takes place in mitigation of the exposures. These include: In addition to measuring and hedging risk at an aggregate (net position) level, individual, large and complex transactions may be • all banking book assets, liabilities and derivative instruments hedged at a micro level where appropriate. Management of the are placed in gap intervals based on their repricing interest rate risk profile is carried out within the limits approved by characteristics; the ALCOs. The Investment committee (“Invesco”) oversees these • instruments which have no explicit contractual repricing or activities for the domestic banking operations, challenges and maturity dates are placed in gap intervals according to debates the macroeconomic view and proposed portfolio actions management’s judgement and analysis, based on the most as well as existing and proposed management strategies from a likely repricing behaviour; business perspective. • new volume points are assigned to balances as and when they As indicated in the section covering liquidity risk, the costs of the mature in order to maintain balance sheet size and mix; portfolio level risk management actions are transferred through the internal funds transfer pricing mechanisms and contribute to • derivatives hedges that mature are not replaced; a suitable measurement of risk adjusted performance across the • presettlement expectations are factored into the volume and various businesses. term of hedges for fixed rate lending activities; and Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for derivatives used in the • interest rate risk modelling extends over a five year time hedging strategies for the banking book. Where hedges do not horizon, of which the first 12 month period is disclosed. qualify for this treatment, mismatches may arise due to timing Similarly, several interest rate shocks and scenarios are FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 189 Risk and capital management report / continued modelled, with disclosure of the sensitivity to a 200 basis Discussion of the risk profile point parallel shift in the yield curve (and assuming no new The natural position of the banking book is asset sensitive, since management action to mitigate the impact). interest earning assets tend to reprice faster than interest paying liabilities in response to interest rate changes. This results in Assumptions are made with respect to the repricing characteristics a natural exposure of net interest income (“NII”) to declining of instruments that have no explicit contractual repricing or interest rates, which represents the largest component of interest maturity dates: rate risk. The Banking Group seeks to use hedges against this • non maturity deposits and transmission account balances exposure, wherever economically feasible. These hedges tend to (“NMDs”) do not have specific maturities as individual depositors be predominantly interest rate swaps (receive fixed, pay floating). can freely withdraw or place funds. Interest rates associated The change to the interest rate gap shown in the tables below can with these products are administered by the Banking Group, be ascribed to this maturing profile of the hedges compared to the but are not indexed to market rates. NMDs are assumed to period six months ago. The hedges were primarily put in place reprice overnight since the administered rate can change at prior to the commencement of the 2010 financial year. any time at the Banking Group’s discretion; and • prime linked products are assumed to reprice immediately whenever the Repo rate changes. Repricing schedules for FRBH banking book (audited) 2010 Term to repricing <3 >3 but ≤6 >6 but >12 Non rate R million months months ≤12 months months sensitive FirstRand Bank Limited Net repricing gap (14 385) 11 987 15 999 2 085 (15 686) Cumulative repricing gap (14 385) (2 398) 13 601 15 686 – African subsidiaries Net repricing gap 5 608 (960) (1 141) 693 (4 200) Cumulative repricing gap 5 608 4 648 3 507 4 200 – Total cumulative repricing gap (8 777) 2 250 17 108 19 886 – 2009 Term to repricing <3 >3 but ≤6 >6 but >12 Non rate R million months months ≤12 months months Sensitive FirstRand Bank Limited Net repricing gap 2 401 14 101 (527) 127 (16 102) Cumulative repricing gap 2 401 16 502 15 975 16 102 – African subsidiaries Net repricing gap 2 693 212 (479) 1 393 (3 819) Cumulative repricing gap 2 693 2 905 2 426 3 819 – Total cumulative repricing gap 5 094 19 407 18 401 19 921 – This repricing gap analysis excludes the banking books of RMB and the international balance sheet, both of which are separately managed on an ETL and VaR basis. 190 Sensitivity analysis Net interest income sensitivity decreased in Rand terms compared to the previous period. The sensitivity is subject to approved internal board limits. Utilisation of the risk limit was well within permitted exposures at year end and throughout the year. Assuming no management action in response to interest rate movements, a hypothetical immediate and sustained parallel decrease of 200 basis points in all interest rates would result in a reduction in projected 12 month NII of R913 million. A similar increase would result in an increase in projected 12 month net interest income of R922 million. Sensitivity of FRBH projected NII (audited) 2010 Change in projected 12 month NII African R million FRB subsidiaries FRBH Downward 200 bps (789) (124) (913) Upward 200 bps 798 124 922 2009 Change in projected 12 month NII African R million FRB subsidiaries FRBH Downward 200 bps (1 111) (74) (1 185) Upward 200 bps 1 123 74 1 197 The NII sensitivity analysis excludes the banking books of RMB and the international balance sheet, both of which are managed separately on a fair value basis. The following represents the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets and cash flow hedges to interest rate movements. The valuation is based on a static balance sheet and measures the expected decrease or increase in valuation due to a parallel movement in the yield curve of 200 basis points. Sensitivity of FRBH reported reserves to interest rate movements (audited) As % of total shareholders’ equity 2010 2009 Downward 200 bps 0.39% 0.41% Upward 200 bps (0.11%) (0.25%) The NII sensitivity analysis excludes the banking books of RMB and the international balance sheet, both of which are managed separately on a fair value basis. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 191 Risk and capital management report / continued 16. OPERATIONAL RISK • information technology and security; Key developments and focus • outsourcing of operations; • dependence on key suppliers; During the year the Banking Group continued to refine its operational risk assessment approaches, statistical models and • implementation of strategic change; process of capturing and collating relevant internal and external • integration of acquisitions; operational risk loss data. • human error; The Banking Group’s Information Technology Governance and • customer service quality; and Information Security Framework (“IT Governance framework”) and IT risk assessment methodology is currently being reviewed to • regulatory compliance. ensure coverage of new requirements from King III. Criminal loss levels have reduced during the year under review, however, the Organisational structure and governance risk relating to fraud (including internal fraud and application Operational risk is managed on the basis of the policies, fraud) and other crimes is increasing. This is managed through a standards, approaches and procedures set out in the Operational number of specialist fraud combating units and coordinated Risk Management Framework (“ORMF”), a subframework of the through the appropriate risk committees. BPRMF, which is a policy of both the Board and Executive committee. Introduction and objectives The FRBH Board has delegated its responsibility for the adequate FRBH has approval from the SARB to apply the AMA for identification and management of operational risk to the RCC operational risk on a partial use basis from 1 January 2009. This committee which in turn delegated this task to the Operational achievement highlights the sound operational risk governance risk committee (“ORC”), a subcommittee of the RCC committee. practices across the Banking Group’s operations, which are The ORC provides governance, supervision, oversight, and aimed at ensuring the proper identification of all operational risks, coordination of relevant risk processes as set out in the mitigation where appropriate and management as part of the framework. To ensure appropriate visibility at board level, the ORC business operations. includes two non executive committee members, one of which is a member of the FirstRand Board. Other members include the Unlike other major risk types, operational risk is not assumed divisional heads of risk, divisional heads of operational risk and deliberately in pursuit of a commensurate return. It exists, to a senior personnel of the central ERM function. varying degree, in all organisational activities. Major sources of this As is the case with other risk types, ERM provides independent risk include: supervision over the business implementation of the respective • fraud; frameworks and policies. Apart from operational risk governance, these teams also oversee business continuity, legal risk, • recruitment, training and retention of talent; information risk services, and forensic services as these are • operational process reliability; integral to the operational risk management process. 192 Assessment and management Operational risk assessment approaches and tools In line with international best practice, a variety of tools and approaches and management of operational risk is employed. The most pertinent of these are illustrated in the following chart. Operational risk tools and approaches OPERATIONAL RISK TOOLS AND APPROACHES Risk control self assessments Key risk indicators (“KRI”) Audit findings • Integrated in the business and risk • In place across all businesses as an • GIA acts as the third line of risk management processes. early warning measure. controls across the organisation . • Assist risk managers in identifying key • Highlight areas of increasing potential • Verify whether controls in place are risk areas and assess the exposure to operational risk. appropriate to mitigating risks effectiveness of existing controls. associated with key and supporting • KRI reports are included in regular processes. • Other risk self assessments include management reports to support business continuity self assessments, ongoing risk identification and • The number of findings issued and risk effectiveness reports for IT mitigation by the business. audit findings not resolved before the (“RERIT”) and physical security self due date are tracked, monitored and assessments. reported on through the risk committee structures. Internal loss data External loss data Incident and issue reporting Loss data reporting and analyses are External loss data bases are used to: A a well defined and embedded process used by risk managers to understand: for the reporting of incidents and • d erive lessons from other potential issues is in place to: • the root causes of loss incidents; and organisations and loss events; and • e nsure that operational risk losses • where corrective action should be • inform quantitative operational risk can be managed and potentially taken to mitigate losses. assessments through risk scenario mitigated; and analyses. • facilitate a feedback of any lessons learned into the organisation’s operational risk management practices. Operational risk is recognised as a consequential risk that cannot managing operational risk and this approach results in almost be avoided or mitigated entirely. Accordingly, frequent operational continuous change or renewal. It is common practice, when risk events resulting in small losses are expected as part of implementing change of this nature, to proactively address less business operations (e.g. fraud) and are budgeted for appropriately. than optimal operational procedures with meaningful adjustments The businesses seek to minimise these through continuously to risk management. The Board and management are not satisfied monitoring and improving relevant business and control practices with the current level of operational losses, albeit in line with and processes. Operational risk events resulting in substantial industry experience, and have therefore embarked on a consistent losses occur much less frequently and the Banking Group seeks to and disciplined approach of linking business processes to the minimise the incidence and contain the severity within its risk operational risk and control environment. appetite limits. Basel II – Advanced Measurement Approach Given the ever changing and complex nature of its business and its As is the case for other risk types, regulatory and economic processes, the Banking Group employs a dynamic approach to capital requirements are established to provide a buffer against FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 193 Risk and capital management report / continued very rare and severe loss events. FRBH began applying the AMA • changes in the risk profile, as measured by various risk under the Basel II framework from 1 January 2009 for the Banking measurement tools; Group’s domestic operations. Offshore subsidiaries and • material effects of expansion into new markets, new or operations continue to utilise the Standardised Approach for substantially changed activities as well as the closure of operational risk, as was the case for all domestic operations until existing operations; the end of 2008. • changes in the control environment – the organisation targets The AMA allows the Banking Group to use a sophisticated, a continuous improvement in the control environment, but statistical model for the calculation of capital requirements, which deterioration is also possible due to, for example, unforeseen enables more granular and more accurate, risk based estimates increases in transaction volumes; and of the capital requirements of all the business lines. A number of operational risk scenarios (covering key risks that, although low in • changes in the external environment, which drives certain probability, may result in severe losses) and internal loss data are types of operational risk. the inputs into this model. Scenarios were derived through an extensive analysis of the Banking Group’s operational risks in Management processes consultation with business and risk experts from the respective As indicated in a preceding section, the ERM function also business lines. All scenarios were subsequently cross oversees a number of areas closely related to or integrated with referenced to external loss data, internal losses, the control the operational risk management processes. These are described environment and other pertinent information about relevant risk in the following subsections. exposures. To ensure the ongoing accuracy of the capital assessment, all scenarios are reviewed, supplemented or updated Business continuity management semi-annually, as appropriate. Business continuity management (“BCM”) is focused on ensuring The modelled operational risk scenarios are combined with that the Banking Group’s operations are resilient to the risk of modelled loss data in a simulation engine to derive the annual, severe disruptions caused by internal failures or external events. aggregate distribution of potential operational risk losses. The organisation carries out regular reviews of BCM practices, and Regulatory capital requirements are then calculated (for the any disruptions or incidents are regularly reported to a number of Banking Group and each franchise) as the potential loss at the relevant risk committees. Over the reporting period, all areas 99.9th percentile of the aggregate loss distribution, excluding the remained at an acceptable status of readiness. effects of insurance, expected loss and potential diversification effects. Legal risk Using the AMA capital model, capital requirements are calculated The organisation is counterparty to a large number of contractual for each franchise on a FRBH level. In order to then allocate capital agreements and is, therefore, at risk of loss due to deficient to FRB the gross income ratio of FRB to FRBH is calculated. This contractual arrangements, due to legal liability (civil and criminal) income ratio is then applied to FRBH capital to split FRB specific that may be incurred by its inability to enforce its rights or by its capital requirements out of the originally calculated Banking failure to address and remedy concerns about proposed changes Group capital. This split of capital between legal entities is required in applicable law (existing law is covered by compliance risk, for regulatory reporting and internal performance measurement. managed by RRM). The loss data used for this purpose is collected for all seven Basel This risk is managed on the basis of the Legal Risk Management II event types across various internal business lines. Data Framework, which prescribes activities such as the monitoring of collection is the responsibility of the respective business units and new legislation, creation of awareness, identification of significant is overseen by the central risk control function. legal risk, as well as the monitoring and managing of the potential Business practices evolve continuously and the operational impact of these risks. The organisation strives to maintain risk control environment is therefore constantly changing as a appropriate procedures, processes and policies that enable it to reflection of the underlying risk profile. The assessment of the comply with applicable regulation and that minimise any potential operational risk profile and associated capital requirements takes exposure to legal risk. During the year under review there were no the following into account: significant incidents related to legal risk. 194 Information risk 17. REGULATORY RISK The Banking Group’s clients entrust it with highly sensitive Key developments and focus information and the Banking Group accepts its fiduciary duty to safeguard this information in the course of its business activities. The regulatory landscape has changed significantly as a direct Information risk is the risk of adverse business impacts, including consequence of the recent financial crisis. The banking industry, the loss of reputation caused by a failure of data confidentiality, in particular, has experienced a wave of new legislation and integrity and availability controls and is therefore a key area of regulatory requirements that will impact on areas such as capital ongoing focus. adequacy, liquidity, and funding. Key changes include BCBS proposals (capital, liquidity, market risk and compensation), The organisation’s Information Technology Governance and King III, the new Companies Act, the Consumer Protection Act, and Information Security Framework (“IT framework”) is a customisation proposed amendments to the Banks Act and Regulations, to name of ISACA’s Control Objectives for Information and related but a few. The increased requirements will need significant resources Technology (“COBIT®”) framework and the Information Security to ensure that the Banking Group responds meaningfully and adjusts Forum’s Standard of Good Practice for the Banking Group. The its internal processes and procedures to comply with the new IT framework is approved by the Technology and Information requirements. The banking industry is conducting a regulatory Management Risk committee, a subcommittee of the ORC and impact assessment to determine the cost of compliance and the applies to all operations within FRBH. impact that increased regulation has on the industry. The IT framework clearly defines the objectives for managing information risk, outlines the processes that need to be Introduction and objectives embedded, managed and monitored across the organisation and it Regulatory risk management is an integral part of managing the also sets out a measurement framework for information risk risks inherent in the business of banking. Non compliance may across FRBH. potentially have serious consequences, which could lead to both civil and criminal liability, including penalties, claims for loss and The Information risk team in ERM is tasked with ensuring damages or restrictions imposed by regulatory bodies. The compliance to the principles set out in the IT framework by Banking Group therefore aims to establish a compliance culture in developing appropriate policies and validating the imple­mentation its operations that contributes to the overall objective of prudent in the respective functions across the Banking Group. regulatory compliance and risk management. Like many other large organisations, a number of new and The objective of the compliance and regulatory risk management changing threats across the evolving IT landscape are constantly is to ensure that business practices, policies, frameworks and faced. The risk monitoring and management structures are approaches across the organisation are consistent with applicable designed to enable it to adapt and evolve its risk management laws and that any risks to compliance can be identified and strategy with the continuously changing IT environment. managed proactively prior to incurring a potential liability. Fraud and security risks It is of paramount importance to ensure compliance with the The Banking Group is committed to creating an environment that requirements of the Banks Act 94 of 1990 (as amended) and the safeguards its customers, staff and assets through policies, Regulations thereto, and to ensure that all non compliance risks frameworks and actions. To this end, it distributes and identified in this context are addressed and managed in communicates its ethics policy to existing staff members on a accordance with these rules and regulations and are in line with quarterly basis. The ethics policy reiterates commitment to a international best practice. stance of “zero tolerance” towards crime. Executive management To achieve this, all staff must be aware of compliance requirements, throughout the Banking Group is committed to living the values of have a high level of understanding of the regulatory framework “zero tolerance” and enforcing them stringently. applicable to the Banking Group, and they must be aware of the The organisation utilises a deployed fraud risk management potential regulatory risks to which it is exposed. Ethical behaviour model that requires businesses to institute processes and is both a keystone and an important contributor to the success of controls specific and appropriate to its operations within the the entire compliance process. The Banking Group expects all its constraints of a consistent governance framework that is staff members to maintain standards of honesty, integrity and fair overseen centrally by ERM. dealing and to act with due skill, care and diligence. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 195 Risk and capital management report / continued Organisational structure and governance While the responsibility for ensuring compliance with all relevant and procedures to identify regulatory risks, monitor the laws, internal policies, regulations and supervisory requirements management thereof and report on the status of compliance risk rests with the Board, the role of monitoring, assessing and management to both the Board and the Registrar of Banks. These reporting the status of compliance is delegated by the Board to include: the Head of RRM. The RRM function carries out its duties in terms • risk identification through documenting which laws, regulations of Regulation 49 of the Banks Act, and its mandate is set out in and supervisory requirements are applicable to FRBH; the Compliance Risk Management Framework, a subpolicy of the BPRMF. • risk measurement through the development of risk management plans; Supervision of regulatory risk is provided and managed by a number of committees such as the Regulatory risk committee, the • risk monitoring and review of remedial actions; RCC committee and the FRBH Audit committee, which receive • risk reporting; and detailed reports on the status of compliance and instances of • providing advice on compliance related matters. material non compliance from RRM on a regular basis. In support of the Compliance Risk Management Framework, a The RRM function retains an independent reporting line to the CEO compliance manual was drafted which also fulfils the function of as well as to the Board through its designated committees. assisting the businesses in addressing all material compliance In addition to the centralised RRM function, each of the operating risks. franchises have appointed compliance officers responsible for Although independent of other risk management and governance implementing and monitoring compliance policies and procedures functions, the RRM function works closely with GIA, ERM, external related to their respective franchises. audit, internal and external legal advisors and the Company secretary’s office to ensure the effective functioning of the Assessment and management compliance processes. The RRM function and the Board mandate prescribe a “zero tolerance” approach to compliance breaches. To achieve this, RRM has implemented appropriate structures, policies, processes 196 MOMENTUM GROUP King III Code Momentum has noted the recommendations as set out in the 1. Risk management philosophy King III Code on Corporate Governance in South Africa, which The Momentum Board embraces the principles of good corporate came into effect for financial periods commencing on or after governance. Momentum Group’s (“Momentum”) risk philosophy 1 March 2010. Momentum already meets a number of the recognises that managing risk is an integral part of generating recommendations as set out in the King III Code as it pertains to sustainable shareholder value and enhancing stakeholder risk governance. As part of our review and progress in complying interests. It also recognises that an appropriate balance should with the King III Code, the sections in this report as they relate to be struck between entrepreneurial endeavour and sound risk the governance of risk, serves to demonstrate the application of management practice. the King III principles or explanation where the code has not yet been applied. Solvency II Solvency II is a European principles based and risk focused Momentum’s status against the King III Code has not yet been regulatory regime for European insurance organisations (long verified. term and short term) that is intended to be fully implemented in Europe by October 2012. Solvency II requires a clear and definitive Risk management objectives link between the strategy and operations of insurance organisations Momentum’s key risk management objectives are to: as well as the risk management elements thereof. • enhance shareholder value by generating a long term sustainable In line with international standards, the Financial Services Board return on capital; (“FSB”) has begun a process to develop a new solvency regime, • ensure the protection of policyholder and investor interests by namely the Solvency Assessment Management (“SAM”), for the maintaining adequate solvency levels; South African long term and short term insurance industries. This process is guided by principles around insurance regulation • meet the statutory requirements of the FSB and other produced by the International Association of Insurance Supervisors regulators; (“IAIS”) and developments in Europe. The basis of the SAM regime • ensure that capital and resources are strategically focused on will be the principles of the Solvency II directive, as adopted by the activities that generate the greatest value on a risk adjusted European Parliament, which will be adapted for South African basis; and specific circumstances where required. As an overarching • create a competitive long term advantage in the management principle, the recommendations arising from the SAM Project of the business with greater demonstrated responsibility to all should meet the requirements of a third country equivalence stakeholders. assessment under Solvency II. The FSB is currently intending to implement both the standardised and internal model approaches 2. Risk management approach under the SAM regime by January 2014 for long term insurers, with proposed implementation of certain Solvency II Pillar II Risk management framework requirements in terms of governance, internal controls and risk The Business Success and Enterprise Risk Management management being targeted for 2012. Framework (“Risk Management Framework”) of Momentum governs the risk management process with reference to a matrix In response to the requirements of Solvency II/SAM, Momentum of risks inherent to the business, being: initiated a project that will revisit capital and risk management and implement the management, reporting and disclosure • insurance risk; requirements as required by the FSB under the SAM regime. • credit risk; Momentum is also represented on the SAM committee, subcommittees and task groups that have been formed to • market and liquidity risk; and influence and give guidance to new legislation arising from the • strategic and operational risk. SAM project. The purpose of the Risk Management Framework is to establish: Solvency II will not only have a significant influence on the regulation of South African insurers in the future, but may also • a risk governance structure that clearly allocates roles and become a global benchmark for insurance regulation. responsibilities; FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 197 Risk and capital management report / continued • well defined risk objectives that describe the risk appetite; • the role of economic and regulatory capital in the context of risk management; and • guidance around risk identification, risk assessment, risk monitoring, risk reporting and risk mitigation for all major risk • t he use of risk related information to further enhance categories affecting the business; management decisions. The diagram below describes the link between these elements. Risk management framework governance: Risk appetite Accountability/ Board/senior management input statement responsibility risk management frameworks: Market and Operational and Insurance risk Credit risk Business input/Board and senior liquidity risk strategic risk management review guidelines frameworks frameworks frameworks Capital management: Business input/Board and senior Economic capital Economic capital Regulatory capital Regulatory capital management review output: Management Business and risk management decisions information The principles described in the Risk Management Framework and Risk ownership and management all of the supporting risk management frameworks apply to all of Momentum’s CEO is accountable to the Board for the management the divisions, business units and subsidiaries. of risks and is supported in the management of these by business unit executives and line management. Risk taking is inherent in Risk governance the business unit activities, and as such, business management Momentum recognises that clear accountability is fundamental to assumes the primary responsibility for the risks in its business. In the management of risk. Momentum’s Board retains ultimate particular, business management and staff within each business responsibility for ensuring that risks are adequately identified, unit are responsible for the identification, assessment, measured, monitored and managed. In addition, effective risk management, monitoring and reporting of risks arising within management requires multiple points of control or safeguards their respective areas. that should be applied consistently at various levels throughout the organisation. Momentum has adopted the “three lines of Risk control and oversight control” model for managing risk. This model distinguishes between functions owning and managing risks, functions The Statutory actuary has a duty under the Long Term Insurance overseeing risks and functions providing independent assurance. Act to ensure that the legal entity remains solvent and able to meet 198 liabilities at all times. The Statutory actuary reports on these matters to the Board, independent auditors and the FSB. An actuarial committee was appointed by the Board to ensure that the technical actuarial aspects specific to insurance companies are debated and reviewed independently. The CRO and the ERM function provide objective oversight and coordinate the enterprise risk management process. Business unit heads are supported in risk control activities by deployed operational risk management functions. The deployed risk management functions are overseen centrally by Operational Risk Management (“ORM’’), that reports to the CRO. A Risk committee is also in operation at Momentum. The committee has been appointed by the Board to approve risk management policies as well as to monitor group risk assessments and the effectiveness of risk management and high priority corrective actions. Regulatory Risk Management (“RRM”) is an integral part of managing risks inherent in the business and forms part of the second line of risk control. The risks, responsibilities and processes of RRM are further discussed in the Regulatory risk management section on page 231. Independent assurance For the year under review, the internal audit function was outsourced to FirstRand GIA. Independent, objective assurance on the effectiveness of the management of risks across Momentum is provided to Momentum’s Board through the FirstRand GIA function, the external auditors and Momentum’s Audit committee. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 199 Risk and capital management report / continued Committee structure The Momentum Board retains ultimate responsibility to ensure that risks are adequately identified, measured, managed and monitored and discharges its duty through relevant policies and frameworks as well as four board committees and respective subcommittees. The primary board committee overseeing risk matters is the Risk committee. The Risk committee delegated responsibility for a number of specialist topics to a number of specialist risk subcommittees, as illustrated below. Risk governance structure MOMENTUM *Momentum Group Momentum Group *Momentum Group *Momentum Group Fair Audit committee Risk committee Actuarial committee practices commitee board SUBcommittees • considers the annual • approves risk management • reviews matters on behalf of • considers fair treatment of financial statements for policies, standards and the Board pertaining to Momentum’s customers; approval by the Board; and processes; assumptions, valuation and • monitors the quality of the • Monitors group risk results, embedded values • acts as discretionary internal controls and assessments; and and experience items as well participation committee as processes of Momentum and as product offerings; and required by the FSB to define • monitors the effectiveness of the implementation of risk management and high • reviews matters from the the principles and practices corrective actions. priority corrective actions. Investment committee of financial management as (which is a subcommittee of it applies to discretionary the Actuarial committee). business. Balance sheet Divisional *Momentum management Credit risk Tax risk Operational risk Regulatory risk Group Investment committee committee committee committees committee committee • oversees and • approves credit • approves tax risk • monitors the • monitors the • monitors and ensures proper risk management management risk regulatory risk evaluates RISK SUBCOMMITTEEs corporate policies, standards policies, standards management management investment governance of and processes; and and processes; and processes, process, performance interest rate and operational risk effectiveness of delivered on behalf • monitors the • monitors the other market risks, management, regulatory risk of policyholders; effectiveness of the effectiveness of the as well as funding effectiveness of management, credit risk tax risk • evaluates relevance and liquidity risk; risk regulatory process management management of new and existing and management, breakdowns and process. process. mandates; and • considers process corrective actions. breakdowns • monitors appropriateness of and corrective compliance with matching of assets actions. investment and liabilities for mandates and products with a regulations. high level of guarantees. * Denotes chairperson is a board member. 200 All subsidiaries, divisions and major business units of Momentum environment, client behaviour and technological progress. have appropriate governance forums where risk, compliance and Business risk, i.e. the risk that volumes and margins may be audit matters are tabled. The Audit committee, Risk committee insufficient to cover the cost base due to factors unrelated to and and Credit risk committee have non executive representation. The not captured in other risk types is considered as a potential Audit committee meetings are attended by representatives from outcome in the strategic planning process carried out across the the external and internal auditors and the independent risk businesses. It is Momentum’s objective to develop and maintain a management functions. portfolio profile that delivers sustainable earnings. Environmental, social and governance risk is the risk that ESG The remainder of this report provides a detailed description of the issues impact on the ability to successfully and sustainably approaches, methodologies, models and processes used in the implement business strategy. identification and management of each major risk type. Each section also describes the applicable governance and policy Strategic risk governance framework. The development and execution of business level strategy is the responsibility of the individual business areas subject to approval Risk appetite by the Board, which sets the overall strategy and ensures that Momentum’s business as a financial services provider is based on strategic objectives set at a business level are consistent with the the identification, measurement, pricing, underwriting and overall strategy. This includes the approval of any subsequent management of risk. Momentum does not aim to eliminate risk material changes to strategic plans, approval of acquisitions, entirely but to assume and manage it deliberately in a measured, significant equity investments and new strategic alliances. calculated and controlled fashion pursuant to its business objectives. Strategic risk management Business unit and executive management as well as the central The risk appetite is formulated by the Board, which also assumes ERM function review the external environment, industry trends, responsibility for ensuring that risks are adequately managed and potential emerging risk factors, competitors’ actions and controlled through the Risk committee and its subcommittees, as regulatory changes as part of the strategic planning process. described in the governance section on page 200. Through this review Momentum assesses the risk to its earnings and thus the level of potential business risk it faces. Reports on the The risk appetite finds its primary quantitative expression in the results of such exercises are discussed at various business, risk level of capital it seeks to hold as described in the capital and board committees and are ultimately taken into account in the management section below. setting of risk appetite and in potential revisions to existing Risk appetite is calibrated against broader financial targets such strategic plans. as the level of dividend coverage, embedded value and earnings. 4. Capital management As a function of the business environment and stakeholders’ expectations and together with the primary risk appetite metrics Allocating resources, including capital and risk capacity in terms this provides firm boundaries for the organisation’s chosen path of the risk appetite effectively and in a manner that maximises of growth. value for shareholders is a core competence and a key focus area for Momentum and, as such, sound capital management practices 3. Strategic and business risk form an important component of its overall business strategy. Introduction Key objectives Strategic risk is defined as the risk that the current or prospective The main objectives with Momentum’s capital management are to earnings will be negatively impacted by adverse business maintain the optimal level of capital in the most cost efficient way, decisions or the improper implementation of such decisions. The given Momentum’s risk profile and risk appetite. The optimal risk of pursuing an inappropriate strategy or failing to execute the capital level is achieved through balancing the needs of regulators, chosen strategy appropriately is a risk inherent in all business rating agencies, policyholders and shareholders. The intention is endeavours. Momentum’s objective is to minimise this risk in the to hold a capital buffer to give confidence to debt holders, normal course of business. policyholders, regulators and rating agencies. The capital Business risk is defined as the risk that the earnings and capital management team strives to achieve the highest possible credit will be negatively affected by potential changes in the business rating in South Africa. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 201 Risk and capital management report / continued Targeted capital level Capital position Momentum targets an economic capitalisation level range of 1.4 – R million 2010 2009 1.6 times CAR, which is deemed sufficient to satisfy Momentum’s risk appetite towards capital adequacy. Momentum applies Statutory excess over liabilities 8 072 7 108 stochastic modelling techniques to determine the targeted CAR 3 830 3 843 economic capital level. The targeted economic capital level is set to CAR cover rate (times) 2.1 1.8 satisfy Momentum’s risk appetite (as approved by the Momentum Board. The risk appetite is defined as the level of The capital position improved over the 12 month period to capital that will ensure, with a 95% confidence level, that 30 June 2010. This was mainly the result of the positive Momentum’s will at all times cover the minimum CAR at least 1.0 contribution from operating profits and the impact of the recovery times over the following 5 years. The stochastic model includes an in equity markets over this period. These beneficial developments allowance for capital required in respect of future new business. were partly offset by the dividends that were paid to FirstRand over the past 12 months. Over the year under review, Momentum paid Capital developments total dividends amounting to around R840 million, as set out in The FSB is in the process of formulating a new solvency regime for table below. the South African long term and short term insurance Dividend payments industries to be in line with international standards. The FSB launched its SAM project during 2010 to achieve this aim. The R million 2010 basis of the SAM regime will be the principles of the Solvency II Directive, as adopted by the European Parliament, but adapted Final dividend for 2009, paid in October 2009 338 to South African specific circumstances where necessary. Interim dividend for 2010, paid in March 2010 364 Preference share dividends, Momentum participates actively in the development and paid in August 2009 and February 2010 38 formulation of the new South African solvency standards and is Special dividend, paid in April 2010 100 also reviewing its internal economic capital models in light of local and international developments. Total dividends paid during 2010 840 Investment mandate for the The slight decrease in CAR reflects the net effect of the growth in shareholders’ portfolio the size of the book of business over the year, offset by a slight Momentum supports its regulatory capital adequacy ratio (“CAR”) reduction in investment risk. with cash or near cash assets, while the balance of the The actual capital level at 30 June 2010 is above the upper end of shareholders’ assets are invested in a combination of strategic the targeted range. The Board deems it prudent to maintain a investments and interest bearing assets. RMB Asset Management buffer above the upper end of the range in recognition of the manages the discretionary cash, held by the shareholders’ uncertainty regarding the sustainability of the recent recovery in portfolio, according to a conservative investment mandate. equity markets. A buffer above the targeted capital range is, therefore, considered appropriate at this stage. Capital position The minimum CAR is determined in accordance with the In terms of the merger agreement between Momentum and requirements of the FSB and Professional Guidance Note (“PGN”) Metropolitan, Momentum is entitled to pay a final ordinary 104. An economic capitalisation level range of 1.4 – 1.6 times CAR dividend in September 2010 to FirstRand Limited. The quantum of is targeted. At 30 June 2010, CAR was covered 2.1 times by the this dividend will depend on the Metropolitan interim ordinary excess of assets over liabilities (on the statutory valuation basis). dividend, payable in September 2010. The ratio between the abovementioned Momentum and Metropolitan ordinary dividends will be the same as the ratio between the embedded values of the two companies, as agreed for the proposed transaction. 202 Composition of regulatory capital Given that the Long Term Insurance Act does not allow borrowing, the FSB has not formally limited the extent to which South African life insurance companies can incur debt. In line with FirstRand’s guidance, Momentum believes that it is appropriate to operate on a debt to total regulatory capital ratio of below 30%. The table below analyses the sources of total qualifying regulatory capital utilised. Regulatory capital (unaudited) R million 2010 % 2009 % Tier 1 7 101 88 6 102 86 – Core Tier 1 (i.e. equity capital) 6 626 82 5 642 79 – Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares 475 6 460 7 Subordinated qualifying bond1 971 12 1 006 14 Qualifying statutory capital 8 072 100 7 108 100 1 This debt level is within the limit of 30%. Composition of the available capital insurance holding companies and operating companies are The bar chart below sets out the main risks covered by downgraded by one notch. The additional notch recognises the Momentum’s total available economic capital requirement. going concern loss absorption risk present in these issues which the agency did not explicitly factor into its previous rating methodology for hybrid issues. In line with the updated rating criteria, Fitch downgraded Momentum’s subordinated debt issue by 1 notch from “AA-(zaf)” to “A+ (zaf)” during February 2010. On 1 April 2010, Fitch placed Momentum on Rating Watch Negative (“RWN”), following the announcement of the proposed merger with Metropolitan. The rationale for placing Momentum’s credit ratings on RWN is because Momentum will become part of a standalone entity, if the proposed transaction with Metropolitan is approved. Return on equity The active management of Momentum’s capital plays an important role to achieve the targeted return on capital set by FirstRand. As is evident from the graph, the capital position has improved Momentum achieved a ROE of 21.9% (based on normalised over the past 12 months, mainly as a result of the recovery in earnings) for the 12 months ended 30 June 2010, compared to equity markets over this period. At 30 June 2010, Momentum’s 22.6% in the comparative period. The slight decrease in the ROE is CAR cover amounted to 2.1 times, compared to the 1.8 times CAR mainly due to the increase in the retained capital, which is deemed (post dividends) at 30 June 2009. The graph also shows that the prudent given the uncertain market outlook. absolute level of CAR has decreased marginally from 30 June 2009 to 30 June 2010, due to the net effect of the growth in the size of the book of business over the year, offset by a slight reduction in 5. Insurance risk investment risk. Introduction Insurance risk is the risk that future risk claims and expenses will Credit rating exceed the value placed on insurance liabilities. It occurs due to As part of the annual credit rating review by Fitch, Momentum’s the uncertainty of the timing and amount of future cash flows credit rating was affirmed during December 2009. arising under insurance contracts. The timing is specifically Fitch recently published updated criteria affecting the way that influenced by future mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency the agency rates hybrid securities. The updated rating criteria and expenses about which assumptions are made in order to place mean that most preferred and hybrid securities issued by a value on the liabilities. Deviations from assumptions will result FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 203 Risk and capital management report / continued in actual cash flows differing from those projected in the Insurance risk management policyholder liability calculations. As such, each assumption In determining the value of insurance liabilities, assumptions need represents a source of uncertainty. to be made regarding future rates of mortality, morbidity, termination rates, expenses and investment performance. The The larger the portfolio of uncorrelated insurance risks, the uncertainty of these rates may result in actual experience being smaller the relative variability around the expected outcome will different from that assumed and hence actual cash flows being be. In addition, a more diversified portfolio of risks is less likely to different from those projected, and, in the extreme, that the actual be affected across the board by a change in any subset of the risks. claims and benefits exceed the liabilities. The risk is mitigated to an extent through the addition of margins, specifically where there Insurance risk governance is evidence of moderate or extreme variation in experience. The Statutory actuary has a duty under the Long Term Insurance Insurance events are by nature random and the actual number and Act to ensure that the legal entity remains solvent and able to meet amount of claims and benefits could be different from the number liabilities at all times. The Statutory actuary reports on these and amount of claims and benefits estimated. The larger the matters to the Board, independent auditors and the FSB. The portfolio of contracts, the smaller the expected variation between Momentum Actuarial committee supports him in his responsibility actual and expected experience becomes. In addition, the more for the oversight of insurance risk. The committee has been diversified a portfolio of risks, the smaller the impact of deviation appointed by the Board to ensure that the highly technical actuarial of actual experience in a particular risk factor, compared to the aspects specific to insurance companies are debated and reviewed assumption. The lack of diversification in respect of type and independently. amount of risk can increase insurance risk. The following table shows the statement of financial position of the insurance operations per type of contract. Insurance operations per type of contract (audited) 2010 Annuities Linked/ Reversionary and non market related and smoothed participating R million business bonus business business 2010 Assets Financial assets less non policyholder liabilities 115 929 20 838 25 691 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 13 634 7 852 19 423 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 94 982 12 183 4 220 Excess assets 7 313 803 2 048 Total 115 929 20 838 25 691 2009 Annuities Linked/ Reversionary and non market related and smoothed participating R million business bonus business business Assets Financial assets less non policyholder liabilities 115 141 22 290 21 533 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 12 630 8 228 18 212 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 95 140 12 422 2 666 Excess assets 7 371 1 640 655 Total 115 141 22 290 21 533 204 Momentum is exposed to the following types of risks as a result of • underwriting, which is the assessment of health risk, the insurance contracts it issues: hazardous pursuits or financial risk, including the requirement of a negative HIV test as a condition for accepting risk, charging • mortality, longevity and morbidity risk; extra premiums or declining cover where applicable based on • persistency risk; the outcome of the underwriting and differentiating premiums • expense risk; and for risk factors such as age and smoker status; • business volume risk. • appropriate pricing including allowing for known risks based on actual claims experience and making use of profit testing The main insurance risks are set out below, as well as the approach techniques; to the management of these risks. • regular review of premium rates and approval of the approach Mortality and morbidity risks to setting premium rates by the Statutory actuary; The risk that actual experience in respect of the rates of mortality and morbidity may be higher than that assumed in pricing and • a guarantee period shorter than the policy term applies to risk valuation varies, depending on the terms of different products. The business, and enables Momentum to review premium rates on material classes of business most affected by these risks are in-force contracts during the life of contracts. The guarantee discussed below. period on whole life products is generally within the range of 10 to 15 years; and i. Individual insurance business • appropriate policy conditions, including setting appropriate Products are sold directly to individuals providing benefits on maximum income replacement ratios in the case of products death and disability, including impairment, or in the event of suffering a critical illness. The main insurance risk relates to the providing disability benefits, and approval of policy conditions by possibility that rates of death or disability may be higher than the Statutory actuary. expected. This may be due to: The following additional controls and measures are in place in • normal statistical variation due to the random nature of order to ensure that Momentum manages its exposure to insurance events; mortality and morbidity risk: • incorrect assumptions regarding future experience; • claims assessment processes to ensure only valid claims • natural catastrophes such as floods or earthquakes and are paid; unnatural catastrophes such as acts of terrorism; • reserving for AIDS risk in accordance with the guidelines issued • the impact of HIV/AIDS or epidemics such as avian bird flu; by the Actuarial Society of South Africa as set out in PGN 105; • anti selection such as where a client who has a pre-existing • reinsurance to limit liability on large claims or substandard condition or disease purchases a product where a benefit will risks. On individual lives that are medically underwritten and be paid on death or in the event of contracting such a disease; that are not members of employee benefit schemes, 85% • the effect of selective withdrawal which means policy­holders of the risk is retained on amounts of cover not exceeding are less likely to withdraw voluntarily if the cover is more likely R5 million. Amounts of cover in excess of R5 million are fully to be needed in the foreseeable future; reinsured. On employee benefits business, the maximum • economic conditions resulting in more disability claims; and retention is R4 million per life, with 100% of the excess being • concentration risk, which is the risk of a large number of claims reinsured; and from a single event or in a particular geographical area. • concentration risk is reduced by diversification of business over a large number of uncorrelated risks and several classes of For contracts with fixed and guaranteed benefits and fixed future premiums there are no mitigating terms that reduce the risk insurance, as well as by taking out catastrophe reinsurance. accepted. Momentum, therefore, employs the following The catastrophe reinsurance cover for the current financial underwriting controls to ensure that only acceptable risks are year is R485 million in excess of R15 million of the total retained accepted: sum assured for any single event involving three or more lives. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 205 Risk and capital management report / continued The following table shows the concentration of amounts at risk per life and in total, both gross and net of reinsurance as at 30 June 2010. Benefits include those payable on death, as well as both stand alone and accelerated dread disease and disability benefits. Sum at risk per benefit (audited) 2010 Total amount Total amount at risk gross at risk net Number of of reinsurance of reinsurance Sum at risk per benefit benefits R million R million 0 – 50 000 232 181 2 907 2 317 50 001 – 100 000 50 284 3 948 3 213 100 001 – 200 000 80 874 12 048 9 485 200 001 – 500 000 192 237 67 897 50 789 500 001 – 1 000 000 189 249 140 282 102 298 More than 1 000 000 216 347 525 051 299 414 Total 961 172 752 133 467 516 2009 Total amount Total amount at risk gross at risk net Number of of reinsurance of reinsurance Sum at risk per benefit benefits R million R million 0 – 50 000 247 884 2 869 2 354 50 001 – 100 000 50 633 3 991 3 275 100 001 – 200 000 84 053 12 585 10 009 200 001 – 500 000 195 620 68 846 51 051 500 001 – 1 000 000 183 533 135 894 97 707 More than 1 000 000 192 140 452 606 255 072 Total 953 863 676 791 419 468 Before reinsurance, 67% (2009: 67%) of the total amount at risk is for sums at risk exceeding R1 million per benefit at 30 June 2010. This reduces to 64% (2009: 61%) if reinsurance is taken into account. ii. Group risk business Underwriting on group business is much less stringent than for Employee benefit products provide life and disability cover to individual business as there is typically less scope for anti selection. The main reason for this is that participation in members of a group, such as employees of companies or members Momentum’s insurance programmes is normally compulsory, of trade unions. Typical benefits are: and as a rule members have limited choice in the level of benefits. • life insurance (mostly lump sum, but some children and Where choice in benefits and levels is offered, this is accompanied spouse’s annuities); by an increase in the level of underwriting to combat anti selection. • disability insurance (lump sum and income protection); Groups are priced using standard mortality and morbidity tables plus an explicit AIDS loading. The price for an individual scheme is • dread disease cover; and adjusted for the following risk factors: • continuation of insurance option. • region; The products are, as a rule, quite simple and mostly basic products • salary structure; with a one year renewable term. In most cases the products are • gender structure; and compulsory for all employees although it has recently become more common to provide members with a degree of choice when • industry. selecting risk benefits. 206 For large schemes (typically 200 or more members), a scheme’s important for group risk business as there are considerably more past experience is a crucial input in setting rates for the scheme. concentrations of risks compared to individual business. The The larger the scheme the more weight is given to the scheme’s catastrophe reinsurance cover for the current financial year is past experience. R485 million in excess of R15 million of the total retained sum assured for any single event involving three or more lives. Rates are guaranteed for one year. Rates may be guaranteed for up to three years on request but will be subject to an additional An indication of the concentration risk in respect of group loading. Claims resulting from active participation in war or from business can be obtained by noting that the five largest group atomic, biological or chemical weapon risks are not paid. schemes contribute 15% to the total risk exposure under group life cover in force at 30 June 2010 (2009:10%). To manage the risk of anti selection, there is an “Actively at Work” clause, which requires members to be actively at work and iii. Individual annuity business attending to their normal duties for cover to take effect. This is Annuity contracts provide a specified regular income in return for waived if a scheme is taken over from another insurer for all a lump sum consideration. The income is normally provided for the existing members. In addition, a pre-existing clause applies, which life of the annuitant. In the case of a joint life annuity, the income is states that no disability benefit will be payable if a member knew payable until the death of the last survivor. The income may about a disabling condition within a defined period before the cover furthermore be paid for a minimum guaranteed period and may be commenced and the event takes place within a defined period fixed or increased at a fixed rate or in line with inflation. The after cover has commenced. There is a standard reinsurance mortality risk in this case is that the annuitants may live longer treaty in place covering group business. than assumed in the pricing of the contract. This is known as the risk of longevity. Lump sum benefits in excess of R4 million and disability income This risk is managed by allowing for improvements in mortality benefits above R30 000 per month are reinsured. when pricing and valuing the contracts. Momentum measures There are some facultative arrangements in place on some deviations of experience from assumptions bi-annually. More schemes where a special structure is required, for example a very detailed actuarial experience investigations are performed (the high free cover limit or high benefit levels. last detailed investigation was performed in December 2009) and assumptions in pricing for new contracts and valuation of existing In addition, there is a catastrophe treaty in place for both group contracts are adjusted when necessary. The next detailed business and individual business. Such a treaty is particularly investigation will be performed in December 2010. The following table shows the distribution of number of annuities by total amount per annum. Distribution of number of annuities (audited) 2010 2009 Amount Amount Number of per annum Number of per annum Income category p.a. annuitants R million annuitants R million 0 to 10 000 55 842 228 60 752 256 10 001 to 50 000 28 984 601 26 246 565 50 001 to 100 000 4 421 304 4 189 288 100 001 to 200 000 1 753 236 1 699 229 200 001+ 506 151 534 165 Total 91 506 1 520 93 420 1 503 The largest concentration in terms of the number of annuitants is for small amounts of income per annum. 90% (2009:89%) of the total amount of income payable per year relates to income per annuity of R200 000 or less. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 207 Risk and capital management report / continued iv. Permanent health insurance business Effective 1 January 2009, industry commission regulations have Momentum also pays Permanent Health Insurance (“PHI”) been reformed such that the commission paid on many products income to disabled employees, the bulk of which are from with investment contracts is more closely aligned to premium employee benefit insured schemes. The income payments collection and terms of the contract. This reduces the risk of non continue to the earlier of death, recovery or retirement of the recovery of commission on new policies subsequently cancelled or disabled employee. There is, therefore, the risk of lower recovery paid up. rates or lower mortality rates than assumed, resulting in claims Expense risk being paid for longer periods. Claims in payment are reviewed annually to ensure claimants still qualify and rehabilitation is There is a risk that a loss may be experienced due to actual expenses being higher than that assumed when pricing and managed and encouraged. valuing policies. This may be due to inefficiencies, higher than Persistency risk expected inflation, lower than expected volumes of new business or higher than expected terminations resulting in a smaller inPersistency risk relates to the risk that policyholders may cease or force book size. reduce their contributions or withdraw their benefits and terminate their contracts prior to the contractual maturity date Momentum performs expense investigations annually and sets of a contract. Expenses such as commission and acquisition pricing and valuation assumptions to be in line with actual expenses are largely incurred at outset of the contract. These experience, with allowance for inflation. The inflation assumption upfront costs are expected to be recouped over the term of a furthermore allows for the expected gradual shrinking of the contract from fees and charges from the contract. Therefore, if the number of policies arising from the run-off of books closed to new contract or premiums are terminated before the contractual date, business arising from past acquisitions. expenses might not have been fully recovered, resulting in losses being incurred. As a result, the amount payable on withdrawal Business volume risk normally makes provision for recouping any outstanding There is a risk that insufficient volumes of new business may be expenses from intermediaries. Losses may, however, still occur if sold to meet the expenses associated with distribution and the expenses incurred exceed the value of a policy, which normally administration. A significant portion of the new business happens early on in the term of recurring premium policies or acquisition costs are variable and relate directly to sales volumes. where the withdrawal amount does not fully allow for the recovery The fixed cost component can be scaled down if there is an of all unrecouped expenses. This may either be due to a regulatory indication of a permanent decline in business volumes. A further minimum applying, or because of product design. mitigating factor is that the distribution channels used to generate new insurance and investment business are also used to The recovery of expenses is in line with the regulatory limitations distribute other product lines within Momentum, such as health introduced in 2006. Therefore, in addition to setting realistic insurance and short term insurance. assumptions with regards to termination rates (rates of withdrawal and lapse) based on actual experience, specific Sensitivities amounts are set aside to cover the expected cost of any lost The following table sets out the impact on liabilities of changes in charges when policyholders cease their premiums or terminate the key valuation assumptions relating to insurance risk. The their contracts. In addition, efforts are in place to actively retain numbers in the table demonstrate the impact on liabilities if customers at risk of departure due to lapse, surrender or experience deviates from ‘best estimate’ assumptions in all future maturity. years – not only in one given time period. 208 Liability sensitivities (audited) 2010 Discon-­ Mortality Renewal Expense tinuance and expenses inflation rates morbidity Investment decrease decreases decrease decrease returns R million Liability by 10% by 1% by 10% by 10% reduce by 1% Insurance business (as defined under IFRS 4) Retail insurance business (excluding annuities) 21 619 21 432 21 535 21 665 21 123 21 685 Annuities (retail and employee benefits) 17 542 17 503 17 510 17 542 17 755 18 668 Employee benefits business 1 749 1 749 1 749 1 749 1 753 1 755 Investment business (as defined under IFRS 4) 111 385 111 413 111 417 111 449 111 421 111 608 Total 152 295 152 097 152 211 152 405 152 052 153 716 2009 Discon­Mortality Renewal Expense tinuance and expenses inflation rates morbidity Investment decrease decreases decrease decrease returns R million Liability by 10% by 1% by 10% by 10% reduce by 1% Insurance business (as defined under IFRS 4) Retail insurance business (excluding annuities) 20 843 20 692 20 750 20 846 20 293 20 903 Annuities (retail and employee benefits) 16 677 16 634 16 634 16 677 16 903 18 057 Employee benefits business 1 549 1 549 1 549 1 549 1 554 1 555 Investment business (as defined under IFRS 4) 110 227 110 222 110 224 110 227 110 227 110 379 Total 149 296 149 097 149 157 149 299 148 977 150 894 The above sensitivities were chosen as representing the main The table does not show the financial impact of variances in lump assumptions regarding future experience that is employed in sum mortality and morbidity claims in respect of employee benefit determining Momentum’s insurance liabilities. The magnitudes of business, because of the annually renewable nature of this class of the variances were chosen to be consistent with the sensitivities insurance. An indication of the sensitivity of financial results to shown in the published embedded value report and also to mortality and morbidity variances on this class of business can be obtained by noting that a 10% (2009: 10%) increase in mortality and facilitate comparisons with similar sensitivities published by morbidity lump sum benefits paid on employee benefits in any given other insurance companies in South Africa. year will result in a reduction of R79.4 million (2009: R73.7 million) It is not uncommon to experience one or more of the stated in before tax earnings. deviations in any given year. There might be some correlation It should be pointed out that the table shows only the sensitivity of between sensitivities, for instance, changes in investment returns liabilities to changes in valuation assumptions. It does not fully are normally correlated with changes in discontinuance rates. The reflect the impact of the stated variances to Momentum’s financial table above shows the impact of each sensitivity in isolation, position. In many instances, changes in the fair value of assets will without taking into account possible correlations. accompany changes in liabilities. An example of this is the annuity FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 209 Risk and capital management report / continued portfolio, where assets and liabilities are closely matched. A Credit risk management change in annuitant liabilities, following a change in long term Management recognises and accepts that losses may arise interest rates will be countered by an almost equal change in the through the inability of corporate debt issuers to service their debt value of assets backing these liabilities, resulting in a relatively obligations to a larger extent than that assumed in the pricing and modest overall change in net asset value. valuation models. In order to limit this risk, the Credit risk committee has formulated guidelines regarding the investment in 6. Credit risk corporate debt instruments, including a framework of limits based Introduction on the credit risk appetite, the nature of the exposure, a detailed assessment of the counterparty’s financial strength, the prevailing Credit risk is the risk of loss due to non performance of a economic environment, industry classification and other counterparty in respect of any financial or performance obligation qualitative factors. due to deterioration in the financial status of the counterparty. It could also arise from the decrease in value of an asset subsequent To achieve the above, an internal credit risk management function to the downgrading of a counterparty. performs ongoing management of the credit portfolio. Stochastic portfolio credit risk models are used to gauge the level of portfolio Credit risk arises from the investment in corporate debt in the credit risk, consider levels of required capital and identify sources shareholders’ and guaranteed portfolios as well as linked of concentration risk and the implications thereof. portfolios and can offset Momentum’s financial position (adversely or positively) if the actual experience (on the total portfolio of Regular risk management reporting to the Credit risk committee exposures) is different from the margins allowed for in the asset includes credit risk exposure reporting, which contains relevant and liability valuations. data on the counterparty, credit limits and ratings (internal and external). Counterparty exposures in excess of set credit limits are Credit risk governance monitored and corrective action is taken where required. Credit risk is managed in terms of the Credit Risk Management Framework, which is an ancillary framework of the Risk Credit mitigation instruments are used where appropriate. These Management Framework. The governance of credit risk is include collateral, netting agreements and guarantees or credit comprehensively set out in the Credit Risk Charter. The overall derivatives. responsibility for the effectiveness of credit risk management processes vests with the Board. The operational responsibility has Concentration risk been delegated to the Risk committee, the Credit risk Concentration risk is managed at the credit portfolio level. The committee, executive management and the credit risk nature thereof differs according to segment. Concentration risk management function. The Credit risk committee is also management in the credit portfolio is based on individual name responsible for setting and monitoring the credit risk sections of limits and exposures, which are reported to and approved by mandates for linked policyholder portfolios. the Credit risk committee, and the monitoring of industry concentrations. A sophisticated credit portfolio model has been The Credit risk committee is a subcommittee of the Risk committee developed to quantify concentration risk and its potential impact and is comprised of executive and non executive members and is on the credit portfolio. chaired by a non executive member. This committee reports to the Risk committee on the effectiveness of credit risk management and provides an overview of the credit portfolio. The Credit risk committee and its subcommittees are responsible for the approval of relevant credit policies and the ongoing review of the credit exposure. This includes the monitoring of the following: • quality of the credit portfolio; • stress quantification; • credit defaults against expected losses; • credit concentration risk; • return on risk; and • appropriateness of loss provisions and reserves. 210 Portfolio overview The following represents the total exposure to credit risk (before taking into account any security held). Total exposure to credit risk (audited) 2010 Asset R million Insurance management Other Total Maximum exposure to credit risk before taking into account any collateral held: Cash and short term funds 30 489 327 42 30 858 Accounts receivable 1 609 109 31 1 749 – Premium debtors 342 – – 342 – Commission debtors 102 – – 102 – Reinsurance debtors 241 – – 241 – Other 924 109 31 1 064 Investment securities 43 145 28 – 43 173 Derivative financial instruments 6 521 – – 6 521 Policy loans 642 – – 642 Reinsurance assets 628 – – 628 Total 83 034 464 73 83 571 2009 Asset R million Insurance management Other Total Maximum exposure to credit risk before taking into account any collateral held: Cash and short term funds 40 825 86 56 40 967 Accounts receivable 6 244 104 37 6 385 – Premium debtors 445 – – 445 – Commission debtors 137 – – 137 – Reinsurance debtors 212 – – 212 – Other 5 450 104 37 5 591 Investment securities 33 570 94 – 33 664 Derivative financial instruments 9 455 – – 9 455 Policy loans 604 – – 604 Reinsurance assets 8 143 – – 8 143 Total 98 841 284 93 99 218 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 211 Risk and capital management report / continued Corporate and government debt A portfolio management approach to credit exposures is adopted. In order to achieve appropriate diversification, limits are applied to individual counterparties and at industry sectors, the number of single obligor exposures within rating categories, and the targeted weighted average rating of the portfolio. The guaranteed and linked exposure to corporate and government debt amounted to R45.7 billion at 30 June 2010 (2009: R33.6 billion). Exposure to corporate and government debt (audited) RSA Other R million Banks Government Utilities Mining sectors Total 2010 5 138 16 599 2 077 – 21 890 45 704 2009 2 325 14 503 2 295 – 14 541 33 664 The exposure to other sectors is spread across 33 industry sectors (2009: 29), with no single sector representing more than 3.70% (2009: 5.6%) of the total corporate debt exposure. The exposure to banks represents debt, cash on deposit, derivative and other exposures. The largest counterparty exposure is to the RSA Government with R16.6 billion in exposure at 30 June 2010 (2009: R14.5 billion). The total debt portfolio is spread as follows across the various ZAR rating categories (based on Standard & Poor’s rating scale) at 30 June 2010. Debt portfolio per ZAR rating categories (unaudited) 2010 Cash and short term Reinsurance Investment Scrip R million funds assets securities lending Derivatives Total National scale mapping (International equivalent): AAA to BBB(A to B+) 30 579 599 35 460 4 201 6 521 77 360 BB+ to B(B+ to B-) 29 – 2 378 – – 2 407 Below B(CCC) – – – – – – Unrated 250 28 6 265 – – 6 543 Total 30 858 627 44 103 4 201 6 521 86 310 2009 Cash and short term Reinsurance Investment Scrip R million funds assets Securities lending Derivatives Total National scale mapping (International equivalent): AAA to BBB(A to B+) 40 960 8 120 32 498 4 672 9 455 95 705 BB+ to B(B+ to B-) 6 – – – – 6 Below B(CCC) – – – – – 0 Unrated 1 23 1 166 – – 1 190 Total 40 967 8 143 33 664 4 672 9 455 96 901 212 Investment grade An impairment of commission debits is made to the extent that AAA to BBB-: These are obligations which are judged to be of a these are not considered to be recoverable and a legal recovery high credit quality and are subject to low credit risk. process commences. The total provision for commission debtors amounted to R59 million at 30 June 2010 (2009: R42 million), BB+ to B-: These are obligations which are of a medium quality compared with total commission payments of R1 204 million for and are subject to moderate credit risk. the year (2009: R1 144 million). Below B-: These are obligations which have a low credit quality. Reinsurance They are considered to be riskier than the other classes. Momentum only enters into reinsurance treaties with reinsurers Commission debtors registered with the FSB. The reinsurers contracted represent subsidiaries of large international reinsurance companies and no Commission debtors arise when upfront commission paid on instances of default have yet been encountered. recurring premium policies is clawed back (on a sliding scale) within the first two years of origination. As the largest portion of Regular monthly reconciliations are performed regarding claims new business arises from brokerages that are subsidiaries of against reinsurers and the payment of premiums to reinsurers. A-rated South African banks, the risk of default is low and relates mainly to independent intermediaries. Reinsurance proportions (audited) 2010 2009 International International credit rating credit rating of reinsurer of reinsurer Reinsured (Standard Reinsured (Standard Reinsurer proportion & Poor’s) proportion & Poor’s) Swiss Re 37% A+ 47% A+ General Cologne Re 39% AA+ 24% AAHannover Re 16% A 19% AAA RGA Re 4% A7% AAMunich Re 3% A+ – – Other 1% – 3% – Policy loan debt Scrip lending Momentum’s policy is to automatically lapse a policy where the Momentum lends out selected listed equity holdings. At 30 June 2010 policy loan debt exceeds the fund value. There is, therefore, little a total of R3 999 million (2009: R4 672 million), or 5% (2009: 8%) of risk that policy loan debt will remain irrecoverable. The policy is the total equity holding, was out on loan. Fees received for scrip considered to be collateral for the debt. The fair value of the lending are included in fee income. collateral is considered to be the value of the policy as determined Collateral, in the form of either cash or fixed interest government in accordance with the accounting policies. bonds, at least equal to the value of scrip on loan is retained on an In terms of applicable regulations, the value of the policy loans ongoing basis in order to mitigate the risk of default. may not exceed the value of the policy and as a result the policy loans are fully collateralised by assets which Momentum owns. Derivative contracts The value of the collateral is the value of the policy which is Derivative contracts are entered into with A-rated local banks on determined as set out in the accounting policies. terms set out by the industry standard International Swaps and FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 213 Risk and capital management report / continued Derivatives Agreements (“ISDA”). In terms of these ISDA Market risk governance agreements, derivative assets and liabilities can be set off with the The BSM committee, which is a subcommittee of the Risk same counterparty resulting in only the net exposure being committee, provides oversight for interest rate risk, funding and included in the overall Group counterparty exposure analysis. liquidity risk assumed in the balance sheet. Included in investment securities are amounts relating to The exposure to financial risks is managed by matching with corporate debt for which Momentum holds collateral. The fair appropriate assets (as far as this is practically possible). value of the collateral is determined from time to time using In addition, the Investment committee monitors investment valuation techniques generally accepted for the underlying performance achieved on behalf of policyholders, compares assets. performance against benchmarks and evaluates the appropriateness of investment mandates and benchmarks. 7. Market risk Introduction Market risk management Market risk is the risk that Momentum is unable to meet its For each of the major components of market risk, described in more detail below, Momentum is in the process of improving obligations due to changes in the market value of the assets policies and procedures to manage and monitor each of the major matching the liabilities, as well as the risk that earnings and/ market risk components in terms of its overall risk appetite. or solvency levels are affected adversely by developments in investment markets. Currency risk Market risk comprises the risk of changes in the market values of Currency risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument its assets and liabilities due to changes in rates of exchange of will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates. currency, interest rates, property prices and equity prices. The majority of currency exposure results from the offshore assets Market risk exists in all trading, banking and investment portfolios. held by policyholders’ portfolios to provide the desired international For the purpose of these financial statements market risk is exposure, subject to the limitations imposed by the SARB. The considered to be fully contained within the trading portfolios. bulk of these assets support linked policyholders’ liabilities. This Primarily market risk managed through the Balance Sheet results in the bulk of the currency risk being assumed by Management (“BSM”) committee. policyholders in terms of the policy contracts. The following assets and liabilities, denominated in foreign currencies, where the currency risk resides with Momentum, are included in the balance sheet. Shareholders assets and liabilities (audited) 2010 R million GBP US$ Euro Other Total Assets Cash and short term funds – – 37 3 40 Investment securities – – 869 46 915 Accounts receivable – – 3 8 11 Current income tax asset – – – 4 4 Total assets – – 909 61 970 Liabilities Accounts payable – – 2 5 7 Total liabilities – – 2 5 7 214 Assets backing policyholder liabilities (audited) 2010 R million GBP US$ Euro Other Total Assets Cash and short term funds 158 57 55 49 320 Money market investments 520 – – – 520 Accounts receivable 1 5 23 50 79 Investment securities 11 398 565 228 5 170 17 360 Property and equipment 1 – – 3 4 Total assets 12 078 627 306 5 272 18 283 Liabilities Accounts payable (including insurance payable) 17 5 46 41 109 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts – – 869 – 869 Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts – – – 36 36 Total liabilities 17 5 915 77 1 014 Foreign exchange rates (audited) 2010 GBP US$ Euro Pula Foreign exchange rates as at 30 June 2010 Closing rate 11.4753 7.6576 9.3889 1.0831 Average rate 11.9557 7.5869 10.5087 1.1163 Shareholders’ assets and liabilities (audited) 2009 R million GBP US$ Euro Other Total Assets Cash and short term funds – – 32 4 36 Investment securities – – – 31 31 Accounts receivable – – 13 9 22 Current income tax asset – – – 2 2 Total assets – – 45 46 91 Liabilities Accounts payable – – 7 7 14 Total liabilities – – 7 7 14 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 215 Risk and capital management report / continued Assets backing policyholder liabilities (audited) 2009 R million GBP US$ Euro Other Total Assets Cash and short term funds 134 – 26 6 166 Money market investments 311 429 – – 740 Accounts receivable 2 141 24 36 203 Investment securities 7 184 7 814 770 35 15 803 Property and equipment 3 – – 3 6 Total assets 7 634 8 384 820 80 16 918 Liabilities Accounts payable (including insurance payable) 36 52 29 38 155 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts – – 701 – 701 Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts – – – 25 25 Total liabilities 36 52 730 63 881 Foreign exchange rates (audited) 2009 GBP US$ Euro Pula Closing rate 12.7137 7.7280 10.8451 1.1484 Average rate 14.0767 8.8806 12.0724 1.2147 Interest rate risk matched with index linked bonds. Where perfect cash flow Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments matching is not possible, interest rate risk is minimised by will fluctuate due to changes in interest rates, which may result in ensuring the values of assets and liabilities respond similarly to mismatches between assets and liabilities. small changes in interest rates and a mismatching liability is raised as a component of the investment stabilisation account. The The following sections set out the areas where there is exposure to matching position of the portfolio is considered monthly. The asset interest rate risk, as well as how this is managed. managers are motivated, by way of performance fees, to minimise any mismatching risk. i. Non profit annuity business An annuity policy pays an income to the annuitant, in return for a As an indication of the robustness of the asset liability management, lump sum consideration paid on origination of the annuity policy. it is worth noting that a 25% horizontal shift in the risk free yield Income payments may be subject to a minimum period. The curve as at 30 June 2010 would have resulted in a 0.2% move income may be fixed, increase at a fixed rate or in line with inflation. (2009:1.6%) in the interest rate sensitive liability relative to assets. Similar to the annuity portfolio, the liability for PHI payments to This income is guaranteed and the value of the liability is, therefore disabled employees of insured group schemes is matched by fixed subject to interest rate risk, in addition to the risk of longer than and index linked bonds to protect against interest rate movements. anticipated life expectancy. In order to hedge against the interest rate risk, Momentum invests in an actively managed portfolio of ii. Guaranteed endowments and government and corporate bonds, promissory notes from banks structured products and swaps with approximately the same duration as the liabilities. Momentum issues guaranteed endowment policies – the majority The mismatch risk is measured in terms of duration and convexity of these contracts are five year single premium endowment risk. The portfolio aims to minimise both of these risks. Index policies providing guaranteed maturity values. In terms of these linked annuities, which provide increases in line with inflation, are contracts, policyholders are not entitled to receive more than the 216 guaranteed maturity value as assured at inception. The obligation disability. The present value of the future fees (included in is hedged by investing in assets that will provide the required yield the premium rates) expected to be earned on this business is at the relevant date and term. capitalised and offset against the liabilities. A long term interest rate is used to calculate the present value of the future fees. Any A variation on guaranteed endowment policies are contracts changes in long term interest rates would therefore result in a where the capital guarantee is combined with a guaranteed return change in the value of the negative rand reserves. linked to the returns on local and offshore market indices. The risk associated with the guarantee on these contracts is managed iv. Other non profit business through the purchase of appropriate assets and the risk of the offshore indices is hedged through equity linked notes issued by In addition to mortality risk, morbidity risk, expense risk and banks. In addition to these hedging strategies, a portion of the persistency risk, there is also the risk that investment return guaranteed endowment policies is reinsured with reputable experienced may be lower than that assumed when the price of reinsurers in terms of Momentum reinsurance policies. insurance business was determined. Momentum reduces this risk by investing in assets comparable to the nature of these liabilities, To demonstrate the interest rate hedging on guaranteed and such as fixed interest investments. structured endowments, it was calculated that, at 30 June 2010, a 25% horizontal shift in the yield curve would have resulted in a v. Impact of changes in interest rates 0.25% move (2009: 0.34%) in liabilities relative to assets. The tables below provide a split of interest bearing assets that are exposed to cash flow interest rate risk and those that are exposed iii. Individual life risk products to fair value interest rate risk. These policies mainly represent whole life and term assurance contracts, which provide lump sum benefits on death and Interest bearing assets (audited) 2010 Cash flow Fair value interest rate interest rate R million Total risk risk Cash and short term funds 22 611 22 611 – Money market investments 8 247 7 390 857 Investment securities 17 706 46 17 660 Total 48 564 30 047 18 517 2009 Cash flow Fair value interest rate interest rate R million risk risk Cash and short term funds 4 014 4 010 4 Money market investments 36 953 33 466 3 487 Investment securities 33 664 3 332 30 332 Total 74 631 40 808 33 823 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 217 Risk and capital management report / continued The table below illustrates the amount where there is a contractual access is gained to a broad spectrum of financial information repricing of the coupon interest rate prior to the maturity date. relating to the companies invested in; Contractual repricing (unaudited) • diversifying across many securities to reduce specific risk. Diversification is guided by the concentration rules imposed on R million 2010 2009 admissible assets by the Long Term Insurance Act; Government and public authority stocks 46 56 • requiring these fund managers to maintain the overall equity Debentures and other loans – – exposure within the prudential investment guidelines set by the 46 56 FSB; and • considering the risk reward profile of holding equities and Refer to the section on liquidity risk for maturity profiles of interest assuming appropriate risk in order to obtain higher expected bearing liabilities. returns on assets. Property risk i. Individual insurance and investment contracts Property risk is the risk that the value of investment properties will with discretionary participation features fluctuate as a result of changes in the rental market and interest Various product lines in this category are offered with some rates. Property investments are made on behalf of policyholders, products closed to new business. shareholders and other investment clients and are reflected at Assets are invested in a balanced mix of local and offshore equities, market value. Diversification in property type, geographical fixed interest assets, property and cash, according to the asset location and tenant exposure are all used to reduce the risk manager’s best investment view. The Investment committee exposure. regularly monitors the asset mix and performance to ensure that the expected returns are in line with policyholders’ expectations. The ability to let investment property as well as the future fair Separate investment portfolios are managed for smoothed bonus value of investment properties may be affected by the impact of products. the global financial crisis and the current downturn in the property market. The exposure to direct investment properties is limited The investment return earned on the underlying assets, after tax through the diversification of assets and ownership of participatory and charges, is distributed to policyholders in the form of bonuses interests in property unit trusts rather than direct ownership of the in line with product design, policyholders’ reasonable expectations, affordability and management discretion. The use of bonuses is a properties. mechanism to smooth returns to policyholders, in order to reduce Equity risk the risk of volatile investment performance. Any returns not yet distributed are retained in a bonus stabilisation account (“BSA”), Equity risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will for future distribution to policyholders. fluctuate as a result of changes in the market price. Exposure arises from equity investments made on behalf of shareholders In the event of adverse investment performance, such as a sudden and policyholders, including equities backing guaranteed or sustained fall in the market value of assets backing smoothed liabilities, minimum investment return guarantees in some bonus business, the BSA may be negative. In such an event, there universal life products and as a result of fees charged as a are the following options: percentage of policyholder assets that are invested in equities. • to assume lower bonuses will be declared in future in valuing the liabilities; Equities are reflected at market values, which are susceptible to fluctuations. The risks from these fluctuations can be separated • to actually declare lower bonuses; into systematic risk (affecting all equity instruments) and specific • a portion of bonuses declared is not guaranteed and in the risk (affecting individual securities). In general, specific risk can be event of a fall in the market value of assets, Momentum has the reduced through diversification but systematic risk cannot. right to remove previously declared non guaranteed bonuses. This will only be done if it is believed that markets will not The equity risk is managed by employing the following procedures: recover in the short term; • mandating specialist equity fund managers to invest only in • a market value adjuster may be applied in the event of listed equities, where there is an active market and where voluntary withdrawal to ensure that withdrawal benefits do not 218 exceed the market values. This is to protect remaining iii. Group contracts with discretionary participation policyholders; features (“DPF”) • the use of short term derivative hedging strategies to protect The Momentum Secure Bonus, Momentum Structured Growth and the funding level against further deterioration due to poor Momentum Capital Plus portfolios are offered to institutional investment performance; investors and provide a continuous guarantee on capital and declared bonuses. Bonuses are fully vesting and are declared • using funds in the additional BSA to temporarily or permanently monthly in advance. top up the BSA on recommendation of the Actuarial committee and approval from the Board. This is a general BSA set aside as No market value adjuster applies but allowance is made for the a buffer to support all smoothed bonus business. This account payment of benefits over a period of up to 12 months if large is not attributable to any specific class of smoothed bonus collective outflows may prejudice remaining investors. Extensive business and is not intended for distribution under normal use is made of derivative instruments to minimise downside market conditions; and market risk in the group DPF portfolios. Because of this strategy, • in very extreme circumstances, funds may be transferred from BSAs in respect of group DPF business are small, relative to the the shareholder portfolio into the BSA on a temporary or bonus stabilisation accounts on individual (retail) business. permanent basis. Under adverse circumstances the BSA may become negative. To protect equity between different generations of policyholders, the ii. Individual contracts offering investment additional BSA may be utilised to temporarily or permanently top guarantees up the BSA on recommendation of the Actuarial committee and Momentum has a book of universal life business that is closed to approval from the Board. new business, which offers minimum maturity values based on a specified rate of investment return. This guaranteed rate is around iv. Market related/unit linked business 4.5% p.a. for the bulk of business. This applies to smoothed bonus Market related or unit linked contracts are those invested in portfolios as well as certain market linked portfolios. On some portfolios where there is a direct relationship between the returns smoothed bonus portfolios, there is also a guarantee to earned on the underlying portfolio and the returns credited to the policyholders that the annual bonus rate will not be less than a contract. These may be investment contracts or insurance contractual minimum (also around 4.5% per year). contracts and include universal life contracts which also provide These guarantees are no longer automatically offered on new cover on death or disability. business. Policyholders do, however, have the option to purchase a minimum guaranteed return of up to 3.5% per annum. The Policyholders carry the investment risk; however, Momentum guarantee charge is set at a level that will cover the expected cost carries a risk of reduced income from fees where these are based of guarantees, including the opportunity cost of additional capital on investment returns or the underlying fund value or where held in respect of these guarantees. Only selected portfolios investment conditions affect its ability to recoup expenses qualify for this guarantee and the guarantee also applies only for incurred. Furthermore there is also the reputational risk if actual specific terms. investment performance is not in line with policyholders’ expectations. These risks are managed through the rigorous The risk of being unable to meet guarantees is managed by investment research process applied by Momentum’s investment holding a specific liability for minimum maturity values and other managers, which is supported by technical as well as fundamental guaranteed benefits arising from minimum contractual investment analysis. returns in accordance with local actuarial guidance. A stochastic model is used to quantify the reserve required to finance possible Sensitivity to market risk shortfalls in respect of minimum maturity values and other The profit and net asset value is sensitive to market risk as a result guaranteed benefits. The model is calibrated to market data and of the following: the liability is calculated every six months. Statutory capital is held in respect of the guarantee risk. The amount of capital is calculated • insurance contracts issued; to be sufficient to cover the cost of guarantees in the event of a 30% • investment contract business; and fall in market value of equities and an adverse move of 25% in interest rates. • investments made using the shareholder free reserves. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 219 Risk and capital management report / continued The following table represents the effect on net profit and equity as a result of plausible changes in market factors which give rise to market risk for each of the categories identified above. The sensitivities were chosen to be in line with industry practice and sensitivities already performed for other purposes Sensitivities (audited) 2010 Equity prices Interest rates Exchange rates Increase Decrease Increase Decrease by by Improve Worsen Combined by 10% by 10% 100 bps 100 bps by 10% by 10% scenario 1 Net profit after tax for the year 1 721 1 721 1 721 1 721 1 721 1 721 1 721 Change in profit from insurance contracts as a result of the reasonably plausible change1 170 (162) (15) (18) (20) 24 (147) Change in profit from investment contracts as a result of the reasonably plausible change 89 (89) 14 (21) (10) 11 (65) Change in profits attributable to asset manager operations 36 (36) (4) 4 (5) 4 (36) Change in profit from shareholders free assets as a result of the change: – Returns on shareholders assets – – 39 (39) – – 39 – Gains on available-for-sale financial instruments recycled from equity – – – – – – – Net change in profit for the year before stabilisation 295 (288) 33 (73) 35 40 (209) Impact of stabilisation (170) 162 5 29 20 (24) 136 Net change in profit for the year after stabilisation 126 (126) 38 (45) (16) 16 (73) Net profit for the year after the plausible change 1 847 1 595 1 759 1 676 1 705 1 737 1 648 Effect on equity of the reasonably possible change Available-for-sale reserve – – – – – – – Foreign currency translation reserve – – – – (14) 14 14 Retained earnings – Net profit 126 (126) 38 (45) (16) 16 (73) – Dividends (50) 50 (15) (18) 6 (6) 29 Equity 75 (75) 23 (27) (24) 24 (30) 1 Equity prices decrease by 10%, interest rates increase by 100bps, property values decrease by 10% and exchange rates worsen by 10%. 220 2009 Equity prices Interest rates Exchange rates Increase Decrease Increase Decrease by by Improve Worsen Combined by 10% by 10% 100 bps 100 bps by 10% by 10% scenario 1 Net profit after tax for the year 1 594 1 594 1 594 1 594 1 594 1 594 1 594 Change in profit from insurance contracts as a result of the reasonably plausible change1 146 (146) – (63) (25) 25 (158) Change in profit from investment contracts as a result of the reasonably plausible change 81 (83) 7 (11) (22) 22 (58) Change in profits attributable to asset manager operations 30 (31) (4) 4 1 (1) (36) Change in profit from shareholders free assets as a result of the change: – Returns on shareholders assets – – 39 (39) – – 39 – Gains on available-for-sale financial instruments recycled from equity – – – – – – – Net change in profit for the year before stabilisation 258 (259) 42 (108) (46) 46 (213) Impact of stabilisation (146) 145 (3) 68 25 (25) 154 Net change in profit for the year after stabilisation 112 (113) 39 (40) (21) 21 (58) Net profit for the year after the plausible change 1 706 1 481 1 633 1 554 1 573 1 615 1 536 Effect on equity of the reasonably possible change Available-for-sale reserve – – – – – – – Foreign currency translation reserve – – – – (23) 23 23 Retained earnings – Net profit 112 (113) 39 (40) (21) 21 (58) – Dividends (45) 45 (15) 16 8 (8) 23 Equity 67 (68) 23 (24) (35) 35 (12) 1 Equity prices decrease by 10%, interest rates increase by 100bps, property values decrease by 10% and exchange rates worsen by 10%. The sensitivity ranges represent estimates of a range of plausible • assets at the balance sheet date; (although not equally likely) changes within a 12 month period • policyholder liabilities at the balance sheet date; and from the reporting date are prescribed by actuarial professional guidance. It is current market practice in South Africa to disclose • income and expenditure over a 12 month period. these sensitivities. Assets at the balance sheet date were impacted as follows: Using the same sensitivities for the IFRS7 disclosure requirements facilitates comparison with other industry participants. • equities and property were revalued, using the relevant market price sensitivities; Market risk sensitivities have been applied as an event on the balance sheet date, 30 June 2010. The change factors were • bonds were revalued, using the relevant interest rate sensitivities applied to: (parallel shift in the yield curve); FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 221 Risk and capital management report / continued • all offshore asset classes were revalued, using the relevant Interest rate sensitivity: exchange rate sensitivities; and • the expected future real rates of return were assumed to • strategic subsidiaries, which are shown at fair value in the remain unchanged; and company accounts, have been revalued to reflect the relevant • future inflation rates were assumed to change in line with equity and interest rate sensitivities. interest rates. The impact of the sensitivities on policyholder liabilities was Exchange rate sensitivity: quantified as follows: • the value of foreign currency denominated assets were assumed • investment accounts were adjusted; to change as a result of changes in the exchange rates; and • changes were made to the expected future investment returns • no changes were assumed in respect of expected future returns and the rate at which cash flows are discounted in the liability and discount rates used in valuing liabilities as a result of calculation; and changes in the exchange rates. • policyholder options and guarantees (including investment 8. Liquidity risk guarantees) as described in actuarial PGN110 were revalued. Introduction In determining the impact of the sensitivities on income and Liquidity risk is the risk that Momentum will encounter difficulty in expenses over 12 months, the following items were considered: raising liquid funds to meet commitments to policyholders under policy contracts and in respect of other obligations as and when • fee income that is a function of investment returns; these fall due. • asset management fee income that is a function of the amount of assets under management; Liquidity risk governance The Balance sheet management committee which is a • asset management expenditure that is a function of the amount subcommittee of the Risk committee provides market risk of assets under management; oversight for interest rate risk, funding and liquidity risk assumed • interest income; and in the balance sheet. • revaluation of shareholder assets (fair value adjustment). Liquidity risk management In line with current Momentum practices, the profits from insurance Guaranteed policyholder benefits contracts were stabilised. This is particularly relevant for asset Where possible, the expected liability outflow is matched by assets price movements away from the long term average, provided that that provide the required cash flows as and when they become the investment stabilisation accounts have a positive balance. payable. Examples of guaranteed benefits that are matched by suitable assets include annuities and guaranteed endowments. The calculations were performed in isolation for the separate categories of business and aggregated to indicate the overall Unitised and smoothed bonus policyholder benefits effect on Momentum. These benefits are determined mainly by reference to the market The following assumptions are specific to the scenarios presented value of underlying assets. On maturity of policy contracts, assets above: are disposed of in the market, but only to the extent that cash flows into the fund are insufficient to cover the outflow. Assets are Equity market value sensitivity: generally easy to realise as the assets consist mainly of large listed equity counters, government securities or funds on deposit. • the change in equity prices was assumed to be a once off change; Maturity dates are normally known in advance and cash flow projections are performed to aid in portfolio and cash flow • future dividend yields were assumed to remain unchanged; and management. Where the product design allows for the payment of • no change was assumed in expected future returns and discount an early termination value (i.e. a benefit payment before the rates used in valuing liabilities as a result of changes to equity contractual maturity date), such value is not normally guaranteed prices. but is determined at the company’s discretion (subject to certain 222 minima prescribed by legislation). This limits the loss on early Cash flows relating to specific policy contract types have been termination. If underlying assets are illiquid, the terms of the apportioned between future time periods in the following policy contract normally allow for a staggered approach to early manners: termination benefit payments. Examples of the latter are contracts that invest in unlisted equity and certain property funds. i. Annuities, guaranteed endowments and PHI claims in payment When a particular policyholder fund is contracting (i.e. outflows These contracts have clearly defined future payment dates. The exceed inflows), care is taken to ensure that the investment present values of expected future payments, taking into account strategy and unit pricing structure of the fund are appropriate to expected future life expectancy and guarantee terms, have been meet liquidity requirements (as determined by cash flow apportioned according to when payment falls due. projections). In practice, such a fund is often merged with ii. Unitised and smoothed bonus savings cash flow positive funds, to avoid unnecessary constraints on contracts investment freedom. These contracts provide mainly savings benefits, but may contain elements of death or disability cover. The savings benefits mostly Other policyholder benefits have clearly defined maturity dates and make up the bulk of the Policyholder contracts that provide mostly lump sum risk benefits liability in respect of this class of business. Policyholder liabilities do not normally give rise to significant liabilities compared to at the reporting date have, therefore, been apportioned according policies that provide mostly savings benefits. Funds supporting to contractual maturity dates of the savings benefits. For policies risk benefits normally have substantial cash inflows, from which without defined maturity dates, the liability has been apportioned claims can be paid. Accrued liabilities are matched by liquid according to the earliest possible date when benefits can be paid assets, to meet cash outflows in excess of expected inflows. without regulatory restrictions. Early termination payments and lump sum risk benefits have not On certain large corporate policy contracts, the terms of each been treated as contractual obligations. individual policy contract takes into account the relevant liquidity requirements. Examples of such contractual provisions include On this class of business, death or disability before the contractual the payment of benefits in specie, or a provision for sufficient maturity will cause acceleration of the maturity payment. Such lag times between the termination notification and payment contingent benefit payments have been ignored, as the timing is of benefits. uncertain and the payments comprise only a small portion of the total liability on this class of business. Shareholder funds iii. Employee benefits investment business The only significant shareholders’ liability is the callable bond Liabilities have been classified as being payable in less than one issued during 2005. Shareholders’ funds include sufficient cash year. resources to fund the coupon payments under this bond, and the nominal amount, which is callable in 2014, will be funded from iv. Employee benefits risk business cash resources at that time. These are mostly short term contracts. It is assumed that all future liabilities will be extinguished between one and five years Liquidity risk – policyholders from the reporting date. The following tables indicate the liquidity needs in respect of v. Individual risk policies obligations arising under long term insurance and investment contracts, as defined under IFRS4. The amounts in the table The bulk of this class of business comprises whole life policies, providing lump sum death or disability benefits. The liabilities in represent the excess of claims and expenses over premium respect of this class of business are assumed to fall due between income, expressed in present value terms (i.e. adjusted for the five and ten years after the reporting date. time value of money). Only contractual expected cash flows from the current in-force book have been modelled. Future new vi. Credit life and funeral policies business has been ignored. Non contractual cash flows, e.g. those Claims on these classes of business are mostly met from future arising from early terminations of policy contracts, have also been premium inflows. Liabilities are small, relative to risk exposure, ignored. and are assumed to fall due within one year. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 223 Risk and capital management report / continued The following maturity profiles have been presented as discounted and estimated analysis in accordance with the management of these financial instruments: The maturity profile of policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts is set out below. Period when cash flow becomes due (insurance contracts) (audited) 2010 Shorter Between Between Longer than R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years 10 years Linked (market related) business Individual 13 635 891 3 499 2 543 6 702 Employee benefits – – – – – Smoothed bonus business Individual 4 843 325 1 231 1 248 2 039 Employee benefits – – – – – With profit reversionary bonus business 3 008 173 715 532 1 588 Non profit business Individual 124 195 100 (684) 513 Employee benefits 1 748 1 1 747 – – Annuity business 17 541 1 265 8 870 3 023 4 383 Total policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 40 899 2 850 16 162 6 662 15 225 2009 Shorter Between Between Longer than R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years 10 years Linked (market related) business Individual 12 630 648 3 027 2 477 6 478 Employee benefits – – – – – Smoothed bonus business Individual 5 186 224 1 174 1 183 2 605 Employee benefits – – – – – With profit reversionary bonus business 3 042 167 741 572 1 562 Non profit business Individual (16) 188 88 (849) 557 Employee benefits 1 550 – 1 550 – – Annuity business 16 677 1 203 7 517 2 916 5 041 Total policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 39 069 2 430 14 097 6 299 16 243 224 The maturity profile of policyholder liabilities under investment contracts is set out below. Period when cash flow becomes due (investment contracts) (audited) 2010 Shorter Between Between Longer than R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years 10 years Linked (market related) business Individual 63 824 9 897 19 352 7 070 27 505 Employee benefits 32 133 32 087 16 21 9 Smoothed bonus business Individual 6 805 470 2 831 1 396 2 108 Employee benefits 5 618 5 618 – – – Non profit business Individual 2 819 95 2 705 3 16 Employee benefits – – – – – Annuity business 941 156 328 14 443 Total policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 112 140 48 323 25 232 8 504 30 081 2009 Shorter Between Between Longer than R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years 10 years Linked (market related) business Individual 56 893 8 806 18 622 6 390 23 075 Employee benefits 38 290 38 265 17 4 4 Smoothed bonus business Individual 7 094 461 2 855 1 462 2 316 Employee benefits 5 285 5 285 – – – Non profit business Individual 1 927 359 1 451 21 96 Employee benefits – – – – – Annuity business 738 103 199 13 423 Total policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 110 227 53 279 23 144 7 890 25 914 Net cash outflows expected in respect of insurance and investment contracts 30 June 2010 153 039 51 173 41 394 15 166 45 306 30 June 2009 149 296 55 709 37 241 14 189 42 157 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 225 Risk and capital management report / continued The following is the expected maturity analysis of the policyholder assets. Assets backing policyholder liabilities (audited) 2010 Shorter Between Between Longer than R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years 10 years Cash and short term funds 22 611 22 611 – – – Money market investments 8 247 8 247 – – – Accounts receivable 1 749 1 749 – – – Investment securities 132 042 59 462 13 934 11 584 47 062 Derivative financial instruments 6 521 1 382 4 191 431 517 Reinsurance assets 628 331 106 70 121 Total 171 798 93 782 18 231 12 085 47 700 2009 Shorter Between Between 5 Longer than R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years 10 years Cash and short term funds 4 014 4 014 – – – Money market investments 36 953 27 987 6 248 2 466 252 Accounts receivable 6 385 6 383 2 – – Investment securities 107 167 82 086 11 282 1 715 12 084 Derivative financial instruments 9 455 1 915 2 905 4 422 213 Reinsurance assets 8 143 7 854 152 47 90 Total 172 117 130 239 20 589 8 650 12 639 Net liquidity gap on policyholder liabilities 30 June 2010 (112 141) (42 568) (21 100) (5 578) (42 895) 30 June 2009 (110 227) (53 278) (23 144) (7 890) (25 915) The following table represents the expected cash flows to be made on shareholder liabilities. Liquidity risk – shareholders (audited) 2010 Shorter Between Between R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Accounts payable (including insurance payables) 14 066 13 211 855 – Liabilities arising as a result of consolidating collective investment schemes 7 071 7 071 – – Derivative financial instruments 956 299 218 439 Interest bearing borrowings – – – – Other financial liabilities 1 990 – 190 1 800 Provisions 341 209 132 – Employee benefit liabilities (39) – – (39) Deferred revenue liability 367 3 169 195 Total 24 752 20 793 1 564 2 395 226 2009 Shorter Between Between R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Accounts payable (including insurance payables) 16 647 15 362 1 285 – Liabilities arising as a result of consolidating collective investment schemes 8 114 8 114 – – Derivative financial instruments 1 853 1 003 309 541 Interest bearing borrowings – – – – Other financial liabilities 1 623 – 148 1 475 Provisions 326 283 38 5 Employee benefit liabilities 47 – 1 46 Deferred revenue liability 322 72 250 – Total 28 932 24 834 2 031 2 067 The following represents the expected cash flows at the expected maturity dates for the shareholders assets. Shareholder asset cash flow at maturity (audited) 2010 Shorter Between Between R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Cash and short term funds 40 40 – – Money market investments – – – – Accounts receivable 11 8 3 – Investment securities 10 10 – – Total 61 58 3 – 2009 Shorter Between Between R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Cash and short term funds 36 36 – – Money market investments – – – – Accounts receivable 22 22 – – Investment securities 31 31 – – Total 89 89 – – FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 227 Risk and capital management report / continued Undiscounted maturity analysis The following table represents the contractual undiscounted amounts payable in respect of liabilities at the earliest date on which those liabilities are payable for all liabilities, except policyholder liabilities under insurance and investment contracts which have been included the section on liquidity risk for policyholders. Period when cash flow becomes due (audited) 2010 Period when cash flow becomes due Shorter Between Between R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Liabilities Accounts payable (including insurance payable) 14 067 13 212 855 – Liabilities arising to third parties as a result of consolidation 7 071 7 071 – – Derivative financial instruments 1 041 321 242 478 Other financial liabilities 2 593 – 290 2 303 Commitments not recognised in the balance sheet 207 59 142 6 Total 24 979 20 663 1 529 2 787 2009 Period when cash flow becomes due Shorter Between Between R million Total than 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Liabilities Accounts payable (including insurance payable) 16 647 15 362 1 285 – Liabilities arising to third parties as a result of consolidation 8 114 8 114 – – Derivative financial instruments 1 810 1 011 287 512 Other financial liabilities 2 249 – 167 2 082 Commitments not recognised in the balance sheet 142 18 95 29 Total 28 962 24 505 1 834 2 623 The balances in the table above will not agree directly with the balances on the balance sheet for the following reasons: • t he amounts included in the table above are contractual undiscounted amounts whereas the balance sheet is prepared using the discounted amounts; • the table includes contractual cash flows with respect to items not recognised in the balance sheet; • a ll instruments held for economic trading purposes are included in the call to 3 months bucket and are not by contractual maturity because trading instruments are typically held for short periods of time; and • cash flows relating to principal and associated future coupon payments have been included on an undiscounted basis. 228 Financial risk inherent in consolidated collective and ORM provides oversight of the effectiveness of the operational risk fund of alternative funds investment schemes management processes and assists business unit managers by Momentum consolidates a number of collective and fund of facilitating the identification and assessment of risks within the alternative funds investment schemes as a result of exercising business units and subsidiaries. Independent assurance is control over these schemes, and, therefore, the Risk Management provided on the management of operational risks by FirstRand Framework is applicable to the risk management of the schemes. Group Internal Audit which follows a risk based audit approach. Because of the specific nature of the business of the schemes Operational risk is managed in terms of the Operational Risk the risk management principles may be applied differently to Management Framework (“ORMF”), which is an ancillary framework managing the risks relevant to the schemes to how the overall of the Risk Management Framework. financial risks are managed. This section describes how the financial risk management of the schemes differs from the overall The Risk forums in the business units are established to oversee the financial risk management. operational risk management process. Monitoring of operational risk occurs through a number of functions. The management company of the scheme has a dedicated independent risk unit that continuously monitors the overall risk of Operational risk management the portfolios against stated mandate limits and the portfolios’ risk Given the ever changing and complex nature of its business and its appetite over time. To avoid conflicts of interest, the unit is separate processes, Momentum employs a dynamic approach to managing from the investment team and reports directly to the COO of the management company. operational risk and this approach results in almost continuous change or renewal. It is common practice, when implementing When considering any new investment for a scheme, the risks and change of this nature, to proactively address less than optimal expected returns are critical elements in the investment decision. operational procedures with meaningful adjustments to risk Before an instrument is included in a portfolio, risks are carefully management. The Board and management are not satisfied with considered at instrument and portfolio level. the current level of operational losses, albeit in line with industry A portfolio’s market risk appetite is measured as a function of experience, and have therefore embarked on a consistent and current market conditions and a benchmark which translates into disciplined approach of linking business processes to the a targeted tracking error which is monitored by the independent operational risk and control environment. risk unit. A number of operational risk management methodologies have Credit and liquidity risk are mitigated through diversification of been developed to deal with the practical implementation of issuers in line with the policy. operational risk management challenges. These methodologies are supplemented by a number of risk tools. These include: All amounts disclosed include amounts attributable to the consolidated collective and fund of alternative funds investment • risk self assessments – self assessment to identify and assess schemes. risks within the business processes in the business units and subsidiaries; 9. Operational risk • internal operational loss data and incident reporting – a process Introduction to record and analyse the root cause of losses and incidents; Momentum defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems • key risk indicators (“KRI’s”) – a process whereby measurable, or from external events. This definition includes legal risk but quantifiable metrics are tracked to assess the level of operational excludes strategic and reputational risk. risk and provide early warning indications of potential breakdowns; and Operational risk governance Ownership of and accountability for operational risk management • audit findings – a process whereby internal and external audit is of primary importance. Management and staff at every level of findings that have been issued, but not resolved before the due the business are accountable for the day-to-day identification, date, are tracked, monitored and reported on through the risk management and monitoring of operational risks. management structures. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 229 Risk and capital management report / continued Operational risk quantification to establish appropriate good practice and control measures to and capital calculation protect information assets. The Actuarial Society of South Africa issued revised professional The Information Technology Governance and Information Security guidance, applicable from 31 December 2008, which addresses Framework (“IT Framework”) is a customisation of ISACA’s Control the shortcomings in the old statutory CAR formulae. The revised CAR formulae explicitly allow for credit and operational risks. Objectives for Information and related Technology (COBIT®) framework and the Information Security Forum’s Standard of Good The profession guidance note requires the statutory actuary to use Practice. professional judgement in the quantification of the operational risk capital requirements. The amount of capital required for Due to the changing nature of information risk and information operational risks is determined using the formulae suggested in security, Momentum constantly faces new threats and challenges. the fourth Quantitative Impact Study conducted by the authors of The risk management structure for information risk is specifically the new Solvency II capital regime that will apply to insurers in the structured to enable and support the measurement of status and European Union. the resolution of issues. These risks are currently monitored by risk forums within the business units and subsidiaries and are Momentum is currently busy with the development of an internal escalated to the Risk committee as appropriate. model for quantifying operational risk based on a combination of statistical distribution models (for frequency and severity) applied In line with the requirements of King III, an appropriate forum to internal data and statistical models derived from extreme risk will be established, during the next financial year, to oversee scenarios. The requirements of the Solvency II draft directive are information technology governance. also being taken into account during the development of this model. Fraud and security risks As indicated in a preceding section, the ERM function also Momentum is committed to creating an environment that safeguards oversees a number of areas closely related to or integrated with its people, customers and assets through policies and actions. It the operational risk management processes. These are described operates in an environment where a “zero tolerance” stance to in the following sections. criminal activities is adopted. The environment is enhanced with robust control structures and policies to safeguard the employees, Business continuity management clients and assets. Business continuity management focuses on improving the In this regard, there is reliance on line management and formal resilience of business operations in order to withstand unexpected structures that include risk management as well as forensic disruptions and disasters. Business continuity management is an services to enforce the “zero tolerance” attitude. This attitude is ongoing process of assessing needs, identifying weaknesses and further completely underwritten by the senior management and single points of failure, developing strategies and keeping plans Board. An independently and externally managed best practice current and tested. The approach involves following an established fraud hotline (0800 737678) is also in place to provide the means to annual cycle of actions, designed to ensure plans and associated ensure that actual and/or suspected fraud or irregularities are measures are kept relevant and tested. confidentially and promptly reported. These risks are monitored by risk forums within the business units To reach these goals, there is not only has a code of expected and subsidiaries and are escalated to the Risk committee as conduct that applies to all staff, but also various mechanisms to appropriate. create anti crime awareness, as well as mechanisms that assist in Information risk the detection of and formal prosecution of offenders. Information risk is defined as the possibility of harm being caused Legal risk to a business as a result of a loss of confidentiality, integrity or Legal risk is defined as the risk of loss due to defective contractual availability of information. arrangements, legal liability (both criminal and civil) incurred Information risk management establishes appropriate good during operations by the inability of the organisation to enforce practice and control measures to protect the information assets its rights or by failure to address identified concerns to the and to ensure confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. appropriate authorities where changes in the law are proposed Information risk management assists and drives business entities (implemented changes are dealt with as part of compliance risk). 230 Legal risk is managed in terms of the Legal Risk Management RRM works closely with FirstRand Group Internal Audit, ERM, Framework and through activities such as monitoring of new ORM, internal and external legal advisors, Momentum’s Group Tax legislation, awareness initiatives, identifying significant legal department, Forensics department, Company secretariat, Group risks and by managing and monitoring the impact of these risks Finance and Actuarial to ensure the effective functioning of the through appropriate processes and procedures. regulatory risk management processes. 10. Regulatory risk 11. Risk insurance Introduction Risk insurance is defined as the risk that material unexpected Regulatory risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial operational losses, arising from non trading risks, are not identified loss, or loss to reputation that it may suffer as a result of its failure and/or adequately covered by appropriate insurance risk financing to comply with applicable laws. structures. For the year under review, Momentum formed part of FirstRand’s Regulatory risk governance global insurance risk financing programme with cover limits that Regulatory Risk Management (“RRM”) is an integral part of are commensurate with the size and stature of Momentum. The managing the risks inherent in Momentum. Regulatory risk is risks written into the programme are bankers blanket bond, managed in terms of the Regulatory Risk Management Framework. computer crime, professional indemnity, directors and officers’ liability, assets and various liabilities. Oversight of regulatory risk is provided and managed by a number of committees such as the Regulatory risk committee, the Risk Momentum will continue to monitor developments and ensure committee and the Audit committee which receives reports from that the insurance financing programme is adapted accordingly RRM on a regular basis. Momentum has also established a Fair where appropriate. practices committee, and where appropriate, compliance matters are escalated to this forum in addition to the above structures. Risks arising from fiduciary activities RRM retains an independent reporting line to the Board through Investment management and advisory services are provided the designated subcommittees. to third parties. These services result in Momentum making In addition to the centralised RRM function, each of the business allocation, purchase and sale decisions in respect of a wide range units have appointed compliance officers responsible for assisting of financial instruments. Those assets that are held in a fiduciary with the implementation and monitoring of statutory and capacity are not included in the financial statements. These regulatory requirements related to their respective business units. arrangements expose Momentum to the risk that it may be accused of misadministration or under performance. Regulatory risk management The asset management subsidiaries are required to comply with the Regulatory risk management is the process of preventing or risk management framework. These subsidiaries employ risk mitigating the risk of regulatory sanction and financial losses management techniques which are considered best practice in the occurring due to fines and penalties incurred or reputational industry and constantly monitor actual performance against damage because of non adherence to statutes, regulations and benchmarks and investigate differences. industry codes. This includes: • risk identification through assessing which laws, regulations and supervisory requirements are applicable; • risk mitigation through the development of compliance risk management plans; • risk monitoring and review of remedial actions; and • risk reporting. In support of the Regulatory Risk Management Framework, a compliance manual has been drafted which also fulfils the function of assisting the businesses in addressing material regulatory risks. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 231 Accounting policies 1 Introduction which the amendments are effective and there is no requirement FirstRand Limited (“the Group”) is an integrated financial services for comparative amounts to be presented in the first year of company consisting of banking, insurance and asset management application of the amendment. and health operations. • I FRS 8 Operating Segments is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. This Standard replaces The Group adopts the following accounting policies in preparing its IAS 14 Segment Reporting and requires an entity to report consolidated financial statements. These policies have been financial and non financial information about its reportable consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise operating segments. The adoption of this Standard will affect stated. disclosures about the operating segments of the Group but will 2 Basis of presentation not affect recognition and measurement. Further details are provided in accounting policy note 26. The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards • IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (revised) is effective (”IFRS”). The principal accounting policies are consistent in all for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The material aspects with those adopted in the previous year, except revised Standard prescribes the basis of the presentation of for the adoption of: general purpose financial statements, guidelines for their structure and minimum requirements for their content. The • I FRS 2 Share-based Payment was amended during January adoption of this Standard will affect the presentation of the 2008. The amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are financial statements for both the current and comparative performance and service conditions only and that cancellations period, but will not affect recognition and measurement of any of share options by parties other than the entity are to be amounts recognised in the financial statements. accounted for in the same way as cancellations by the entity. This amendment is effective to annual periods commencing on • IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements was or after 1 January 2009. This amendment has had no significant amended in 2008. These amendments are effective for annual impact on the Group’s results. periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. The amendments affect the treatment of non controlling interests and • IFRS 2 Share-based Payment was amended during June 2009. transactions with non controlling interests where control in the The amendment clarifies how a share based payment subsidiary is retained by the Group. The amendments also transaction should be measured in a group share-based affect the allocation of losses of a subsidiary to the non payment transaction. The amendment effectively replaces IFRIC controlling interest. All of these changes are to be prospectively 11 IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions and IFRIC 8 applied and do not require the restatement of amounts Group Cash-settled Share-based payment transaction. This recognised prior to 1 July 2009. Further details are provided in amendment is effective to annual periods commencing on or accounting policy note 3. after 1 January 2010. The Group has elected to early adopt the amendments to IFRS 2 for the year end July 2010. This • I AS 23 Borrowing Costs was amended to remove the option to amendment has had no significant impact on the Group’s immediately recognise borrowing costs related to a qualifying results. Further details are provided in accounting policy note 28. asset as an expense and is effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009. This amendment does • I FRS 3 Business Combinations (revised) is effective to not impact the Group, as it is the Group’s accounting policy to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or capitalise borrowing costs on qualifying assets. after the first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009. The Standard is to be applied prospectively. The Standard • I AS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation was amended applies to and prescribes the treatment of all transactions to require that certain puttable financial instruments and entered into by the Group which meet the definition of a financial instruments that impose on the issuer an obligation to business combination. Further details are provided in deliver a prorata share of the entity only on liquidation as equity. accounting policy note 3. This amendment is applicable for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009. This amendment has had no • I FRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (amended) was significant impact on the Group’s results and has not resulted amended in 2008 and these amendments are effective for in the restatement of prior year numbers. annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009. The amendments require enhanced disclosures about the fair • I AS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement value measurements, and have established a three level was amended to clarify that inflation may only be hedged hierarchy for making fair value measurements. These enhanced in instances where changes in inflation are contractually disclosures do not have an impact on the recognition or specified portions of cash flows of a recognised financial measurement of amounts relating to financial instruments. instrument. It also clarifies that an entity is permitted to The enhanced disclosures are only required for the period in designate purchased or net purchased options as a hedging 232 instrument in a hedge of a financial or non financial item and to • AC 504 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum improve effectiveness, an entity is allowed to exclude the time Funding Requirements and their interaction in the South value of money from the hedging instrument. This African Pension Fund Environment is effective for annual amendment is applicable for annual periods commencing on or periods beginning on or after 1 April 2009. This Interpretation after 1 July 2009 and has had no significant impact on the provides guidance to employers on the application of IAS 19 Group’s results. Employee Benefits and IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction • As part of its annual improvements project, the IASB made for defined benefit plans in a South African context. This amendments to a number of accounting standards. The aim interpretation did not have an effect on the Group’s results and is to clarify and improve the accounting standards. The has not resulted in the restatement of prior year numbers. improvements include those involving terminology or editorial changes with minimal effect on recognition and measurement. The Group adjusts comparative figures to conform to changes in The annual improvements project for 2008 is effective for presentation in the current year. For details refer to accounting annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009. The policy note 34. Group has adopted the amendments made as a result of the annual improvements project for 2008 during the current The Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in financial year. These amendments have not had a significant accordance with the going concern principle using the historical impact on the Group’s results nor has it resulted in the cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities. restatement of prior year numbers. These assets and liabilities include: • IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate is • financial assets and liabilities held for trading; effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009. This Interpretation clarifies when real estate sales should • financial assets classified as available-for-sale; be accounted for in terms of IAS 11 Construction Contracts • derivative financial instruments; or IAS 18 Revenue. This Interpretation is not applicable to the Group. • financial instruments elected to be carried at fair value through profit and loss; • IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation • investment properties valued at fair value; is effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 October 2008. This Interpretation clarifies which risks can be • employee benefit liabilities, valued using projected unit credit hedged under a hedge in a net investment in a foreign method; and operation and by which entities within the group the hedging • policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts that are instruments can be held in order to qualify as such a hedge. valued in terms of the Financial Soundness Valuation (“FSV”) The Group does not currently apply hedge accounting to basis as outlined below. net investments in foreign operations and therefore this Interpretation is not applicable. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also • IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non cash Assets to Owners is requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving This Interpretation provides guidance how distributions by the a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where entity of assets other than cash as dividends to owners should assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated be accounted for. The requirements of this Interpretation are to financial statements are outlined in note 48. be prospectively applied. This Interpretation has no effect on the current reporting period as no such distributions have been All monetary information and figures presented in these made during the period. consolidated financial statements are stated in millions of Rand • IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers is effective (R million), unless otherwise indicated. for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. This 3 Consolidation Interpretation clarifies the accounting treatment of agreements in which an entity receives property, plant and equipment from 3.1 Subsidiaries a customer that must be used to connect the customer to a The consolidated financial statements include the assets, network or provide the customer with ongoing access to a liabilities and results of the operations of the holding company and supply of services or goods. This Interpretation has no effect on its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are all companies over which the the Group’s financial statements as no such arrangements have Group, directly or indirectly, has the power to exercise control over been entered into. the operations for its own benefit. The Group considers the FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 233 Accounting policies / continued existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently date. This is not an accounting policy election and the Group will exercisable or convertible in determining control. Subsidiaries are apply the choice of measurement basis on an acquisition by consolidated from the date on which the Group acquires effective acquisition basis. control. Consolidation is discontinued from the date that control over the subsidiary ceases. Subsequently the non controlling interest consists of the amount attributed to such interest at initial recognition and the non The Group will consolidate a Special Purpose Entity (“SPE”) when controlling interest’s share of changes in equity since the date of the substance of the relationship between the Group and the SPE the combination indicates that the Group controls the SPE. Non controlling interests are treated as equity participants of Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on the subsidiary company. The Group treats all acquisitions and transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised disposals of its non controlling interests in subsidiary companies, losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides which does not result in a loss of control, as equity transactions. evidence of impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting The carrying amounts of the controlling and non controlling policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by which the non controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value 3.2 Consolidation of collective of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in investment schemes equity and attributed to the owners of the Group. The Group consolidates collective investment schemes in which it is considered to have control through its size of investment, voting 4 Associates and joint ventures control or related management contracts. The consolidation Associates are entities in which the Group holds an equity interest principles as described in interests in subsidiaries above are of between 20% and 50% or over which it has the ability to exercise applied. significant influence, but does not control. Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has joint control over the economic 3.3 Business combinations activity of the joint venture, through a contractual agreement. The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account Investments acquired and held exclusively with the view to dispose for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The consideration transferred of in the near future (within 12 months) are not accounted for using for the acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets the equity accounting method, but carried at fair value less cost to transferred, equity instruments issued and the liabilities incurred sell in terms of the requirements of IFRS 5. or assumed at the acquisition date. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a The Group includes the results of associates and joint ventures in contingent consideration arrangement and the acquisition date its consolidated financial statements using the equity accounting fair value of any existing equity interest held in the subsidiary. method, from the effective date of acquisition to the effective date Transaction costs are expensed as incurred. of disposal. The investment is initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment in associates includes goodwill identified on Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss. liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders include the consideration transferred, the amount of any non controlling Group’s share of earnings of associates and joint ventures. Other interest in the subsidiary (also refer to accounting policy 3.3) and comprehensive income includes the Group’s share of other the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures. The the subsidiary over the fair value of the Group’s share of the cumulative post acquisition movements are adjusted against the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If this is cost of the investment in the associate or joint venture. less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, Goodwill on the acquisition of associates and joint ventures is in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised included in the carrying amount of the investment in associates or directly in profit or loss. joint ventures. The Group assesses at each reporting period whether there is objective evidence in terms of IAS 39 that an 3.4 Non controlling interest associate or joint venture is impaired. If such evidence of Non controlling interests in the net assets of subsidiaries are impairment exists, the entire carrying amount, including the separately identified and presented from the Group’s equity goodwill, is tested for impairment in terms of IAS 36. therein. Non controlling interest can initially be measured either at fair value or at the non controlling interest’s proportionate Equity accounting is discontinued from the date that the Group share of the subsidiary’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition ceases to have significant influence over the associate or joint 234 venture. The Group measures at fair value any investment it financial liability and of allocating the interest income or interest has retained in the entity when significant influence is lost and expense over the average expected life of the financial instruments recognises the resulting gain or loss in profit or loss. The gain or or portfolios of financial instruments. loss is measured as the difference between the fair value of this Interest income on instruments designated at fair value through retained investment and the carrying amount of the original profit or loss are included in fair value income except to the extent investment at the date significant influence is lost. that the interest relates to: The Group discontinues equity accounting when the carrying • the Group’s insurance operations; amount of the investment in an associate or joint venture reaches zero, unless it has incurred obligations or guaranteed obligations • funding liabilities that fund amortised cost assets: in favour of the associated undertaking • where hedge accounting is applied; and After discontinuing equity accounting, the Group accounts for any • interest on intercompany balances. retained investment in the entity in accordance with the relevant IFRS as appropriate. The Group also applies the requirements The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts of lAS 39 to determine whether there are any indicators of estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected impairment. If such indicators are found to be present the life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter requirements of IAS 36 are applied in testing the investment period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial for impairment and determining the amount of any additional liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group impairment loss with respect to the net investment in the estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument (for example, prepayment options) but does associate or joint venture as well as other exposures to the not consider future credit losses. The calculation includes all fees investee. and points paid or received between parties to the contract that The Group resumes equity accounting only after its share of the are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs profits equals the share of losses not recognised. The Group and all other premiums or discounts. increases the carrying amount of investments with its share of the From an operational perspective, the Group suspends the accrual associate or joint venture’s income when equity accounting is of contractual interest on non recoverable advances. However, resumed. in terms of lAS 39, interest income on impaired advances is Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its thereafter recognised based on the original effective interest rate associates or joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the used to determine the discounted recoverable amount of the Group’s interest in the entity. Unrealised losses are also eliminated advance. unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of Instruments with characteristics of debt, such as redeemable the asset transferred. Accounting policies of the associates and preference shares, are included in loans and advances or long joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure term liabilities. Dividends received or paid on these instruments consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. are included and accrued in interest income and expense using the Investment in associates held in policyholder portfolios backing effective interest method. investment linked policyholder liabilities are designated on initial 6 Fair value income recognition at fair value through profit or loss in terms of the scope exemption in IAS 28. The Group includes profits or losses, fair value adjustments and interest on trading financial instruments (including derivative 4.1 Collective investment schemes instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting in terms of lAS 39), as well as trading related financial instruments Collective investment schemes in which the Group has less than designated at fair value through profit or loss as fair value income 50% economic interest, but controls the management company, in non interest income. Trading related financial instruments the Group is presumed to have significant influence over the designated at fair value through profit or loss exclude instruments collective investment scheme and these schemes are accounted relating to the Group’s insurance operations and the Group’s for as associates. Significant judgement is required to determine funding requirements. instances where the Group exercises significant influence. 7 Fee and commission income 5 Interest income and expense The Group generally recognises fee and commission income on an The Group recognises interest income and expense in the income accrual basis when the service is rendered. statement for instruments measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a Certain fees and transaction costs that form an integral part of the method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a effective interest rate of available-for-sale and amortised cost FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 235 Accounting policies / continued financial instruments are capitalised and recognised as part of the 9.3 Group companies effective interest rate of the financial instrument over the expected The results and financial position of all the Group entities (none of life of the financial instruments. These fees and transaction costs which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have are recognised as part of the net interest income and not as non a functional currency different from the presentation currency interest revenue. of the Group are translated into the presentation currency as follows: Commission income on acceptances, bills and promissory notes endorsed is credited to the income statement over the lives of the • assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position relevant instruments on a time apportionment basis. presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that statement of financial position; 8 Dividend income • income and expenses for each income statement are The Group recognises dividends when the Group’s right to receive translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is payment is established. This is on the “last day to trade” for listed not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the shares and on the “date of declaration” for unlisted shares. rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income Dividend income includes scrip dividends, irrespective of whether and expenses are translated at the actual rates at the dates of there is an option to receive cash instead of shares, except to the the transactions); and extent that the scrip dividend is viewed as a bonus issue and the • all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate transaction lacks economic significance. component of other comprehensive income. 9 Foreign currency translation On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings 9.1 Functional and presentation currency and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such Items included in the consolidated financial statements of each of investments, are taken to other comprehensive income. the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the When a foreign operation is sold or partially disposed of, including primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the partial disposals where the entity retains an interest in the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are operation, the Group’s portion of the cumulative amount of the presented in Rand (“R”), which is the functional and presentation exchange differences relating to the foreign operation which were currency of the holding company of the Group. recognised in other comprehensive income, are reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss when the gain or loss 9.2 Transactions and balances on disposal is recognised. For partial disposals of foreign Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional operations, the Group reattributes the proportionate share of currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the cumulative exchange differences recognised in other the transactions. comprehensive income to the non controlling interest of the foreign operation. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, entity and translated at the closing rate. except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying 10 Borrowing costs cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. The Group capitalises borrowing costs that are directly attributable Translation differences on non monetary items, such as equities at to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair up to date on which construction or installation of the assets is value gain or loss. substantially completed. Other borrowing costs are expensed when incurred. Foreign currency translation differences on monetary items, such as foreign currency bonds, are not reported as part of the fair value 11 Direct and indirect taxes gain or loss in other comprehensive income, but are recognised as Direct taxes include South African and foreign jurisdiction a translation gain or loss in the income statement when incurred. corporate tax payable, secondary tax on companies, as well as capital gains tax. Translation differences on non monetary items, classified as available-for-sale, such as equities are included in the availableIndirect taxes include various other taxes paid to central and local for-sale reserve in other comprehensive income when incurred. governments, including value added tax. 236 Indirect taxes are disclosed as part of operating expenditure in the • it has a possible obligation arising from past events, the income statement. existence of which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as wholly within the control of the entity; or adjusted for items which are non taxable or disallowed. It is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively • it has a present obligation that arises from past events but is enacted by the reporting date, in each particular jurisdiction within not recognised because: which the Group operates. – it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle an obligation; or Tax in respect of the South African life insurance operation is determined using the four fund method applicable to life – the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with insurance companies. sufficient reliability. 12 Recognition of assets 14 Cash and cash equivalents In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents 12.1 Assets comprise: The Group recognises assets when it obtains control of a resource as a result of past events, and from which future economic benefits • coins and bank notes; are expected to flow to the entity. • money at call and short notice; 12.2 Contingent assets • balances with central banks; The Group discloses a contingent asset where, as a result of past • balances guaranteed by central banks; and events, it is highly likely that economic benefits will flow to it, but this will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non occurrence of • balances with other banks. one or more uncertain future events which are not wholly within All balances included in cash and cash equivalents have a maturity the Group’s control. date of less than three months from the date of acquisition. 13 Liabilities, provisions and 15 Financial instruments contingent liabilities 15.1 General 13.1 Liabilities and provisions Financial instruments carried on the statement of financial The Group recognises liabilities, including provisions, when: position include all assets and liabilities, including derivative instruments, but exclude investments in associates and joint • it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of ventures, commodities, property and equipment, assets and past events; liabilities of insurance operations, deferred tax, tax payable, • it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic intangible assets, inventory and post retirement liabilities. The benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and Group recognises a financial asset or a financial liability in its • a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. statement of financial position when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of the obligations as a whole. A provision is • financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small. • loans and receivables; • available-for-sale financial assets; and Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre tax rate • held-to-maturity investments. that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of Financial liabilities are classified in the following categories: money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as interest • financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss; and expense. • financial liabilities at amortised cost. 13.2 Contingent liabilities Management determines the classification of its financial The Group discloses a contingent liability when: instruments at initial recognition. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 237 Accounting policies / continued Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus i. results in the reduction of measurement inconsistency transaction costs for all financial instruments not carried at fair (or accounting mismatch) that would arise as a result of value through profit or loss. measuring assets and liabilities and the gains and losses on them on a different basis; or Available-for-sale financial assets and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair ii. is a group of financial assets and/or financial liabilities that is value. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, in accordance with a documented risk management or less any impairment. Gains and losses arising from changes in the investment strategy, and this is the basis on which information fair value of the financial instruments at fair value through profit or about the assets and/or liabilities is provided internally to the loss are included in the income statement in the period in which entity’s key management personnel; or they arise. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value iii. is a financial asset or liability containing significant embedded of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until the financial asset is derivatives that clearly require bifurcation. derecognised or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or The main financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is through profit and loss under criteria (i) are: recognised in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities. However, interest calculated on available• Various loans to customers, structured notes and other for-sale financial assets using the effective interest method is investments that form part of the merchant banking division1. recognised in the income statement as part of interest income. These financial instruments have been designated to eliminate Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised the accounting mismatch between these assets and the in the income statement when the entity’s right to receive payment underlying derivatives and funding instruments. If the assets is established and are included in investment income. were not designated at fair value, the mismatch would be as a The Group recognises purchases and sales of financial result of the assets being recognised at amortised cost and the instruments that require delivery within the time frame established derivatives and funding instruments being recognised at fair by regulation or market convention (regular way purchases and value. sales) at settlement date, which is the date the asset, is delivered • Policyholder assets and liabilities under investment contracts. or received. Otherwise the fair value of such transactions The liabilities under linked investment contracts have cash recognised on the statement of financial position until settlement. flows that are contractually determined with reference to the The fair values of financial assets quoted in active markets are performance of the underlying assets. The changes in fair based on current bid prices. The fair values of financial liabilities value of assets held in linked funds are recognised in the quoted in active markets are based on current ask/offer prices. income statement. Liabilities to customers under other types Alternatively, it derives fair value from cash flow models or other of investments contracts are measured at amortised cost. If appropriate valuation models where an active market does not these assets were not designated on initial recognition, they exist. These include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, would be classified as available-for-sale and the changes discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other in their fair value would be recognised directly in other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants. comprehensive income. This would result in a significant 15.1.1 Financial instruments at fair value through accounting mismatch, as the movements in the fair value of the profit or loss policyholder liability are recognised directly in the income statement. This category has two subcategories: financial instruments held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or Financial instruments designated under criteria (ii), include: loss at inception. • certain private equity and other investment securities; and A financial instrument is classified as a trading instrument if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or • financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance if it forms part of a portfolio of financial assets in which there contracts. is evidence of short term profit taking. Derivatives are also The amount of change in the fair value, during the period and categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as cumulatively, of designated loans and receivables and designated effective hedges. financial liabilities that is attributable to changes in credit risk, is Financial assets and liabilities are designated on initial recognition as at fair value through profit and loss to the extent that it produces more relevant information because it either: 1 The terms merchant banking divisions and RMB are used interchangeably in the annual financial statements. 238 determined as the amount of change in fair value that is not 15.1.5 Financial liabilities at amortised cost attributable to changes in market conditions that gives rise to Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost and interest is market risk, i.e. currency, interest rate and other price risk. recognised over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method. 15.1.2 Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non derivative financial assets with 15.1.6 Policyholder liabilities under investment fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active contracts market, other than: The Group accounts for policyholder liabilities under accounting policy investment contracts at fair value through profit and loss. • those that the Group intends to sell immediately or in the near Refer to note 30 for a detailed description of the valuation of term, which shall be classified as held for trading, and those policyholder liabilities under investment contracts. that the entity upon initial recognition designates as at fair value through profit or loss; 15.1.7 Liabilities arising to third parties as a result • those that the Group upon initial recognition designates as of consolidating collective investment schemes available-for-sale; or A financial liability is recognised for the fair value of external • those for which the holder may not recover substantially all of investors’ interest where the unit holders have a contractual right its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, to put their units back to the fund. The consolidation of collective which shall be classified as available-for-sale. investment schemes has no effect on net equity. This category also includes purchased loans and receivables, 15.2 Offsetting financial instruments where the Group has not designated such loans and receivables in The Group offsets financial assets and liabilities and reports the any of the other financial asset categories. net balance in the statement of financial position where: 15.1.3 Held-to-maturity investments • there is a legally enforceable right to set off; and Held-to-maturity investments are non derivative financial assets • there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Group’s management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. Were the Group to sell other than an insignificant 15.3 Embedded derivatives amount of held-to-maturity investments, the entire category The Group treats derivatives embedded in other financial or would be tainted and reclassified as available-for-sale. non financial instruments such as the conversion option in a The Group carries held-to-maturity investments at amortised cost convertible bond, as separate derivatives when: using the effective interest method, less any impairment. • their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract; 15.1.4 Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale investments are non derivative financial assets • they meet the definition of a derivative; and that are intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which • the host contract is not carried at fair value, with gains and may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest losses reported in profit or loss. rates, exchange rates or equity prices. Where embedded derivatives meet the criteria for hedge The Group recognises gains and losses arising from changes in accounting, they are accounted for in terms of the applicable the fair value of available-for-sale assets, in other comprehensive hedge accounting rules. income. It recognises interest income on these assets as part of interest income, based on the instrument’s original effective 15.4 Derecognition interest rate. Interest income is excluded from the fair value gains The Group derecognises a financial asset when: and losses reported in other comprehensive income. When the advances and receivables or investment securities are disposed of • the contractual rights to the asset expires; or or impaired, the related accumulated fair value adjustments are • where there is a transfer of the contractual rights to receive the included in the income statement as gains and losses from cash flows of the financial asset and substantially all of the investment securities. risks and rewards related to the ownership of the financial asset are transferred; or Treasury bills, debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those designated at fair • the Group retains the contractual rights of the assets but value through profit and loss are classified as available-for-sale. assumes a corresponding liability to transfer these contractual FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 239 Accounting policies / continued rights to another party and consequently transfers substantially 15.6 Impairment of financial assets all the risks and benefits associated with the asset. 15.6.1 General Where the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of A financial asset is impaired if its carrying amount is greater than ownership of the financial asset, the Group continues to recognise its estimated recoverable amount. the financial asset. 15.6.2 Assets carried at amortised cost If a transfer does not result in derecognition because the Group The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial of the transferred asset, the Group continues to recognise the assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets transferred asset in its entirety and recognises a financial liability for the consideration received. In subsequent periods, the Group is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, recognises any income on the transferred asset and any expense there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or incurred on the financial liability. more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a “loss event”) and that loss event(s) has an adverse impact on the Where the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the Group financial assets that can be reliably estimated. determines whether it has retained control of the financial asset. In this case: Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of • if the Group has not retained control, it derecognises the the Group about the following events: financial asset and recognises separately as assets or liabilities any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer; • significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or • a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in • if the Group has retained control, it continues to recognise the payments of principal or interest; financial asset to the extent of its continuing involvement in the • it becoming probable that the issuer or debtor will enter financial asset. bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; The Group derecognises a financial liability when it is extinguished, • the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset i.e. when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, because of financial difficulties or adverse changes in the cancelled or expires. market, economic or legal environment in which the entity operates; or 15.5 Sale and repurchase agreements and lending of securities • observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease The consolidated financial statements reflect securities sold in the estimated future cash flows from a group of financial subject to a linked repurchase agreement (“repos”) as trading or assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the investment securities. These instruments are recognised at fair decrease cannot yet be allocated to the individual financial value through profit or loss. The counterparty liability is included assets in the Group, including: in deposits from other banks, other deposits, or deposits due to – adverse changes in the payment status of issuers or debtors customers, as appropriate at amortised cost. in the Group; or Securities purchased under agreements to resell (“reverse repos”) – national or local economic conditions that correlate with are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers defaults on the assets in the Group. as appropriate and recognised at amortised cost. The difference between purchase and resale price is treated as interest and The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment accrued over the life of the reverse repos using the effective exists individually for financial assets that are individually interest method. significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If the Group determines that no Securities lent to counterparties are retained in the consolidated objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually financial statements of the Group. assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the The Group does not recognise securities borrowed in the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk consolidated financial statements, unless sold to third parties, in characteristics and performs a collective assessment for which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment loss included in trading income. The obligation to return these and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised securities is recorded as a liability at fair value. are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. 240 If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been occurring after the impairment was recognised (such as an incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the previously between the financial asset’s carrying amount and the present recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses account. The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s statement. original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount 15.6.2.1 Past due advances of the loss is recognised in the income statement. If a financial Advances are considered past due in the following circumstances: asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate • loans with a specific expiry date (e.g. term loans etc) are determined under the contract. treated as overdue where the principal or interest is overdue and remains unpaid as at the reporting date; or The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash • consumer loans repayable by regular instalments (e.g. flows of a collateralised financial asset reflects the cash flows that mortgage loans, personal loans) are treated as overdue when may result from foreclosure less costs for obtaining and selling an instalment payment is overdue and remains unpaid as at the the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable. reporting date; or For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial • a loan payable on demand is treated as overdue where a assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk demand for repayment has been served on the borrower but characteristics (i.e. on the basis of the Group’s grading process repayment has not been made in accordance with the that considers asset type, industry, geographical location, instruction. collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors). Those characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future cash flows In these instances, the full outstanding amount is considered for groups of such assets by being indicative of the debtors’ ability overdue even if part of it is not yet due. The days past due is to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the referenced to the earliest due date of the loan. assets being evaluated. The past due analysis is performed for disclosure purposes. This Future cash flows in a group of financial assets that are collectively analysis is only performed for advances with specific expiry dates evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the or instalment repayment dates or demand loans that have been contractual cash flows of the assets in the Group and historical demanded. The analysis is not applicable to overdraft products or loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics. products where no specific due date is determined. The level of Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current riskiness on these types of products is done with reference to the observable data to reflect the effects of current conditions that did counterparty ratings of the exposures and reported as such. not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical 15.6.2.2 Renegotiated advances period that do not exist currently. Financial assets that would otherwise be past due or impaired that have been renegotiated, are classified as neither past due nor Estimates of changes in future cash flows for groups of assets impaired assets. Renegotiated advances are advances where, due should reflect and be directionally consistent with changes in to deterioration in the counterparty’s financial condition, the bank related observable data from period to period (for example, granted a concession where original terms and conditions of changes in unemployment rates, property prices, payment status, the facility were amended. Where the advances were reclassified or other factors indicative of changes in the probability of losses in as neither past due nor impaired, the adherence to the new terms the group and their magnitude). The methodology and assumptions and conditions are closely monitored. These assets are considered used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed regularly by the as part of the collective evaluation of impairment where financial Group to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk characteristics. loss experience. 15.6.3 Available-for-sale financial assets When a loan is uncollectible, it is written off against the related allowance account. Such loans are written off after all the The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is necessary procedures have been completed and the amount of the objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial loss has been determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts assets is impaired. In the case of equity investments classified as previously written off decrease the amount of the provision for loan available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair impairment in the income statement. value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the assets are impaired. If any such evidence exists for If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 241 Accounting policies / continued value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or loss recognised in the income statement, is removed from other depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement. instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument Group designates certain derivatives as either: classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss • hedge of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is commitments (“fair value hedge”); or reversed through the income statement. • hedge of highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction (“cash Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity flow hedge”). instruments are not reversed through the income statement. The hedge of a foreign currency firm commitment can either be 15.7 Derivative financial instruments accounted for as a fair value or a cash flow hedge. and hedging Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way The Group initially recognises derivative financial instruments, provided certain criteria are met. including foreign exchange contracts, interest rate futures, forward rate agreements, currency and interest rate swaps, The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the currency and interest rate options (both written and purchased) relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, and other derivative financial instruments, in the statement as well as, its risk management objective and strategy for of financial position at fair value. Derivatives are subsequently undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also remeasured at their fair value with all movements in fair value documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an recognised in the income statement, unless it is a designated and ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging effective hedging instrument. transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. The fair value of publicly traded derivatives are based on quoted bid prices for assets held or liabilities to be issued, and current 15.7.1 Fair value hedge offer prices for assets to be acquired and liabilities held. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, The fair value of non traded derivatives is based on discounted together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or cash flow models and option pricing models as appropriate, the liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. Effective changes Group recognises derivatives as assets when the fair value is in fair value of interest rate swaps and related hedged items are positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. reflected in interest income or interest expense. Effective changes The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at in fair value of currency futures are reflected in non interest initial recognition is the transaction price (i.e., the fair value of the income. Any ineffectiveness is recorded as fair value income in non consideration given or received) unless the fair value of that interest income. instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable If the hedge of an instrument carried at amortised cost, no longer current market transactions in the same instrument (i.e., without meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjust­ modification or repackaging) or based on a valuation technique ment to the carrying amount of a hedged item is amortised to the whose variables include only data from observable markets. income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate When such evidence exists, the Group recognises profits or losses over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedge item has on day one. been derecognised whereby it is released to the income statement. The adjustment of the carrying amount of a hedge equity security Where fair value is determined using valuation techniques whose remains in retained earnings until disposal of the equity security. variables include non observable market data, the difference between the fair value and the transaction price (“the day one 15.7.2 Cash flow hedge profit or loss”) is not recognised in the statement of financial The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that position. These differences are however monitored for disclosure are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in purposes. If observable market factors that market participants the cash flow hedging reserve in other comprehensive income. would consider in setting a price subsequently become available, The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised the balance of the deferred day one profit or loss is released to immediately as part of fair value income in non interest income in profit or loss. the income statement. 242 Amounts accumulated in other comprehensive income are 17 Property and equipment reclassified to profit or loss in the periods in which the hedged The Group carries property and equipment at historical cost less item will affect profit or loss (for example, when the forecast sale depreciation and impairment, except for land which is carried at that is hedged takes place) and are recognised as part of non cost less impairment. Historical cost includes expenses that are interest income. directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative are recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is gain or loss existing in other comprehensive income at that time probable that future economic benefits associated with the item remains in other comprehensive income and is recognised when will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured the forecast transaction is recognised in the income statement. reliably. The carrying amount of the replacement part is When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the derecognised. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive the income statement during the financial period in which they income is immediately transferred to the income statement. are incurred. Where the forecast transaction or a foreign currency firm Property and equipment are depreciated on a straight line basis at commitment results in the recognition of a non financial asset or a rates calculated to reduce the book value of these assets to liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in other estimated residual values over their expected useful lives. comprehensive income are transferred from other comprehensive income and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the Freehold properties and properties held under finance leases are non financial asset or liability. For financial assets and liabilities, broken down into significant components that are depreciated to the Group transfers amounts deferred in other comprehensive their respective residual values over the economic lives of these income to the income statement and classifies them as revenue or components. expense in the periods during which the hedged firm The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and commitment or forecast transaction affects the income statement. adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. Assets that are subject to depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever 16 Commodities events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 16.1 Agricultural commodities amount may not be recoverable. An asset’s carrying amount is Commodities, where the Group has a shorter term trading written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s intention, are carried at fair value less cost to sell in accordance carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable with the broker-trader exception in lAS 2. The fair value of amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair agricultural commodities is measured in accordance with IAS 41. value less costs to sell and value in use. 16.2 Other commodities Gains or losses on disposals are determined by reference to the carrying amount of the asset and the net proceeds received, and Commodities, where the Group has a longer term investment are recorded in the income statement on disposal. intention, are carried at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average method. Cost 18 Investment properties excludes borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated The Group classifies investment properties as properties held selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable to earn rental income and/or capital appreciation that are not variable selling expenses. Cost of commodities includes the occupied by the companies in the Group. transfer from equity of any gain or losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases of commodities. Investment properties comprise freehold land and buildings and are carried at fair value. Fair value is based on observable market When the Group acquires commodities as a broker-trader in order prices adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature, to benefit from short term fluctuations in price or to earn a brokers’ location or condition of the specific asset. If this information is not margin such commodities are measured at fair value less costs to available the Group uses valuation methods such as discounted sell and all changes in fair value less costs to sell are recognised cash flow projections or recent prices on less active markets. in profit or loss in the period of the change. These valuations are reviewed annually by a combination of Forward contracts to purchase or sell commodities, where net independent and internal valuation experts. Investment properties settlement occurs or where physical delivery occurs and the that are being redeveloped for continuing use as investment commodities are held to settle a further derivative contract, are property, or for which that market has become less active, recognised as derivative instruments and fair valued. continues to be measured at fair value. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 243 Accounting policies / continued Property located on land that is held under an operating lease is 19.2 A Group company is the lessor classified as investment property as long as it is held for long term 19.2.1 Finance leases rental yields and is not occupied by the Group. The initial cost of the The Group recognises as advances assets sold under a finance property is the lower of the fair value of the property and the lease at the present value of the lease payments. The difference present value of the minimum lease payments. Subsequent to between the gross receivable and the present value of the initial recognition the property is carried at fair value. receivable represents unearned finance income. Lease income is When investment properties become owner occupied, the Group recognised over the term of the lease using the effective interest reclassifies it to property and equipment, using the fair value at the rate method, which reflects a constant periodic rate of return. date of reclassification as the cost, and depreciates it on a straight line basis at rates calculated to reduce the book value of these 19.2.2 Operating leases assets to estimated residual values over the expected useful lives. The Group includes in a separate category as “assets held under operating lease” property and equipment assets leased out under Fair value adjustments on investment properties are included in operating leases. It depreciates these assets over their expected the income statement as net fair value gains on assets at fair value useful lives on a basis consistent with similar owned property and through profit and loss. These fair value gains or losses are equipment. Rental income is recognised on a straight line basis adjusted for any double counting arising from the recognition of over the lease term. lease income on the straight line basis compared to the accrual basis normally assumed in the fair value determination. 19.3 Instalment credit agreements The Group regards instalment credit agreements as financing The Group carries properties under development at cost, less transactions and includes the total rentals and instalments adjustments to reduce the cost to open market value, if appropriate. receivable hereunder, less unearned finance charges, in advances. 19 Leases The Group calculates finance charges using the effective interest 19.1 A group company is the lessee rates as detailed in the contracts and credits finance charges to income in proportion to capital balances outstanding. 19.1.1 Finance leases The Group classifies leases of property and equipment where it 20 Intangible assets assumes substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership as 20.1 Goodwill finance leases. Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred, Finance leases are capitalised as assets at the fair value of the the fair value of the previous equity interests held and the non leased asset at the inception of the lease, or, if lower, at the controlling interest of an acquisition over the attributable fair value estimated present value of the underlying lease payments. The of the Group’s share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets Group allocates each lease payment between the liability and of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition. finance charges to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible outstanding. The interest component of the finance charge is assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in recognised in the income statement over the lease period. The investments in associates. The goodwill included in the carrying property and equipment acquired are depreciated over the useful amount of associates is notional. life of the assets, unless it is not probable that the Group will take ownership of the assets, in which case the assets are depreciated Goodwill is tested annually or more frequently if an impairment over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease period, indicator exists at the reporting date for impairment and carried at on a basis consistent with similar owned property and equipment. cost less accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of an 19.1.2 Operating leases entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity The Group classifies leases as operating leases where the sold. lessor effectively retains the risks and benefits of ownership. It For impairment purposes goodwill is allocated to the lowest recognises operating lease payments in the income statement on components of the business that is expected to benefit from a straight line basis over the period of the lease. Contingent rentals synergies of the combination and at which management monitors are expensed in the period incurred. Minimum rentals due after goodwill (“cash generating unit”). Each cash generating unit year end are reflected under commitments. represents a grouping of assets no higher than a primary business The Group recognises as an expense any penalty payment to the or reporting segment. The recoverable amount of a cash lessor for early termination of an operating lease, in the period in generating unit is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and which termination takes place. value in use. 244 20.2 Computer software development costs Amortisation and impairments of intangible assets are reflected The Group generally expenses computer software development under operating expenses in the income statement. costs in the financial period incurred. However, where computer software development costs can be clearly associated with a 20.4 Reacquired rights strategic and unique system which will result in a benefit for the As part of a business combination transaction an acquirer may Group exceeding the costs incurred for more than one financial reacquire a right to use one of its recognised or unrecognised period, the Group capitalises such costs and recognises it as an assets for which it had previously granted the right of use to this intangible asset. asset to the entity which becomes its subsidiary. Reacquired rights that arise from these transactions are identifiable intangible The Group carries capitalised software assets at cost less assets that the Group recognises separately from goodwill. amortisation and any impairment losses. It amortises these assets Reacquired rights are recognised at fair value at acquisition date on a straight line basis at a rate applicable to the expected useful based on the remaining contractual term of the related contract life of the asset. Management reviews the carrying value wherever without taking into consideration the effect of any potential objective evidence of impairment exists. The carrying value is contractual renewals. Where the terms of the contract giving rise written down to estimated recoverable amount when a permanent to the reacquired rights are favourable or unfavourable relative to decrease in value occurs. Any impairment is recognised in the current market transactions for the same or similar items, the income statement when incurred. Group recognises a settlement gain or loss respectively. 20.3 Other intangible assets Amortisation and impairments of intangible assets are reflected under operating expenses in the income statement. The Group generally expenses the costs incurred on internally generated intangible assets such as trademarks, concessions, 20.5 Agency force patents and similar rights and assets, to the income statement in As a result of certain acquisitions and the application of purchase the period in which the costs are incurred. The costs incurred on accounting, the Group carries an agency force intangible asset the development of separately identifiable internally generated representing the value of the agency force acquired in the intangible assets, are capitalised by the Group if: acquisition. The initial carrying value of the agency force is • the Group is able to demonstrate the technical feasibility of determined by estimating the future value of the new business completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for generated by the agents acquired. The Group amortises the agency use or sale; force over its expected useful life of ten years. • it is the Group’s intention to complete the intangible asset and Management reviews the carrying value whenever objective use or sell it; evidence of impairment exists. Carrying value is written down to estimated recoverable amount when a permanent decrease • the Group will be able to use or sell the intangible asset; in value occurs. Any impairment is recognised in the income • it is probable that the intangible asset will generate future statement when incurred. economic benefits; Amortisation and impairments of intangible assets are reflected • adequate technical, financial and other resources are available under operating expenses in the income statement. to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset; and 20.6 Contractual customer relationships – rights to receive investment management fees • the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset can be reliably measured. Incremental costs paid which are directly attributable to securing the rights to receive fees for investment management services The Group capitalises material acquired trademarks, patents and sold with investment contracts are recognised as an intangible similar rights where it will receive a benefit from these intangible asset where they can be identified separately and measured assets in more than one financial period. reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered. The Group carries capitalised trademarks, patents and similar The asset represents the Group’s contractual right to benefit from assets at cost less amortisation and any impairment. It amortises providing asset management services and is amortised over the these assets at a rate applicable to the expected useful life of the expected life of the contract as a constant percentage of expected asset, but not exceeding 20 years. Management reviews the gross profit margins. The costs of securing the right to provide carrying value whenever objective evidence of impairment exists. asset management services do not include transaction costs Carrying value is written down to estimated recoverable amount relating to the origination of the investment contract. The resulting when a permanent decrease in value occurs. Any impairment is change to the carrying value of the contractual customer recognised in the income statement when incurred. relationship asset is recognised as an expense in the income FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 245 Accounting policies / continued statement. An impairment test is conducted annually at the In respect of temporary differences arising from the fair value reporting date on the contractual customer relationship asset adjustments on investment properties, deferred tax is provided at balance to ensure that the amount will be recovered from future the use rate if the property is considered to be a long term strategic revenue generated by the applicable remaining investment investment or at the capital gains effective rate if recovery is management contracts. anticipated to be mainly through disposals. 20.7 Value of in-force business 22 Employee benefits As a result of certain acquisitions of insurance contracts and the 22.1 Post employment benefits application of purchase accounting, the Group carries a customer contract intangible asset representing the present value of inThe Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution force (“PVIF”) business acquired. PVIF is determined by estimating schemes, the assets of which are held in separate trustee the net present value of future cash flows from the contracts inadministered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by force at the date of acquisition. The Group amortises PVIF as payments from employees and the relevant Group companies, a constant percentage of expected gross margins, over the taking account of the recommendations of independent qualified estimated life of the acquired contracts. The estimated life is actuaries. For defined benefit plans the pension accounting costs evaluated regularly. The PVIF is carried in the statement of are assessed using the projected unit credit method. financial position at fair value less any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the 21 Deferred tax defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair value Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method on of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised temporary differences arising between the tax basis of assets and actuarial gains or losses and past service costs. liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by indepen­ statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a dent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present transaction other than a business combination that at the time of value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the transaction affect neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that quality corporate bonds or in the absence of a deep and liquidity have been enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date corporate bond market the yield on government bonds, that are and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. The Group recognises deferred tax assets if the directors of FirstRand Limited consider it probable that future taxable income The Group recognises current service costs immediately, while it will be available against which the unused tax losses can be expenses past service costs, experience adjustments, changes in utilised. actuarial assumptions and plan amendments over the expected remaining working lives of employees. The costs are expensed Temporary differences arise primarily from depreciation of immediately in the case of retired employees. property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, provisions for These funds are registered in terms of the Pension Funds Act, pensions and other post retirement benefits and tax losses carried 1956, and membership is compulsory for all Group employees. forward. For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a from investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by further payment obligations once the contributions have been the Group and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit the foreseeable future. expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised Deferred tax related to fair value remeasurement of available-foras an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the sale investments and cash flow hedges, which are charged or future payments is available. credited directly to other comprehensive income, is also credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income and is 22.2 Post retirement medical benefits subsequently recognised in the income statement together with In terms of certain employment contracts, the Group provides for the deferred gain or loss. post retirement healthcare benefits to qualifying employees and 246 retired personnel by subsidising a portion of their medical aid 23 Borrowings contributions. The Group created an independent fund in 1998 to The Group initially recognises borrowings, including debentures, fund these obligations. lAS 19 requires that the assets and at the fair value net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings liabilities in respect thereof be reflected on the statement of are subsequently measured at amortised cost. Discounts or financial position. premiums on debentures issued are amortised on a basis that The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of reflects the effective interest rate on the debentures over their life employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for span. Interest paid is recognised in the income statement on an defined benefit pension plans. effective interest rate basis. The entitlement to these benefits is usually based on the employee The Group separately measures and recognises the fair value of remaining in service up to retirement age and completing a the debt component of an issued convertible bond in liabilities, minimum service period. Qualified actuaries perform annual with the residual value separately allocated to equity. It calculates valuations. interest on the debt portion of the instrument based on the market rate for a non convertible instrument at the inception thereof. 22.3 Termination benefits The Group recognises termination benefits as a liability in the Instruments with characteristics of debt, such as redeemable statement of financial position and as an expense in the income preference shares, are included in liabilities. Dividends paid on statement when it has a present obligation relating to termination. such instruments are included in interest expense. The Group has a present obligation when it is demonstrably Where the Group purchases its own debt, the debt is derecognised committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan, without possibility from the statement of financial position and any difference of withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a result of an between the carrying amount of the liability and the consideration offer to encourage voluntary redundancy. paid is included in trading income. 22.4 Leave pay provision 24 Share Capital The Group recognises in full employees rights to annual leave 24.1 Share issue costs entitlement in respect of past service. Shares are classified as equity when there is no obligation to transfer cash or other assets. Incremental costs directly related to 22.5 Bonuses the issue of new shares or options are shown as a deduction from Management and staff bonuses are recognised as an expense in equity, net of any related tax benefit. staff costs as incurred when it is probable that the economic benefits will be paid and the amount can be reliably measured. 24.2 Dividends paid 22.6 Recognition of actuarial gains and losses Dividends on ordinary shares and non cumulative non redeemable preference shares are recognised against equity in the period Recognition of actuarial gains and losses occurs as a result of: in which they are approved by the company’s shareholders. • increases or decreases in the present value of defined benefit Dividends declared after the reporting date are not recognised but plan liabilities; disclosed as a post reporting date event. • increases or decreases in the fair value of plan assets; or 24.3 Treasury shares • a combination of the above. Where the company or other members of the consolidated Group Increases or decreases in the fair value of plan liabilities can be purchases the company’s equity share capital, the consideration caused by changes in the discount rate used, expected salaries or paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is number of employees, plan benefits and expected inflation rates. deducted from total shareholders’ equity as treasury shares until they are reissued or sold. Fair value changes recognised in Increases or decreases in the fair value of plan assets occur as a the subsidiary’s financial statements on equity investments in result of the difference between the actual and expected return on the holding entity’s shares, are reversed on consolidation and the plan assets. dividends received are eliminated against dividends paid. Where The Group does not recognise actuarial gains or losses below the such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration corridor limit of 10% in the period under review, but defers such received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs, is gains or losses to future periods. included in shareholders’ equity. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 247 Accounting policies / continued 24.3.1 Share trusts 27 Fiduciary activities The Group’s remuneration schemes are operated through various The Group excludes assets and the income thereon, together with share trusts. These share trusts are considered to be special related undertakings to return such assets to customers, from its purpose vehicles of the Group (“SPVs”) and therefore consolidated. consolidated financial statements where it acts in a fiduciary capacity such as nominee, trustee or agent. The share trusts purchase FirstRand shares for the various remuneration schemes in the open market to hedge the Group 28 Share based payment transactions against price risk of the FirstRand share and to limit the dilutive The Group operates equity settled and cash settled share based effect on current shareholders. The purchase of the shares by the compensation plans for employees and historically disadvantaged share trusts is treated as a reduction in the Group’s equity. For individuals and organisations. All compensation plans are purposes of the earnings per share calculation, the weighted recognised in accordance with the accounting policy depending on average number of shares in issue is reduced by the number of whether it meets the equity settled or cash settled definition. shares held by the share trusts. 28.1 Equity settled share based 25 Acceptances compensation plans The Group expenses the fair value of the employee services Acceptances comprise undertakings by the Group to pay bills of received in exchange for the grant of the options, over the vesting exchange drawn on customers. The Group accounts for and period of the options, as employee costs, with a corresponding discloses acceptances as a contingent liability. credit to a share based payment reserve in the statement of changes in equity. The total value of the services received is 26 Segment Reporting calculated with reference to the fair value of the options on An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in grant date. business activities from which the Group may earn revenues and The fair value of the options is determined excluding non market incur expenses. An operating segment is also a component of the vesting conditions. These vesting conditions are included in the Group whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief assumptions of the number of options expected to vest. At each operating decision maker in allocating resources, assessing its reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of performance and for which discrete financial information is options expected to vest. The Group recognises the impact of the available. The chief operating decision maker has been identified revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with as the chief executive officer of the Group. The Group’s identification a corresponding adjustment to equity. and measurement of operating segments is consistent with the Amounts recognised for services received if the options granted do internal reporting provided to the chief executive officer. The not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition, are operating segments have been identified and classified in a reversed through the income statement. If options are forfeited manner that reflects the risks and rewards related to the after the vesting date, an amount equal to the value of the options segments’ specific products and services offered in their specific forfeited is debited against the share based payment reserve and markets. Additional information relating to each segments’ credited against equity in the statement of changes in equity. specific products and services, geographical areas and major customers is also provided in the notes to the consolidated financial The proceeds received net of any attributable transaction costs are statements. credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised. Operating segments whose total revenue, absolute profit or loss for the period or total assets are 10% or more of all the segments 28.2 Cash settled share based payment revenue, profit or loss or total assets, are reported separately. compensation plans The Group measures the services received and liability incurred in Assets, liabilities, revenue or expenses that are not directly respect of cash settled share based payment plans at the current attributable to a particular segment are allocated between fair value of the liability. The Group remeasures the fair value of segments where there is a reasonable basis for doing so. The the liability at each reporting date until settled. The liability is Group accounts for the intersegment revenues and transfers as if recognised over the vesting period and any changes in the fair the transactions were with third parties at current market prices. value of the liability are recognised in profit or loss. Funding is provided to business units and segments based on 29 Disposal groups held for sale internally derived transfer pricing rates taking into account the Non current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for funding structures of the Group. sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through 248 a sale transaction rather than continuing use. This classification is by contracts, for the purposes of valuation and profit recognition, only met if the sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal contracts are divided into investment and insurance contracts. groups are available for immediate sale. Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk to the Group, whereas investment contracts In light of the Group’s primary business being the provision of transfer financial risk. banking, insurance and asset management and health operations, non current assets held as investments are not classified as held The classification of contracts is performed at the inception of for sale as the ongoing investment management implies regular each contract. The classification of the contract at inception purchases and sales in the ordinary course of business. remains the classification of the contract for the remainder of its lifetime unless the terms of the contract change to such an extent Immediately before classification as held for sale, the measure­ that it necessitates a change in classification. ment (carrying amount) of assets and liabilities in relation to a disposal group is recognised based upon the appropriate IFRS 31.2 Insurance contracts standards. On initial recognition as held for sale, the non current assets and liabilities are recognised at the lower of carrying An insurance contract is one that transfers significant insurance amount and fair value less costs to sell. risk to the Group. Significant insurance risk exists when it is expected that the present value of benefits payable in terms of the Any impairment losses on initial classification to held for sale are policy on the occurrence of an insured event will materially differ recognised in the income statement. from the amount payable, had the insured event not occurred. Financial penalties levied on early termination of policy contracts The non current assets and disposal groups held for sale will be reclassified immediately when there is a change in intention to are not taken into account when classifying the contracts. If the sell. Subsequent measurement of the asset or disposal group at difference between the benefit payable on an insured event and a that date, will be the lower of: non insured event arises solely from an early termination penalty, the contract is not classified as an insurance contract. • its carrying amount before the asset or disposal group was classified as held for sale, adjusted for any depreciation, Insurance contracts may transfer financial risk as well as insurance amortisation or revaluations that would have been recognised risk. However, in all instances where significant insurance risk is had the asset or disposal group not been classified as held for transferred, the contract is classified as an insurance contract. sale; and Certain insurance contracts also contain discretionary participation • its recoverable amount at the date of the subsequent decision features (“DPF’s”). not to sell. A DPF entitles the policyholder to receive, as a supplement to 30 Discontinued operations guaranteed benefits, additional benefits or bonuses. These The Group classifies a component as a discontinued operation additional benefits have the following features: when that component has been disposed of, or is classified as held • the benefits constitute a significant portion of the total for sale, and: contractual benefits payable under each policy; • it represents a separate major line of business or geographical • the timing and amount of the benefits are at the discretion of area of operations; the Group; and • is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate • the benefits are contractually based on: major line of business or geographical area of operations; or – the investment performance of a specified pool of assets • is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. underlying a specified pool of contracts; or A component of a Group comprises operations and cash flows that – a specified type of contract. can be clearly distinguished, operationally and for financial reporting purposes from the rest of the Group. The following types of contracts issued by the Group are classified as insurance contracts: 31 Insurance and investment contracts • insurance policies providing lump sum benefits on death, Contracts issued by the Group are governed by the South African disability or ill health of the policyholder. These contracts are Long Term Insurance Act 1998. issued for either a defined period or for the whole life of the 31.1 Classification of contracts policyholder; The contracts issued by the Group transfer insurance risk, • life annuity policies where the policyholder transfers the risk of financial risk or both. As a result of the differing risks transferred longevity to the Group; FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 249 Accounting policies / continued • policies which provide for retrenchment or funeral cover; and • contracts with investment management service components; and • policies providing Permanent Health Insurance (“PHI”). • contracts without investment management service components. The terms of these contracts may also allow for embedded options. These include minimum guaranteed rates of investment The following two subsections further describe these two product return resulting in a minimum level of benefit payable at expiry of groupings. the contractual term, after allowing for the cost of risk cover. These embedded options are treated in terms of the company’s 31.3.2.1 Contracts with investment policies in respect of embedded derivatives unless they themselves management services meet the definition of an insurance contract. These represent investment contracts with services provided to Insurance contracts and Insurance contracts with DPF are within policyholders whereby the Group undertakes to actively manage the scope of IFRS 4 and therefore accounted for in terms of the the investments of the policyholder over the lifetime of the policy requirements of IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. contract. 31.3 Investment contracts The following types of contracts issued by the Group are classified These are contracts that transfer financial risk with no significant as investment contracts with investment management services: insurance risk. Financial risk is the risk of a possible future • unit linked contracts, where lump sum benefits payable at the change in one or more of a specified interest rate, financial end of the contracts’ terms, are determined using unit values instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index that reflect the fair value of the assets in the unitised fund prices or other variable. underlying the group of policies, multiplied by the number of For the purposes of valuation and profit recognition, investment units attributed to the policyholder; and contracts are further classified into the following sub categories: • living annuities, where the number of units is payable to policyholders on a monthly basis. The monetary value of the 31.3.1 Investment contracts with DPF monthly benefit payments is determined by the number of units An investment contract with DPF is an investment contract which attributable to the policyholder, multiplied by a unit price contains discretionary participation features. The identification of determined by the fair value of underlying assets. a DPF in an insurance and investment contract is the same. The distinction between investment and insurance contracts hinges on These contracts may incorporate embedded options, such as a the transfer of significant insurance risk as described in the minimum guaranteed rate of unit price increase credited to a “Classification of contracts”. policy over its lifetime. These embedded options are accounted for These contracts fall within the scope of IFRS 4 and therefore are in terms of the Group’s accounting policy for embedded derivatives accounted for in terms of the requirements of IFRS 4. in insurance contracts unless they themselves meet the definition of an insurance contract. The following types of contracts issued by the Group are classified as investment contracts with DPF: 31.3.2.2 Contracts without investment • universal life smoothed bonus policies, where discretionary management services bonuses are added to the investment account annually; and These are investment contracts where Group does not actively manage the investments of the policyholder over the lifetime of • reversionary bonus policies, where discretionary bonuses are each policy contract. Benefits are guaranteed at inception of the added to a guaranteed sum assured, payable at the end of the policy contract or linked to the performance of a specified index or contract term. pool of assets. The carrying amounts in respect of the DPF benefits are included as “policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts” in the The following types of contracts issued by the Group are classified statement of financial position. as investment contracts where no investment management services are rendered: 31.3.2 Investment contracts without discretionary • guaranteed endowments, where a guaranteed benefit specified participating features at the inception date of the policy is paid at the end of the These contracts fall within the scope of IAS 39: Financial contract term; and Instruments: Recognition and measurement and are accounted for in terms of the requirements of IAS 39. They are further • certain structured products, where the benefit payable at classified as: expiry of the contract is linked to a published market index. 250 31.4 Valuation and recognition would result in an increase in the liabilities were incorporated into the valuation on a best estimate basis, as described above. 31.4.1 Insurance contracts (with and without DPF) and investment contracts with DPF The expected level of early terminations is incorporated into the The next section provides detail in respect of the general valuation liabilities irrespective of whether this leads to an increase or a and profit recognition principles in respect of insurance contracts decrease in the liabilities. (with and without DPF) and investment contracts with DPF. The If future experience under a policy contract is exactly in line with sections following thereafter give more detail on how these the assumptions employed at inception of the contract, the valuation assumptions are applied to particular product lines valuation margins will emerge as profits over the duration of a falling within the category. policy contract. This is known as the unwinding of margins. 31.4.2 Principles of valuation and profit recognition In addition to the profit recognised at the origination of a policy Under IFRS 4, liabilities in respect of insurance and investment contract, and the unwinding of margins as the Group is released (with DPF) contracts are valued according to the requirements from the risk, any differences between the best estimate valuation of the South African Long Term Insurance Act (1998) and in assumptions and actual experience over each accounting period accordance with professional guidance notes (‘PGN”) issued by the also give rise to profits and losses. These profits and losses Actuarial Society of South Africa. Of particular relevance to the emerge over the lifetime of a policy contract. Other sources of liability calculations, are the following actuarial guidance notes: profit or loss include the change in liabilities from basis changes (changes in long term valuation assumptions), profits on group PGN 104 (Jan 2005): Life Offices – Valuation of Long Term Insurers business that are recognised as earned and shareholders’ share of PGN 110 (Dec 2007): Reserving for minimum investment return the cost of bonus for certain segregated DPF pools. Whenever the guarantees Group declares a bonus to policyholders on these funds, PGN 102 (Mar 1995): Life Offices – HIV/AIDS shareholders receive a portion of the bonus as earnings. A typical split is 90% of the distribution going to policyholders and 10% to PGN 105 (Mar 2007): Recommended AIDS extra mortality bases shareholders. PGN 106 (Jul 2005): Actuaries and Long Term Insurance in South Africa 31.4.4 Recognition 31.4.4.1 Premiums These guidance notes are available on the website of the Actuarial Society of South Africa (www.actuarialsociety.co.za). Premiums receivable from insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF are recognised as revenue in profit or loss, 31.4.3 Valuation gross of commission and reinsurance premiums and excluding Liabilities are valued in terms of the financial soundness valuation taxes and levies. Premiums and annuity considerations on (“FSV”) method as described in PGN 104, issued by the Actuarial insurance contracts are recognised when they are due in terms of Society of South Africa. the contract. Premium income received in advance is included in trade and other payables (including insurance payables). The FSV method measures the liability at the amount of the best estimate of the future cash flows relating to the insurance 31.4.4.2 Benefits and claims contracts plus certain compulsory and discretionary margins. This Insurance benefits and claims incurred under insurance contracts methodology is applied to each product type depending on the and investment contracts with DPF include death, disability, nature of the contract and the associated risks. The application of maturity, annuity and surrender payments and are recognised in this methodology to each significant product type is described profit or loss gross of any related reinsurance recoveries. Death, below. disability and surrender claims are recognised when notified. The best estimate of the future cash flows takes into account Maturity and annuity claims are recognised when they are due for current and expected future experience, as well as revised payment in terms of the contract. The estimate of the expected settlement value of claims that are notified but not paid before the expectations of future income, claims and expenditure. The reporting date is included in trade and other payables (including assumptions are applied to the whole in-force policy book. insurance payables). Differences between the assumptions used at the start and the end of the accounting period give rise to a revised liability quantification. 31.4.4.3 Reinsurance premiums The effect of policyholder options that would result in a decrease Reinsurance premiums are recognised as an expense in profit or in liabilities were excluded from the liabilities in order to prevent loss when they become due for payment, in terms of the contracts unnecessarily reducing the liabilities. Policyholder options that at the undiscounted amounts payable in terms of the contract. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 251 Accounting policies / continued 31.4.4.4 Reinsurance recoveries • Employee benefits insurance business: The main products Reinsurance recoveries are recognised in profit or loss in the same on offer within this category are group Permanent Health period as the related claim at the undiscounted amount receivable Insurance cover, which provides regular annuity benefits while in terms of the contract. an insured is disabled, Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) linked annuities, as well as lump sum death and disability benefits. 31.4.4.5 Liability adequacy test for business for • Employee benefits investment business: Two DPF unitised prospective liabilities pooled funds are offered to policyholders. Where the liability is calculated based on the present value of the • Conventional (reversionary bonus or non profit) policies: These future cash flows in terms of the accounting policies described policies do not have unit accounts like universal life products, above, the valuation method projects future net income and but rather provide a guaranteed sum assured at death or discounts it back to the valuation date to arrive at the liability. The maturity. The guaranteed payment is augmented by discretionary methodology ensures that the liability will by definition be bonuses if the contract has DPF features. The difference adequate (provided that the assumptions employed are appropriate) between conventional and universal life DPF policy types is and no additional liability adequacy test is required. that, on universal life policies, annual bonus additions are made to the policy’s investment account, whereas additions of 31.4.4.6 Liability adequacy test for retrospective bonuses on conventional policies are made to the lump sum liabilities payable on death or maturity. For liabilities measured retrospectively a liability adequacy test is performed in order to verify that the liability is sufficient to cover 31.5.1 Universal life unit linked or smoothed future claims and servicing expenses after the expected future bonus policies income over the remaining contractual lifetime. Liabilities for individual smoothed bonus and market related “unit linked” business are set equal to the fair value of units attributable 31.4.4.7 Acquisition costs to the policyholder at the reporting date. This is the so called unit Acquisition costs, disclosed as sales remuneration, for insurance liability. In addition, the present value of expected future cashflows contracts and investment contracts with DPF include all (income less outgo) in respect of each policy is added or deducted commission and expenses directly related to acquiring new from the unit liability to arrive at the total liability in respect of each business. The Financial Soundness Valuation methodology universal life policy contract. This adjustment represents the so implicitly creates a deferred acquisition cost (“DAC”) asset by called Rand liability. If future income is expected to exceed future reducing the liabilities to the extent of margins included in the outgo under a universal life policy contract, the Rand liability is premium, which are intended to recover acquisition costs. Thus, negative, whereas it is positive if future outgo is expected to exceed no explicit DAC asset is recognised in the statement of financial future income. position for contracts valued on this basis. Projected future outgo includes claims payments and maintenance expenses, whereas projected future income includes deductions of 31.5 Application of the above valuation risk premium and other charges. In performing the projections of methodology to individual product lines future income and outgo, allowance is made for future growth in The preceding paragraphs highlighted the principles followed in unit account values at a level consistent with the assumed future valuation and profit recognition in respect of insurance and market related investment return, after allowing for contractual investment (with DPF) contracts. The next section outlines how expense charges and taxation. these principles are applied to the main product lines within this category. The main product lines are: Future additions of bonuses to smoothed bonus policies are projected at levels that are consistent with and supported by the • Universal life unit linked or smoothed bonus policies: These assumed rate of investment return, after allowing for contractual policies have unit accounts, similar to unit trust investments. expense charges and taxation. The policies might offer additional life or disability cover. The benefit structure might be a DPF, or unit linked to the fair value In respect of smoothed bonus universal life policies, bonus stabilisation accounts are also held. Bonus stabilisation reserves of the assets supporting the liabilities. On expiry of the have been discussed above, but more detail about these provisions contracts, the fair value of units is paid to policyholders. is given in the section below. • Immediate annuities, which provide regular payments (usually monthly) to policyholders. Payments normally cease on death 31.5.2 Policies with a DPF switching option of the insured life or lives, but different options, such as On some new generation investment contracts, policyholders have guaranteed payment periods and maximum payment terms, a choice of a wide range of investment funds, including a DPF fund. are offered to policyholders. Policyholders also have the option to switch, without penalty, 252 between smoothed bonus and unit linked funds within the same The liabilities for PHI and other annuity claimants and funeral paid policy structure. The DPF portions of these policies are valued, up benefits are calculated using a prospective cash flow method, using the FSV valuation methodology applicable to universal life discounted at a discount rate consistent with the average term of DPF policies (as described above), but the capitalised value of the liabilities and market yields on the assets supporting the discounted charges (net of expenses) on each policy is limited to liabilities. the value of the DAC asset less deferred revenue liability (“DRL”) liability that would have been held, had the whole policy been Liabilities in respect of IBNR claims are determined, using a basic classified as an investment without DPF investment contract. triangulation or chain ladder method to derive, from past claims This is done so that switches between unit linked and smoothed run-off patterns, an estimate of the amount of claims that have bonus components do not give rise to discontinuities in liabilities been incurred but not yet reported. These liabilities are held against these contracts. undiscounted. An unearned premium provision is also held in respect of the 31.5.3 Immediate annuities portion of premiums received that relate to future risk exposure, Liabilities for immediate annuities are set equal to the present which is assumed to be constant over the premium term. This value of expected future annuity payments and expenses, liability is released to profit as Momentum is released from the discounted using an appropriate market related yield curve as at risk associated with the contracts. These liabilities are measured the reporting date. The yield curve is based on risk free securities at the undiscounted value because of the short term nature of the (either fixed or CPI linked, depending on the nature of the liabilities. corresponding liability), adjusted for credit and liquidity spreads Group CPI linked annuities are valued in the same way as CPI of the assets actually held in the portfolio and reduced by linked annuities on individual life business. compulsory and discretionary margins. Explicit liabilities are set aside for expected credit losses, to avoid a reduction in liabilities Profits arising on group risk contracts are recognised as caused by capitalisation of credit spreads. premiums received less claims and expenses paid, plus or minus the move in the IBNR and unearned premium provisions over the 31.5.4 Conventional (reversionary bonus or relevant accounting period. non profit) policies The liabilities for conventional policies are calculated as the 31.6.1 Employee benefits investment business (with DPF) difference between the present values of projected future benefits and expenses, and the present value of projected future premiums, The liability in respect of group investment (with DPF) business is using the best estimated rate of return, plus prescribed margins set equal to the fair value of the assets supporting the liabilities. as per PGN 104. It is assumed that current bonus rates (both The liability is reflected as the face value of policyholders’ balances, plus a bonus stabilisation account. The bonus reversionary and terminal bonus rates) will be maintained in stabilisation account is the difference between the market value of future. assets and the face value of policyholders’ balances. Profits arising on conventional policy contracts are recognised as No discounting of future cashflows (such as premiums, claims and described above. expenses) is performed in respect of this class of business. 31.6 Employee benefits insurance business 31.6.2 Policyholder bonus stabilisation accounts The main liability types in respect of this class of business are: DPF liabilities (insurance and investment) are adjusted by • discounted cash flow liabilities for PHI claims in payment and policyholder bonus stabilisation accounts. Bonus stabilisation CPI linked annuities; accounts have been introduced under the general description of policy contracts issued by the Group in the section preceding the • the liability related to the claims which relate to insurance accounting policies. events which have occurred before year end and thus have been incurred but have not been reported to the Group, is If the fair value of the assets underlying a smoothed bonus or known as the Incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) liability claims conventional with profit portfolio is greater than the policyholders’ on group risk benefits; investment accounts (net premiums invested plus declared bonuses), a positive bonus stabilisation account is created which • unearned premium provisions in respect of risk exposure will be used to enhance future bonuses. Conversely, if assets are remaining after the reporting date where premiums relating to less than the investment accounts, a negative bonus stabilisation the risk have been received before the reporting date; and account is created. A negative bonus stabilisation account will be • CPI linked annuities. limited to the amount that the Statutory actuary expects will be FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 253 Accounting policies / continued recovered through the declaration of lower bonuses during the profit and risk margins in the premiums are not capitalised ensuing three years, if investment returns are in line with long prematurely so that profits are recognised in line with product term assumptions. Negative bonus stabilisation accounts in design and in line with the risks borne by the company. excess of 7.5% of the investment accounts are disclosed. The main discretionary margins utilised in the valuation are as The purpose with bonus stabilisation accounts is therefore to follows: allocate all investment surpluses or deficits to policyholders after deduction of all related contractual charges. • Additional bonus stabilisation accounts are held to provide an additional layer of protection for policyholders against the risk The policyholder bonus stabilisation accounts in respect of the of removal of non vested bonuses caused by fluctuations in the closed Lifegro portfolio and Southern Pre 84 segregated portfolio values of assets backing smoothed bonus liabilities. This are set equal to the policyholders’ full future entitlement to the account is in addition to the policyholder bonus stabilisation assets in these portfolios (which includes not only investment account described elsewhere, and is not distributed as surpluses, but other sources of surplus as well), as per the bonuses to policyholders under normal market conditions. The respective profit share agreements between policyholders and size of this account is monitored according to the results of shareholders. stochastic modelling of the investment risk. Excess assets over the size indicated by the results of the stochastic modelling are Bonus stabilisation accounts are included in policyholder released as profit. liabilities under insurance contracts and investment with DPF contracts. • For the closed Lifegro portfolio and segregated portion of the Southern Life book, appropriate liabilities are held to reverse 31.6.3 Guaranteed maturity value liabilities the capitalisation of future profits to ensure that the Lifegro A number of contracts contain embedded derivatives in the form of profits are recognised in line with the terms of the Lifegro take guaranteed maturity values. The liability in respect of these over agreement and the statute of the Old Southern Segregated guarantees is calculated using stochastic modelling techniques, Fund. whereby assets and liabilities are projected into the future under • An additional margin is held to reduce the risk of future losses, a range of possible future investment return scenarios, with caused by the impact of market fluctuations on capitalised fees parameters calibrated to market data. The expected present value and on the assets backing guaranteed liabilities. This liability is of the cost of the guarantee over and above base liabilities is taken built up retrospectively and released if adverse market as the liability in respect of the guarantee. conditions cause a reduction in the capitalised value of fees or The modelling approach is governed by professional guidance note in the value of assets backing guaranteed liabilities. PGN 110, which sets minimum criteria that the stochastic model • Additional prospective margins are held in respect of decrement should adhere to, being minimum numbers of simulations to be assumptions and asset related fees on certain product lines to performed and minimum variability characteristics of the avoid the premature recognition of profits that may give rise to stochastic input parameters. The model uses assumptions which future losses if claims experience turns out to be worse than are market consistent. expected. This allows profits to be recognised in the period in 31.6.4 Other options and guarantees which the risks are borne by the Group. The effect of policyholder options that would result in a decrease • An additional margin is held in respect if the investment return in liabilities were excluded from the liabilities in order to prevent assumption used to value annuity benefit payments (both group unnecessarily reducing the liabilities. Policyholder options that and individual business). These liabilities are discounted at the would result in an increase in the liabilities were incorporated into risk free rate and the additional margin is held to reflect the valuation on a best estimate basis, as described above. the potential for credit spreads widening and parameter risk associated with the long end of the yield curve and are related to The expected level of early terminations is incorporated into the the extent of corporate debt backing liabilities and the liabilities irrespective of whether this leads to an increase or a uncertainties relating to long dated liabilities. decrease in the liabilities. The best estimates used to determine the value of the liabilities 31.8 Investment contracts without DPF, with include estimates that take into account maturity, mortality and provision of investment management services disability guarantees, as well as expected lapses and surrenders. Under this category, the Group issues unit linked contracts, where benefits payable are determined using unit values that reflect the 31.7 Discretionary margins fair value of the assets in the unitised fund underlying the group of Discretionary margins are held in addition to the compulsory policies, multiplied by the number of units attributed to the margins. These discretionary margins are used to ensure that policyholder. Policyholder liabilities for this class of business are 254 set equal to the fair value of the assets in the unitised fund 31.8.5 Profit recognition underlying the group of policies, as reflected in the value of units Profits or losses that accrue to shareholders in respect of held by each policyholder at the valuation date. investment contracts where investment management services are rendered are equal to fees received during the period 31.8.1 Amounts received and benefits paid concerned plus the movement in the DAC asset and DRL liability, Amounts received under investment contracts, being additional less expenses incurred. investments by the policyholders, are recorded as deposits to investment contract liabilities whereas benefits incurred are Where these contracts provide for minimum investment return recorded as deductions from investment contract liabilities. guarantees, provision was made for the fair value of the embedded option. The valuation methodology is the same as the methodology Service fee income on investment management contracts is applied to investment guarantees on insurance contracts. recognised as and when the services are rendered. Service fee income includes policy administration fees, surrender charges 31.9 Investment contracts without DPF, and bid offer spreads on premium allocations. The surrender without provision of investment management charges are applied based on regulation 5 issued by the Financial services Services Board. The Group issues single premium investment contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms under this category (guaranteed endowments 31.8.2 Deferred revenue liability (“DRL”) and term certain annuities) A DRL is recognised in respect of fees paid at the inception of the contract by the policyholder which are directly attributable to a 31.9.1 Valuation contract. The DRL is then released to revenue as the investment The liabilities of endowments with guaranteed maturity values are management services are provided, over the expected duration of fair valued using a valuation model, as the policies are not traded the contract, as a constant percentage of expected gross profit in an active market. The model values the liabilities as the present margins (including investment income) arising from the contract. value of the maturity values, using appropriate market related The pattern of expected profit margins is based on historical and yields to maturity net of tax and investment management expected future experience and is updated at the end of each expenses. If liabilities calculated in this manner fall short of the accounting period. The resulting change to the carrying value of single premium paid at inception of the policy, the liability is the DRL is recognised in revenue. increased to the level of the single premium, to ensure that no profit is recognised at inception. This additional liability is 31.8.3 DAC asset amortised over the lifetime of the policy. The amortisation pattern The DAC asset represents the right to receive future investment is such that profits are recognised in line with expected investment management fees. Commissions paid, including trail commissions, returns on the underlying assets supporting the liabilities. The and other incremental acquisition costs are incurred when new amortisation pattern is determined at point of sale and not re investment contracts are obtained or existing investment contracts adjusted during the term of the policy contract. are renewed. These costs, if specifically attributable to an investment contract with an investment management service 31.9.2 Amounts received and benefits paid element, are deferred and amortised over the expected life of the Amounts received under this class of investment contracts, being contract, as a constant percentage of expected gross profit additional investments and investment returns, are recorded as margins (including investment income) arising from the contract. deposits to investment contract liabilities whereas benefits paid The pattern of expected profit margins is based on historical and are recorded as deductions from investment contract liabilities. expected future experience and is updated at the end of each accounting period. The resulting change to the carrying value of the 31.10 Embedded derivatives in DAC is recognised as an expense in profit or loss. Amortisation of insurance contracts the DAC is done separately for each policy contract. An impairment The Group does not separately measure embedded derivatives test is conducted annually at the reporting date on the DAC balance that meet the definition of an insurance contract or options to to ensure that the amount will be recovered from future revenue surrender insurance contracts for a fixed amount (or an amount generated by the applicable remaining investment management based on a fixed amount and an interest rate). All other embedded contracts. derivatives are separated and carried at fair value if they are not closely related to the host insurance contract and meet the 31.8.4 Onerous contracts definition of a derivative. Embedded derivatives that are separated The Group recognises a provision for an onerous contract, when from the host contract are fair valued through profit or loss. the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the A number of contracts contain embedded derivatives in the form of contract. guaranteed maturity values. Refer to note 31.6.3. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 255 Accounting policies / continued 31.11 Reinsurance contracts holders, including amounts due to brokers in respect of trail Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers under which it commission. If there is objective evidence that the insurance is compensated for losses on one or more contracts issued by the receivable is impaired, Group reduces the carrying amount of the Group and that meet the classification requirements for insurance insurance receivable accordingly and recognises the impairment contracts, are classified as reinsurance contracts held. Contracts loss in profit or loss. Group gathers the objective evidence that an that do not meet these classification requirements are classified insurance receivable is impaired using the same process adopted as financial assets. for loans and receivables. The impairment loss is also calculated The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance following the same method used for these financial assets. contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets. These assets consist of short term balances due from reinsurers 32 Customer loyalty programmes (classified as loans and receivables), as well as long term The Group operates a customer loyalty programme in terms of receivables (classified as reinsurance assets) that are dependent which it undertakes to provide goods and services to certain on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related customers. The reward credits are accounted for as a separately insurance contracts. identifiable component of the fee and commission income transactions of which they form a part. The consideration Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured allocated to the reward credits is measured at the fair value of the consistently with the amounts associated with the related insurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reward credit and recognised over the period in which the reinsurance contract. customer utilises the reward credits. Reinsurance liabilities consist of premiums payable for reinsurance Expenses relating to the provision of the reward credits are contracts and are recognised as an expense when due. recognised as an expense as they are incurred. The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on an 33 Service concession arrangements annual basis. If there is objective evidence that the reinsurance Service concession arrangements are recognised if the Group acts asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the as an operator in the provision of public services. Where the Group reinsurance asset to its recoverable amount and recognises that has a contractual right to recover the amount receivable in respect impairment loss in profit or loss for the period. The Group gathers of the arrangements from the government organisation the the objective evidence that a reinsurance asset is impaired using amount receivable is classified as a financial asset and is accounted the same process adopted for financial assets held at amortised cost. The impairment loss is also calculated following the same for in terms of the Group’s policy for financial assets. Alternatively, method used for these financial assets. where the Group is entitled to collect the monies for usage from the public the Group recognises an intangible asset. The intangible 31.12 Receivables and payables related to asset is measured in accordance with the Group’s policy for insurance and investment contracts intangible assets and amortised over its useful life. Fee income Receivables and payables are recognised when due. These include earned from public usage is included in fee and commission amounts due to and from agents, brokers and insurance contract income as it is receivable. 256 34 Reclassification of prior year numbers During the financial year the following statement of financial position and income statement reclassifications were made: Amount as previously Amount reported as restated Difference Explanation 30 June 2008 Statement of financial position Assets Reinsurance assets arising in the Group's Namibian operations have been classified from accounts receivable to a separate line, reinsurance assets, on the face of the statement of financial position. The reclassification was done to enhance disclosure relating to the insurance operations in Namibia and ensure consistent treatment with the Accounts receivable 7 806 7 417 (389) Group's other insurance operations. Reinsurance assets 550 939 389 Refer to accounts receivable. No other amounts reported in the statement of financial position or income statement were affected by the above reclassification. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 257 Accounting policies / continued 34 Reclassification of prior year numbers continued Amount as previously Amount reported as restated Difference Explanation 30 June 2009 Income statement Momentum reclassified as a discontinued operation in terms Interest and similar income 60 516 51 735 8 781 of IFRS 5. Interest expense and similar charges (34 526) (34 446) (80) Refer above. Net interest income before impairment of advances 25 990 17 289 8 701 Impairment of advances (8 024) (8 024) – Net interest income after impairment of advances 17 966 9 265 8 701 Non interest income 10 649 20 339 (9 690) Refer above. Net insurance premium income 6 464 – 6 464 Refer above. Net claims and benefits paid (5 939) – (5 939) Refer above. Increase in value of policyholder liabilities 6 525 (284) 6 809 Refer above. Income from operations 35 665 29 320 6 345 Refer above. Operating expenses (27 933) (23 028) (4 905) Refer above. Net income from operations 7 732 6 292 1 440 Refer above. Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 1 590 1 577 13 Refer above. Profit before tax 9 322 7 869 1 453 Refer above. Tax (1 484) (1 411) (73) Refer above. Net profit from continuing operations 7 838 6 458 1 380 Refer above. Discontinued operations Profit attributable to discontinued operations – 1 380 (1 380) Refer above. Reclassification had no impact Profit for the year 7 838 7 838 – on profit for the year. Statement of financial position Assets Reinsurance assets arising in the Group’s Namibian operations have been classified from accounts receivable to a separate line, reinsurance assets, on the face of the statement of financial position. The reclassification was done to enhance disclosure relating to the insurance operations in Namibia and ensure consistent treatment with the Accounts receivable 11 355 11 068 (287) Group’s other insurance operations. Reinsurance assets 8 143 8 430 287 Refer accounts receivable. Reclassification had no impact on net Total equity 52 097 52 097 asset value Statement of cash flows As a consequence of the above reclassifications, the cash flow statement has been accordingly restated. 258 Consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 June R million Notes 2010 2009 Continuing operations Interest and similar income 1 38 817 51 735 Interest expense and similar charges 1 (22 467) (34 446) Net interest income before impairment of advances 16 350 17 289 Impairment of advances 12 (5 686) (8 024) Net interest income after impairment of advances 10 664 9 265 Non interest income 2 26 761 20 339 Decrease/(increase) in value of policyholder liabilities 3 193 (284) Income from operations 37 618 29 320 Operating expenses 4 (25 311) (23 028) Net income from operations 12 307 6 292 Share of profit from associates and joint ventures 16 700 1 577 Profit before tax 13 007 7 869 Tax 5 (3 527) (1 411) Profit for the year from continuing operations 9 480 6 458 Discontinued operations Profit attributable to discontinued operations 22.1 1 194 1 380 Profit for the year 10 674 7 838 Attributable to: Ordinary equity holders 9 444 6 501 Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares 344 464 Equity holders of the Group 9 788 6 965 Non controlling interest 886 873 Profit for the year 10 674 7 838 From continuing operations and discontinued operations Earnings per share (cents) Basic 6 179.9 124.9 Diluted 6 178.1 124.7 From discontinued operations Earnings per share (cents) Basic 6 23.8 27.2 Diluted 6 23.6 26.6 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 259 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June R million Notes 2010 2009 Profit for the year 10 674 7 838 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges 7 (226) (1 228) Available-for-sale financial assets (69) 75 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (74) (641) Share of other comprehensive income of associates after tax and non controlling interest 39 73 Other comprehensive income for the year before tax (330) (1 721) Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 7 (17) 263 Other comprehensive income for the year (347) (1 458) Total comprehensive income for the year 10 327 6 380 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Ordinary shareholders 9 097 5 064 Non cumulative non redeemable preference shareholders 344 464 Equity holders of the Group 9 441 5 528 Non controlling interest 886 852 Total comprehensive income for the year 10 327 6 380 260 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 June Restated Restated R million Notes 2010 2009 2008 ASSETS Cash and short term funds 9 27 067 57 266 53 555 Derivative financial instruments 10 39 764 68 608 57 106 Advances 11 434 793 416 488 446 286 Investment securities and other investments 13 117 171 209 249 220 105 Commodities 14 2 365 1 323 1 916 Accounts receivable 15 5 743 11 068 7 417 Investments in associates and joint ventures 16 6 901 15 294 13 303 Property and equipment 17 10 018 10 220 8 859 Deferred tax asset 18 443 2 034 1 456 Intangible assets and deferred acquisition costs 19 2 104 5 698 4 497 Investment properties 20 138 2 156 3 808 Policy loans on insurance contracts 27 626 772 Reinsurance assets 21 524 8 430 939 Tax asset 935 883 833 Non current assets and disposal groups held for sale 22 197 247 508 3 092 Total assets 845 240 809 851 823 944 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Liabilities Deposits and current accounts 23 512 469 478 083 488 423 Short trading positions 24 16 735 25 002 33 450 Derivative financial instruments 10 36 035 55 556 46 595 Creditors and accruals 25 12 115 18 217 16 836 Provisions 26 3 359 2 961 3 275 Tax liability 157 331 666 Post retirement liabilities 27 2 162 2 089 1 980 Deferred tax liability 18 2 132 3 977 5 372 Long term liabilities 28 9 183 12 928 13 941 Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 29 1 868 40 725 43 417 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 30 101 109 196 111 344 Liabilities arising to third parties – 8 114 7 283 Deferred revenue liability 31 – 322 296 Liabilities directly associated with non current assets classified as held for sale 22 189 961 253 – Total liabilities 786 277 757 754 772 878 Equity Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders Ordinary shares 32 52 52 52 Share premium 32 1 491 1 300 1 036 Reserves 49 889 44 133 43 082 Capital and reserves attributable to ordinary equity holders 51 432 45 485 44 170 Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares 32 4 519 4 519 4 519 Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders 55 951 50 004 48 689 Non controlling interest 3 012 2 093 2 377 Total equity 58 963 52 097 51 066 Total equity and liabilities 845 240 809 851 823 944 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 261 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June Ordinary share capital and ordinary equity holders’ funds Share Share capital and Cash flow based Share Share share General hedge payment R million capital premium premium risk reserve reserve reserve Balance as at 30 June 2008 52 1 036 1 088 8 602 2 248 Issue of share capital – – – – – – Movement in other reserves – – – 1 – 58 Ordinary dividends – – – – – – Preference dividends – – – – – – Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries – – – – – – Consolidation of treasury shares – 264 264 – – – Total comprehensive income for the period – – – – (894) – Balance as at 30 June 2009 52 1 300 1 352 9 (292) 2 306 Issue of share capital – – – – – – Movement in other reserves – – – – – 181 Ordinary dividends – – – – – – Preference dividends – – – – – – Transfer to/(from) reserves – – – 3 – – Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries – – – – 2 – Consolidation of treasury shares – 191 191 – – – Total comprehensive income for the period – – – – (176) – Balance as at 30 June 2010 52 1 491 1 543 12 (466) 2 487 262 Ordinary share capital and ordinary equity holders’ funds Non Reserves cumulative attributable non AvailableCurrency to ordinary redeemable Non for-sale translation Other Retained equity preference controlling reserve reserve reserves earnings holders shares interest Total equity 1 107 1 365 (185) 37 937 43 082 4 519 2 377 51 066 – – – – – – 13 13 – – (51) – 8 – (138) (130) – – – (3 764) (3 764) – (804) (4 568) – – – – – (464) – (464) – – (34) – (34) – (207) (241) – – – (223) (223) – – 41 – (615) 72 6 501 5 064 464 852 6 380 1 107 750 (198) 40 451 44 133 4 519 2 093 52 097 – – – – – – 7 7 – – (440) 150 (109) – (62) (171) – – – (2 955) (2 955) – (420) (3 375) – – – – – (344) – (344) – – – (3) – – – – – – 2 (27) (23) – 508 485 – – – (254) (254) – – (63) (138) (52) 19 9 444 9 097 344 886 10 327 969 698 (617) 46 806 49 889 4 519 3 012 58 963 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 263 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 30 June Restated R million Notes 2010 2009 Cash flows from operating activities continuing operations Cash receipts from customers 34.2 60 073 66 955 Cash paid to customers, suppliers and employees 34.3 (44 153) (52 391) Dividends received 3 148 4 214 Dividends paid 34.7 (3 299) (3 700) Dividends paid to non controlling interest (420) (804) Net cash flows from operating activities continuing operations 34.1 15 349 14 274 (Decrease)/increase in income earning assets 34.4 (34 194) 7 507 Decrease/(increase) in deposits and other liabilities 34.5 31 194 (21 321) Net cash flows from operating funds (3 000) (13 814) Tax paid 34.6 (2 697) (2 245) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities continuing operations 9 652 (1 785) Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities from discontinued operations (9 709) 11 546 Cash flows from investing activities continuing operations Acquisition of property and equipment (2 197) (2 963) Proceeds from the disposal of property and equipment 389 278 Acquisition of investment properties (138) – Proceeds on the disposal of investments 594 552 Acquisition of subsidiaries 34.8 (982) (18) Proceeds on disposal of subsidiary 34.8 537 – Proceeds on sale of advances books 34.9 22 1 768 Acquisition of associates and joint ventures 34.10 (204) (1 542) Proceeds on the disposal of associates and joint ventures 34.10 2 027 508 Acquisition of intangible assets 114 (1 474) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities from continuing operations 162 (2 891) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities from discontinued operations 33 (2 223) Cash flows from financing activities continuing operations Proceeds from/(repayment of) long term borrowings 1 085 (1 397) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities from continuing operations 1 085 (1 397) Net cash inflow from financing activities from discontinued operations 2 117 491 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from continuing and discontinued operations 3 340 3 741 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 34.11 57 266 53 555 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 60 606 57 296 Cash and cash equivalents acquired* – 35 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of* (36) – Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (95) (65) Transfer to non current assets held for sale (33 408) – Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 34.11 27 067 57 266 * Cash and cash equivalents sold and bought relate to cash balances held by subsidiaries acquired and sold during the year. 264 Consolidated statement of headline earnings and dividends for the year ended 30 June 2010 2009 Headline earnings per share (cents) Basic 180.1 133.3 Diluted 178.3 133.1 Ordinary dividends per share (cents) Interim 34.0 34.0 Final 43.0 22.0 Total dividends per ordinary share (cents) 77.0 56.0 Headline earnings is calculated in terms of Circular 3/2009. Basic headline earnings Basic headline earnings per share is calculated by dividing the Group’s attributable earnings to ordinary equity holders after excluding separately identifiable remeasurements, net of tax and non controlling interest, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as treasury shares. Headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders (R million) 9 453 6 939 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5 248 177 525 5 206 910 888 Diluted headline earnings Diluted headline earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Diluted headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders (R million) 9 453 6 939 Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 5 302 431 206 5 213 551 371 2010 2009 R million Gross Net* Gross Net* Headline earnings reconciliation from continuing operations Attributable earnings to ordinary equity shareholders 13 007 8 249 7 869 5 116 Adjusted for – Gain on a bargain purchase (203) (148) – – – Loss on the disposal of property and equipment 2 2 4 4 – (Gain)/loss on the disposal of subsidiaries (115) (112) 27 27 – Impairment of assets in terms of IAS 36 175 175 – – – Impairment of intangible assets – – 117 104 – Gain on disposal/impairment of available-for-sale assets (177) (177) (2) (2) – Loss on sale of MotorOne finance advances book – – 203 203 – Loss on sale of Private Label book – – 39 28 – Other 4 4 10 10 Headline earnings to ordinary equity shareholders 12 775 8 075 8 267 5 490 Attributable earnings to ordinary equity shareholders 1 890 1 195 1 453 1 385 Adjusted for – Loss due to the fair value adjustment of a non current asset held for sale 100 100 – – – Impairment of goodwill 71 71 3 3 – Impairment of intangible assets 12 12 61 61 Headline earnings to ordinary equity shareholders 2 073 1 378 1 517 1 449 * Net of tax and non controlling interest. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 265 Consolidated statement of headline earnings and dividends / continued for the year ended 30 June Cents 2010 2009 Basic headline earnings per share (cents) 180.1 133.3 From continuing operations (cents) 152.8 104.8 From discontinued operations (cents) 27.3 28.5 Diluted headline earnings per share (cents) 178.3 133.1 From continuing operations (cents) 151.3 104.6 From discontinued operations (cents) 27.0 28.5 2010 2009 Dividend information Dividend on non cumulative non redeemable preference share (cents) “B” preference shares – 22 February 2010 / 23 February 2009 342 519 – 30 August 2010 /31 August 2009 355 423 Total “B” preference shares 697 942 “B1” preference shares* – 23 February 2009 – 519 – 31 August 2009 – 423 Total “B1” preference shares” – 942 * The “B1” preference shares were incorporated in the “B” preference shares effective 4 January 2010. Dividends declared (R million) Ordinary dividends 4 341 3 157 Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares 314 424 266 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements for the year ended 30 June 1 ANALYSIS OF INTEREST INCOME AND INTEREST EXPENDITURE 2010 Non financial Amortised Hedging assets and R million Fair value cost instruments liabilities Total 1.1 Interest and similar income Interest on: – Advances – 33 446 – – 33 446 – Cash and short term funds 61 218 – – 279 – Investment securities and other investments 3 673 115 – – 3 788 – Unwinding of discounted present value on non performing loans – 253 – – 253 – Accrued on off market advances – 8 – – 8 – Other 100 619 207 117 1 043 Interest and similar income 3 834 34 659 207 117 38 817 2009 Non financial Amortised Hedging assets and R million Fair value cost instruments liabilities Total Interest on: – Advances 77 44 071 – – 44 148 – Cash and short term funds 172 272 – – 444 – Investment securities and other investments 4 963 101 – – 5 064 – Unwinding of discounted present value on non performing loans – 409 – – 409 – Accrued on off market advances – 7 – – 7 – Other 243 752 399 269 1 663 Interest and similar income 5 455 45 612 399 269 51 735 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 267 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 1 ANALYSIS OF INTEREST INCOME AND INTEREST EXPENDITURE continued 2010 Non financial Amortised Hedging assets and R million Fair value cost instruments liabilities Total 1.2 Interest expense and similar charges Interest on: – Deposits from banks and financial institutions (43) (641) – – (684) – Current accounts – (7 050) – – (7 050) – Savings deposits – (68) – – (68) – Term deposit accounts (4 246) (3 639) – – (7 885) – Negotiable certificates of deposit (3 443) (177) – – (3 620) – Long term liabilities (409) (1 106) – – (1 515) – Other (327) (671) (639) (8) (1 645) Interest expense and similar charges (8 468) (13 352) (639) (8) (22 467) 2009 Non financial Amortised Hedging assets and R million Fair value cost instruments liabilities Total Interest on: – Deposits from banks and financial institutions (118) (854) – – (972) – Current accounts (118) (11 721) – – (11 839) – Savings deposits – (142) – – (142) – Term deposit accounts (5 323) (5 398) – – (10 721) – Negotiable certificates of deposit (5 884) (192) – – (6 076) – Finance leases – – – (119) (119) – Long term liabilities (636) (1 920) – – (2 556) – Other (943) (954) (95) (29) (2 021) Interest expense and similar charges (13 022) (21 181) (95) (148) (34 446) 268 R million 2010 2009 2 Non interest income Fee and commission income – Instruments at amortised cost 12 093 11 487 – Instruments at fair value 587 94 – Non financial assets and liabilities 4 378 3 863 Fee and commission income 17 058 15 444 Fair value income – Held for trading 2 009 (1 047) – Designated at fair value through profit or loss 2 047 1 786 – Other (35) (92) Fair value income 4 021 647 Gains less losses from investing activities – Designated at fair value through profit or loss 262 (147) – Available-for-sale 87 (3) – Other 1 368 699 – Impairment of investment securities and other investments 2 (13) Gains less loss from investing activities 1 719 536 Other non interest income 3 963 3 712 Total 26 761 20 339 Fee and commission income: – Banking fee and commission income 12 413 11 571 – Card commissions 1 748 1 596 – Cash deposit fees 1 437 1 360 – Commissions: bills, drafts and cheques 532 669 – Bank charges 8 696 7 946 – Knowledge based fee and commission income 810 772 – Non banking fee and commission income 3 257 2 673 – Asset management and related fees 578 428 Fee and commission income 17 058 15 444 Non banking fee and commission income earned relates to fees and commissions for rendering services to clients other than those related to the banking operations. This includes commission earned on the sale of insurance products. Fair value income 4 021 647 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 269 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 2 NON INTEREST INCOME continued Gains less losses from investing activities – Gains on investment securities and other investments 595 612 – Reclassification from other comprehensive income on derecognition/sale of available-for-sale assets 605 2 – Preference share dividends 230 145 – Other dividends received 7 125 – Share of profit of associates and joint ventures (note 16) 700 1 577 – Unrealised profit/(loss) on assets held against employee liabilities 151 (364) – Net income on non recourse vehicles – 59 – Gain on disposal of subsidiaries 139 – – Other investment income (174) (30) – Impairment of investment securities – (13) – Loss on remeasuring the equity interest previously held in the acquiree (37) – – Gain from bargain purchase 203 – Gross gains less losses from investing activities 2 419 2 113 Less: Profit of associates and joint ventures (disclosed separately on the face of income statement – note 16) (700) (1 577) Gains less losses from investing activities 1 719 536 Other non interest income – Gain/(loss) on sale of property and equipment 53 (4) – Other income 3 910 3 716 Other non interest income 3 963 3 712 Total non interest income 26 761 20 339 3 DECREASE/(INCREASE) IN VALUE OF POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES Fair value adjustment on investment contracts (note 30) (14) 41 Net transfer to/(from) policyholders under insurance contracts (note 29) 207 (325) Transfer to policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 207 (325) Increase in value of policyholder liabilities 193 (284) 270 R million 2010 2009 4 OPERATING EXPENSES Fee and commission expense (167) (171) Auditors’ remuneration – Audit fees (112) (106) – Fees for other services (17) (18) – Technical advice (1) (8) – Other (16) (10) – Prior year under provision (1) (2) Auditors’ remuneration (130) (126) Amortisation of intangible assets – Development cost (14) (10) – Trademarks (57) (54) – Deferred acquisition cost asset – (8) – Software (94) (68) – Other (24) (26) Amortisation of intangible assets (189) (166) Depreciation – Property (389) (367) – Freehold property (105) (78) – Leasehold premises (284) (289) – Equipment (979) (871) – Computer equipment (592) (544) – Furniture and fittings (158) (152) – Motor vehicles (102) (62) – Office equipment (127) (113) – Capitalised leased assets (62) (72) Depreciation (1 430) (1 310) Impairments incurred – Goodwill (78) (73) – Property and equipment (107) (13) – Software (4) – – Other 2 (10) Impairments incurred (187) (96) Impairments reversed – Property and equipment – 1 – Other – 15 Impairments reversed – 16 Operating lease charges – Property (713) (805) – Equipment (177) (231) – Motor vehicles (5) (13) Operating lease charges (895) (1 049) FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 271 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 4 OPERATING EXPENSES continued Professional fees – Managerial (124) (61) – Technical (527) (573) – Other (266) (311) Professional fees (917) (945) Direct staff costs – Salaries, wages and allowances (8 698) (8 084) – Contributions to employee benefit funds (1 308) (1 218) – Defined contribution schemes (1 112) (990) – Defined benefit schemes (note 27) (196) (228) – Social security levies (132) (117) – Share based payments (note 33) (679) 21 – Other (360) (516) Direct staff cost (11 177) (9 914) – Other staff related cost (1 901) (1 302) Total staff cost (13 078) (11 216) Other operating costs – Insurance (195) (72) – Advertising and marketing (979) (903) – Maintenance (868) (778) – Property (624) (462) – Computer (770) (851) – Stationery (232) (244) – Telecommunications (496) (540) – Customer loyalty programme (249) (212) – Conveyance of cash (327) (278) – Origination costs (27) (26) – Other operating expenditure (3 087) (2 956) – Total directors’ remuneration (19) (23) – Services as directors (19) (22) – Compensation for loss of office – (1) Other operating costs (7 873) (7 345) Value added tax (net) (431) (646) Stamp duties (14) (10) Other – 36 Indirect tax (445) (620) Total operating expenses (25 311) (23 028) 272 R million 2010 2009 5 TAX Direct tax Normal tax – Current (2 187) (1 606) – Current year (2 394) (1 045) – Prior year adjustment 207 (561) – Deferred (555) 724 – Current year (463) 51 – Prior year adjustment (92) 673 – Share of associate and joint venture tax (note 16) (447) (416) Total normal tax (3 189) (1 298) Foreign company and withholding tax – Current (445) (375) – Current year (446) (375) – Prior year adjustment 1 – – Deferred tax 148 201 – Current year 151 200 – Prior year adjustment (3) 1 Total foreign company and withholding tax (297) (174) Secondary tax on companies 17 133 – Current year (57) (219) – Deferred 74 352 – Current year (22) (11) – Prior year adjustment 96 362 – Taxation rate adjustment – 1 Capital gains tax (50) (58) – Current tax (51) (59) – Deferred tax 1 1 Customer tax adjustment account (8) (14) Total tax (3 527) (1 411) Tax rate reconciliation – South African normal tax % % Effective rate of tax 27.0 18.0 Total tax has been affected by: – Non taxable income 7.3 19.0 – Prior year adjustments 1.6 0.1 – Effect of income at capital gains tax rate (0.4) (0.7) – Other non deductible items (7.0) (7.2) Standard rate of South African tax 28.0 28.0 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 273 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 2010 2009 6 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as treasury shares. Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders (R million) 9 444 6 501 From continuing operations 8 249 5 116 From discontinued operations 1 195 1 385 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5 248 177 525 5 206 910 888 Basic earnings per share (cents) 179.9 124.9 From continuing operations (cents) 156.1 97.6 From discontinued operations (cents) 23.8 27.3 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders (R million) 9 444 6 501 From continuing operations 8 249 5 116 From discontinued operations 1 195 1 385 Actual number of shares: Shares in issue as at 1 July 5 637 941 689 5 637 830 218 – Outperformance conversion December 2008 – 111 471 Number of shares in issue as at 30 June 5 637 941 689 5 637 941 689 Less: Treasury shares (393 425 954) (424 341 687) – Staff schemes (164 470 512) (217 817 733) – BEE staff trusts (171 401 072) (171 401 072) – Policyholder and mutual funds “deemed treasury shares” (57 554 370) (35 122 882) Number of shares in issue (after treasury shares) 5 244 515 735 5 213 600 002 Weighted average number of shares Actual number of shares in issue as at 1 July 5 637 941 689 5 637 830 218 – Outperformance conversion weighting – 65 025 Weighted average number of shares before treasury shares 5 637 941 689 5 637 895 243 Less: Treasury shares (389 764 164) (430 984 355) – Staff schemes (181 015 451) (225 295 065) – BEE staff trusts (171 401 072) (171 401 072) – Policyholder and mutual funds “deemed treasury shares” (37 347 641) (34 288 218) Weighted average number of shares 5 248 177 525 5 206 910 888 Weighted average number of shares 5 248 177 525 5 206 910 888 Dilution impact – Staff schemes 42 815 288 5 455 868 – BEE staff trust 11 438 393 1 184 615 Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 5 302 431 206 5 213 551 371 Diluted earnings per share (cents) 178.1 124.7 From continuing operations (cents) 154.5 98.1 From discontinued operations (cents) 23.6 26.6 274 R million 2010 2009 7 DISCLOSURE OF THE COMPONENTS AND TAX EFFECTS OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Cash flow hedges (refer to note 10) (176) (894) Losses arising during the year (656) (829) Less: Reclassification adjustments for amounts included in profit or loss 430 (399) Deferred tax 50 334 Available-for-sale financial assets (136) 4 Gains arising during the year 534 73 Less: Reclassification adjustments for amounts included in profit or loss (605) (2) Deferred tax (67) (71) Non controlling interest 2 4 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations (74) (641) Losses arising during the year (52) (615) Non controlling interest (22) (26) Share of other comprehensive income of associates after tax and non controlling interest 39 73 Other comprehensive income (347) (1 458) FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 275 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 8 ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured either at fair value or at amortised cost. The principal accounting policies on page 232 to page 258 describe how the classes of financial instruments are measured and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised. The following table analyses the financial assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position per category of financial instrument to which they are assigned and therefore by measurement basis: Designated at fair value Held-toHeld for through profit maturity R million Note trading or loss* investments ASSETS Cash and short term funds 9 – – – Derivative financial instruments 10 39 285 – – Advances 11 – 117 387 120 Investment securities and other investments 13 25 897 58 634 254 Commodities 14 2 365 – – Accounts receivable 15 – – – Investments in associates and joint ventures 16 – – – Property and equipment 17 – – – Deferred tax asset 18 – – – Intangible assets and deferred acquisition costs 19 – – – Investment properties 20 – – – Policy loans – – – Reinsurance assets 21 – – – Tax asset – – – Non current assets and disposal groups held for sale 22 – – – Total assets 67 547 176 021 374 LIABILITIES Deposits and current accounts 23 – 233 296 – Short trading positions 24 16 735 – – Derivative financial instruments 10 34 909 – – Creditors and accruals 25 – – – Provisions 26 – – – Tax liability – – – Post retirement liabilities 27 – – – Deferred tax liability 18 – – – Long term liabilities 28 – 1 174 – Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 29 – – – Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 30 – 101 – Liabilities directly associated with non current assets classified as held for sale 22 – – – Total liabilities 51 644 234 571 – * Investment securities designated at fair value through profit and loss include non recourse investments of R16 036 million (2009: R16 165 million). Refer to note 13. 276 2010 Derivatives Derivatives Financial designated as designated as Available-forliabilities fair value cash flow Non financial Loans and sale financial at amortised hedging hedging assets and receivables assets cost instruments instruments liabilities Total 27 067 – – – – – 27 067 – – – – 479 – 39 764 316 986 300 – – – – 434 793 2 365 30 021 – – – – 117 171 – – – – – – 2 365 5 743 – – – – – 5 743 – – – – – 6 901 6 901 – – – – – 10 018 10 018 – – – – – 443 443 – – – – – 2 104 2 104 – – – – – 138 138 27 – – – – – 27 – – – – – 524 524 – – – – – 935 935 – – – – – 197 247 197 247 352 188 30 321 – – 479 218 310 845 240 – – 279 173 – – – 512 469 – – – – – – 16 735 – – – 56 1 070 – 36 035 – – 12 115 – – – 12 115 – – – – – 3 359 3 359 – – – – – 157 157 – – – – – 2 162 2 162 – – – – – 2 132 2 132 – – 7 796 – – 213 9 183 – – – – – 1 868 1 868 – – – – – – 101 – – – – – 189 961 189 961 – – 299 084 56 1 070 199 852 786 277 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 277 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 8 ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued Designated at fair value Held-toHeld for through profit or maturity R million Note trading loss* investments ASSETS Cash and short term funds 9 – – – Derivative financial instruments 10 68 232 – – Advances 11 – 95 161 163 Investment securities and other investments 13 38 678 135 089 183 Commodities 14 1 323 – – Accounts receivable 15 – – – Investments in associates and joint ventures 16 – – – Property and equipment 17 – – – Deferred tax asset 18 – – – Intangible assets and deferred acquisition costs 19 – – – Investment properties 20 – – – Policy loans on insurance contracts – – – Reinsurance assets 21 – – – Tax asset – – – Non current assets and disposal groups held for sale 22 – – – Total assets 108 233 230 250 346 LIABILITIES Deposits and current accounts 23 – 207 134 – Short trading positions 24 25 002 – – Derivative financial instruments 10 54 638 – – Creditors and accruals 25 – – – Provisions 26 – – – Tax liability – – – Post retirement liabilities 27 – – – Deferred tax liability 18 – – – Long term liabilities 28 – 2 810 – Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 29 – – – Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 30 – 109 196 – Liabilities arising to third parties – 8 114 – Deferred revenue liability 31 – – – Liabilities directly associated with non current assets classified as held for sale 22 – – – Total liabilities 79 640 327 254 – * Investment securities designated at fair value through profit and loss include non recourse investments of R16 036 million (2009: R16 165 million). Refer to note 13. 278 2009 Derivatives Derivatives Financial designated designated Available-forliabilities at as fair value as cash flow Non financial Loans and sale financial amortised hedging hedging assets and receivables assets cost instruments instruments liabilities Total 57 266 – – – – – 57 266 – – – – 376 – 68 608 320 705 459 – – – – 416 488 511 34 788 – – – – 209 249 – – – – – – 1 323 11 068 – – – – – 11 068 – – – – – 15 294 15 294 – – – – – 10 220 10 220 – – – – – 2 034 2 034 – – – – – 5 698 5 698 – – – – – 2 156 2 156 626 – – – – – 626 – – – – – 8 430 8 430 – – – – – 883 883 – – – – – 508 508 390 176 35 247 – – 376 45 223 809 851 – – 270 949 – – – 478 083 – – – – – – 25 002 – – – 80 838 – 55 556 – – 18 217 – – – 18 217 – – – – – 2 961 2 961 – – – – – 331 331 – – – – – 2 089 2 089 – – – – – 3 977 3 977 – – 10 117 – – 1 12 928 – – – – – 40 725 40 725 – – – – – – 109 196 – – – – – – 8 114 – – – – – 322 322 – – – – – 253 253 – – 299 283 80 838 50 659 757 754 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 279 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 9 CASH AND SHORT TERM FUNDS Coins and bank notes 4 279 3 738 Money at call and short notice 2 217 3 056 Balances with central banks 11 513 12 559 Balances with other banks 9 058 6 925 Money market investments – 30 988 Cash and short term funds 27 067 57 266 The carrying value of cash and short term funds approximates the fair value. Mandatory reserve balances included above : 10 483 11 661 Banks are required to deposit a minimum average balance, calculated monthly, with the central bank, which is not available for use in the Group’s day-to-day operations. These deposits bear little or no interest. Money at short notice constitutes amounts withdrawable in 32 days or less. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis for cash and short term funds. 10 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Use of derivatives The Group transacts in derivatives for three purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, for proprietary trading purposes, and to manage and hedge the Group’s own risk. For accounting purposes, derivative instruments are classified as held either for trading or hedging. Derivatives that are held as hedging instruments are formally designated as hedging instruments as defined in IAS 39. All other derivatives are classified as held for trading. The held for trading classification includes two types of derivative instruments those used in sales and trading activities, and those that do not meet the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting. The second type of held for trading category includes derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value. The Group’s derivative activities give rise to significant open positions in portfolios of derivatives. These positions are managed constantly to ensure that they remain within acceptable risk levels, with offsetting deals being utilised to achieve this where necessary. Whilst the Group employs the same credit risk management procedures to approve the potential credit exposures for derivatives as are used for traditional lending, the calculations and procedures used to assess credit risk for derivatives are more complex. The notional amounts of the derivative instruments do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments, and therefore, do not present the Group’s exposure to credit or pricing risk. Derivative instruments become favourable (assets) or unfavourable (liabilities) based on changes in market interest rates. The aggregate notional amount of derivative financial instruments, the extent to which the instruments are favourable or unfavourable, and thus the aggregate fair value can fluctuate significantly, over time. The Group’s detailed risk management strategy, including the use of hedging instruments in risk management, is set out in the risk report on pages 114 to 231 of the annual report. Trading derivatives Most of the Group’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks. Trading activities in derivatives are entered into principally for the purpose of generating profits from short term fluctuations in price or margin. Positions may be traded actively or be held over a period of time to benefit from expected changes in currency rates, interest rates, equity prices or other market parameters. Trading includes market making, positioning and arbitrage activities. Market making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume; positioning means managing market risk positions in the expectation of benefiting from favourable movements in prices, rates or indices; arbitrage involves identifying and profiting from price differentials between markets and products. 280 10 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued As mentioned above, other derivatives classified as held for trading include non qualifying hedging derivatives, ineffective hedging derivatives and the components of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge effectiveness. Non qualifying hedging derivatives are entered into for risk management purposes but do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting. These include derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value. Momentum Group The Momentum Group makes use of derivative instruments in order to achieve exposure to a desired asset spread where liquidity constraints limit the purchase of sufficient physical assets as well as to provide a hedge against a known liability. Derivative contracts are not entered into purely for speculative purposes. The Momentum Group’s asset managers have been mandated to enter into derivative contracts on an agency basis, with agreed upon internal controls being instituted to ensure that exposure limits are adhered to. These controls include the regular monitoring of sensitivity analyses designed to measure the behaviour and exposure to derivative instruments under conditions of market stress. Other derivatives classified as held for trading include non qualifying hedging derivatives, ineffective hedging derivatives and the component of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge effectiveness. Non qualifying hedging derivatives are entered into for risk management purposes but do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting. These include derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value. These include derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value. Hedging instruments The Group uses the following financial instruments for hedging purposes: Forward rate agreements are negotiated interest rate futures that call for cash settlement at a future date for the difference between the contractual and market rates of interest, based on a notional principal amount. Currency and interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another, resulting in the economic exchange of interest rates (for example fixed rate for floating rate). No exchange of principal takes place. The Group hedges interest rate risk in it’s statement of financial position using separate risk portfolios. These portfolios are managed under separate mandates, which take into account the underlying risk inherent in each portfolio. Counterparty credit risk is managed centrally by FirstRand Credit. The inherent complexity of interest rate risks in the Group statement of financial position and consequently in each portfolio, requires that interest rate risk be analysed and managed using various analytical tools and frameworks. While each analytical process may highlight a different aspect of interest rate risk, each analytical tool is intended to corroborate and support the overall interest rate risk management objectives of the Group. Momentum Group The Momentum Group decided to hedge the fixed interest payable on its callable notes. The Momentum Group entered into a swap agreement with FirstRand Bank whereby Momentum earns fixed interest and pays variable interest. This was done to match the variable nature of the investment income earned on the shareholders’ portfolio. The Group’s fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate and currency swaps that are used to protect against changes in fair value of fixed rate long term financial instruments and non rand denominated financial instruments due to movement in the market interest rates and currency fluctuations. For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised in profit or loss. If the hedge relationship is terminated, the fair value adjustment to the item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the item and is amortised to income as a yield adjustment over the remainder of the hedging period. Fair value hedges The Group’s fair value hedges principally consist of commodity and interest rate derivatives used to hedge the price risk associated with physical commodity positions and interest rate risk arising on fixed rate financial instruments. For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised in profit or loss. Upon discontinuance of the hedging relationship, any fair value adjustments recognised as part of the carrying amount of the hedged item in terms of fair value hedging requirements should continue to be included in the carrying amount of the item until it is disposed of. On disposal of the previously hedged item these fair value adjustments will be realised through profit or loss. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 281 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 10 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Gains or losses for the period arising from the change in fair value of fair value hedges: – on hedging instrument 104 213 – on hedged items attributable to the hedged risk (105) (141) Total (1) 72 Cash flow hedges Interest rate derivatives comprising mainly of interest rate swaps are utilised for hedging purposes to eliminate uncertainty and reduce the risk that the Group faces due to volatile interest rates. The Group accepts deposits at variable rates and designates pay fixed interest rate derivatives as cash flow hedges of future interest payments, effectively converting borrowings from floating to fixed rates. The Group also has assets at variable rates and designates receive fixed interest rate derivatives as cash flow hedges of future interest receipts. These instruments have quarterly resets and settlements. The amounts of these resets are dependant upon a number of factors including notional amounts, reset rates and reset dates. The maturities of these instruments are negotiated at the time of the deal and are dependant on future yields and maturity profile of the underlying hedged book. Underlying hedged items have monthly cash flows based on the underlying reference rate. A single swap cash flow hedges the cumulative change in cash flow for three subsequent months. The effective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Amounts accumulated in other comprehensive income are released to the income statement in periods in which movements in the hedged item will affect profit or loss. When hedging instruments are sold or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the gains or losses continue to be deferred in other comprehensive income and are released to profit or loss as the risks, previously hedged affects profit or loss. When the hedge risk is no longer expected to occur, the gains or losses deferred in other comprehensive income are released to profit or loss immediately. R million 2010 2009 Reconciliation of movements in the cash flow hedge reserve Opening balance (net of deferred tax) (292) 602 Amount recognised directly in other comprehensive income during the year (487) (607) Amounts reclassified from other comprehensive income and included in profit or loss for the year 311 (287) – Gross amount 432 (399) – Deferred tax (121) 112 Closing balance (468) (292) 282 10 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued During the period, the hedging relationship was highly effective and the Group deferred the lesser of changes in fair value on the hedging instruments and changes in fair value on the hedged items. As the changes on the hedging instruments were less than the changes on the hedged items, there was ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss. R million 2010 2009 Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement 20 – 2010 2009 R million Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Cash flows on the underlying hedged items are expected to impact the profit or loss as follows: – 1 – 3 months 5 061 (3 422) 2 740 (960) – 3 – 12 months 3 744 (2 763) 3 109 (1 298) – 1 – 5 years 1 321 (1 099) 2 119 (2 722) – Over 5 years – (10) 3 (2 985) Total 10 126 (7 294) 7 971 (7 965) 2010 2009 R million Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Cash flows on the hedging instruments are expected to be released to the profit or loss as follows: – 1 – 3 months (92) 9 (221) 258 – 3 – 12 months (316) 414 (433) 234 – 1 – 5 years (239) 651 (365) 190 – Over 5 years – 39 – 47 Total (647) 1 113 (1 019) 729 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 283 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 10 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 2010 Assets Liabilities R million Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Qualifying for hedge accounting Cash flow hedges Interest rate derivatives 27 417 479 32 653 1 070 – Swaps 27 417 479 32 653 1 070 Total cash flow hedges 27 417 479 32 653 1 070 Fair value hedges Commodity derivatives 861 – – – – Futures 861 – – – Interest rate derivatives – – 1 530 56 – Swaps – – 1 530 56 Total fair value hedges 861 – 1 530 56 Total qualifying for hedge accounting 28 278 479 34 183 1 126 2010 Assets Liabilities R million Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Held for trading Currency derivatives 223 515 7 431 202 930 5 193 – Forward rate agreements 2 050 1 003 230 128 – Swaps 162 877 4 299 144 403 3 480 – Options 8 018 547 7 009 308 – Futures 50 570 1 582 51 288 1 277 Interest rate derivatives 5 011 506 25 966 4 849 981 26 091 – Forward rate agreements 3 302 148 4 478 3 293 141 4 634 – Swaps 1 177 248 20 896 1 138 161 20 918 – Options 529 185 592 411 536 539 – Futures 2 925 – 7 143 – Equity derivatives 11 496 456 13 755 527 – Options 6 063 278 7 363 503 – Futures 5 433 178 6 392 24 Commodity derivatives 18 947 5 316 9 645 2 663 – Swaps 3 551 626 3 166 157 – Options 5 381 4 248 2 748 1 686 – Futures 10 015 442 3 731 820 Credit derivatives 1 416 116 3 043 435 Total held for trading 5 266 880 39 285 5 079 354 34 909 Total 5 295 158 39 764 5 113 537 36 035 284 10 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 2010 Assets: Derivative instruments Exchange traded Over the counter Total R million Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Qualifying for hedge accounting Cash flow hedges – – 27 417 479 27 417 479 Interest rate derivatives – – 27 417 479 27 417 479 Fair value hedges 861 – – – 861 – Commodity derivatives 861 – – – 861 – Not qualifying for hedge accounting Held for trading 12 900 1 5 253 980 39 284 5 266 880 39 285 Currency derivatives 67 – 223 448 7 431 223 515 7 431 Interest rate derivatives 3 933 – 5 007 573 25 966 5 011 506 25 966 Equity derivatives 303 1 11 193 455 11 496 456 Commodity derivatives 8 597 – 10 350 5 316 18 947 5 316 Credit derivatives – – 1 416 116 1 416 116 Total 13 761 1 5 281 397 39 763 5 295 158 39 764 2010 Liabilities: Derivative instruments Exchange traded Over the counter Total R million Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Qualifying for hedge accounting Cash flow hedges – – 32 653 1 070 32 653 1 070 Interest rate derivatives – – 32 653 1 070 32 653 1 070 Fair value hedges – – 1 530 56 1 530 56 Interest rate derivatives – – 1 530 56 1 530 56 Not qualifying for hedge accounting Held for trading 14 094 2 5 065 260 34 907 5 079 354 34 909 Currency derivatives 56 2 202 874 5 191 202 930 5 193 Interest rate derivatives 7 986 – 4 841 995 26 091 4 849 981 26 091 Equity derivatives 5 878 – 7 877 527 13 755 527 Commodity derivatives 174 – 9 471 2 663 9 645 2 663 Credit derivatives – – 3 043 435 3 043 435 Total 14 094 2 5 099 443 36 033 5 113 537 36 035 Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of derivatives. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 285 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 10 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 2009 Assets Liabilities R million Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Qualifying for hedge accounting Cash flow hedges Interest rate derivatives 27 298 376 32 445 838 – Swaps 27 298 376 32 445 838 Total cash flow hedges 27 298 376 32 445 838 Fair value hedges Commodity derivatives 28 – – – – Futures 28 – – – Interest rate derivatives – – 1 000 80 – Swaps – – 1 000 80 Total fair value hedges 28 – 1 000 80 Total qualifying for hedge accounting 27 326 376 33 445 918 Held for trading Currency derivatives 263 978 27 529 248 850 25 404 – Forward rate agreements 63 261 11 275 64 932 10 812 – Swaps 189 280 15 462 174 359 14 118 – Options 8 861 792 7 014 468 – Futures 2 576 – 2 545 6 Interest rate derivatives 3 198 517 28 458 2 933 975 27 185 – Forward rate agreements 2 248 951 7 986 2 069 015 8 387 – Swaps 916 641 20 155 840 949 18 453 – Options 30 658 317 23 047 343 – Futures 2 267 – 964 2 Equity derivatives 19 840 7 161 17 716 599 – Swaps 1 698 95 1 499 89 – Options 18 126 6 578 16 176 503 – Futures 16 488 41 7 Commodity derivatives 6 085 5 066 3 899 1 285 – Forward rate agreements 113 369 101 199 – Swaps 871 242 65 90 – Options 4 596 4 367 3 278 856 – Futures 505 88 455 140 Credit derivatives 2 336 18 3 086 165 Total held for trading 3 490 756 68 232 3 207 526 54 638 Total 3 518 082 68 608 3 240 971 55 556 286 10 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 2009 Assets: Derivative instruments Exchange traded Over the counter Total R million Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Qualifying for hedge accounting Cash flow hedges – – 27 298 376 27 298 376 Interest rate derivatives – – 27 298 376 27 298 376 Fair value hedges 28 – – – 28 – Commodity derivatives 28 – – – 28 – Not qualifying for hedge accounting Held for trading 9 573 1 757 3 481 183 66 475 3 490 756 68 232 Currency derivatives 2 576 4 261 402 27 525 263 978 27 529 Interest rate derivatives 4 950 – 3 193 567 28 459 3 198 517 28 459 Equity derivatives 1 642 1 753 18 198 5 407 19 840 7 160 Commodity derivatives 405 – 5 680 5 066 6 085 5 066 Credit derivatives – – 2 336 18 2 336 18 Total 9 601 1 757 3 508 481 66 851 3 518 082 68 608 2009 Liabilities: Derivative instruments Exchange traded Over the counter Total R million Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Qualifying for hedge accounting Cash flow hedges – – 32 445 838 32 445 838 Interest rate derivatives – – 32 445 838 32 445 838 Fair value hedges – – 1 000 80 1 000 80 Interest rate derivatives – – 1 000 80 1 000 80 Not qualifying for hedge accounting Held for trading 5 949 10 3 201 577 54 628 3 207 526 54 638 Currency derivatives 2 540 – 246 310 25 404 248 850 25 404 Interest rate derivatives 3 293 7 2 930 682 27 178 2 933 975 27 185 Equity derivatives 84 3 17 632 596 17 716 599 Commodity derivatives 32 – 3 867 1 285 3 899 1 285 Credit derivatives – – 3 086 165 3 086 165 Total 5 949 10 3 235 022 55 546 3 240 971 55 556 Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of derivatives. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 287 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 11 ADVANCES 2010 Designated at fair value through Loans and Held-toAvailableprofit or R million receivables maturity for-sale loss Total Sector analysis Agriculture 9 164 – – 3 422 12 586 Banks and financial services 11 657 – – 49 014 60 671 Building and property development 5 334 – – 14 231 19 565 Government, Land Bank and public authorities 4 272 – – 9 768 14 040 Individuals 256 494 133 300 144 257 071 Manufacturing and commerce 19 349 – – 13 700 33 049 Mining 1 582 – – 7 783 9 365 Transport and communication 1 892 – – 11 832 13 724 Other services 18 266 – – 7 493 25 759 Notional value of advances 328 010 133 300 117 387 445 830 Contractual interest suspended (2 056) (9) – – (2 065) Gross advances 325 954 124 300 117 387 443 765 Impairment of advances (note 12) (8 968) (4) – – (8 972) Net advances 316 986 120 300 117 387 434 793 Geographic analysis (based on credit risk) South Africa 300 487 133 300 111 244 412 164 Other Africa 21 026 – – 1 810 22 836 United Kingdom 4 683 – – 2 503 7 186 Other 1 814 – – 1 830 3 644 – Ireland – – – 68 68 – Other Europe 143 – – 517 660 – North America 292 – – 527 819 – South America 115 – – 276 391 – Australasia 1 187 – – 263 1 450 – Other 77 – – 179 256 Total value of advances 328 010 133 300 117 387 445 830 Contractual interest suspended (2 056) (9) – – (2 065) Gross advances 325 954 124 300 117 387 443 765 Impairment of advances (note 12) (8 968) (4) – – (8 972) Net advances 316 986 120 300 117 387 434 793 288 11 ADVANCES continued 2010 Designated at fair value through Loans and Held-toAvailableprofit or R million receivables maturity for-sale loss Total Category analysis Overdrafts and managed accounts 26 168 – – – 26 168 Loans to other financial institutions 3 023 – – 2 194 5 217 Card loans 12 013 – – – 12 013 Instalment sales 65 899 – – – 65 899 Lease payments receivable 18 530 – – – 18 530 Property finance 170 351 133 – 3 298 173 782 – Home loans 160 094 133 – – 160 227 – Commercial property finance 10 257 – – 3 298 13 555 Personal loans 11 352 – – – 11 352 Preference share advances 1 044 – – 23 537 24 581 Assets under agreement to resell 535 – – 37 574 38 109 Investment bank term loans 106 – – 46 795 46 901 Other 18 989 – 300 3 989 23 278 Notional value of advances 328 010 133 300 117 387 445 830 Contractual interest suspended (2 056) (9) – – (2 065) Gross advances 325 954 124 300 117 387 443 765 Impairment of advances (note 12) (8 968) (4) – – (8 972) Net advances 316 986 120 300 117 387 434 793 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 289 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 11 ADVANCES continued 2009 Designated at fair value through Loans and Held-toAvailableprofit or R million receivables maturity for-sale loss Total Sector analysis Agriculture 8 026 – – 3 878 11 904 Banks and financial services 13 530 – 459 24 823 38 812 Building and property development 5 746 – – 12 793 18 539 Government, Land Bank and public authorities 7 552 – – 13 276 20 828 Individuals 250 003 178 – 155 250 336 Manufacturing and commerce 23 607 – – 12 401 36 008 Mining 2 274 – – 7 185 9 459 Transport and communication 2 308 – – 10 799 13 107 Other services 19 131 – – 9 851 28 982 Notional value of advances 332 177 178 459 95 161 427 975 Contractual interest suspended (1 888) (8) – – (1 896) Gross advances 330 289 170 459 95 161 426 079 Impairment of advances (note 12) (9 584) (7) – – (9 591) Net advances 320 705 163 459 95 161 416 488 Geographic analysis (based on credit risk) South Africa 308 058 178 459 83 108 391 803 Other Africa 18 957 – – 2 117 21 074 United Kingdom 3 941 – – 6 440 10 381 Other 1 221 – – 3 496 4 717 – Ireland 4 – – 377 381 – Other Europe 107 – – 2 097 2 204 – North America 242 – – 78 320 – South America 2 – – 443 445 – Australasia 860 – – 348 1 208 – Other 6 – – 153 159 Total value of advances 332 177 178 459 95 161 427 975 Contractual interest suspended (1 888) (8) – – (1 896) Gross advances 330 289 170 459 95 161 426 079 Impairment of advances (note 12) (9 584) (7) – – (9 591) Net advances 320 705 163 459 95 161 416 488 290 11 ADVANCES continued 2009 Designated at fair value through Loans and Held-toAvailableprofit or R million receivables maturity for-sale loss Total Category analysis Overdrafts and managed accounts 36 292 – – – 36 292 Loans to other financial institutions 2 167 – – – 2 167 Card loans 12 961 – – – 12 961 Instalment sales 62 600 – – – 62 600 Lease payments receivable 22 030 – – – 22 030 Property finance 164 533 178 – 2 051 166 762 – Home loans 154 313 178 – – 154 491 – Commercial property finance 10 220 – – 2 051 12 271 Personal loans 10 623 – – – 10 623 Preference share advances 2 123 – – 20 116 22 239 Assets under agreement to resell 289 – – 25 710 25 999 Other 18 559 – 459 47 284 66 302 Notional value of advances 332 177 178 459 95 161 427 975 Contractual interest suspended (1 888) (8) – – (1 896) Gross advances 330 289 170 459 95 161 426 079 Impairment of advances (note 12) (9 584) (7) – – (9 591) Net advances 320 705 163 459 95 161 416 488 Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of advances. Refer to note 41 for information relating to the fair value of advances. Advances relating to synthetic securitisations: – Procul is a synthetic securitisation transaction amounting to R2 billion (2009: R2 billion) of WesBank retail instalment sale advances. In terms of the transaction WesBank has transferred the credit risk up to the value of the reference portfolio to Procul, a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity. – Fresco II is a synthetic securitisation transaction amounting to R20 billion (2009: R20 billion) of the Group corporate advances. In terms of the transaction, the Group has transferred the credit risk up to the value of the reference portfolio to Fresco II, a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity. The Group consolidates the securitisation vehicles as, in terms of IAS 27 and SIC 12, the Group exercises control over the vehicles. Advances relating to traditional securitisations: – Included in instalment sale advances above is R733 million (2009: R2.7 billion) which is non recourse securitised instalment advances. – Included in home loans above is R3.1 billion (2009: R3.5 billion) which is non recourse securitised home loan advances. Additional information relating to these transactions are set out in note 39. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 291 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 11 ADVANCES continued Between More than R million Within 1 Year 1 – 5 years 5 years Total 2010 Analysis of instalment sales and lease payments receivable Lease payments receivable 6 771 17 403 410 24 584 Suspensive sale instalments receivable 22 490 51 084 1 647 75 221 Sub total 29 261 68 487 2 057 99 805 Less: Unearned finance charges (4 642) (10 394) (340) (15 376) Total 24 619 58 093 1 717 84 429 2009 Analysis of instalment sales and lease payments receivable Lease payments receivable 9 057 18 517 927 28 501 Suspensive sale instalments receivable 22 366 44 568 2 885 69 819 Sub total 31 423 63 085 3 812 98 320 Less: Unearned finance charges (4 212) (8 855) (623) (13 690) Total 27 211 54 230 3 189 84 630 Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rentals are payable. These agreements relate to motor vehicles and equipment. The accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable included in the allowance for impairments at reporting date is R372 million (2009: R386 million). 292 11 ADVANCES continued Credit risk mitigation Collateral is an important mitigante of credit risk. In accordance with the Group credit risk management strategy the following principle types of collateral are held as security for monies lent by the Group: – Vehicle finance: Vehicles subject to the finance agreement normally serve as collateral. In general, vehicles which make up the collateral can be sold when the customer has defaulted under the agreement and a notice of default has been issued. Where more than third of all instalments have been paid, legal judgement has to be passed before vehicles can be repossessed. For some products, title over vehicles are held by the Group. Title only passes to the customer once repayments reach a specified level. – Resource and property finance: Collateral consists of first and second mortgages over property, individual’s pension plans, employer and personal guarantees, loss insurance purchased by the client as well as fixed and floating charges over mining assets and business. – Personal loans, overdrafts and credit card exposures are generally unsecured or secured via guarantees and suretyships. – Agricultural finance: Collateral includes grain, barley, sorghum and fertilisers held at various storage facilities and warehouses. – Securities lending: Collateral held is in the form of cash and investment securities. The level of collateral held is monitored individually on a daily basis to ensure the adequacy of the collateral balance held. The collateral can only be sold or exercised on default by the customer. The collateral is valued at inception of the credit agreement and subsequently in specific circumstances for example, when the advance becomes a non performing loan or when the Group is to sell the asset on auction. No physical valuation is performed between these two dates. The valuation at inception is based on physical inspection or index valuation methods. Updated valuations are performed using index valuation models or by revaluing security during the counterparty review process for SME and large corporate counter parties. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 293 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 12 IMPAIRMENT OF ADVANCES Significant loans and advances are monitored by the credit committee and impaired according to the Group’s impairment policy when an indication of impairment is observed. The following factors are considered when determining whether there is objective evidence that the asset has been impaired: – The estimated amount of collateral held against the loans and advances; – Breaches of loan covenants and conditions; – The time period of overdue contractual payments; – Actuarial credit models; – Loss of employment or death of the borrower; and – The probability of liquidation of the customer. Where objective evidence of impairment exists impairment testing is performed based on the loss given default (“LGD”), probability of default (“PD”) and exposure at default (“EAD”). 2010 FNB R million Retail Corporate Commercial Analysis of movement in impairment of advances per class of advance Opening balance 5 585 302 717 Exchange rate difference – – – Amounts written off (4 301) (230) (135) Unwinding of discounted present value on non performing loans (234) – (18) Reclassifications – – – Net new impairments created/(released) 3 347 37 452 Acquisitions of subsidiaries – – – Transfers (to)/from other divisions (72) 119 (46) Closing balance 4 325 228 970 New and increased provision (3 347) (37) (452) Recoveries of bad debts previously written off 406 3 6 Impairment loss recognised in the income statement (2 941) (34) (446) 2009 FNB R million Retail Corporate Commercial Opening balance 3 853 292 461 Exchange rate difference – – – Amounts written off (2 603) (67) (113) Unwinding of discounted present value on non performing loans (367) – (32) Reclassifications – – – Net new impairments created/(released) 4 702 71 407 Disposals of subsidiaries – – – Transfers from / (to) other divisions – 6 (6) Closing balance 5 585 302 717 New and increased provision (4 702) (71) (407) Recoveries of bad debts previously written off 241 1 18 Impairment loss recognised in the income statement (4 461) (70) (389) 294 2010 FNB Total Specific Portfolio WesBank RMB Africa Other impairment impairment impairment 2 166 330 384 107 9 591 7 206 2 385 (3) 4 (11) – (10) (3) (7) (1 998) (89) (56) (27) (6 836) (6 826) (10) – – (5) 4 (253) (258) 5 – – – – – 238 (238) 2 394 198 78 (29) 6 477 6 528 (51) – 3 – – 3 3 – 40 23 2 (66) – – – 2 599 469 392 (11) 8 972 6 888 2 084 (2 394) (198) (78) 29 (6 477) (6 528) 51 346 3 10 17 791 790 1 (2 048) (195) (68) 46 (5 686) (5 738) 52 2009 FNB Total Specific Portfolio WesBank RMB Africa Other impairment impairment impairment 1 830 280 377 290 7 383 4 918 2 465 (31) (19) (6) – (56) (45) (11) (2 508) (378) (45) (164) (5 878) (5 839) (39) – – (17) 7 (409) (413) 4 – – – – – 27 (27) 2 876 523 75 (102) 8 552 8 558 (6) (1) – – – (1) – (1) – (76) – 76 – – – 2 166 330 384 107 9 591 7 206 2 385 (2 876) (523) (75) 102 (8 552) (8 558) 6 131 – (21) 158 528 530 (2) (2 745) (523) (96) 260 (8 024) (8 028) 4 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 295 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 12 IMPAIRMENT OF ADVANCES continued 2010 Total value including Contractual interest in Security Specific interest R million suspense held impairments suspended Non performing loans by sector Agriculture 379 354 27 23 Banks and financial services 371 296 109 42 Building and property development 1 456 892 446 157 Government, Land Bank and public authorities 88 17 34 4 Individuals 18 513 12 976 4 877 1 559 Manufacturing and commerce 905 309 405 112 Mining 96 49 27 5 Transport and communication 352 110 149 17 Other 2 110 686 814 146 Total non performing loans 24 270 15 689 6 888 2 065 Non performing loans by category Overdrafts and managed accounts 1 125 402 731 192 Card loans 755 – 523 47 Instalment sales 3 647 681 1 366 261 Lease payments receivable 981 190 381 86 Property finance 14 862 13 099 2 821 1 202 –Home loans 13 739 12 238 2 523 1 061 –Commercial property finance 1 123 861 298 141 Personal loans 1 567 432 729 120 Preference share agreement 25 8 4 9 Other 1 308 877 333 148 Total non performing loans 24 270 15 689 6 888 2 065 Non performing loans by class FNB Retail 14 801 12 095 3 366 1 183 FNB Corporate 1 – 1 – FNB Commercial 2 271 1 477 779 344 Total FNB 17 073 13 572 4 146 1 527 WesBank 5 447 1 043 2 115 349 RMB 1 221 852 287 95 FNB Africa 498 229 199 91 Other (BGT, Capital Centre, other subsidiaries) 31 (7) 141 3 Total non performing loans 24 270 15 689 6 888 2 065 Non performing loans by geographical area South Africa 22 985 15 130 6 317 1 885 Other Africa 644 317 250 95 UK 26 6 20 – Other 615 236 301 85 South America 214 214 – – Australasia 401 22 301 85 Total non performing loans 24 270 15 689 6 888 2 065 Net recoverable amount on non performing loans is R15 317 million. 296 12 IMPAIRMENT OF ADVANCES continued 2009 Total value including Contractual interest in Security Specific interest R million suspense held impairments suspended Non performing loans by sector Agriculture 440 218 24 27 Banks and financial services 422 331 93 16 Building and property development 1 148 579 272 114 Government, Land Bank and public authorities 79 18 26 4 Individuals 20 706 14 692 5 670 1 528 Manufacturing and commerce 1 154 311 413 91 Mining 135 43 48 2 Transport and communication 254 120 76 11 Other 1 785 717 584 103 Total non performing loans 26 123 17 029 7 206 1 896 Non performing loans by category Overdrafts and managed accounts 1 174 275 852 199 Card loans 1 546 – 1 086 60 Instalment sales 3 472 802 1 162 190 Lease payments receivable 1 111 276 357 71 Property finance 15 985 14 921 2 610 1 115 –Home loans 15 028 14 022 2 462 1 051 –Commercial property finance 957 899 148 64 Personal loans 1 527 305 806 206 Other 1 308 450 333 55 Total non performing loans 26 123 17 029 7 206 1 896 Non performing loans by class FNB Retail 17 323 13 568 4 432 1 260 FNB Corporate 84 – 69 – FNB Commercial 1 829 1 370 528 206 Total FNB 19 236 14 938 5 029 1 466 WesBank 4 855 1 130 1 575 255 RMB 1 234 428 208 57 FNB Africa 538 250 192 108 Other (BGT, Capital Centre, other subsidiaries) 260 283 202 10 Total non performing loans 26 123 17 029 7 206 1 896 Non performing loans by geographical area South Africa 24 671 16 711 6 747 1 737 Other Africa 622 309 218 109 UK 37 9 28 – Other 793 – 213 50 Europe 100 – – – South America 300 – – – Australasia 393 – 213 50 Total non performing loans 26 123 17 029 7 206 1 896 Net recoverable amount on non performing loans is R17 021 million. For asset finance the total security value reflected represents only the realisation value estimates of the vehicles repossessed at the date of repossession. Where the repossession has not yet occurred, the realisation value of the vehicle is estimated using internal models and is included as part of the recoveries total. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 297 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 13 INVESTMENT SECURITIES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS 2010 Designated at fair value Held for through profit R million trading or loss Total Negotiable certificates of deposit 2 151 2 269 Treasury bills 564 20 006 Other government and government guaranteed stock 15 241 12 930 Other dated securities 2 989 2 094 Other undated securities – 59 Other 4 952 5 240 Total 25 897 42 598 Listed Negotiable certificates of deposit – 74 Treasury bills – 6 953 Other government and government guaranteed stock 14 543 3 736 Other dated securities 1 728 1 180 Other 4 244 1 675 Listed 20 515 13 618 Unlisted Negotiable certificates of deposit 2 151 2 195 Treasury bills 564 13 053 Other government and government guaranteed stock 698 9 194 Other dated securities 1 261 914 Other undated securities – 59 Other 708 3 565 Unlisted 5 382 28 980 R35 878 million (2009: R37 081 million) of the financial instruments held for trading form part of the Group’s liquid asset portfolio in terms of the South African Reserve Bank and other foreign banking regulators requirements. The fair value of investment securities and other investments is disclosed in note 41. The Group holds certain interests in collateralised debt obligation structures. The Group has no obligations toward other investors beyond the amounts already contributed. The Group has no management control or influence over these investments which are designated at fair value through profit or loss. 298 2010 Fair value through profit or loss AvailableLoans and Held-to– non recourse for-sale receivables maturity investments* Total 93 96 – – 4 609 9 751 – 156 – 30 477 18 884 – 21 – 47 076 2 288 1 16 036 21 410 – – – – 59 1 291 1 981 76 – 13 540 30 021 2 365 254 16 036 117 171 – – – – 74 128 – – – 7 081 13 796 – – – 32 075 – – – 3 953 6 861 843 – – – 6 762 14 767 – – 3 953 52 853 93 96 – – 4 535 9 623 – 156 – 23 396 5 088 – 21 – 15 001 2 288 1 12 083 14 549 – – – – 59 448 1 981 76 – 6 778 15 254 2 365 254 12 083 64 318 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 299 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 13 INVESTMENT SECURITIES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS continued 2009 Designated at fair value Held for through profit R million trading or loss Total Negotiable certificates of deposit 8 068 277 Treasury bills 9 759 6 864 Other government and government guaranteed stock 13 479 18 413 Other dated securities 2 513 17 366 Other undated securities 718 334 Money market investments – 47 850 Other 4 141 27 820 Total 38 678 118 924 Listed Negotiable certificates of deposit – 277 Treasury bills – 5 132 Other government and government guaranteed stock 10 888 16 668 Other dated securities 1 865 7 819 Other undated securities – 151 Other 3 936 21 113 Listed 16 689 51 160 Unlisted Negotiable certificates of deposit 8 068 – Treasury bills 9 759 1 732 Other government and government guaranteed stock 2 591 1 745 Other dated securities 648 9 547 Other undated securities 718 183 Money market investments – 47 850 Other 205 6 707 Unlisted 21 989 67 764 300 2009 Fair value through profit or loss AvailableLoans and Held-to– non recourse for-sale receivables maturity investments* Total 352 100 – – 8 797 13 626 – 43 – 30 292 16 723 – 56 153 48 824 378 390 7 2 826 23 480 701 21 – – 1 774 5 – – – 47 855 3 003 – 77 13 186 48 227 34 788 511 183 16 165 209 249 – – – – 277 172 – – – 5 304 9 662 – – 153 37 371 – 153 – 287 10 124 701 – – – 852 914 – – – 25 963 11 449 153 – 440 79 891 352 100 – – 8 520 13 454 – 43 – 24 988 7 061 – 56 – 11 453 378 237 7 2 539 13 356 – 21 – – 922 5 – – – 47 855 2 089 – 77 13 186 22 264 23 339 358 183 15 725 129 358 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 301 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 13 INVESTMENT SECURITIES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS continued *Fair value through profit or loss on non recourse investments Certain investments held by the Group include investment grade commercial paper which is issued by asset backed conduits held by the Group. The Group is deemed to control these assets in terms of SIC 12. Fair value adjustments on non recourse investments thus include the effect of fair value changes in this investment grade commercial paper linked to conduits. The fair value adjustments related to the portion of this commercial paper held by the Group itself is deducted to arrive at the actual fair value adjustment. The Group has entered into the following conduit transactions: 1. iNdwa Investment Limited, an asset backed conduit that provides South African institutional investors with short dated investment grade commercial paper. The Group has no obligations toward other investors beyond the amount already contributed. The Group has no management control or influence over these investments which are designated at fair value through profit or loss. 2. iNkotha Investment Limited, a fixed income fund that provides South African institutional investors with short dated investment grade commercial paper. The Group has no obligations toward other investors beyond the amount already contributed. The Group has no management control or influence over these investments which are designated at fair value through profit or loss. 3. iVuzi Investment Limited, an asset backed conduit that provides South African institutional investors with short dated investment grade commercial paper. The Group has no obligations toward other investors beyond the amount already contributed. The Group has no management control or influence over these investments which are designated at fair value through profit or loss. 4. iNguza Investments Limited is a secured debenture programme that provides South African institutional investors with a debenture linked to a specific underlying credit exposure. The Group has no obligations toward other investors beyond the amount already contributed. The Group has no management control or influence over these investments which are designated at fair value through profit or loss. Total fair value adjustments on non recourse investments, including the adjustments linked to the above conduits, comprised of as follows: R million 2010 2009 Other government and government guaranteed stock – 153 Investment grade commercial paper 17 590 16 012 Less: Group’s share thereof (1 554) – Total non recourse investments 16 036 16 165 Analysis of investment securities Listed 52 853 79 891 Equities 6 761 25 961 Debt 46 092 53 930 Unlisted 64 318 129 358 Equities 3 752 8 203 Debt 60 566 121 155 Total 117 171 209 249 Valuation of investments Market value of listed investments 52 853 79 891 Directors valuation of unlisted investments* 64 318 129 358 Total valuation 117 171 209 249 * The directors’ valuation of unlisted investments is considered to be fair value. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of investment securities and other investments. Refer to note 41 on fair value of financial instruments for the methodologies used to determine the fair value of investment securities and other investments. Information regarding other investments as required in terms of Schedule 4 of the Companies Act is kept at the Group’s registered offices. This information is open for inspection in terms of the provisions of Section 113 of the Companies Act. 302 R million 2010 2009 14 COMMODITIES Agricultural stock 872 1 323 Base metals 1 493 – Commodities 2 365 1 323 Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of commodities. 15 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Items in transit 1 650 938 Interest and commissions accrued 73 191 Accounts receivable 3 719 5 117 Premium debtors – 460 Less: Provision for impairment of premium debtors – (14) Prepayments 301 395 Unsettled trades – 3 769 Reinsurance debtors – 212 Accounts receivable 5 743 11 068 The carrying value of accounts receivable approximates the fair value. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of accounts receivable. The credit quality of the above balances is provided in the table below: 2010 Neither Past due but not impaired past Redue nor negotiated 1 – 30 31 – 60 R million impaired but current days days > 60 days Impaired Total Items in transit 1 650 – – – – – 1 650 Interest and commissions accrued 73 – – – – – 73 Accounts receivable 3 496 1 140 35 32 15 3 719 Prepayments 301 – – – – – 301 Total 5 520 1 140 35 32 15 5 743 2009 Neither Past due but not impaired past Redue nor negotiated 1 – 30 31 – 60 R million impaired but current days days > 60 days Impaired Total Items in transit 914 – 24 – – – 938 Interest and commissions accrued 191 – – – – – 191 Accounts receivable 5 009 6 (13) 18 38 59 5 117 Premium debtors 84 – 273 7 96 (14) 446 Prepayments 384 – – – 11 – 395 Unsettled trades 3 769 – – – – – 3 769 Reinsurance debtors 42 – 17 20 98 35 212 Total 10 393 6 301 45 243 80 11 068 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 303 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 16 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES R million 2010 2009 Listed investments Investments at cost less amounts written off 622 9 469 Unlisted investments Investments at cost less amounts written off 4 174 2 921 Income before tax for the year (continued operations) 700 1 575 Income before tax for the year (discontinued operations) – 13 Transfer to other reserves (17) (14) Tax for the year (continued operations)(note 5) (447) (416) Dividends received for the year (574) (835) Retained income for the year (338) 323 Exchange differences (5) (86) (Disposals)/acquisitions (472) 169 Share of retained income at beginning of the year 2 707 2 301 Share of retained income at end of the year 1 892 2 707 Share of other reserves 213 197 Total retained income and reserves 2 105 2 904 Total carrying value 6 901 15 294 Reconciliation of share of profit from associates and joint ventures to income before tax: Income before tax for the year 1 287 1 575 (Impairment )/reversal (587) 2 Share of profit from associate and joint ventures 700 1 577 Goodwill included in carrying value above Gross amount 244 269 Less: Accumulated impairment losses (29) – Goodwill 215 269 Valuation Listed investments at market value* 645 8 957 Unlisted investments at directors’ valuation** 11 184 10 276 Total valuation 11 829 19 233 Included in unlisted investments Shareholder loans 1 320 1 175 * The disposal of Makalani has resulted in the large decrease in listed investments in the current year. ** The directors’ valuation of unlisted investments is considered to be the fair value. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of investments in associates and joint ventures. 304 16 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES continued Issued Number of ordinary ordinary Nature of business shares (R ) shares held Year end Listed Collective investment schemes Collective investment Various Various Various schemes Emira Property Fund Property unit trust 3 511 484 000 171 829 797 30 Jun Crookes Brothers Limited Agriculture 12 385 000 3 715 500 31 Mar Kula Gold Gold exploration 58 412 14 289 30 Jun Other Various Various Various Various Unlisted OUTsurance Insurance Company Limited Insurance 1 584 225 400 33 969 000 30 Jun Toyota Financial Services (Pty) Limited Vehicle finance 4 695 1 565 31 Mar Marsh Holdings SA (Pty) Limited Insurance brokers 83 333 33 333 31 Dec Tracker Investment Holdings (Pty) Limited Vehicle trading 915 297 30 Jun Private Equity Associates Various Various Various Various Effective holding Market value/Group % valuation amount Group carrying value R million 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Listed Makalani Holdings Limited – 26 – 536 – 536 Emira Property Fund** – 37 – 1 744 – 1 744 Collective investment schemes – Various – 6 170 – 6 170 Private Equity Associates* Various Various 248 507 320 1 019 Crookes Brothers Limited 30 – 139 – 150 – Kula Gold 24 – 219 – 116 – Other – – 39 – 36 – Total listed 54 63 645 8 957 622 9 469 Unlisted OUTsurance Insurance Company Limited 47 47 3 610 3 295 1 138 765 Toyota Financial Services (Pty) Limited 33 33 1 121 489 476 436 Tracker Investment Holdings (Pty) Limited 33 33 1 280 706 650 559 Marsh Holdings SA (Pty) Limited 40 40 50 42 42 28 Momentum Short Term Insurance Company Limited – 50 – 40 – 40 Private Equity Associates Various Various 4 015 3 679 2 945 2 568 Other Various Various 1 108 2 025 1 028 1 429 Total unlisted 153 203 11 184 10 276 6 279 5 825 Total listed and unlisted 207 240 11 829 19 233 6 901 15 294 * Included in the Private Equity Associates are Vox Telecom Ltd, Simmer and Jack Mines Ltd and Control Instruments Group Ltd. The value in use of these associate investments is R320 million (2009: R1 019 million) and has been used in determining the Group carrying value. ** In 2009 Emira and the collective investment schemes were accounted for at fair value through profit or loss in terms of IAS 39. These investments are exempt from the measurement requirements of IAS 28 as they are held in the investment linked insurance funds. In 2010 these investments have been presented as non current assets held for sale. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 305 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 16 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES continued Summarised financial information of associates and joint ventures: Marsh Holdings Private Equity OUTsurance Insurance Tracker Investment (Pty) Limited Associates Company Limited Holdings (Pty) Limited Associate Associate Associate Associate R million 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Statement of financial position Current assets 191 240 10 568 10 829 4 465 3 448 241 190 Non current assets 90 44 26 528 27 776 171 152 910 754 Current liabilities (177) (192) (9 091) (8 464) (2 285) (1 887) (166) (91) Non current liabilities (3) (6) (13 606) (12 884) (44) – (122) (137) Equity 101 86 14 399 17 257 2 307 1 713 863 716 Income statement After tax profit attributable to the Group 12 1 (271) 841 288 296 90 69 Loans to associates – included in investments – – 1 307 1 085 – – – – Loans to associates – ordinary loans 12 12 – – – – – – Share of associate contingent liabilities – – – – – – – – 306 16 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES continued Toyota Financial Collective investment Crookes Brothers Services (Pty) Limited schemes Emira Property Fund Limited Associate Associate Associate Associate R million 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Statement of financial position Current assets 4 971 4 964 – 261 – 450 280 – Non current assets 9 722 9 299 – 23 665 – 7 513 251 – Current liabilities (6 913) (5 055) – (333) – (448) (90) – Non current liabilities (6 352) (7 909) – – – (1 829) (99) – Equity 1 428 1 299 – 23 593 – 5 686 342 – Income statement After tax profit attributable to the Group 71 58 – – – – 20 – Loans to associates – included in investments – – – – – – – – Loans to associates – ordinary loans 313 176 – – – – – – Share of associate contingent liabilities – – – – – – – – FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 307 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 16 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES continued Summarised financial information of associates and joint ventures: Makalani Holdings Total listed and Kula Gold Limited Other unlisted Associates and Joint Associates and Joint Associate Associate Ventures Ventures R million 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Statement of financial position Current assets 54 – – 432 5 071 7 627 25 841 28 009 Non current assets 400 – – 1 984 7 572 20 770 45 644 89 973 Current liabilities (1) – – (11) (3 450) (2 531) (22 173) (19 001) Non current liabilities (1) – – – (2 930) (15 906) (23 157) (38 671) Equity 452 – – 2 405 6 263 9 960 26 155 60 310 Income statement After tax profit attributable to the Group (15) – – (38) 5 (57) 200 1 208 Loans to associates – included in investments – – – – 13 90 1 320 1 175 Loans to associates – ordinary loans – – – – 145 145 470 333 Share of associate contingent liabilities – – – – – – – – The most recent audited annual financial statements of associates and joint ventures are used by the Group in applying the equity method of accounting for associates and joint ventures. These are not always drawn up to the same date as the financial statements of the Group. In instances where significant events occurred between the last financial statement date of an associate and joint venture and the reporting date of the Group, the effect of such events are adjusted for. Where the last reporting date of an associate or joint venture was more than six months before the reporting date of the Group, the Group uses the unaudited management accounts of the associate or joint venture. The Group has applied this principle consistently since adopting the equity accounting method for associates and joint ventures. 308 17 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT The useful life of each asset is assessed individually. The table below provides information on the benchmarks used when assessing the useful life of the individual assets: Leasehold premises Shorter of estimated life or period of lease Freehold property and property held under finance lease – Buildings and structures 50 years – Mechanical and electrical 20 years – Components 20 years – Sundries 3 – 5 years Computer equipment 3 – 5 years Furniture and fittings 3 – 10 years Motor vehicles 5 years Office equipment 3 – 6 years 2010 2009 Accumulated Accumulated depreciation depreciation and Carrying and Carrying R million Cost impairments amount Cost impairments amount Property 7 824 (1 725) 6 099 7 590 (1 442) 6 148 Freehold property* 4 348 (739) 3 609 3 343 (501) 2 842 Leasehold premises* 3 476 (986) 2 490 4 247 (941) 3 306 Assets held under lease agreements** 1 109 (213) 896 1 079 (103) 976 Equipment* 7 602 (4 579) 3 023 7 463 (4 367) 3 096 Computer equipment 4 303 (3 003) 1 300 4 369 (2 927) 1 442 Furniture and fittings 1 826 (913) 913 1 699 (856) 843 Motor vehicles 608 (225) 383 511 (142) 369 Office equipment 894 (472) 422 826 (400) 426 Capitalised leased assets (29) 34 5 58 (42) 16 Total 16 535 (6 517) 10 018 16 132 (5 912) 10 220 * Assets utilised by the Group in the normal course of operations to provide services. ** Assets which are owned by the Group and leased to third parties under operating leases as part of the Group’s revenue generating operations. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 309 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 17 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT continued Freehold Leasehold R million property premises Movement in property and equipment – carrying amount Carrying amount at 30 June 2008 2 127 3 182 Foreign currency adjustments on translation (16) (15) Additions 736 679 Depreciation charge for period (continuing operations) (78) (289) Depreciation charge for period (discontinued operations) (20) (2) Impairments recognised – (6) Impairments reversed – – Disposals (105) (19) Acquisition/(disposal) of subsidiaries (50) 24 Other 248 (248) Carrying amount at 30 June 2009 2 842 3 306 Foreign currency adjustments on translation (15) (9) Additions 1 402 340 Depreciation charge for period (105) (284) Impairments recognised (48) – Disposals (31) (1 600) Acquisition/(disposal) of subsidiaries (436) 18 Reclassifications* – 723 Transfer to non current assets held for sale (438) (3) Other 438 (1) Carrying amount at 30 June 2010 3 609 2 490 * During the current year a structured group transaction matured and it resulted in properties being transferred from capitalised lease properties to freehold properties. Information regarding land and buildings as required in terms of Schedule 4 of the Companies Act is kept at the Group’s registered offices. This information will be open for inspection in terms of section 113 of the Companies Act, 1973. Property occupied for banking operations serves as security for finance lease liabilities. The circumstances which led to the impairment in the current year were due to the impairment testing performed on buildings and movable leased assets owned by the Group. The circumstances which led to the reversal of previously recognised impairment losses in the prior year were assets previously written off due to branch closures in previous years have been redeployed in the prior year. There were no reversals in the current year. Refer to note 28 for liabilities that are related to the finance lease assets. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of property and equipment. 310 Assets held under lease Computer Furniture and Motor Office Capitalised agreements equipment fittings vehicles equipment leased assets Total 878 1 472 682 166 338 14 8 859 (22) (11) (4) (3) (5) (2) (78) 170 646 286 288 229 4 3 038 (69) (544) (152) (62) (113) (3) (1 310) – (28) (5) – (4) – (59) – (5) (2) – – – (13) – – – – 1 – 1 – (107) (15) (23) (18) (3) (290) – 24 55 4 3 – 60 19 (5) (2) (1) (5) 6 12 976 1 442 843 369 426 16 10 220 (5) (3) (1) – (3) – (36) 35 520 244 172 190 (14) 2 889 (60) (592) (158) (102) (127) (2) (1 430) (57) (2) – – – – (107) – (12) (26) (54) (45) 17 (1 751) – – 38 – (7) (5) (392) – – – – – – 723 – (50) (26) (3) (12) – (532) 7 (3) (1) 1 – (7) 434 896 1 300 913 383 422 5 10 018 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 311 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 18 DEFERRED TAX R million 2010 2009 Deferred tax The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: Deferred tax liability Opening balance 3 977 5 372 – Exchange rate difference (6) (5) – Charge to the income statement (continuing operations) (360) (1 020) – Charge to the income statement (discontinued operations) – 149 – STC charge/(release) to the income statement 24 (201) – Acquisitions and disposals 5 (106) – Transfer to non current assets held for sale (1 570) – – Deferred tax on amounts charged/(transferred) directly to other comprehensive income 20 (272) – Other 42 60 Total credit balance 2 132 3 977 Deferred tax asset Opening balance 2 034 1 456 – Exchange rate difference (3) 11 – (Release)/charge to the income statement (continuing operations) (841) 252 – Charge to the income statement (discontinued operations) – 107 – STC charge to the income statement 98 151 – Acquisitions and disposals 22 (5) – Transfer to non current assets held for sale (969) – – Deferred tax on amounts (transferred)/charged directly to other comprehensive income (3) 9 – Other 105 53 Total debit balance 443 2 034 Net balance for the year 1 689 1 943 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority and there is a legal right to set off. 312 18 DEFERRED TAX continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax charged/(released) to the income statement are attributable to the following items: 2010 Transfer to non current assets Tax rate AcquisiOpening Tax Exchange held for adjusttions and Closing R million balance charge** rate sale ment disposals Other balance Deferred tax liability Tax losses 138 27 – – – – – 165 Provision for loan impairment (645) 150 – – 1 – – (494) Provision for post retirement benefits 115 (23) – – – – (1) 91 Other provisions (158) (124) – 99 1 – 1 (181) Cash flow hedges (131) – – – – – (50) (181) Fair value adjustments of financial instruments (34) 4 – (5) – – 12 (23) Instalment credit assets 2 400 (113) (6) – (2) – 1 2 280 Accruals 341 (6) – – (1) – – 334 Revaluation of available-forsale securities to other comprehensive income 161 (6) – (157) – – 70 68 Capital gains tax 170 – – (170) – – – – STC (44) 24 – – – – 11 (9) Other 1 664 (269) – (1 337) 1 5 18 82 Total deferred tax liability 3 977 (336) (6) (1 570) – 5 62 2 132 Deferred tax asset Tax losses 241 (193) (3) (38) – 10 – 17 Provision for loan impairment 85 (52) – – – – – 33 Provision for post retirement benefits (8) 4 – – – – – (4) Other provisions 72 126 (1) (99) – 4 1 103 Fair value adjustments of financial instruments (5) 30 – – – – 11 36 Instalment credit assets (835) 872 – – – – – 37 Accruals (797) 765 – (1) – 1 – (32) Revaluation of available-forsale securities to other comprehensive income (3) – – – – – (3) (6) Capital gains 49 – – (49) – – 2 2 Insurance contracts 630 – – (630) – – – – STC 159 98 – – – 6 (71) 192 Other 2 446 (2 393) 1 (152) – 1 162 65 Total deferred tax asset 2 034 (743) (3) (969) – 22 102 443 Total deferred tax 1 943 407 (3) (601) – (17) (40) 1 689 ** Tax charge including discontinued operations. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 313 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 18 DEFERRED TAX continued 2009 Transfer to non current assets Tax rate AcquisiOpening Tax Exchange held for adjusttions and Closing R million balance charge** rate sale ment disposals Other balance Deferred tax liability Tax losses 305 (167) – – – – – 138 Provision for loan impairment (579) (66) – – – – – (645) Provision for post retirement benefits 26 89 – – – – – 115 Other provisions (338) 169 – – – (14) 25 (158) Cash flow hedges 203 – – – – – (334) (131) Fair value adjustments of financial instruments 488 (56) (1) – – (44) (421) (34) Instalment credit assets 2 254 150 (5) – – – 1 2 400 Accruals 1 141 (800) – – – – – 341 Revaluation of available-forsale securities to other comprehensive income 95 59 – – – – 7 161 Capital gains tax (305) (346) – – – – 821 170 Insurance contracts 1 077 – – – – – (1 077) – STC 157 (201) – – – – – (44) Other 848 97 1 – – (48) 766 1 664 Total deferred tax liability 5 372 (1 072) (5) – – (106) (212) 3 977 Deferred tax asset Tax losses 428 (187) 12 – 1 (3) (10) 241 Provision for loan impairment 58 26 – – – 1 – 85 Provision for post retirement benefits (8) – – – – – – (8) Other provisions 105 (32) – – – – (1) 72 Cash flow hedges – – – – – – – – Fair value adjustments of financial instruments (16) 12 – – – – (1) (5) Instalment credit assets (835) – – – – – – (835) Accruals (794) 2 – – – (5) – (797) Revaluation of available-forsale securities to other comprehensive income (5) 1 – – – – 1 (3) Capital gains 15 40 – – – – (6) 49 Insurance contracts 590 40 – – – – – 630 STC 6 151 – – – – 2 159 Other 1 912 457 (1) – (1) 2 77 2 446 Total deferred tax asset 1 456 510 11 – – (5) 62 2 034 Total deferred tax 3 916 (1 582) (16) – – (101) (274) 1 943 ** Tax charge including discontinued operations. 314 18 DEFERRED TAX continued R million 2010 2009 Secondary tax on companies (STC) Accumulated STC credits 2 010 2 030 Deferred tax asset raised (74) (151) Credit to profit or loss (74) (352) Total reserves If the total reserves of R49 889 million as at 30 June 2010 (2009: R44 133 million) were to be declared as dividends, the secondary tax impact at a rate of 10% would be R4 989 million (2009: R4 413 million). Deferred tax not provided for Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of tax related benefit is probable. The Group has recognised deferred tax on deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits. Deferred tax assets not provided for: Tax losses 151 362 Temporary difference 120 96 Closing balance 271 458 The Group has recognised certain deferred tax liabilities on all temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interest in joint ventures. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of deferred tax. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 315 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 19 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS 2010 2009 Accumulated Accumulated amortisation amortisation and Carrying and Carrying R million Cost impairments amount Cost impairments amount Goodwill Movement in goodwill – book value Opening balance 2 240 (342) 1 898 1 446 (149) 1 297 Subsidiary balance (disposed)/acquired (482) 155 (327) 347 (35) 312 Exchange differences (19) – (19) (62) – (62) Disposals (21) (25) (46) (2) – (2) Decrease due to goodwill included in a disposal group classified as held for sale (IFRS 5) (27) 27 – – – – Additions 68 – 68 511 – 511 Impairment losses (continuing operations) – (78) (78) – (104) (104) Impairment losses (discontinued operations) – – – – (54) (54) Transfer to non current assets held for sale (321) 85 (236) – – – Closing balance 1 438 (178) 1 260 2 240 (342) 1 898 Software Movement in software – book value Opening balance 646 (447) 199 544 (408) 136 Subsidiary balance disposed (7) 5 (2) – – – Exchange differences 10 (10) – (30) 30 – Disposals (159) 156 (3) (36) 7 (29) Additions 107 – 107 167 – 167 Impairment losses – (4) (4) – – – Amortisation to the income statement (continuing operations) – (94) (94) – (68) (68) Amortisation to the income statement (discontinued operations) – – – – (8) (8) Other (1) 1 – 1 – 1 Transfer to non current assets held for sale (116) 84 (32) – – – Closing balance 480 (309) 171 646 (447) 199 Development costs Movement in development costs – book value Opening balance 64 (28) 36 46 (16) 30 Subsidiary balance acquired – – – 2 (1) 1 Disposals (1) 1 – – – – Additions 4 – 4 14 – 14 Amortisation to the income statement (continuing operations) – (14) (14) – (10) (10) Other – 1 1 2 (1) 1 Transfer to non current assets held for sale (4) – (4) – – – Closing balance 63 (40) 23 64 (28) 36 316 19 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS continued 2010 2009 Accumulated Accumulated amortisation amortisation and Carrying and Carrying R million Cost impairments amount Cost impairments amount Trademarks Movement in trademarks – book value Opening balance 663 (147) 516 199 (92) 107 Subsidiary balance acquired/(disposed) (1) 8 7 34 (3) 31 Exchange differences (3) 2 (1) (8) 3 (5) Additions 3 – 3 437 – 437 Amortisation to the income statement (continuing operations) – (57) (57) – (54) (54) Other (1) – (1) 1 (1) – Closing balance 661 (194) 467 663 (147) 516 Deferred acquisition cost asset Movement in deferred acquisition cost assets – book value Opening balance 2 635 (907) 1 728 2 214 (607) 1 607 Deferred acquisition costs on new business – – – 421 – 421 Amortisation to the income statement (continuing operations) – – – – (8) (8) Amortisation to the income statement (discontinued operations) – – – – (292) (292) Transfer to non current assets held for sale (2 385) 657 (1 728) – – – Closing balance 250 (250) – 2 635 (907) 1 728 Value of in-force business Movement in value of in-force business – book value Opening balance 1 057 (119) 938 1 057 (81) 976 Amortisation to the income statement (discontinued operations) – – – – (38) (38) Transfer to non current assets held for sale (1 057) 119 (938) – – – Closing balance – – – 1 057 (119) 938 The value of the in-force business and the deferred acquisition costs are amortised at a constant percentage of the expected gross margins of the underlying contract. Contractual customer relationships Movement in contractual customer relationships – book value Opening balance 286 (134) 152 286 (88) 198 Impairment losses (discontinued operations) – – – – (13) (13) Amortisation to the income statement (discontinued operations) – – – – (33) (33) Transfer to non current assets held for sale (286) 134 (152) – – – Closing balance – – – 286 (134) 152 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 317 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 19 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS continued 2010 2009 Accumulated Accumulated amortisation amortisation and Carrying and Carrying R million Cost impairments amount Cost impairments amount Agency force Movement in agency force – book value Opening balance 22 (9) 13 22 (6) 16 Amortisation to the income statement (discontinued operations) – – – – (2) (2) Other – – – – (1) (1) Transfer to non current assets held for sale (22) 9 (13) – – – Closing balance – – – 22 (9) 13 Other Movement in other – book value Opening balance 365 (147) 218 274 (145) 129 Reclassification – – – 68 1 69 Subsidiary balance disposed (27) 8 (19) – – – Exchange differences (4) 2 (2) (15) 10 (5) Disposals (117) 104 (13) (2) 4 2 Additions 7 – 7 39 – 39 Impairment charge – – – – 7 7 Amortisation to the income statement (continuing operations) – (24) (24) – (25) (25) Other 23 (7) 16 1 1 2 Closing balance 247 (64) 183 365 (147) 218 Total intangible assets Goodwill 1 438 (178) 1 260 2 240 (342) 1 898 Software 480 (309) 171 646 (447) 199 Development costs 63 (40) 23 64 (28) 36 Trademarks 661 (194) 467 663 (147) 516 Insurance related intangible assets: – Deferred acquisition cost asset 250 (250) – 2 635 (907) 1 728 – Value in-force business – – – 1 057 (119) 938 – Contractual customer relationships – – – 286 (134) 152 – Agency force – – – 22 (9) 13 Other 247 (64) 183 365 (147) 218 Total intangible assets 3 139 (1 035) 2 104 7 978 (2 280) 5 698 318 19 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS continued Impairment of goodwill For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (“CGU”) at the lowest level of operating activity (business) to which it relates, and is therefore not combined at Group level. 2010 2009 The CGU’s to which the goodwill balance as at 30 June relates to: FNB Botswana 29 31 FNB Moçambique 98 126 FNB Retail 265 265 RMB Corvest 475 457 RMB Other 119 130 WesBank 234 583 Other 40 70 Momentum – 236 Total 1 260 1 898 When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a one year period. Cash flows beyond one year are extrapolated using the estimated growth rate for the CGU. The growth rate does not exceed the long term average past growth rate for the business in which the CGU operates and the discount rates are as follows: Discount rates Growth rates 2010 2009 2010 2009 FNB Botswana 15.50 11.50 8.00 3.00 FNB Moçambique 12.00 9.00 8.00 2.00 FNB Retail 20.00 18.67 12.00 12.00 RMB Corvest 25.00 25.00 6.00 15.00 RMB Other * * * * WesBank 19.94 18.67 5.03 10.00 Other – 10.00 – 12.00 Momentum – 14.41 – 10.00 * Due to the nature of the entity, the basis used for the impairment calculation is “Fair value less cost to sell” and not the discounted cash flow methodology. The discount rate used is the weighted average cost of capital for the specific segment, adjusted for specific risks relating to the segment. Some of the other assumptions include investment returns, expense inflation rates, tax rates and new business growth. Included in other intangible assets are assets which the Group has legal ownership over through a service concession arrangement. In terms of the service concession arrangement the Group is entitled to charge the users of the asset for usage, the pricing of which has been established in the terms of the service concession arrangement. The Group has the obligation to maintain the asset in a workable condition and will deliver ownership of the asset to the government at the conclusion of the concession period. The carrying amount of the intangible asset relating to the service concession arrangement has been estimated taking into account usage levels and the pricing under the arrangement. Refer to note 40 for non current analysis of intangible assets and deferred acquisition costs. Impairments of computer software R4 million (2009: R nil) relate to a software system that is no longer being used by the Group. The full carrying value of the software no longer being used was impaired. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 319 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 20 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES R million 2010 2009 Completed properties Fair market value at beginning of the year 2 135 3 808 Net revaluations (included in gains and losses from investing activities – discontinued operations note 2) – 85 Disposals (4) (457) Transfers under reinsurance agreement entered into with third party 136 (1 301) Transfer to non current assets held for sale (2 129) – Fair market value at end of year 138 2 135 Leasehold investment properties Cost at the beginning of year 21 – Additions – 21 Transfer to non current assets held for sale (21) – Total investment properties at end of the period – 21 Total investment properties 138 2 156 Comprising: Office buildings – 1 749 Shopping malls – 325 Industrial buildings 138 58 Vacant land – 24 Total investment properties 138 2 156 The following amounts have been included in the income statement: Rental income (included in other operating income – discontinued operations note 2) – 334 Direct operating expenses arising from investment properties that generate rental income – 248 Investment properties are acquired for letting to external tenants with the intention to generate future rental income. Investment properties are valued annually by Eris’s registered valuators. The latest date of valuation was 30 June 2009. The valuation calculations are based on the aggregate of the net annual rents receivable and associated costs, using the discounted cash flow method. The discounted cash flow method takes projected cash flows and discounts them at a rate which is consistent with the comparable market transactions. The discount rates used vary between 10% and 20% (depending on the risks associated with the respective properties). Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the income statement for the year. The carrying amount of unlet or vacant investment properties for the prior year (R24 million). Schedules of freehold property and equity investments are open for inspection at the offices of the various group companies in terms of the provisions of the Companies’ Act, 1973. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of investment properties. 320 21 REINSURANCE ASSETS R million 2010 2009 Insurance contracts 524 862 Short term reinsurance contracts 475 2 Long term reinsurance contracts 49 860 Reinsurance agreement entered into with a third party – 7 568 Total reinsurance contracts 524 8 430 Movements for the year Balance at the beginning of the year 8 430 939 Movement in reinsurer’s share of insurance liabilities 237 (77) Reinsurance agreement entered into with a third party – 7 568 Transfer to non current assets held for sale (8 143) – Total reinsurance assets 524 8 430 Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of reinsurance assets. 22 NON CURRENT ASSETS AND DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE 22.1 Disposal group held for sale and discontinued operation relating to the unbundling of Momentum During the current financial year, the Group took a decision to unbundle its 100% shareholding in Momentum Group to its shareholders through a dividend-in-specie. The decision to unbundle the shareholding follows the proposed merger of the Momentum Group and Metropolitan Holdings. The unbundling transaction resulted in FirstRand classifying the Momentum Group as a disposal group held for sale in line with the requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. The assets and liabilities attributable to the Momentum Group, classified as held for sale, have been separately disclosed on the statement of financial position. In addition the Momentum Group qualifies as a discontinued operation as it is a component of FirstRand that has been classified as held for sale and represents a separate major line of business. In line with the requirements of IFRS 5, the income and expenses relating to the Momentum Group have been presented in the income statement and statement of other comprehensive income as a single amount relating to the after tax profit and other comprehensive income relating to discontinued operations. The dividend-in-specie will be accounted for at fair value in line with the requirements of IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-Cash Assets to Owners. The unbundling transaction will be preceded by the merger transaction, but FirstRand will not take control of the merged entity and as a result will not recognise the merged entity in its financial statements. The merger transaction is entered into solely for the benefit of the FirstRand and Metropolitan Holdings shareholders. The unbundling transaction was approved by FirstRand shareholders on 28 September 2010 and it is anticipated that the unbundling transaction will be completed by the end of October 2010. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 321 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 22 NON CURRENT ASSETS AND DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE continued 22.1 Disposal group held for sale and discontinued operation relating to the unbundling of Momentum Discontinued operations Income or expense recognised in the income statement relating to the discontinued operations of the Momentum Group: R million 2010 2009 Interest and similar income 7 466 8 781 Interest expense and similar charges (1 122) (80) Net interest income 6 344 8 701 Non interest income 13 466 (9 690) Net insurance premium income 7 468 6 464 Net claims and benefits paid (6 537) (5 939) (Increase)/decrease in value of policyholder liabilities (13 615) 6 809 Income from operations 7 126 6 345 Operating expenditure (5 268) (4 905) Net income from operations 1 858 1 440 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 32 13 Profit before tax 1 890 1 453 Tax expense (696) (73) Profit after tax 1 194 1 380 At the date that the Momentum Group was classified as held for distribution, its fair value less costs to sell exceeded its consolidated carrying value and no gain or loss was recognised on the classification date. Cash flow information: Cash flow from operating activities (9 709) 11 546 Cash flow from investing activities 33 (2 223) Cash flow from financing activities 2 117 491 Total cash flows (7 559) 9 814 Unbundling transaction The obligation to unbundle the Momentum Group will be recognised by FirstRand when all the conditions precedent are met, as this is when the unbundling becomes unconditional. One of the conditions is approval by FirstRand shareholders, which was obtained on 28 September 2010. 322 22 NON CURRENT ASSETS AND DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE continued 22.1 Disposal group held for sale and discontinued operation relating to the unbundling of Momentum continued R million 2010 ASSETS Cash and short term funds 31 826 Derivative financial instruments 7 116 Advances – Investment securities and other investments 134 715 Loans and accounts receivables 7 484 Property and equipment 558 Investment properties 2 334 Deferred tax asset 932 Intangible assets 3 113 Other 9 169 Total assets classified as disposal group held for sale 197 247 LIABILITIES Derivative financial instruments 1 507 Creditors and accruals 22 603 Provisions 341 Tax liability 43 Deferred tax liability 1 719 Post retirement liabilities 73 Long term liabilities 1 990 Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 40 896 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 111 860 Other 8 929 Total liabilities classified as disposal group held for sale 189 961 Net assets of disposal group held for sale 7 286 A copy of the Momentum Group financial statements are available on www.firstrand.co.za/annual reports/2010. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 323 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 22 NON CURRENT ASSETS AND DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE continued 22.2 Disposal group held for sale during 2009 In terms of IFRS 5 the assets attributable to Corvest 4 (Pty) Ltd’s 65% interest in Merchant Commercial Finance (M Factor’s) have been disclosed as separate lines on the balance sheet. The non current assets held for sale in 2009 relate to the properties attributable to FNB Namibia and investments attributable to the IBD Africa Joint Venture and have been disclosed as separate lines on the balance sheet. The assets are summarised below: R million 2009 ASSETS Cash and short term funds 58 Advances 262 Loans and accounts receivables 1 Property and equipment 1 Investment properties 23 Deferred tax asset 5 Intangible assets 10 Other 22 Total assets classified as disposal group held for sale 382 LIABILITIES Creditors and accruals 4 Provisions 3 Tax liability 1 Long term liabilities 61 Other 184 Total liabilities classified as disposal group held for sale 253 Net assets of disposal group held for sale 129 22.3 Non current assets held for sale The non current assets held for sale in 2009 relate to the properties attributable to FNB Namibia and investments attributable to the IBD Africa Joint Venture and have been disclosed as separate lines on the statement of financial position. R million 2010 2009 ASSETS Investment securities and other investments – 63 Property and equipment – 1 Investment properties – 62 Total non current assets held for sale – 126 Total non current assets and disposal groups held for sale 197 247 508 Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of non current assets and disposal groups held for sale. 324 23 DEPOSITS AND CURRENT ACCOUNTS Designated at fair value At amortised through profit R million cost or loss Total 2010 Deposits and current accounts From banks and financial institutions 13 568 58 304 71 872 – In the normal course of business 13 568 25 917 39 485 – Under repurchase agreements – 32 387 32 387 From customers 256 819 94 575 351 394 – Current accounts 186 972 138 187 110 – Savings accounts 3 210 – 3 210 – Term deposits 66 637 94 437 161 074 Other deposits 8 786 64 381 73 167 – Negotiable certificates of deposit 2 143 34 715 36 858 – Buy backs – 8 704 8 704 – Other 6 643 20 962 27 605 Non recourse deposits* – 16 036 16 036 – Total fair value of notes issued – 16 036 16 036 Deposits and current accounts 279 173 233 296 512 469 2009 Deposits and current accounts From banks and financial institutions 4 949 48 963 53 912 – In the normal course of business 4 678 21 223 25 901 – Under repurchase agreements 271 27 740 28 011 From customers 241 484 76 718 318 202 – Current accounts 185 030 1 076 186 106 – Savings accounts 3 382 – 3 382 – Term deposits 53 072 75 642 128 714 Other deposits 24 516 65 490 90 006 – Negotiable certificates of deposit 1 479 42 243 43 722 – Buy backs – 5 499 5 499 – Other 23 037 17 748 40 785 Non recourse deposits* – 15 963 15 963 – Total fair value of notes issued – 17 421 17 421 – Less: Notes acquired by the Banking Group – (1 458) (1 458) Deposits and current accounts 270 949 207 134 478 083 * Refer to note 13 Investment securities and other investments for description of non recourse investment securities. Refer to note 41 for information relating to the fair value of deposits. Refer to note 40 for a split of current and non current amounts of deposits. Deposits include amounts raised under repurchase agreements with a carrying value of R41 billion (2009: R33.5 billion). Refer to note 38 for information about changes in the Group’s own credit risk. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 325 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 24 SHORT TRADING POSITIONS R million 2010 2009 Government and government guaranteed stock 8 295 15 881 Other dated securities 1 980 4 754 Undated securities 6 460 4 367 Short trading positions 16 735 25 002 Analysed as follows: Listed 14 862 20 883 Unlisted 1 873 4 119 Short trading positions 16 735 25 002 Short trading positions are carried at fair value. Fair market value for listed securities are their market quoted prices, and for unlisted securities are based on the directors’ valuation using suitable valuation methods. Refer to note 41 for information relating to the fair value of short trading positions. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of short trading positions. 25 CREDITORS AND ACCRUALS R million 2010 2009 Accrued interest 114 106 Short term portion of long term liabilities (note 28) 1 600 771 Short term portion of finance lease liabilities (note 28) 3 4 Short term portion of share based payments and preference shares (note 28) 2 994 282 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 6 790 13 431 Accrued benefit payments (including insurance payables) – 1 276 Deferred income 528 – Operating lease liability arising from straight lining of lease payments 86 – Unsettled trades – 2 347 Creditors and accruals 12 115 18 217 The carrying value of creditors and accruals approximates the fair value. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of creditors and accruals. 326 26 PROVISIONS R million 2010 2009 Staff related provision* Opening balance 2 180 3 193 – Subsidiary balances disposed (20) 1 – Transfer to non current assets held for sale (119) – – Exchange differences (2) (26) – Charge to the income statement (including discontinued operations) 1 901 1 377 – Additional provisions created 1 855 1 436 – Unused amounts reversed 46 (59) – Utilised (1 340) (2 365) Closing balance 2 600 2 180 Audit fees Opening balance 65 43 – Subsidiary balances disposed (2) – – Transfer to non current assets held for sale (12) – – Exchange differences (1) – – Charge to the income statement (including discontinued operations) 112 127 – Additional provisions created 113 129 – Unused amounts reversed (1) (2) – Utilised (128) (105) Closing balance 34 65 Other** Opening balance 716 39 – Subsidiary balances acquired 92 1 – Transfer to non current assets held for sale (195) – – Exchange differences – (6) – Charge to the income statement (including discontinued operations) 378 623 – Additional provisions created 437 938 – Unused amounts reversed (59) (315) – Utilised (266) 59 Closing balance 725 716 Total provisions 3 359 2 961 * Staff related provision consists mainly of provision for leave pay and staff bonuses. ** Other provisions consist mainly of provisions for litigation, fraud and restructuring. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of provisions. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 327 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 27 POST RETIREMENT LIABILITIES 27.1 Defined benefit post retirement fund The Group operates two defined benefit plans; a plan which provides post employment medical benefits and a pension plan. The pension plan provides retired employees with annuity income after their service. The medical scheme provides retired employees with medical benefits. In terms of these plans, the Group is liable to the employees for specific payments on retirement and for any deficit in the provision of these benefits from the plan assets. The liabilities and assets of these plans are reflected as a net asset or liability in the statement of financial position. Details of the defined benefit plan assets and liabilities are as follows: 2010 2009 R million Pension Medical Total Pension Medical Total Post retirement benefit fund liability Present value of funded obligation 8 125 1 952 10 077 8 769 1 694 10 463 Fair value of plan assets (7 490) – (7 490) (8 226) – (8 226) Pension fund deficit 635 1 952 2 587 543 1 694 2 237 Transfer of liability – – – – 4 4 Unrecognised actuarial gains/(losses) (440) 24 (416) (410) 258 (152) Other (9) – (9) – – – Post retirement liability 186 1 976 2 162 133 1 956 2 089 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Current service cost 8 34 42 3 31 34 Interest cost 658 136 794 798 153 951 Actuarial loss recognised 2 2 4 118 (17) 101 Expected return on plan assets (650) – (650) (838) – (838) Limit on assets imposed by IFRS – – – – (20) (20) Gain on settlement 6 – 6 – – – Total included in staff costs 24 172 196 81 147 228 Movement in post retirement benefit fund liability Present value at the beginning of the year 133 1 956 2 089 99 1 881 1 980 Transfer to non current liabilities held for sale 39 (86) (47) – – – Exchange differences (6) – (6) – – – Subsidiary balances disposed – – – – (3) (3) Amounts recognised in the income statement as above (including discontinued operations) 24 172 196 81 147 228 Benefits paid – (66) (66) 720 (73) 647 Employer contribution (3) – (3) – – – Employee contribution (1) – (1) – – – Limit on assets imposed by IFRS – – – (767) – (767) Transfer of liability – – – – 4 4 Present value at the end of the year 186 1 976 2 162 133 1 956 2 089 328 27 POST RETIREMENT LIABILITIES continued 27.1 Defined benefit post retirement fund continued 2010 2009 R million Pension Medical Total Pension Medical Total Movement in the fair value of plan assets of the year is as follows: Opening balance 8 226 – 8 226 8 188 – 8 188 Transfer to non current assets held for sale (1 015) – (1 015) – – – Expected return on plan assets 650 – 650 845 – 845 Actuarial gains 169 – 169 189 – 189 Exchange differences 3 – 3 (31) – (31) Employer contributions 30 – 30 – – – Employee contributions 20 – 20 – – – Benefits paid and settlements (593) – (593) (965) – (965) Closing balance 7 490 – 7 490 8 226 – 8 226 Plan assets comprised of the following: Equity 80 – 80 2 991 – 2 991 Debt 6 048 – 6 048 3 970 – 3 970 Other 1 362 – 1 362 1 265 – 1 265 Total 7 490 – 7 490 8 226 – 8 226 Included in plan assets were the following: Buildings occupied by the Group with a fair value of 490 – 490 400 – 400 Total 490 – 490 400 – 400 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities (163) (242) (405) – – – Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 169 – 169 – – – FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 329 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 27 POST RETIREMENT LIABILITIES continued 27.1 Defined benefit post retirement fund continued 2010 2009 Pension Medical Pension Medical % % % % The principal actuarial assumptions used for accounting purposes were: Expected return on plan assets 9.25 – 9.00 – Discount rate 9.00 9.00 9.00 – Expected rates of salary increases 7.50 – 7.00 – Long term increase in health cost 7.50 7.50 – 10.00 The effects of a 1% movement in the assumed health cost rate were as follows: Effect on the defined benefit obligation (R million) – – – 12.00 Banking Group Fund: Effect on the defined benefit obligation (R million) – 302.80 – 115.90 Effect on the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost (R million) – 35.00 – 124.10 Effect on the defined benefit obligation (R million) – – – 9.00 Banking Group Fund: Effect on the defined benefit obligation (R million) – 243.6 – 87.10 Effect on the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost (R million) – 28.1 – 89.90 Estimated contributions expected to be paid to the plan in the next annual period (R million) – – 776 – Net increase in rate used to value pensions, allowing for pension increases – Momentum Group Fund (%) – – 3.00 – – Banking Group Fund (%) 6.00 – 3.00 – 2010 2009 Active Active Mortality rate members Pensioners Members Pensioners Pension Fund Normal retirement age 60 – 60 – Mortality rate table used SA72 –77 PA(90)-2 PA(90)-2 PA(90)-2 Post retirement medical benefits Normal retirement age 60 – 60 – Mortality rate table used(rated down 3 years for females) PA(90)-3 – PA(90)-2 PA(90)-2 SA72-77 refers to standard actuarial mortality tables for active members on a defined benefit plan where the chance of dying before normal retirement is expressed at each age for each gender. PA(90)-2 refers to standard actuarial mortality tables for current and prospective pensioners on a defined benefit plan where the chance of dying after early or normal retirement is expressed at each age for each gender. PA(90)-3 refers to standard actuarial mortality tables for current and prospective pensioners on a defined benefit plan where the chance of dying after early or normal retirement is expressed at each age for each gender. 330 27 POST RETIREMENT LIABILITIES continued 27.1 Defined benefit post retirement fund continued 2010 2009 Mortality rate Pension Medical Pension Medical The average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the 30 June is as follows: – Momentum Group Fund Male * * 9 – Female * * 13 – – Banking Group Fund Male 21 22 15 16 Female 25 26 19 17 The average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the reporting date is as follows: – Momentum Group Fund Male * * 6 – Female * * 4 – – Banking Group Fund Male 21 22 15 16 Female 25 26 19 17 * Relates to non current assets and disposal group held for sale. The Group has set aside certain assets against these liabilities. The assets are managed and invested to achieve a return which reflects the growth in the underlying liability. Five year analysis on total pension and medical post retirement plans As at 30 June 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Present value of defined benefit obligation 10 077 10 463 9 991 11 355 10 146 Fair value of plan assets (7 490) (8 226) (8 188) (10 079) (8 460) Deficit 2 587 2 237 1 803 1 276 1 686 The amount transferred to meet the post retirement benefit liability was made in order to meet the increase in liability as a result of changes to the fund in respect of non clerical staff being included on the scheme and changes in structure to the contribution tables. The Board agreed that portion of the liability be recognised in 2009. The employer’s post employment health care liability consists of a commitment to pay a portion of the members’ post employment medical scheme contributions. This liability is also generated in respect of dependants who are offered continued membership of the medical scheme on the death of the primary member. Members employed on or after the 1 December 1998 do not qualify for a post employment medical subsidy. The net discount rate (the difference between the discount rate and the assumed rate of future medical cost inflation) increased by 0.25 percentage points from the previous valuation to the current one. This resulted in a reduction in the liability of R36 million. A full actuarial valuation of the pension fund submission to the Financial Services Board is done every three years, with the last valuation being in 2008. Annual interim actuarial valuations are performed for the trustees and for IAS 19 purposes. At the last valuation date at 1 July 2008 the fund was financial sound. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 331 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 27 POST RETIREMENT LIABILITIES continued 27.2 Defined contribution post retirement fund This defined contribution plan is a post retirement plan in terms of which the Group, in its capacity as employer, is liable to the employees only for the agreed upon contributions payable for services rendered by the employees. At the end of the employment, employees may use the accumulated funds to purchase a pension annuity from the Group. The assets related to this pension fund are managed by the Group itself, in its capacity as an asset manager, rather than by an external entity. In this capacity the Group holds the assets related to the pension plan and has an obligation to pay over the value of the plan assets as benefits to employees on retirement. These assets and liabilities are not recognised on the statement of financial position as they are only held by the Group in a fiduciary capacity. Disclosures on these assets and liabilities are for information purposes only. Details of the pension plan assets and the related liability are as follows: R million 2010 2009 Post retirement contribution fund liability/asset Present value of obligation 9 548 8 170 Fair value of plan assets (9 548) (8 170) Post retirement contribution fund liability – – Movement in post retirement contribution fund liability Amounts recognised in the income statement 766 720 Benefits paid (766) (720) Present value at the end of the year – – Movement in the fair value of plan assets of the year is as follows: Opening balance 8 170 11 066 Expected return on plan assets 776 1 180 Actuarial gains/(losses) 601 (3 468) Employer contributions 443 307 Employee contributions 323 413 Benefits paid and settlements (765) (1 328) Closing balance 9 548 8 170 The pension fund provides a pension that can be purchased with the member’s fund credit (equal to member and employer contributions of 7.5% of pensionable salary each year, plus net investment returns). Death, ill health and withdrawal benefits are also provided. The number of employees Pension: Active members 29 213 31 280 Pensioners 7 977 7 042 Total 37 190 38 322 Medical: Active members 6 014 4 875 Pensioners 3 238 3 492 Total 9 252 8 367 The expected rate of return over the year is a weighted average of the expected rate of return of the asset classes at the beginning of the year. The weights are based on the actual proportions of market value of assets in each asset class. The expected return per class of assets is: % % Equities 10.50 12.14 Other 9.00 12.14 Bonds 7.50 10.64 Cash 10.50 9.14 Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of post retirement liabilities. 332 28 LONG TERM LIABILITIES R million 2010 2009 Debentures 120 debentures of R1 million each carrying interest at prime minus 2%a 120 120 Debentures 120 120 a The holder has the right, at any stage after 30 June 2005, to convert the debentures into non redeemable preference shares. The debentures will automatically convert into non redeemable preference shares in the event that such conversion has not already taken place by 30 June 2020. Interest is payable six monthly in arrears on 30 June and 31 December each year at the prime overdraft rate minus 2%. Preference shares Authorised 500 million (2009: 500 million) cumulative redeemable shares with a par value of R0.0001. – – 100 million (2009: 100 million) cumulative redeemable shares with a par value of R0.01 – 1 Issued The preference shares of FirstRand Investment Holdings (Pty) Limited and FirstRand Bank Holdings Limited have been classified as long term liabilities and comprise the following: 1 000 (2009: 1 000) A Class redeemable preference shares of 0.0001 cents each at a premium of R9 764.47 per share 11 10 6 400 (2009: 6 600) cumulative redeemable preference shares of 0.01 cents each at a premium of R 99 999.99 – 660 Preference shares subscribed for by third partiesb 5 686 3 801 The preference shares of FirstRand Bank Ltd have been classified as long term liabilities and comprise the following: 990 (2009: 830) cumulative redeemable preference shares subscribed for by third parties with par value of R0,0001 and a premium of R99 999,999 per shareb – 83 Less: Portion repayable within 12 months transferred to current liabilities (note 25) (2 994) (282) Preference shares 2 703 4 272 b These preference shares are redeemable at the Group’s discretion, at the full subscription price. Dividends are paid at a variable rate based on prime and currently amounts to 7.17% (2009: 7.49%). These preference shares have been issued on the back of a put option issued by FirstRand Limited. Other long term liabilities Other long term employee related liabilities Unsecured debt securities amortising over the period to 2010c 377 629 Secured loand – 576 Subordinated notese – 736 Fixed rate bondsf 5 109 5 083 Floating rate bondg 2 256 2 279 Less: Portion repayable within 12 months transferred to current liabilities (note 25) (1 600) (771) Other long term liabilities 6 142 8 532 c Various local and foreign unsecured loans with nominal interest rates ranging from 0% to 17%. d This secured loan is repayable on 11 April 2011 and is stated at net present value, using a discount rate of 15.32%. e The subordinated notes are redeemable in six monthly tranches until 2009 and do not bear interest. The notes were issued at a discount to notional value and bear an effective interest rate of 16.5%. f The fixed rate bonds mature between 31 August 2010 and 21 December 2018 and bear interest at between 8% and 13%. g The floating rate bonds mature between 31 August 2010 and 21 December 2018 and the interest varies between 65bps and 300bps above the three month JIBAR rate. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 333 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 28 LONG TERM LIABILITIES continued R million 2010 2009 Finance lease liabilities Not later than 1 year 3 4 Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 2 3 Total finance lease liabilities 5 7 Future finance charges on finance leases 3 – Present value of finance lease liability 8 7 Less: Portion repayable within 12 months transferred to current liabilities (note 25) (3) (4) Long term finance lease charges 5 3 The finance lease liability ended 2009 and is secured over property occupied for banking operations. Repayments are based on a interest rate of 16.64% and are payable six months in advance. Share based payment (cash settled) 213 1 Long term liabilities 9 183 12 928 Refer to note 41 for information relating to the fair value of long term liabilities. Refer to note 17 for assets that secure the finance lease liabilities. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of long term liabilities. Refer to note 38 for information about changes in the Group’s own credit risk. 29 POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES UNDER INSURANCE CONTRACTS R million 2010 2009 Opening balance 40 725 43 417 Transfer to non current assets held for sale (39 069) – Reclassification from policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts (IFRS 4) – (42) Reclassification to reinsurance assets 421 – Revaluation of liability – (104) Exchange differences (2) (2) Transfer to policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts (discontinued operations – note 3) – (2 869) Transfer to policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts (continuing operations – note 3) (207) 325 – (Decrease)/increase in retrospective liabilities (307) 228 – Unwind of discount rate 24 9 – New business 98 183 – Change in economic assumptions (6) 6 – Change in non economic assumptions 102 (12) – Expected cash flows (56) (37) – Expected release of margins (62) (47) – Expected variances – (5) Closing balance 1 868 40 725 Insurance contracts with discretionary participation features 239 8 934 Insurance contracts without discretionary participation features 1 629 31 791 Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 1 868 40 725 334 29 POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES UNDER INSURANCE CONTRACTS continued R million 2010 2009 Included in the balance above is the following with respect to short term insurance contracts: Gross Claims reported and loss adjustment expense 522 365 Claims incurred but not yet reported 72 7 Unearned premium 4 927 Total liability arising from short term insurance contracts 598 1 299 Actuarial liabilities under unmatured policies comprise the following: % % Linked (market related) business – Individual life 6.0 32.3 Smoothed bonus business – Individual life 22.5 13.3 With profits reversionary bonus business – 7.8 Non profit business – Individual life – (0.1) – Employee benefits – 4.0 Annuity business 65 42.7 Life business – Individual life 6.5 – Total 100.0 100.0 Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of policyholder liabilities. Best estimate valuation assumptions. Economic assumptions. Risk free return The ten year zero coupon risk free yield, derived from SA government bonds, is used as the starting point to determine the gross valuation interest rate for South African Rand (ZAR) denominated businesses. Similarly, the corresponding ten year yield, derived from US Treasury Bills, is used to determine the gross valuation interest rate for the United States Dollar (US$) denominated businesses. 2010 2009 ZAR ten year zero coupon risk free yield 8.94 9.28 US$ ten year zero coupon risk free yield * 3.88 Valuation interest rate The gross valuation interest rate per annum for ZAR denominated businesses 10.5% (2009: 11.4% per annum) was calculated as a weighted investment return, representing the investment returns on a theoretical, balanced notional portfolio consisting of equities, properties, gilt edged stocks, corporate bonds and cash. Notional portfolio used as at 30 June: 2010 2009 – Equities 60% 60% – Properties * 10% – Government bonds 40% 10% – Corporate bonds * 10% – Cash * 10% Assumed performance of other asset classes relative to government bonds: – Equities (including overseas equities) 3.5% per annum 3.5% per annum – Properties * +1.0% per annum – Corporate bonds * +0.5% per annum – Cash * -1.0% per annum * Relates to non current assets and disposal groups held for sale. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 335 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 29 POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES UNDER INSURANCE CONTRACTS continued Rounding to the nearest 0.25% was performed. Using the same methodology, the gross valuation rate of 2009: 6.00% per annum was determined for US$ denominated business. Liabilities in the annuity portfolio were valued at the risk free zero coupon yield curve. Inflation An expense inflation rate of 6.56% per annum (2009:7.2%) for ZAR denominated business was used to project future renewal expenses. The ZAR inflation rate was derived by deducting the ten year real return on CPI linked government bonds of 2.98% (2009:2.1%) from the risk free rate. US$ inflation was assumed to be 1.8% per annum in the previous year. Tax To provide for tax, the gross valuation interest rate expected to be earned in future was reduced appropriately for taxable business and retirement annuity business. These reductions in the investment return represent the expected tax payable on the assumed investment return on the notional policyholders’ portfolio, based on the four fund tax dispensation. It was assumed that the Group will remain in an “Excess investment income” position (as opposed to “Excess expense”) for the purposes of projecting tax on income and relief on expenses. Mortality, morbidity and terminations Demographic assumptions, such as those in respect of future mortality, disability and persistency rates are set based by calibrating standard tables to internal experience investigations. The investigations are performed and assumptions set for individual product lines, but ensuring that assumptions are consistent where experience is not expected to deviate between product lines. Assumptions in respect of mortality, morbidity and terminations were based on experience investigations performed in June 2009. The investigations covered a period of five years, from 2004 to 2009. The experience on policies and annuities were analysed. Mortality and disability rates are adjusted to allow for expected deterioration in mortality rates as a result of AIDS and for expected improvements in mortality rates in the case of annuity business. Allowance for AIDS was made according to professional guidance note PGN 105 (July 2007): Minimum requirements for deriving AIDS extra mortality rates, issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa. PHI termination of claim rates Disability claim recovery probabilities are modelled, using the Group Long Term Disability Table (“GLTD”), developed in the United States of America. The table details recovery rates for given: – Ages; – Waiting periods; and – Duration since disability We adjust the recovery rates for South African circumstances by taking the following proportions of the GLTD rates: 2010 2009 Year 1: * 45% Year 2: * 85% Year 3: * 135% * Relates to non current assets and disposal group held for sale. Where the years represent duration of disability. Expenses The sustainable annual renewal expense per policy was based on an analysis of budgeted expenses for the year ending 30 June 2010. The analysis distinguished between renewal and acquisition costs. Expenses expected to be once off in nature or not relating to long term insurance business were removed from the budgeted expenses. Asset management expenses were expressed as an annual percentage of assets under management. Policyholder bonuses Future additions of discretionary bonuses to smoothed bonus (universal life) policies have been projected at levels that are consistent with and supported by the assumed rate of investment return, after allowing for contractual expense charges and tax. On conventional policies, it is assumed that current bonus rates (both reversionary and terminal bonus rates) will be maintained in future. 336 30 POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES UNDER INVESTMENT CONTRACTS R million 2010 2009 Opening balance 109 196 110 784 Reclassification from policyholder liabilities under investment contracts (IFRS 4) – 42 Set off of policy loans as at 1 July – 560 Subsidiary balances acquired (36) – Movement for the year 1 168 (2 190) – Deposits received 18 10 030 – Policyholder benefits on investment contracts (4) (26 772) – Fees on investment contracts (4) (1 283) – Movement in policy loans for the year 1 144 – – Exchange differences – 34 – Consolidation of cell – 3 – Fair value adjustment to policyholder liabilities under investment contracts (discontinued operations – note 3) – (3 939) – Fair value adjustment to policyholder liabilities under investment contracts (continuing operations – note 3) 14 (41) – Employee benefits – 19 778 – Transfer to non current assets held for sale (110 227) – Closing balance 101 109 196 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 44 12 815 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 57 96 381 – With investment management service components – 93 300 – Without investment management service components 57 3 081 Total policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 101 109 196 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 337 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 30 POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES UNDER INVESTMENT CONTRACTS continued Shorter Between Between 6 Longer than R million Total than 1 year 1 and 5 years and 10 years 10 years 2010 Linked (market related) business – Individual life 28 3 9 15 1 – Individual life 16 4 5 3 4 Annuity business 57 6 20 31 – Total policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 101 13 34 49 5 2009 Linked (market related) business – Individual life 56 291 8 809 17 995 6 412 23 075 – Employee benefits 38 290 38 265 17 4 4 Smoothed bonus business – Individual life 7 110 465 2 859 1 466 2 320 – Employee benefits 5 285 5 285 – – – Non profit business – Individual life 1 440 (128) 1 451 21 96 Annuity business 780 110 215 31 424 Total policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 109 196 52 806 22 537 7 934 25 919 Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of policyholder liabilities under investment contracts. 338 31 DEFERRED REVENUE LIABILITY R million 2010 2009 Opening balance 322 296 Amount recognised in the income statement during the year – (101) Deferred income relating to new business – 127 Transfer to non current assets held for sale (322) – Closing balance – 322 Deferred revenue relates to various income and fees which have been spread over the life of the transaction. Refer to note 40 for current and non current analysis of deferred revenue liability. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 339 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 32 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM 2010 Number of Number of “A” ordinary preference shares shares Authorised Number of shares 6 001 688 450 198 311 550 Issued Ordinary shares Opening balance 5 637 941 689 – Conversion of convertible redeemable preference shares – – Closing balance 5 637 941 689 – “A” Shares Opening balance – – – Redeemed during the year – – Converted during the year – Closing balance – – “B” Shares Opening balance – – – “B1” preference shares incorporated as “B” preference shares effective 4 January 2010 – – Closing balance – – “B1” Shares Opening balance – – – “B1” preference shares incorporated as “B” preference shares effective 4 January 2010 – – Closing balance – – Total issued share capital and share premium – closing balance – – Analysis of total issued share capital closing balance Ordinary issued share capital closing balance as above of 1 cent each 5 637 941 689 – “A” variable rate, convertible, redeemable, cumulative preference shares of 1 cent each – – “B” variable rate, non cumulative non redeemable preference shares of 1 cent each – – “B1” variable rate, non cumulative non redeemable preference shares of 1 cent each – – Treasury shares (393 425 594) Total issued share capital – closing balance 5 244 516 095 – Disclosed on the face of the statement of financial position Ordinary share capital Ordinary share premium Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares Total * Less than R1 million. 1 The “C” preference shares are variable rate, convertible, non cumulative non redeemable, preference shares. The “D” preference shares are variable rate, cumulative, redeemable preference shares. The following represents the shareholding of subsidiaries in FirstRand Limited at 30 June: Momentum Group Limited – held on behalf of policyholders. These shares have been treated as treasury shares. Share option schemes The investment in FirstRand Limited by the share incentive schemes have been treated as treasury shares as set out above. For detail on capital management of the Group please refer to the Capital Management and Regulatory Capital section from pages 125 to page 135, which form part of the audited financial statements. The unissued ordinary shares are under the control of the directors until the next annual general meeting. 340 2010 Number of Number of “B” and “B1” “C” and “D” preference preference Share capital Share premium Total shares shares1 R million R million R million 100 000 000 200 000 000 – – – – – 56 7 227 7 283 – – * – – – – 56 7 227 7 283 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 30 000 000 – – 2 992 2 992 15 000 000 – – 1 527 1 527 45 000 000 – – 4 519 4 519 15 000 000 – – 1 527 1 527 (15 000 000) – – (1 527) (1 527) – – – – – 45 000 000 – 56 11 746 11 802 – – 56 7 227 7 283 – – – – 45 000 000 – – 4 519 4 519 – – – – – – (4) (5 736) (5 740) 45 000 000 – 52 6 010 6 062 52 1 491 4 519 6 062 2010 % 1.0 6.0 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 341 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 32 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM continued 2009 Number of Number of “A” ordinary preference shares shares Authorised Number of shares 6 001 688 450 198 311 550 Issued Ordinary shares Opening balance 5 637 830 218 – Conversion of convertible redeemable preference shares 111 471 – Closing balance 5 637 941 689 – “A” Shares Opening balance – 3 322 500 – Redeemed during the year – (3 211 029) – Converted during the year – (111 471) Closing balance – – “B” Shares Opening balance – – Closing balance – – “B1” Shares Opening balance – – Closing balance – – Total issued share capital and share premium – closing balance – – Analysis of total issued share capital closing balance: Ordinary issued share capital closing balance as above of 1 cent each 5 637 941 689 – “A” variable rate, convertible, redeemable, cumulative preference shares of 1 cent each – – “B” variable rate, non cumulative non redeemable preference shares of 1 cent each – – “B1” variable rate, non cumulative non redeemable preference shares of 1 cent each – – Treasury shares (424 341 687) – Total issued share capital – closing balance 5 213 600 002 – Disclosed on the face of the balance sheet Ordinary share capital Ordinary share premium Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares Total * Less than R1 million. 1 The “C” preference shares are variable rate, convertible, non cumulative non redeemable, preference shares. The “D” preference shares are variable rate, cumulative, redeemable preference shares. The following represents the shareholding of subsidiaries in FirstRand Limited at 30 June: Momentum Group Limited –held on behalf of policyholders. These shares have been treated as treasury shares. Share option schemes The investment in FirstRand Limited by the share incentive schemes in existence within the Group have been treated as treasury shares as set out above. For detail on capital management of the Group please refer to the Capital Management and Regulatory Capital section from pages 125 to page 135, which form part of the audited financial statements. The unissued ordinary shares are under the control of the directors until the next annual general meeting. 342 2009 Number of Number of “B” and “B1” “C” and “D” preference preference Share capital Share premium Total shares shares1 R million R million R million 100 000 000 200 000 000 – – – – – 56 7 227 7 283 – – * – – – – 56 7 227 7 283 – – – 22 22 – – – (21) (21) – – – (1) (1) – – – – – 30 000 000 – – 2 992 2 992 30 000 000 – – 2 992 2 992 15 000 000 – – 1 527 1 527 15 000 000 – – 1 527 1 527 45 000 000 – 56 11 746 11 802 – – 56 7 227 7 283 – – – – – 30 000 000 – – 2 992 2 992 15 000 000 – – 1 527 1 527 – – (4) (5 927) (5 931) 45 000 000 – 52 5 819 5 871 52 1 300 4 519 5 871 2009 % 0.6 6.9 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 343 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 33 remuneration schemes R million 2010 2009 The income statement charge for share based payments is as follows: FirstRand share incentive scheme (11) 46 FNB Botswana ** 2 FNB Namibia ** 3 FirstRand black employee trust 44 65 FirstRand black non executive directors’ trust 3 3 FirstRand share appreciation right scheme 306 (140) Conditional share plan 201 – Forfeitable share plan 136 – Charge to income statement 679 (21) ** Amounts less than R500 000. The FirstRand share schemes are equity settled schemes, except for the FirstRand Limited share appreciation scheme, which is cash settled. The FirstRand share incentive scheme was implemented in 2000. The purpose of this scheme is to provide a facility to employees of the FirstRand Group to acquire shares in FirstRand Limited. The primary purpose of this scheme is to appropriately attract, incentivise and retain managers within the FirstRand Group. The FirstRand share appreciation right scheme was implemented in 2006 to provide selected FirstRand Group employees, including executive directors of the participating companies, the opportunity of receiving incentive remuneration payments based on the increase in the market value of ordinary FirstRand shares. This scheme is better aligned to employment and governance practices currently prevailing in the market. In line with global best practice and emerging South African practice, the Group adopted new share incentive plans in the current year, i.e. a Conditional (“CSP”) and Forfeitable Share Plan (“FSP”). These plans are in line with practices in the UK and with several recently adopted schemes for large JSE listed or dual listed companies. Description of the schemes FirstRand share incentive scheme The rules of the FirstRand share scheme (“the Scheme”) are constituted in the FirstRand Limited share trust. The purpose of the scheme is to increase the proprietary interests of identified employees in the Group’s success and to encourage them to render and continue to render their best services to the Group. Options over FirstRand ordinary shares are granted by the trust to these employees. The FNB Botswana and FNB Namibia schemes are generally aligned to the Scheme in terms of purpose and rules. The sale of shares arising from the exercise of options may only be exercised as to one third of the total number of options issued after the third year, two thirds after the fourth year and all of the shares on the fifth anniversary of the date of issue. FirstRand black economic empowerment trusts FirstRand Limited is committed to the process of achieving transformation in South Africa and in creating its transformation initiative sought to ensure that the long term benefits of the transaction reach the widest possible community of black South Africans. 171.4 million shares, representing approximately 3.1% of the issued share capital of FirstRand Limited, are held by the BEE trusts which have granted participation to black South African directors and employees: • 20.0 million shares to the FirstRand staff assistance trust; • 136.4 million shares to the FirstRand black employee trust (subject to IFRS 2); and • 15.0 million shares to the FirstRand black non executive directors’ trust (subject to IFRS 2). 344 33 remuneration schemes continued FirstRand black employee trust This trust was set up specifically for the benefit of the black employees. The participation in this trust is in addition to participation in any existing FirstRand share incentive scheme. The issues of participation rights in the trust was made as follows: • first issue on 20 July 2005; • second issue on 1 November 2006; • third issue on 3 December 2007; and • last issue on 30 April 2010. Distribution to beneficiaries takes place on 31 December 2014. FirstRand black non executive directors’ trust The beneficiaries of this trust are the black non executive and those executive directors who were non executives prior to becoming executives of FirstRand Group companies. Distribution to beneficiaries takes place on 31 December 2014. FirstRand share appreciation right scheme The purpose of this scheme is to provide identified Group employees, including executive directors with the opportunity of receiving incentive remuneration payments based on the increase in the market value of ordinary shares in FirstRand Limited. Entitlement to incentive remuneration payments is predicated on the achievement of certain key performance objectives which are set by the remuneration committee prior to each grant of appreciation rights to participating employees. Appreciation rights may only be exercised as to one third of the total number of rights issued after the third, two thirds after the fourth and all of the shares by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, provided that the performance objectives set for the grant have been achieved. Conditional share plan The conditional award comprises a number of full free shares that will vest conditionally over a period of three years. The number of shares that vest is determined by the extend to which the performance conditions are met. Conditional awards will be made annually and vesting will be subject to specified financial and non financial performance, which will be set annually by the Group’s Remuneration committee. Forfeitable share plan The forfeitable share plan is a remuneration scheme that grants selected employees full free shares which will vest over a period of two years. Selected employees are awarded shares which are forfeited if the employee leaves the employment of the FirstRand Group before the end of the vesting period of two years. During the two year vesting period the shares are held in trust for the employees and all dividends accrue to the employees for the duration of the vesting period. Co-investment arrangement A co-investment arrangement was established whereby certain key executives and decision makers of the Group are allowed to coinvest with FirstRand in certain pre defined portfolios. The rationale for the co-investment arrangement includes: • alignment of management and shareholder objectives; • retention of key employees and decision makers; and • attracting new talent in a highly competitive market. The participants who co-invest with FirstRand buy into existing portfolios at the disclosed fair values and are required to place capital at risk. No additional gearing is provided by FirstRand. Participants share in future profits to the extent of their capital as a percentage of the total capital at risk in the portfolios. The co-investment arrangement encourages a long term perspective and commitment from employees. The arrangement also encourages executives to remain in the employment of Group companies in excess of three years, as the value of the underlying investments are expected to realise over a longer time frame. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 345 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 33 remuneration schemes continued The Group remuneration committee determines annually: • the portfolios in which co-investment will be allowed; • the level of co-investment allowed; and • which key executives and decision makers qualify for co-investment. The amounts invested by key management personnel have been included in note 46 related parties. Valuation methodology FirstRand share incentive scheme Fair values for the share incentive schemes are calculated at the date of grant using a modification of the Cox Rubenstein binomial model. For valuation purposes, each call option granted has been valued as a Bermudan call option with a number of exercise dates. The days on which the options can be exercised has been assumed to be the last day that the shares trade cum-dividend. Market data consists of the following: • Volatility is the expected volatility over the period of the option. In the absence of other available data, historical volatility can be used as a proxy for expected volatility. • The interest rate is the risk free rate of return, recorded on the date of the option grant, on a South African government zero coupon bond of a term equal to the expected life of the option. Dividend data consists of the following: • the last dividend paid is the Rand amount of the last dividend before the options were granted; • the last dividend date is the ex date of the last dividend; and • the dividend growth is the annual expected dividend growth, which should be based on publicly available information. Employee statistic assumptions: • Annual employee turnover is the average annual rate that employees participating in the option scheme are expected to leave before the options have vested. The number of iterations is the number to be used in the binomial model, which is limited to 500. The weighted average number of forfeitures is based on the major grants as these grants have a more reliable cancellation or forfeiture pattern. FirstRand black employee trust Economically, FirstRand has granted European call options and is repurchasing shares. The strike price equates to the expected outstanding amount of the funding. The value of the implicit options is determined using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Market data consists of the following: • Volatility is the expected volatility over the period of the option. In the absence of other available data, historical volatility can be used as a proxy for expected volatility. • The interest rate used was the RMB forward prime curve (extrapolated where necessary) as the funding of the option is linked to the prime lending rate. Dividend data consists of the following: • A fixed dividend yield was assumed. Employee statistic assumptions: • The weighted average forfeiture rate used is based on historical forfeiture data for this scheme. FirstRand black non executive directors’ trust The FirstRand Black non executive directors’ trust is valued on the same methodology as used for the FirstRand black employee trust, except that a zero % weighted average forfeiture rate was used due to the fact that there are only 11 participants. Market data consists of the following: • Volatility is the expected volatility over the period of the option. In the absence of other available data, historical volatility can be used as a proxy for expected volatility. • The interest rate used was the RMB forward prime curve (extrapolated where necessary) as the funding of the option is linked to the prime lending rate. Dividend data consists of the following: • A fixed dividend yield was assumed. 346 33 remuneration schemes continued FirstRand share appreciation right scheme The share appreciation right scheme issues are valued as European options using the Black Scholes model. The scheme is cash settled and will thus be repriced at each reporting date. Market data consists of the following: • Volatility is the expected volatility over the period of the option. In the absence of other available data, historic volatility could be used as a proxy for expected valuation. • The interest rate is the risk free rate of return, as recorded on the last day of the financial year, on a swap curve of a term equal to the expected life of the share appreciation right. FirstRand share appreciation right scheme Dividend data consists of the following: • A fixed dividend yield was assumed. Employee statistic assumptions: The number of options granted is reduced by the actual staff turnover at year end. This turnover is then assumed to be constant over the period of the options and used to estimate future turnover. Conditional share plan The conditional share plan is valued as an European option using the Black Scholes model. The scheme is equity settled and will thus not be repriced at each reporting date. Market and dividend data consists of the following: • Volatility is the expected volatility over the period of the plan, and historical volatility was used as a proxy for expected volatility. • The interest rate is the risk free rate of return as recorded on the last day of the financial year, on a swap curve of a term equal to the expected life of the plan. • A fixed dividend yield was assumed, based on the average historic dividend yield over a similar period. Employee statistic assumptions: • The weighted average forfeiture rate used is based on historical forfeiture data over all schemes. Forfeitable share plan The forfeitable share plan is valued as an European option using the Black Scholes model. The scheme is equity settled and will thus not be repriced at each reporting date. Market and dividend data consists of the following: • Volatility is the expected volatility over the period of the plan, and historical volatility was used as a proxy for expected volatility. • The interest rate is the risk free rate of return as recorded on the last day of the financial year, on a swap curve of a term equal to the expected life of the plan. • A fixed dividend yield was assumed, based on the average historic dividend yield over a similar period. Employee statistic assumptions: • No forfeiture rate is used due to the short duration of the scheme. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 347 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 33 remuneration schemes continued The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options and share awards granted and the IFRS 2 expenses for the year under review are: FirstRand share incentive scheme FNB Botswana 2010 Weighted average share price (Rand) 12.37 – 17.87 2.80 – 15.10 Expected volatility (%) 23 – 29 11 – 33 Expected option life (years) 5 5 Expected risk free rate (%) 7.42 – 8.02 7.57 – 14.00 Expected dividend yield (%) – – Expected dividend growth (%) 20.00 15.00 – 24.00 2009 Weighted average share price (Rand) 7.70 – 19.49 2.80 – 17.5 Expected volatility (%) 27 – 33 11 – 33 Expected option life (years) 5.00 5.00 Expected risk free rate (%) 7.42 – 9.36 7.57 – 14.00 Expected dividend yield (%) – – Expected dividend growth (%) 20.00 – 22.87 15.00 – 24.00 ** Some share appreciation rights granted are subject to other vesting conditions that are highly unlikely to be achieved. 348 FirstRand black FirstRand share FirstRand black non executive appreciation Conditional Forfeitable FNB Namibia employee trust directors’ trust right scheme ** share plan share plan 5.17 – 11.80 12.05 – 24.60 12.28 – 17.60 14.01 0.00 0.00 4.02 – 17.00 24 – 49 23 – 33 34 – 42 42 30 5 6 – 10 10 5 3 2–3 7.05 – 9.47 6.91 – 9.9 6.91 6.72 – 7.49 7.05 7.05 – 2.78 – 6.88 3.44 – 4.04 4.21 – 4.83 4.82 3.95 13 – 19 – – – – – 4.20 – 11.55 12.05 – 24.60 12.28 – 17.60 – – – 4 – 17 27 – 49 27 – – – 5.00 7 –10 10.00 – – – 7.89– 14.46 6.91 – 9.9 6.91 – – – – 3.81 – 6.88 3.81 – – – 13.00 – 19.00 – – – – – FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 349 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 33 REMUNERATION SCHEMES continued 2010 FirstRand share scheme FNB (FSR shares) (FSR shares) Number of options and share awards in force at the beginning of the year (millions) 79.3 – Granted at prices ranging between (cents) 608 – 1 787 – Weighted average (cents) 1 351 – Number of options and share awards granted during the year (millions) – – Granted at prices ranging between (cents) – – Weighted average (cents) – – Number of options and share awards exercised during the year (millions) (42.5) – Market value range at date of exercise (cents) 1 438 – 2 100 – Weighted average share price for the year (cents) 1 778 – Number of options and share awards cancelled during the year (millions) (1.8) – Granted at prices ranging between (cents) 1 050 – 1 538 – Weighted average (cents) 1 462 – Number of options and share awards in force at the end of the year (millions) 35.0 – Granted at prices ranging between (cents) 1 237 – 1 787 – Weighted average (cents) 1 522 – Options and share awards are exercisable over the following periods (first date able to release) Financial year 2008/2009 (millions) 9.2 – Financial year 2009/2010 (millions) 10.4 – Financial year 2010/2011 (millions) 15.4 – Financial year 2011/2012 (millions) – – Financial year 2012/2013 (millions) – – Financial year 2013/2014 (millions) – – Financial year 2014/2015 (millions) – – Total 35.0 – 350 2010 FirstRand share FirstRand FirstRand appreciation black employee black non executive Conditional Forfeitable right scheme trust directors’ trust share plan share plan (FSR shares) (FSR shares) (FSR shares) (FSR shares) (FSR shares) 253 113 11 – – 1 138 – 2 305 1 205 – 2 460 1 228 – 1 760 – – 1 623 1 562 1 276 – – 0.7 29.6 – 44.6 18.4 1 356 – 1 651 1 365 – 2 026 – – – 1 469 2 002 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – (18.70) (6.60) (0.5) (0.8) (0.5) 1 401 – 2 233 1 228 – 2 355 1 228 – – 1 629 1 737 1 228 – – 235.0 136.0 10.5 43.8 17.9 1 138 – 2 305 1 205 – 2 460 1 228 – 1 760 – – 1 621 1 624 1 279 – – – – – – – 18.8 – – – – 38.0 – – – – 78.2 – – – 16.7 59.7 – – 43.8 1.2 40.2 – – – – 0.1 136.0 10.5 – – 235.0 136.0 10.5 43.8 17.9 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 351 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 33 REMUNERATION SCHEMES continued 2010 FirstRand (FSR shares) Outstanding Exercise price options 2010 Options and share awards outstanding (by expiry date) Expiry date (Rand)** Millions 2010/03/01 12.37 0.1 2010/10/03 15.33 32.5 2010/10/20 13.29 2.0 2010/11/15 15.38 0.1 2011/03/01 17.08 0.2 2011/03/15 17.87 * 2011/06/01 16.09 0.1 35.0 Total options – in the money and share awards (millions) 35.0 Total options – out of the money (millions) 0.0 Total options and share awards (millions) 35.0 Value of company loans to share option trust at the beginning of the year (R million) 1 282 Value of company loans to share option trust at the end of the year (R million) 1 093 Number of participants 996 * Less than R1 million. ** Some share appreciation rights granted are subject to other vesting conditions that are highly unlikely to be achieved. 352 2010 FirstRand share appreciation right scheme (FSR shares) FirstRand black non executive directors’ trust (FSR shares) Outstanding Outstanding Exercise price options 2010 Exercise price options 2010 Expiry date (Rand)** Millions Expiry date (Rand) Millions 2011/10/01 16.33 54.4 2014/12/31 12.28 9.5 2011/12/01 18.15 * 2014/12/31 17.60 1.0 2012/02/27 23.05 0.2 2012/03/15 20.88 0.3 2012/04/01 22.98 0.6 2012/06/15 22.12 0.6 2012/10/01 20.53 57.7 2013/03/04 17.99 0.1 2013/05/01 15.66 0.3 2013/11/03 14.01 119.6 2014/03/16 11.38 0.1 2014/04/01 12.65 0.1 2014/05/01 13.05 0.3 2014/06/15 13.56 0.4 2014/10/01 16.51 0.3 235.0 10.5 120.8 10.5 114.2 ** 0.0 235.0 10.5 2 156 206 1 984 214 2 137 11 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 353 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 33 REMUNERATION SCHEMES continued FirstRand black employee trust Outstanding Exercise price options 2010 Options and share awards outstanding (by expiry date) Expiry date (Rand) Millions 2014/12/31 12.05 0.2 2014/12/31 12.06 0.2 2014/12/31 12.28 63.9 2014/12/31 13.05 0.4 2014/12/31 13.65 0.1 2014/12/31 14.00 0.2 2014/12/31 14.70 0.2 2014/12/31 14.91 1.0 2014/12/31 15.66 0.1 2014/12/31 15.88 0.1 2014/12/31 16.00 * 2014/12/31 16.42 0.5 2014/12/31 16.50 * 2014/12/31 16.51 0.4 2014/12/31 17.37 0.6 2014/12/31 17.81 0.1 2014/12/31 18.19 * 2014/12/31 18.62 17.4 2014/12/31 18.72 0.1 2014/12/31 19.81 * 2014/12/31 20.26 28.0 2014/12/31 21.50 0.2 2014/12/31 22.10 0.1 2014/12/31 22.34 20.9 2014/12/31 22.60 0.1 2014/12/31 22.80 0.5 2014/12/31 23.35 0.1 2014/12/31 23.75 0.1 2014/12/31 24.60 0.5 136.0 Total options – in the money and share awards (millions) 68.0 Total options outstanding – out of the money (millions) 68.0 Total options and share awards (millions) 136.0 Value of company loans to share trust at the beginning of the year (R million) 1 812 Value of company loans to share trust at the end of the year (R million) 1 888 Number of participants 12 508 * Less than R1 million. *** The employees are awarded the shares, there is therefore no strike price associated with the awards made under the conditional or forfeitable share plan. 354 2010 Conditional share plan** Forfeitable share plan*** Outstanding Outstanding options 2010 awards 2010 Expiry date Millions Expiry date Millions 2012/09/17 43.8 2011/09/15 16.7 2012/09/15 1.2 43.8 17.9 43.8 17.9 0.0 0.0 43.8 17.9 – – – 273 2 058 150 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 355 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 33 REMUNERATION SCHEMES continued Number of options and share awards in force at the beginning of the year (millions) Granted at prices ranging between (cents) Weighted average (cents) Number of options and share awards granted during the year (millions) Granted at prices ranging between (cents) Weighted average (cents) Number of options and share awards exercised during the year (millions) Market value range at date of exercise (cents) Weighted average share price for the year (cents) Number of options and share awards cancelled during the year (millions) Granted at prices ranging between (cents) Weighted average (cents) Number of options and share awards in force at the end of the year (millions) Granted at prices ranging between (cents) Weighted average (cents) Options and share awards are exercisable over the following periods (first date able to release) Financial year 2007/2008 (millions) Financial year 2008/2009 (millions) Financial year 2009/2010 (millions) Financial year 2010/2011 (millions) Financial year 2011/2012 (millions) Financial year 2012/2013 (millions) Financial year 2014/2015 (millions) Total 356 2009 FirstRand FirstRand black FirstRand share appreciation FirstRand black non executive share scheme FNB right scheme employee trust directors’ trust (FSR shares) (FSR shares) (FSR shares) (FSR shares) (FSR shares) 130.8 1.7 145.1 128.1 11.0 608 – 1 787 424 – 508 1 566 – 2 305 1 228 – 2 520 1 228 – 1 760 1 172 468 1 849 1 574 1 276 – – 133.1 1.4 – – – 1 138 – 1 401 1 205 – 1 650 – – – 1 401 1 432 – (40.5) (1.7) – – – 1 128 – 1 745 1 135 – 1 680 – – – 1 430 1 430 – – – (11.0) – (25.2) (16.5) – 608 – 1 787 – 1 401 – 2 053 1 228 –2 520 – 1 367 – 1 748 1 633 – 79.3 – 253.0 113.0 11.0 608 – 1 787 – 1 138 – 2 305 1 205 – 2 460 1 228 – 1 760 1 351 – 1 623 1 562 1 276 5.9 – – – – 26.1 – – – – 30.4 – 20.4 – – 16.9 – 41.4 – – – – 84.3 – – – – 63.9 – – – – 43.0 113.0 11.0 79.3 – 253.0 113.0 11.0 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 357 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 33 REMUNERATION SCHEMES continued 2009 FirstRand (FSR shares) Outstanding Exercise price options 2009 Options outstanding (by expiry date) Expiry date (Rand)** Millions 2008/09/17 6.08 0.2 2009/06/15 8.53 0.0 2009/10/01 10.50 28.3 2009/11/15 10.87 0.1 2010/03/01 12.37 0.3 2010/03/15 12.32 0.2 2010/06/15 12.78 * 2010/10/03 15.33 47.7 2010/10/20 13.29 2.0 2010/11/15 15.38 0.3 2011/03/01 17.08 0.2 2011/03/15 17.87 * 2011/06/01 16.09 * 79.3 Total options and share awards outstanding – in the money 31.1 Total options and share awards outstanding – out of the money 48.2 Total (millions) 79.3 Value of company loans to share option trust at the beginning of the year (R million) 1 909 Value of company loans to share option trust at the end of the year (R million) 1 282 Number of participants 1 328 * Less than R1 million. ** Some share appreciation rights granted are subject to other vesting conditions that are highly unlikely to be achieved. 358 2009 FirstRand share appreciation right scheme (FSR shares) FirstRand black non executive directors’ trust (FSR shares) Outstanding Outstanding Exercise price options 2009 Exercise price options 2009 Expiry date (Rand)** Millions Expiry date (Rand) Millions 2011/10/01 16.33 59.4 2014/12/31 12.28 10.0 2011/12/01 18.15 * 2014/12/31 17.60 1.0 2012/02/27 23.05 0.2 2012/03/01 22.33 * 2012/03/15 20.88 0.4 2012/04/01 22.98 0.6 2012/06/15 22.12 0.6 2012/10/01 20.53 62.6 2013/03/04 17.99 0.1 2013/05/01 15.66 0.3 2013/11/03 14.01 128.3 2014/03/16 11.38 0.1 2014/04/01 12.65 0.1 2014/05/01 13.05 0.3 253.0 11.0 –** 10.0 253.0 1.0 253.0 11.0 1 906 186 2 156 206 2 332 11 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 359 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 33 REMUNERATION SCHEMES continued 2009 FirstRand black employee trust Outstanding Exercise price options 2009 Options outstanding (by expiry date) Expiry date (Rand) Millions 2014/12/31 12.05 0.2 2014/12/31 12.06 0.2 2014/12/31 12.28 66.6 2014/12/31 13.05 0.3 2014/12/31 14.70 0.2 2014/12/31 14.91 1.0 2014/12/31 15.66 0.1 2014/12/31 16.00 * 2014/12/31 16.42 0.5 2014/12/31 16.50 0.1 2014/12/31 17.81 0.1 2014/12/31 18.62 19.0 2014/12/31 18.72 0.1 2014/12/31 19.81 * 2014/12/31 20.78 * 2014/12/31 21.50 0.2 2014/12/31 22.10 * 2014/12/31 22.34 23.1 2014/12/31 22.60 0.1 2014/12/31 22.80 0.5 112.3 Total options and share awards outstanding – in the money 67.3 Total options and share awards outstanding – out of the money 45.7 Total (millions) 113.0 Value of company loans to share trust at the beginning of the year (R million) 1 714 Value of company loans to share trust at the end of the year (R million) 1 812 Number of participants 12 684 * Less than R1 million. 360 R million 2010 2009 34 CASH FLOW INFORMATION 34.1 Reconciliation of operating profit before income tax to cash flows from operating activities Operating profit before income tax (continuing operations) 13 007 7 869 Adjusted for: – Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 1 488 1 556 – Impairment of advances 5 686 8 024 – Share of profit from associates and joint ventures less dividends received (126) (779) – Unrealised profits on assets held against employee liabilities (151) 364 – Movement in provisions 2 409 1 892 – Profit/(loss) on disposal of property and equipment (53) 4 – Loss on disposal of investments (774) (376) – Profit on disposal of subsidiary (143) – – Revaluation reserve – – – Deferred expenses and income (269) (32) – Share based payment expense (continuing operations) 548 36 – Net fair value gains on financial assets through profit or loss (127) 322 – Movement in policyholder liabilities under investment contracts – 40 – Transfer to policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts – 38 – Accruals 126 (138) – Present value adjustments (259) (415) – Dividends paid (3 299) (3 700) – Profit on disposal of associates (1 384) – – Dividends paid to non controlling interest (420) (804) – Foreign currency translation reserve 55 211 – Goodwill (203) – – Profit on available-for-sale assets and cash flow hedges transferred (762) 162 Net cash flows from operating activities 15 349 14 274 34.2 Cash receipts from customers Interest income 39 055 50 740 Fee and commission income 17 058 15 379 Trading and other income 3 767 1 209 Premium less claims 193 (373) Cash receipts from customers 60 073 66 955 34.3 Cash paid to customers, suppliers and employees Interest expense (22 459) (33 516) Other operating expenses (21 694) (18 875) Cash paid to customers, suppliers and employees (44 153) (52 391) 34.4 Increase in income earning assets Liquid assets and trading securities (17 248) (11 663) Advances (16 946) 19 170 Increase in income earning assets (34 194) 7 507 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 361 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 34 CASH FLOW INFORMATION continued 34.5 Increase in deposits and other liabilities Term deposits 32 360 2 858 Current deposit accounts 1 004 14 886 Deposits from banks 17 960 (15 761) Negotiable certificates of deposits (6 864) 1 557 Savings accounts (172) 348 Creditors(net of debtors) 3 596 (170) Other (16 690) (25 039) Increase in deposits and other liabilities 31 194 (21 321) 34.6 Tax paid Tax payable and deferred tax at beginning of the year 552 546 Other 1 041 (831) Charge to income statement (3 512) (1 408) Tax payable and deferred tax at end of the year (778) (552) Tax paid (2 697) (2 245) 34.7 Dividends paid Charged to retained earnings (3 299) (3 700) Dividends paid (3 299) (3 700) 34.8 Acquisitions and proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries Proceeds from the disposal of subsidiaries Norman Bisset and Associates Holdings (Pty) Limited Proceeds from disposal – – – discharged by cash consideration * – Less: Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary disposed 13 – Cash outflow on disposal (13) – WorldMark SA (Pty) Limited Proceeds from disposal 164 – – discharged by non cash consideration (intercompany loan written off) 164 – Less: Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary disposed 2 – Cash outflow on disposal (2) – WorldMark Holdings (Pty) Limited Proceeds from disposal 525 – – discharged by cash consideration 525 – Less: Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary disposed 21 – Cash inflow on disposal 504 – Other insignificant disposals Proceeds from disposal 106 – – discharged by cash consideration 106 – Less: Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary disposed 58 – Cash inflow on disposal 48 – * Less than R1 million. 362 R million 2010 2009 34 CASH FLOW INFORMATION continued 34.8 Acquisitions and proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries continued Consideration for acquisition of subsidiaries Makalani Holdings Limited Cost of acquisition 977 – – discharged by cash consideration 977 – Cash outflow on acquisition (977) – Macdonald, Mills, O’Haher Employee Benefits (Pty) Limited Cost of acquisition 5 – – discharged by cash consideration 4 – – discharged by non cash consideration (contingent consideration arrangement) 1 – Cash outflow on acquisition (4) – Contract Lease Management (Pty) Limited Cost of acquisition – 18 – discharged by cash consideration – 18 Less: Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 33 Cash inflow on acquisition – (15) Ronald Sewells and Associates Cash and cash equivalents in business combination acquired – 2 Cash outflow on acquisition – 2 34.9 Proceeds on sale of advances book Cost of acquisition 22 1 768 – discharged by cash consideration 22 1 768 Cash inflow on disposal 22 1 768 34.10 Acquisition and proceeds on disposal of associates Consideration for acquisition of associates Various associates acquired Cost of acquisition 276 – – discharged by non cash consideration (shares issued and loans acquired) 276 – Cash outflow on acquisition – – Proceeds from the disposal of associates Life Healthcare Group Holdings Limited Proceeds from disposal 1 989 – – discharged by cash consideration 1 989 – Cash inflow on disposal 1 989 – * Less than R1 million. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 363 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 34 CASH FLOW INFORMATION continued 34.10 Acquisition and proceeds on disposal of associates Pamodzi Investment Holdings II (Pty) Limited Proceeds from disposal 38 – – discharged by cash consideration 38 – Cash inflow on disposal 38 – Carrying amount of investments purchased (204) (2 799) Acquisition of associates (204) (2 799) 34.11 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and balances with banks, and other investments in money market instruments. Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement comprise the following statement of financial position amounts: Cash and short term funds 27 067 26 278 Money market investments – 30 988 Cash and cash equivalents 27 067 57 266 364 R million 2010 2009 35 CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS Contingencies and commitments Guarantees* 24 036 19 085 Acceptances 299 279 Letters of credit 5 541 5 576 Total contingencies 29 876 24 940 Irrevocable commitments 52 809 58 204 Underwriting exposure – 2 Committed capital expenditure 2 117 1 700 Operating lease commitments 2 239 3 154 Other 3 806 2 871 Contingencies and commitments 90 847 90 871 * Guarantees consist predominantly of endorsements and performance guarantees Other contingencies The Group is exposed to various actual or potential claims. Legal proceedings There are a number of legal or potential claims against the Group, the outcome of which can not at present be foreseen. These claims are not regarded as material either on an individual or a group basis. Provision is made for all liabilities which are expected to materialise. 99 129 Claims – The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of certain outstanding claims 150 150 – The Group has reciprocal claims against other institutions. These claims qualify as contingent assets. (134) (134) Commitments Commitments in respect of capital expenditure and long term investments approved by directors: – Total contracted for 175 953 – Total not contracted for 1 942 1 101 Made up of the following: Capital commitments contracted for at the reporting date but not yet incurred are as follows: – Property and equipment and intangible assets 175 568 – Investment securities and other investments – 385 Capital commitments not yet contracted for at reporting date but have been approved by the directors: – Property and equipment and intangible assets 1 942 1 101 Funds to meet these commitments will be provided from Group resources. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 365 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 35 CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS continued Group commitments under operating leases where the Group is the lessee The Group’s significant operating leases relates to property rentals of the various branch network channels represented by full service branches, agencies, mini branches and ATM lobbies. The rentals are negotiated on a fixed monthly rental basis, with a percentage contribution of the monthly operating costs. Escalation clauses are negotiated at market related rates for a period of at least five years with an option to renew for a further five year period. Restrictions are more an exception than the norm. The leases are non cancellable. The Group has various operating lease agreements, which may or may not contain renewal options. 2010 2nd to After R million Next year 5th year 5th year Office premises 704 1 370 113 Equipment and motor vehicles 31 19 2 Total operating lease commitments 735 1 389 115 2009 2nd to After R million Next year 5th year 5th years Office premises 986 1 530 173 Recoverable under subleases (1) (2) – 985 1 528 173 Equipment and motor vehicles 95 371 2 Total operating lease commitments 1 080 1 899 175 Group commitments under operating leases where the Group is the lessor The minimum future lease payments under non cancellable operating leases on investment properties: 2010 2nd to After R million Next year 5th year 5th year Office premises 704 1 370 113 2009 2nd to After R million Next year 5th year 5th year Office premises 986 1 530 173 366 R million 2010 2009 36 COLLATERAL PLEDGED AND HELD 36.1 Collateral pledged The Group has pledged assets as security for the following liabilities: Deposits held under repurchase agreements 41 091 33 510 Deposits and current accounts 4 176 7 830 Creditors and accruals – 8 317 Long term liabilities – 571 Other 2 119 10 328 Total 47 386 60 556 The Group pledges assets under the following terms and conditions: Mandatory reserve deposits and current accounts are held with the Central Bank in accordance with statutory requirements. These deposits and current accounts are not available to finance the Group’s day-to-day operations. Assets are pledged as collateral under repurchase agreements with other banks and non banks for security deposits and current accounts relating to local futures and options. Collateral in the form of cash and other investment securities is pledged when the Group borrows equity securities from third parties. These transactions are conducted under the terms and conditions that are usual and customary to standard securities lending arrangements. All other pledges are conducted under terms which are usual and customary to lending arrangements. R million 2010 2009 Assets pledged to secure the above liabilities are carried at and included under the following: Cash and short term funds 2 384 6 567 Advances 3 151 8 728 Investment securities and other investments held under repurchase agreements 17 232 29 273 Investment securities and other investments 4 442 2 644 Accounts receivable 48 – Other 2 490 399 Total 29 747 47 611 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 367 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 36 COLLATERAL PLEDGED AND HELD continued 36.2 Collateral held Under the standard terms for certain of the securities lending arrangements which the Group enters into, the recipient of collateral has an unrestricted right to sell or repledge the assets in the absence of default but subject to the Group returning equivalent securities on settlement of the transaction. Collateral the Group holds which it has the ability to sell or repledge in the absence of default by the owner of the collateral: 2010 2009 Fair value Fair value Fair value of collateral Fair value of collateral of collateral sold or of collateral sold or R million obtained re-pledged obtained re-pledged Cash and short term funds 10 795 1 836 8 191 4 539 Advances 38 108 30 119 25 999 25 710 Investments securities and other investments 2 137 2 138 3 337 2 892 Accounts receivable – – 3 769 3 769 Total 51 040 34 093 41 296 36 910 When the Group takes possession of collateral which is not cash or not readily convertible into cash the Group determines a minimum sale amount (“preset sale amount”) and auctions the asset for the preset sale amount. Where the Group is unable to obtain the preset sale amount in an auction the Group will continue to hold the asset while actively marketing it to ensure an appropriate value is obtained. Collateral taken possession of and recognised on the statement of financial position: R million 2010 2009 Property 502 165 Total 502 165 368 37 LOANS AND RECEIVABLES DESIGNATED AS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Certain instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss would meet the definition for classification as loans and receivables in terms of IAS 39 were it not for this designation. The table below contains details on the change in credit risk attributable to these instruments. 2010 Change in fair value Due to credit risk Carrying Mitigated Current R million value credit risk* period Cumulative Included in advances 117 387 – (484) (1 332) Included in investment securities and other investments 25 713 – 1 (5) Included in non recourse investments 12 083 – – – Total 155 183 – (483) (1 337) 2009 Due to credit risk Carrying Mitigated Current R million value credit risk* period Cumulative Included in advances 95 161 22 (92) (943) Included in investment securities and other investments 13 170 – (48) (786) Included in non recourse investments 15 725 – – – Total 124 056 22 (140) (1 729) * The notional amount by which any credit derivatives or similar instruments mitigate the maximum exposure to credit risk. Different methods are used to determine the current period and cumulative changes in fair value attributable to credit risk for investment securities and advances. This is due to the differing inherent credit risk of these instruments. The methods used are described below: Investment securities and other investments The change in fair value for investments designated at fair value through profit or loss is calculated by stripping out the movements which result from a change in market factors that give rise to market risk. The change in fair value due to credit risk is then calculated as the balancing figure, after deducting the movement due to market risk from the total movement in fair value. Advances The current and cumulative change in fair value due to changes in credit risk for advances designated at fair value through profit or loss is calculated as the amount of change in fair value that is attributable to changes in credit risk. The change in credit risk is the difference between fair value of the advances based on the original credit spreads and the fair value of the advances based on the most recent market observable credit spreads. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 369 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 38 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES DESIGNATED AS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS 2010 Change in fair value Contractually due to credit risk payable at R million Fair value maturity Current period Cumulative Deposits and current accounts 233 296 217 212 – 2 Fair value through profit or loss non recourse deposits 16 036 16 036 – – Long term liabilities 1 174 1 252 8 29 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 101 101 – – Total 250 607 234 601 8 31 2009 Change in fair value Contractually due to credit risk payable at R million Fair value maturity Current period Cumulative Deposits and current accounts 191 170 186 277 3 3 Fair value through profit or loss non recourse deposits 15 963 18 605 – – Long term liabilities 2 810 5 400 21 21 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 109 196 110 304 – – Liabilities arising from collective investment schemes 8 114 8 114 – – Total 327 253 328 700 24 24 The current and cumulative change in fair value that is attributable to the movement in credit risk of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss is determined with reference to changes in the Group’s published credit rating. 370 39 DERECOGNITION OF ASSETS, SECURITISATIONS AND OTHER STRUCTURED TRANSACTIONS In the normal course of business the Group enters into transactions in terms of which it transfers financial assets directly to third parties or to special purpose entities (“SPE”). These transfers may give rise to the full or partial derecognition of the financial asset concerned. • Full derecognition occurs when the Group transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. The risks include credit, interest rate, currency, prepayment and other price risks. • Partial derecognition occurs when the Group sells or otherwise transfers financial assets in such a way that some but not substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred but control is retained. These financial assets are recognised on the statement of financial position to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement. The majority of transferred financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition are debt securities given by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements or equity securities lent under securities lending agreements. Securitisation transactions arranged by the Group may also result in the continued recognition of the securitised assets to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in such assets. In a securitisation transaction, assets or interests in a pool of assets are transferred to a SPE which then issues liabilities to third party investors. Details of securitisations entered into by the Group are provided below. 1. Nitro 1, a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity, has been created to facilitate a securitisation transaction amounting to R2 billion of WesBank retail instalment sale advances. The Group consolidates Nitro 1 under SIC 12 and has therefore not derecognised the securitised assets. 2. Nitro 2, a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity, has been created to facilitate a securitisation transaction amounting to R5 billion of WesBank retail instalment sale advances. The Group consolidates Nitro 2 under SIC 12 and has therefore not derecognised the securitised assets. 3. Nitro 3, a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity, has been created to facilitate a securitisation transaction amounting to R5 billion of WesBank retail instalment sale advances. The Group consolidates Nitro 3 under SIC 12 and has therefore not derecognised the securitised assets. 4. iKhaya 1, a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity, has been created to facilitate a securitisation transaction amounting to R1.9 billion of FNB home loan advances. The Group consolidates iKhaya 1 under SIC 12 and has therefore not derecognised the securitised assets. 5. iKhaya II, a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity, has been created to facilitate a securitisation transaction amounting to R2.9 billion of FNB home loan advances. The Group consolidates iKhaya II under SIC 12 and has therefore not derecognised the securitised assets. The rights and obligations that the Group retains from its continuing involvement in securitisations are initially recorded as an allocation of the fair value of the financial asset between the part that is derecognised and the part that continues to be recognised on the date of transfer. Continuing involvement may entail retaining the rights to future cash flows arising from the assets after investors have received their contractual terms, providing subordinated interest, continuing to service the underlying asset or entering into derivatives with the securitisation vehicle. Repurchase agreements, securities lending and securitisation transactions may, depending on the individual arrangement result in the derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition as assets or liabilities, of any rights or obligations created or retained in the transfer. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 371 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 39 DERECOGNITION OF ASSETS, SECURITISATIONS AND OTHER STRUCTURED TRANSACTIONS continued The table below sets out the asset classes together with the carrying amounts of the assets and associated liabilities for those asset transfers where substantially all of the risks and rewards of the assets have been retained by the Group: 2010 2009 Carrying Carrying Carrying amount of Carrying amount of amount of associated amount of associated R million assets liability assets liability Assets under agreements to repurchase Investment securities and other investments 17 232 18 366 19 403 19 318 Securities lending agreements – – 9 870 10 069 Total 17 232 18 366 29 273 29 387 The Group remains exposed to the interest rate risk on the repurchase agreements and market risk on the securities lending agreements. 372 40 CURRENT/NON CURRENT SPLIT OF AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 2010 Carrying R million amount Current Non current ASSETS Cash and short term funds 27 067 27 067 – Derivative financial instruments 39 764 34 847 4 917 Advances 434 793 136 083 298 710 Investment securities and other investments 117 171 84 440 32 731 Commodities 2 365 2 365 – Accounts receivable 5 743 5 373 370 Investments in associates and joint ventures 6 901 – 6 901 Property and equipment 10 018 – 10 018 Deferred tax asset 443 118 325 Intangible assets and deferred acquisition costs 2 104 – 2 104 Investment properties 138 – 138 Policy loans on insurance contracts 27 – 27 Reinsurance assets 524 8 516 Tax asset 935 37 898 Non current assets and disposal groups held for sale 197 247 197 247 – Total assets 845 240 487 585 357 655 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Deposits and current accounts 512 469 454 818 57 651 Short trading positions 16 735 16 735 – Derivative financial instruments 36 035 34 633 1 402 Creditors and accruals 12 115 11 801 314 Provisions 3 359 2 480 879 Tax liability 157 68 89 Post retirement liabilities 2 162 72 2 090 Deferred tax liability 2 132 – 2 132 Long term liabilities 9 183 – 9 183 Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 1 868 458 1 410 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 101 12 89 Liabilities directly associated with non current assets classified as held for sale 189 961 189 961 – Shareholders’ equity 55 951 – 55 951 Non controlling interest 3 012 – 3 012 Total equity and liabilities 845 240 711 038 134 202 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 373 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 40 CURRENT / NON CURRENT SPLIT OF AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION continued 2009 Carrying R million amount Current Non current ASSETS Cash and short term funds 57 266 50 512 6 754 Derivative financial instruments 68 608 54 645 13 963 Advances 416 488 134 146 282 342 Investment securities and other investments 209 249 163 230 46 019 Commodities 1 323 1 323 – Accounts receivable 11 068 10 379 689 Investments in associates and joint ventures 15 294 – 15 294 Property and equipment 10 220 4 10 216 Deferred tax asset 2 034 139 1 895 Intangible assets and deferred acquisition costs 5 698 205 5 493 Investment properties 2 156 – 2 156 Policy loans on insurance contracts 626 – 626 Reinsurance assets 8 430 8 141 289 Tax asset 883 293 590 Non current assets and disposal groups held for sale 508 508 – Total assets 809 851 423 525 386 326 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Deposits and current accounts 478 083 431 497 46 586 Short trading positions 25 002 25 001 1 Derivative financial instruments 55 556 52 229 3 327 Creditors and accruals 18 217 15 975 2 242 Provisions 2 961 2 721 240 Tax liability 331 306 25 Post retirement liabilities 2 089 64 2 025 Deferred tax liability 3 977 68 3 909 Long term liabilities 12 928 – 12 928 Policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts 40 725 2 675 38 050 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 109 196 52 807 56 389 Liabilities arising from collective investment schemes 8 114 8 114 – Deferred revenue liability 322 72 250 Liabilities directly associated with non current assets classified as held for sale 253 253 – Shareholders’ equity 50 004 – 50 004 Non controlling interest 2 093 – 2 093 Total equity and liabilities 809 851 591 782 218 069 374 41 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a market transaction between knowledgeable willing parties. When determining fair value it is presumed that the entity is a going concern and the fair value is therefore not an amount that represents a forced transaction, involuntary liquidation or a distressed sale. When determining the fair value of a financial instrument, preference is given to prices quoted in an active market. An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. If a particular instrument is not traded in an active market the Group uses a valuation technique to determine the fair value of the financial instrument. The valuation techniques employed by the Group include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in an active market, quoted prices for the same asset or liability in an inactive market, adjusted prices from recent arm’s length transactions, option pricing models, and discounted cash flow techniques. The objective of using a valuation technique is to determine what the transaction price would have been at the measurement date. Therefore maximum use is made of inputs that are observable in the market and entity specific inputs are only used when there is no market information available. All valuation techniques take into account the relevant factors that other market participants would have considered in setting a price for the financial instrument and are consistent with accepted methodologies for pricing financial instruments. The Group classifies instruments measured at fair value using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used. The Group’s fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1 – Fair value is determined using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 – Fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and Level 3 – Fair value is determined using a valuation technique and inputs that are not based on observable market data (i.e. unobservable inputs). The following principal methods and assumptions are used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: Investment securities and other investments Unlisted equities The fair value of unlisted equities is determined using a price earnings (“P/E”) model. The earnings included in the model are derived from a combination of historical and budgeted earnings depending on the specific circumstances of the entity whose equity is being valued and the relevance and reliability of the available information. The P/E multiple is derived from current market observations taking into account an appropriate discount for unlisted companies. The valuation of these instruments may be corroborated by a discounted cash flow valuation or by the observation of other market transactions which have taken place. Negotiable certificates of deposit Where market prices are not available for a specific instrument, fair value is determined using discounted cash flow techniques. Inputs to these models include as far as possible information which is consistent with similar market quoted instruments. Treasury bills Treasury bills are valued by means of the Bond Exchange of South Africa (“BESA”) bond pricing model using the closing BESA mark to market bond yield. Government, public and utility stocks Where market prices are not available the fair value is estimated using quoted market prices of securities with similar credit, maturity and yield characteristics. Other dated securities Fair value of other dated securities is determined by using a discounted cash flow model. The discount curve is derived from similar market quoted instruments. Derivatives Contracts for difference are valued by using the differential between the market price and the traded price multiplied by the notional amount. Market prices are obtained from applicable trading exchanges. Credit derivatives are valued using the discounted cash flow model. Where prices are obtained from the market, individual credit spreads are added. Option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model. Inputs are obtained from market observable data. Where prices are obtainable from trading exchanges the value per the exchange is used. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 375 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 41 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Other dated securities continued Derivatives continued Forward contracts are valued by discounting the projected cash flows to obtain the present value of the forward contract. Projected cash flows are obtained by subtracting the strike price of the forward contract from the market projected forward value. Forward rate agreements are valued by means of the discounted cash flow model. The discount rate is determined using a yield curve of similar market traded instruments. The reset rate is determined in terms of the legal agreement. Swaps are valued by discounting the expected cash flows using discount and forward rates determined from similar market traded instruments. The reset rate of each swaplet is determined in terms of legal documents pertaining to the swap. Commodity linked instruments are measured by taking into account the price, the location differential, grade differential, silo differential and the discount factor of the most liquidly traded futures linked to the commodity. Deposits and current accounts Fair value of deposits and current accounts is determined by discounting future cash flows using a swap curve adjusted for liquidity premiums and business unit margins. The valuation methodology does not take early withdrawals and other behavioural aspect into account. Call deposits are valued at the undiscounted amount of the cash balance, this is considered appropriate because of the short term nature of these instruments. Fair valuation will only be applied to deposits that have a maturity profile of longer than 30 days. For all non term products it is assumed that fair value equals amortised cost. Loans and advances to customers The Group has elected to designate the term loan book in RMB at fair value through profit or loss. The fair value is determined using a valuation technique that uses both inputs that are based on observable market data and unobservable data. The interest rate component of the valuation uses observable inputs from market interest rate curves. To calculate the fair value of credit the Group uses a valuation methodology based on the credit spread matrix that considers loss given default, tenor and the internal credit committee rating criteria. Although the fair value of credit is not significant year-on-year it may become significant in the future. For this reason, together with the fact that South Africa does not have actively traded credit spreads, the Group has classified loans and advances to customers in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Long term liabilities Fair value of debentures, unsecured debt securities and finance lease liabilities are determined by discounting the future cash flows at market related interest rates. The fair value of subordinated notes and fixed and floating rate bonds are determined by discounting the future cash flows at market related interest rates. The fair value of the post retirement funding liability has been calculated based on the value of the corresponding assets, since the value of the liability is limited to the value of the assets in the cell captive. Liabilities arising with third parties from collective investment schemes The fair value of these liabilities is the quoted unit price for the collective investment scheme multiplied by the number of units held by third parties. Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts Refer to the accounting policies for a description of the valuation of investment contracts. 376 41 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The following table presents the financial instruments recognised at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position of the Group. 2010 Total carrying R million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 amount Assets Advances – 39 478 78 209 117 687 Derivative financial instruments – 39 733 31 39 764 Investment securities and other investments 48 563 46 286 3 667 98 516 Total financial assets recognised at fair value 48 563 125 497 81 907 255 967 Liabilities Deposits and current accounts 83 210 731 3 300 214 114 Short trading positions 14 862 1 873 – 16 735 Derivative financial instruments – 35 846 189 36 035 Long term liabilities – 1 174 – 1 174 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts – 36 65 101 Total financial liabilities at fair value 14 945 249 660 3 554 268 159 There were no transfers of financial instruments between Level 1 and 2 in the current financial year. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 377 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 41 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) Changes in Level 3 fair value instruments The Group classifies financial instruments in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy when the significant inputs into the valuation model are not observable. In addition the valuation model for Level 3 financial instruments typically also relies on a number of inputs that are readily observable either directly or indirectly. Thus, the gains and losses presented below include changes in the fair value related to both observable and unobservable inputs. The following table shows a reconciliation of the opening and closing balances for financial instruments classified as Level 3 in terms of the fair value hierarchy. 2010 Gains/(losses) recognised Fair value on in the income R million June 2009 statement Assets Advances 68 962 5 848 Derivative financial instruments 16 16 Investment securities and other investments 3 350 278 Total financial assets recognised at fair value 72 328 6 142 Liabilities Deposits and current accounts 2 867 (5) Derivative financial instruments 443 81 Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts 45 14 Total financial liabilities at fair value 3 355 90 Transfers out of level 3 during the year ended June 2010, this related to an investment for which fair value was measured using prices for which market observable information became available during the year, as a result of the investee company listing their shares in an active market during the year ended 30 June 2010. 378 2010 Gains/(losses) recognised in Purchases and other (sales) comprehensive issues/ Acquisitions Transfers Transfer out Fair value income (settlements) of subsidiaries into Level 3 of Level 3 on June 2010 – 1 540 1 860 – – 78 210 – (1) – – – 31 17 29 – – (8) 3 666 17 1 568 1 860 – (8) 81 907 – 438 – – – 3 300 – (335) – – – 189 – 6 – – – 65 – 109 – – – 3 554 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 379 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 41 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The table below presents the total gains/(losses) relating to financial instrument classified in Level 3 that are still held on 30 June. With the exception of interest on funding instruments all of these gains or losses are recognised in non interest income. 2010 Gains/ Gains (losses) recognised recognised in other in the income comprehensive Total gains/ R million statement income (loss) Assets Advances 5 009 – 5 009 Derivative financial instruments 15 – 15 Investment securities and other investments 229 1 230 Total 5 253 1 5 254 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments (40) – (40) Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts (16) – (16) Total (56) – (56) 380 41 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The following represents the fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value on the statement of financial position. For all other instruments the carrying value is equal to or a reasonable approximation of the fair value. 2010 2009 Carrying Carrying R million amount Fair value amount Fair value Assets Total advances at amortised cost 317 106 316 701 320 867 320 867 Total investment securities and other investments 2 619 2 616 673 670 Total assets at amortised cost 319 725 319 317 321 540 321 537 Liabilities Total deposits and current accounts at amortised cost 279 174 279 387 270 950 270 708 Long term liabilities 7 795 8 684 11 020 10 315 Total liabilities at amortised cost 286 969 288 071 281 970 281 023 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 381 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 41 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions in the reasonably possible alternatives As described above, the fair value of instruments that are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy is determined using valuation techniques that make use of significant inputs that are not based on observable market data. The inputs into these valuation techniques are derived from all available information and management’s judgement. While management believes that these fair values are appropriate they could be sensitive to changes in the assumptions used to derive the inputs. The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the significant inputs when they are changed to reasonably possible alternative inputs: 2010 R million Significant unobservable inputs Assets Advances Credit Derivative financial instruments Growth rates and p/e ratios of Investment securities and other investments unlisted investments Total financial assets recognised at fair value Liabilities Credit risk of the cash collateral Deposits and current accounts leg of credit linked notes Short trading positions Derivative financial instruments Volatilities Long term liabilities Mortality; surrender; expenses; Policyholder liabilities under investment contracts expense inflation; valuation rate Total financial liabilities at fair value * The credit migration matrix is used as part of the Group’s credit risk management process for the advances measured at fair value through profit or loss. The matrix is a simulation model that contains a matrix of probabilities for downgrading or upgrading to another rating bucket. The migration matrix is based on actual observed rating migrations from S&P over the long term and is based on the fair value in the 75th percentile. ** The deposits and current accounts included in Level 3 of the hierarchy represent the collateral leg of credit linked notes. The most significant unobservable input in determining the fair value of the credit linked notes is the credit risk component. The sensitivity to credit risk has been assessed in the same way as for advances using the credit migration matrix with the deposit representing the cash collateral component thereof. 382 2010 Reasonably possible alternative fair value Using more Using more Reasonably possible changes to positive negative significant unobservable inputs Fair value assumptions assumptions Credit migration matrix* 78 209 78 688 77 561 31 38 23 Unobservable inputs are increased and decreased by 10%. 3 667 4 005 3 346 81 907 82 731 80 930 Credit migration matrix** 3 300 2 715 3 319 – – – Volatilities are increased and decreased by 10%. 189 167 201 – – – The assumptions were increased and decreased as follows: mortality – 7.0%; surrenders – 11.1%; expenses and expense inflation – 9.1% and the valuation rate – 2.3% 65 56 72 3 554 2 938 3 592 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 383 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 42 TRUST ACTIVITIES R million 2010 2009 Market value of assets held or placed on behalf of customers in a fiduciary capacity 47 311 43 207 The Group provides custody, trustee, corporate administration, investment management and advisory services to third parties, which involves the Group making allocation and purchase and sale decisions in relation to a wide range of financial statements. Those assets that are held in a fiduciary capacity are not included in these financial statements. Some of these arrangements involve the Group accepting targets for benchmark levels of returns for the assets under the Group’s care. 2010 2009 Income received from trust and fiduciary services 1 170 1 063 43 SEGMENT INFORMATION 43.1 Reportable segments Set out below is information about the reportable segments of the FirstRand Group, the details of the various products and services provided by each of the reportable segments, its major customers and the basis of preparation of segment information. FNB FNB offers a diverse set of financial products and services to the retail and corporate market segments, ranging from the consumer, small business and rural corporate markets to large and medium sized corporates, financial institutions, parastatals and government entities. FNB’s products include mortgage loans, credit and debit cards, personal loans and investment products. FNB’s services include transactional and deposit taking, card acquiring, credit facilities and FNB distribution channels (namely, the branch network, ATMs, call centres, cell phone and internet channels). Products and services are provided through the following brands, which include First National Bank, FNB Card, RMB Private Bank, FNB Trust Services and FNB Private Clients. FNB Africa FNB Africa comprises the FNB Africa subsidiaries (FNB Botswana, FNB Namibia, FNB Swaziland, FNB Lesotho, FNB Zambia and FNB Moçambique) as well as a support division acting as the strategic enabler, facilitator and coordinator for African expansion undertaken by FNB. FNB Africa provides a range of FNB and RMB products and services to corporates and individuals. RMB RMB provides diversified financial services and products, encompassing investment banking, fund management, private wealth management and advisory services. Their customers includes corporates, parastatals and the government. RMB provides equity funding for leveraged and management buyouts, public to private transactions, corporate unbundling, growth opportunities and acquisitions. They also act in an advisory capacity in various transactions including merger and acquisition transactions and BEE transactions. In addition, RMB provides clients with various trading and investment products and services. RMB comprises the following business units: RMB Private Equity, RMB Equity Trading, Investment Banking, Fixed Income Currency and Commodities. WesBank WesBank provides full service instalment credit finance to both the retail and corporate market, including asset based finance, fleet management solutions, personal loans, vehicle recovery, car care products and the financing of capital equipment Corporate Centre The Corporate Centre consists of business units that provide support services to the Banking Group. The Corporate Centre can be split into two major business units, Balance Sheet Management and Group Support Services. Balance Sheet Management owns and manages the capital of the Banking Group. Group Support Services provides the brands with various support services and consists of Group Finance, Regulatory Reporting, Human Resources, Information Risk Services, Internal Audit, Enterprise Risk Management and Legal Services. Major customers In terms of IFRS 8 a customer is regarded as a major customer, if the revenue from transactions with this customer exceeds 10% or more of the entity’s revenue. The FirstRand Group has no major customer as defined and is therefore not reliant on the revenue from one or more major customers. 384 43 SEGMENT INFORMATION Basis of preparation of segment information The segmental analysis is based on the information reported to management for the respective segments. The information is prepared in terms of IFRS with the exception of certain adjustments that are made to the segment results in order to eliminate the effect of non taxable income and other segment specific items that impact certain key ratios reviewed by the chief operating decision maker when assessing the operating segments’ performance. In order to ensure that the total segment results, assets and liabilities agree to the amounts reported in terms of IFRSs, the above mentioned amounts are adjusted in the IFRS adjustments column. 43.2 Geographical segments Segment Countries included Divisions included South Africa South Africa FNB RMB OUTsurance WesBank Group Support Other Africa Namibia FirstRand: Africa and Emerging Markets Botswana Emerging Markets Swaziland WesBank Lesotho OUTsurance Democratic Republic of Congo Zambia United Kingdom England RMB Ireland WesBank FNB Australasia Australia RMB WesBank Other Asia (India, China) FNB Middle East (U.A.E) RMB Mauritius Brazil The following significant exchange rates were used to convert the statement of financial position. Foreign denominated assets and liabilities are converted at the closing rate of exchange. 2010 2009 Pounds 11.475 12.714 Euro’s 9.389 10.845 AUD 6.486 6.231 US$ 7.658 7.728 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 385 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 43 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued 43.3 Segmental reporting – 2010 R million FNB FNB Africa RMB WesBank Continuing operations Net interest income before impairment of advances 9 512 1 590 116 4 144 Impairment of advances (3 421) (68) (195) (2 048) Net interest income after impairment of advances 6 091 1 522 (79) 2 096 Non interest income 14 518 1 516 8 770 2 868 Increase in value of policyholder liabilities – – – – Net income from operations 20 609 3 038 8 691 4 964 Operating expenses (14 884) (1 795) (4 085) (3 874) Share of profit from associates and joint ventures 108 8 17 210 Profit before tax 5 833 1 251 4 623 1 300 Tax (1 545) (379) (1 225) (339) Profit for the year from continuing operations 4 288 872 3 398 961 Discontinued operations Profit attributable to discontinued operations – – – – Profit for the year 4 288 872 3 398 961 Income statement includes: Depreciation (891) (62) (173) (184) Amortisation (52) (37) (71) (30) Impairment charges (7) – (73) (67) Other non cash provisions (710) (110) (1 191) (113) Statement of financial position includes: Investment in associates and joint ventures 264 26 4 440 1 151 Total assets 204 309 33 593 268 819 97 357 Total liabilities 199 115 29 544 263 135 95 452 Geographical segments R million South Africa Other Africa United Kingdom Australasia Net interest income 1 512 4 282 4 320 575 Non interest income 26 435 2 446 (116) Total assets 796 015 33 572 4 036 4 420 Non current assets*** 17 632 824 985 516 Total liabilities 745 240 29 462 8 886 2 873 * Consolidation and IFRS adjustments Banking Group includes divisions disclosed elsewhere. ** Other includes FirstRand company, consolidation of treasury shares and consolidation entries. *** Excludes financial instruments,deferred tax assets, post employment benefit assets and rights arising under insurance contracts. 386 Consolidation and IFRS adjustments Corporate Banking Banking Centre Group* Group Momentum Other** Total 1 406 (170) 16 598 – (248) 16 350 43 3 (5 686) – – (5 686) 1 449 (167) 10 912 – (248) 10 664 1 711 (3 243) 26 140 578 43 26 761 – – – – 193 193 3 160 (3 410) 37 052 578 (12) 37 618 (2 104) 1 514 (25 228) – (83) (25 311) 407 (50) 700 – – 700 1 463 (1 946) 12 524 578 (95) 13 007 (387) 503 (3 372) (162) 7 (3 527) 1 076 (1 443) 9 152 416 (88) 9 480 – – – 1 304 (110) 1 194 1 076 (1 443) 9 152 1 720 (198) 10 674 (91) (29) (1 430) – – (1 430) – 1 (189) – – (189) – (69) (216) – 29 (187) (192) (11) (2 327) – (63) (2 390) 943 77 6 901 – – 6 901 103 454 (54 377) 653 155 198 866 (6 781) 845 240 67 440 (56 785) 597 901 190 142 (1 766) 786 277 Other Total (25) 10 664 (6) 26 761 7 197 845 240 28 19 985 (184) 786 277 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 387 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 43 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued 43.3 Segmental reporting – 2009 continued R million FNB FNB Africa RMB WesBank Continuing operations Net interest income before impairment of advances 10 359 1 564 362 3 717 Impairment of advances (4 920) (96) (523) (2 745) Net interest income after impairment of advances 5 439 1 468 (161) 972 Non interest income 13 664 1 241 4 765 2 588 Decrease in value of policyholder liabilities – – – – Net income from operations 19 103 2 709 4 604 3 560 Operating expenses (14 095) (1 490) (3 543) (3 581) Share of profit from associates and joint ventures 52 3 994 151 Profit before tax 5 060 1 222 2 055 130 Tax (1 341) (396) (545) (35) Profit for the year from continuing operations 3 719 826 1 510 95 Discontinued operations Profit attributable to discontinued operations – – – – Profit for the year 3 719 826 1 510 95 Income statement includes: Depreciation (855) (43) (157) (178) Amortisation (50) (12) (33) (27) Impairment charges (14) – (26) (79) Other non cash provisions (652) (91) (715) (104) Statement of financial position includes: Investment in associates and joint ventures 134 23 5 279 968 Total assets 206 799 31 640 275 097 94 472 Total liabilities 197 230 28 180 272 646 94 363 Geographical segments R million South Africa Other Africa United Kingdom Australasia Net interest income 1 655 4 607 2 162 851 Non interest income 12 793 4 847 2 607 116 Total assets 716 784 31 711 38 275 1 736 Non current assets*** 30 297 762 1 006 624 Total liabilities 712 272 28 207 14 320 2 273 * Consolidation and IFRS adjustments Banking Group includes divisions disclosed elsewhere. ** Other includes FirstRand company, consolidation of treasury shares and consolidation entries. *** Excludes financial instruments,deferred tax assets,post employment benefit assets and rights arising under insurance contracts. 388 Consolidation and IFRS adjustments Corporate Banking Banking Centre Group* Group Momentum Other** Total 1 857 (225) 17 634 – (345) 17 289 (50) 310 (8 024) – – (8 024) 1 807 85 9 610 – (345) 9 265 1 161 (3 659) 19 760 464 115 20 339 – – – – (284) (284) 2 968 (3 574) 29 370 464 (514) 29 320 (1 723) 1 377 (23 055) – 27 (23 028) 393 (16) 1 577 – – 1 577 1 638 (2 213) 7 892 464 (487) 7 869 (434) 1 451 (1 300) (130) 19 (1 411) 1 204 (762) 6 592 334 (468) 6 458 – – – 1 255 125 1 380 1 204 (762) 6 592 1 589 (343) 7 838 (71) (6) (1 310) – – (1 310) – (2) (124) – (42) (166) – 2 (117) – 37 (80) (260) (119) (1 941) – (186) (2 127) 797 138 7 339 8 078 (123) 15 294 90 709 (51 884) 646 833 187 656 (24 638) 809 851 53 920 (48 934) 597 405 179 870 (19 521) 757 754 Other Total (10) 9 265 (24) 20 339 21 345 809 851 32 32 721 682 757 754 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 389 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 44 SUBSIDIARIES Issued ordinary Effective holding Listed/ Capital % % Nature of business Country unlisted R million 2010 2009 Significant subsidiaries Banking First National Bank Holdings Commercial banking Botswana Listed 27 100 100 (Botswana) Limited First National Bank of Commercial banking Namibia Listed 1 61 60 Namibia Limited First National Bank of Commercial banking Swaziland Unlisted 28 100 100 Swaziland Limited FirstCorp Merchant Bank Commercial banking South Africa Unlisted 10 100 100 Holdings Limited FirstRand Bank Limited Commercial and South Africa Unlisted 4 100 100 merchant banking First National Bank of Commercial banking Lesotho Unlisted 39 100 100 Lesotho Limited First National Bank of Commercial banking Zambia Unlisted 27 100 100 Zambia Limited FirstRand Moçambique Commercial banking Moçambique Unlisted 192 100 100 Holdings Limitada Firstrand Finance Commercial banking South Africa Unlisted 69 100 100 Company Limited Non banking First National Asset Management Asset management South Africa Unlisted – 100 100 and Trust Company (Pty) Limited and trust services RMB Asset Finance Limited Merchant banking South Africa Unlisted 19 100 100 FirstRand International International holding Guernsey Unlisted – 100 100 Limited Ireland company FirstRand (International) Financial services Mauritius Unlisted 25 100 100 Mauritius Limited FNB Insurance Brokers Insurance brokers South Africa Unlisted – 100 100 Holdings (Pty) Limited Norman Bisset and Debt collection South Africa Unlisted – – 100 Associates (Pty) Limited RMB Investment and Investment and South Africa Unlisted 1 100 100 Advisory (Pty) Limited financial services 390 44 subsidiaries continued Group carrying amount R million 2010 2009 FirstRand Banking Group – Banking First National Bank Holdings (Botswana) Limited 56 56 First National Bank of Namibia Limited 94 94 First National Bank of Swaziland Limited 17 17 FirstCorp Merchant Bank Holdings Limited 34 54 Firstrand Bank Limited 8 389 8 241 FirstRand Moçambique Holdings Limitada 192 172 First National Bank of Lesotho Limited 39 39 First National Bank of Zambia Limited 257 160 FirstRand Banking Group – Non banking RMB Asset Finance Limited 334 334 FirstRand International Limited Ireland 2 692 2 692 First Land Developments Limited 1 1 FNB Insurance Brokers Holdings (Pty) Limited 14 14 Norman Bisset and Associates (Pty) Limited – 85 RMB Investment and Advisory (Pty) Limited 1 638 1 638 Effective % holding Issued ordinary share Country of capital % % Nature of business incorporation R million 2010 2009 Subsidiaries (directly held): Listed Collective investment schemes Unit trusts South Africa * Various Unlisted Momentum Property Investments (Pty) Limited Property investments South Africa * 100 Momentum Life Assurers Limited Dormant South Africa * 100 Momentum Administration Investment Services (Pty) Limited administration South Africa * 100 Community Property Holdings Limited Property investments South Africa * – Momentum Ability Limited Long term insurance South Africa * 100 FirstLife Assurance (Pty) Limited Long term insurance Botswana * 100 AdviceAtWork (Pty) Limited Employee benefits South Africa * 100 Momentum International Multi-management Multimanagers (Pty) Limited services South Africa * 100 RMB Asset Management (Pty) Limited Asset management South Africa * 100 Other unlisted investments in subsidiaries Various Various * Various * Relates to non current assets and disposal groups held for sale. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 391 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 44 subsidiaries continued Group carrying amount R million 2010 2009 Momentum Collective investment schemes * 25 732 Momentum Property Investments (Pty) Limited * 645 Momentum Life Assurers Limited * 36 Momentum Administration Services (Pty) Limited * 18 Momentum Medical Scheme Administrators (Pty) Limited * (82) Community Property Holdings Limited * – Momentum Ability Limited * 29 FirstLife Assurance (Pty) Limited * 34 AdviceAtWork (Pty) Limited * (43) Momentum International Multimanagers (Pty) Limited * 225 RMB Asset Management (Pty) Limited * 1 867 Other unlisted investments in subsidiaries * 230 * Relates to non current assets and disposal groups held for sale. 392 45 ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES Significant acquisitions during the 2010 financial year 45.1 Makalani Holdings Limited On 31 May 2010, the Group acquired an additional 51.6% interest in Makalani Holdings Limited from non controlling interests increasing its total shareholding from 39.6% to 91.2%. As a result of obtaining this additional interest the Group obtained control of Makalani Holdings Limited. Makalani Holdings Limited is a mezzanine finance company and is incorporated in South Africa. The primary reason for the business combination was to facilitate the delisting and underwriting of the Makalani Holdings Limited shares by RMB Investment and Advisory (Pty) Limited, a subsidiary of the Group. Makalani Holdings Limited contributed R2.6 million income to the Group for the period 1 June 2010 to 30 June 2010. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 July 2009, income included in the Group profit would have been R105 million. The details of the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date and the consideration transferred are set out below: Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 2010 Fair value at R million acquisition Assets Advances 1 860 Investment securities and other investments 24 Amounts due by holding company and fellow subsidiary companies 433 Deferred tax asset 21 Tax asset 4 Total assets acquired 2 342 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 18 Creditors and accruals 3 Provisions 5 Long term liabilities 161 Total liabilities acquired 187 Net identifiable asset value as at date of acquisition 2 155 The gain on a bargain purchase is calculated as follows: Total cash consideration transferred 977 Add: Non controlling interest at acquisition 494 Add: Fair value of previously held equity interest in acquiree at acquisition date 481 Less: Net identifiable asset value as at date of acquisition 2 155 Gain on a bargain purchase (203) The acquisition of Makalani Holdings Limited resulted in a gain on a bargain purchase as the delisting of the company resulted in the shares being acquired at a discount to the net asset value per share. This gain on a bargain purchase was recognised as part of non interest income in profit or loss for the year. Non controlling interest of 8.8% has arisen and been recognised by the Group. The non controlling interest is measured at their proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at acquisition date. The fair value of the Group’s equity interests in Makalani Holdings Limited was R483 million immediately before the acquisition of the additional equity interests. The gain recognised as a result of remeasuring the previously held interest to fair value at the acquisition date is R67 million and is included in non interest income in profit or loss for the year. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 393 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 45 ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES continued Significant acquisitions during the 2010 financial year continued 45.1 Makalani Holdings Limited continued Acquired receivables Details of the acquired receivables are as follows: Estimate at acquisition Gross of contractual Fair value contractual cash flows of the amounts not expected receivables receivable to be collected Advances 1 860 2 135 275 45.2 Macdonald, Mills, O’Haher Employee Benefits (Pty) Limited On 1 February 2010, the Group, through Momentum, acquired 100% of Macdonald, Mills, O’Haher Employee Benefits (Pty) Limited from external parties. Macdonald, Mills, O’Haher Employee Benefits (Pty) Limited is an employee benefits business and is incorporated in South Africa. The primary reason for the business combination was the strategic positioning of AdviceAtWork, a subsidiary of the Group, in the Eastern Cape. Macdonald, Mills, O’Haher Employee Benefits (Pty) Limited contributed R1 million income to the Group for the period 1 February 2010 to 30 June 2010. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 July 2009, profit included in the Group would have been R3 million. The details of the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date and the consideration transferred are set out below: 2010 Fair value at R million acquisition Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed Assets * Total assets acquired – Liabilities * Total liabilities acquired – Net asset value as at date of acquisition before intangible assets in terms of IFRS 3 * Intangible assets identified in terms of IFRS 3 3 Net identifiable asset value as at date of acquisition 3 Consideration transferred Cash consideration 4 Contingent consideration liability 1 Total consideration transferred 5 * Less than R1 million. The transaction to acquire Macdonald, Mills, O’Haher Employee Benefits (Pty) Limited included certain contingent consideration arrangements and resulted in the recognition of a contingent consideration liability of R1 million. The contingent consideration arrangement stipulates that the purchase price shall include a final payment to be made 24 months after effective date (1 February 2010). This amount shall be calculated as total purchase price adjusted for any client contracts lost between the effective date and final payment date less the initial payment. Interest at prime rate less 5% shall accrue on the outstanding balance from the effective date until final payment is made. The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that could be made under this arrangement ranges between R1.2 million and R1.3 million. The fair value of the contingent consideration was calculated by applying the calculation per the purchase agreement and discounting this amount at the imputed lending rate of the Group. The fair value estimates are based on a discount rate of 9.25%. 394 45 ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES continued 45.2 Macdonald, Mills, O’Haher Employee Benefits (Pty) Limited continued Goodwill is calculated as follows: 2010 Fair value at R million acquisition Total consideration transferred 5 Less: Net identifiable asset value as at date of acquisition 3 Goodwill 2 The goodwill of R2 million arising from the acquisition can be contributed to the acquisition of customer lists of Macdonald, Mills, O’Haher Employee Benefits (Pty) Limited in the Eastern Cape region and the future expected business to arise from these lists. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. Significant acquisitions during the 2009 financial year 45.3 Contract Lease Management (Pty) Limited On 1 April 2009 the Group acquired 100% of Contract Lease Management (Pty) Limited. Contract Lease Management (Pty) Limited contributed R1 million income to the Group for the period 1 April 2009 to 30 June 2009. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 July 2008, profit included in the Group would have been R5 million. The details of the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and goodwill arising are provided in the table below. 2009 Carrying amount before Fair value at R million acquisition acquisition ASSETS Cash and short term funds 33 33 Deferred tax asset 2 2 Accounts receivables 17 17 Total assets acquired 52 52 LIABILITIES Deposits and current accounts 3 3 Provisions 2 2 Creditors and accruals 29 29 Total liabilities acquired 34 34 Net asset value as at date of acquisition before intangible assets in terms of IFRS 3 18 Net asset value as at date of acquisition 18 Cash consideration 18 Net asset value in excess of cash consideration at acquisition date – The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired are based on the director’s valuation. No acquisition provisions were created. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 395 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 45 ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES continued 45.4 Ronald Sewells and Associates On 30 October 2008, the Group acquired 100% of Ronald Sewells and Associates. Ronald Sewells and Associates contributed R1 million income to the Group for the period 1 November 2008 to 30 June 2009. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 July 2008, profit included in the Group would have been R1.1 million. The details of the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and goodwill arising are provided in the table below. 2009 Carrying amount before Fair value at R million acquisition acquisition ASSETS Cash and short term funds 2 2 Property and equipment 1 1 Accounts receivable 5 5 Total assets acquired 8 8 LIABILITIES Due to FirstRand Banking Group Companies 5 5 Creditors and accruals 5 5 Total liabilities acquired 10 10 Net asset value as at date of acquisition before intangible assets in terms of IFRS 3 (2) Net asset value as at date of acquisition (2) Cash consideration** – Net asset value in excess of cash consideration at acquisition date (2) The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired are based on the director’s valuation. No acquisition provisions were created. ** Amount has been rounded to the nearest million. 396 45 ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES continued Significant disposals during the 2010 financial year Significant disposals of subsidiaries 45.5 Norman Bisset and Associates Holdings (Pty) Limited On 1 April 2010, the Group disposed of its 75% shareholding in Norman Bisset and Associates Holdings (Pty) Limited to the non controlling interests for a consideration of R1. As a result the Group lost control of the entity and Norman Bisset and Associates Holdings (Pty) Limited is no longer consolidated in the financial statements of the Group. Summarised financial information of Norman Bisset and Associates Holdings (Pty) Limited as at the date of disposal was as follows: 2010 Carrying amount at R million disposal date ASSETS Cash and short term funds 13 Accounts receivable 9 Property and equipment 4 Intangible assets 19 Tax asset 27 Total assets disposed of 72 LIABILITIES Creditors and accruals 8 Provisions 2 Deferred tax liability 3 Long term liabilities 32 Total liabilities disposed of 45 Net asset value at date of disposal 27 Fair value of consideration received * Loss on disposal of controlling interest in a subsidiary (27) * Less than R1 million. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 397 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 45 ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES continued 45.6 WorldMark SA (Pty) Limited On 1 March 2010, FirstRand Bank Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, disposed of its 100% shareholding in WorldMark SA (Pty) Limited to third parties for a consideration of R1. As a result the Group lost control of the entity and WorldMark SA (Pty) Limited is no longer consolidated in the financial statements of the Group. Summarised financial information of WorldMark SA (Pty) Limited at the date of disposal was as follows: 2010 Carrying amount at R million disposal date ASSETS Cash and short term funds 2 Commodities 3 Accounts receivable 10 Property and equipment 3 Total assets disposed of 18 LIABILITIES Provisions 4 Amounts due to holding company and fellow subsidiary companies 164 Total liabilities disposed of 168 Net asset value at date of disposal (150) Amounts due to holding company and fellow subsidiaries as deemed consideration 164 Loss on disposal of controlling interest in a subsidiary (14) * Less than R1 million. 45.7 WorldMark Holdings (Pty) Limited On 22 June 2010, FirstRand Bank Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, disposed of its 95% shareholding in WorldMark Holdings (Pty) Limited to third parties for a consideration of R525 million. Summarised financial information of WorldMark Holdings (Pty) Limited at the date of disposal was as follows: 2010 Carrying amount at disposal R million date ASSETS Cash and short term funds 21 Commodities 41 Accounts receivable 140 Investments in associates and joint ventures 41 Property and equipment 26 Intangible assets 207 Total assets disposed of 476 LIABILITIES Creditors and accruals 51 Provisions 17 Tax liability 31 Amounts due to holding company and fellow subsidiary companies 7 Total liabilities disposed of 106 Net asset value at date of disposal 370 Fair value of consideration received 525 Gain on disposal of controlling interest in a subsidiary 155 398 45 ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES continued Significant disposals of associates 45.8 Life Healthcare Group Holdings Limited On 10 June 2010, the Group disposed of its shareholding in Life Healthcare Group Holdings Limited to third parties for a consideration of R1 989 million. Life Healthcare Group Holdings Limited is no longer equity accounted as the Group no longer has significant influence over the entity. R million 2010 ASSETS Carrying amount at date of disposal 608 Fair value of consideration received 1 989 Gain on disposal of an associate 1 381 45.9 Pamodzi Investment Holdings II (Pty) Limited On 9 March 2010, the Group disposed of its shareholding in Pamodzi Investment Holdings II (Pty) Limited to third parties for a consideration of R38 million. Pamodzi Investment Holdings II (Pty) Limited is no longer equity accounted as the Group no longer has significant influence over the entity. R million 2010 ASSETS Carrying amount at date of disposal 35 Fair value of consideration received 38 Gain on disposal of an associate 3 Significant disposals during the 2009 financial year There were no significant disposals of subsidiaries or associates during the 2009 financial year. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 399 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 46 RELATED PARTIES The Group defines related parties as: – The parent company – Associate companies – Joint ventures – Post retirement benefit funds (Pension Funds); – Key management personnel such as the FirstRand Limited Board of directors and the FirstRand executive committee; and – Key management personnel includes close family members of key management personnel. Close family members are those family members who may be expected to influence, or be influenced by that individual in dealings with the Group. This may include enterprises which are controlled by these individuals through their majority shareholding or their role as chairman and/or CEO in those companies. The principal shareholder of the FirstRand Group is RMB Holdings Limited, incorporated in South Africa. 46.1 Subsidiaries Details of investments in subsidiaries are disclosed in note 44. Transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. 46.2 Associates and joint ventures Details of investments in associate and joint venture companies are disclosed in note 16. 46.3 Details of transactions with relevant related parties appear below: 2010 2009 Principal Principal R million shareholder shareholder Loans and advances Opening balance 113 57 Advanced during year (113) 56 Closing balance – 113 Deposits Opening balance 11 9 Received during year 220 2 Closing balance 231 11 Creditors and accruals Opening balance – – Received during year 2 – Closing balance 2 – Interest received 100 12 Interest paid 15 – Dividends paid 939 1 212 46.4 Key management personnel Total advances Advances in normal course of business by product Mortgages Opening balance 59 66 Advanced during year 271 405 Repayments during year (212) (420) Interest earned 9 8 Closing balance 127 59 400 2010 2009 Principal Principal R million shareholder shareholder 46 RELATED PARTIES continued 46.4 Key management personnel continued No impairment has been recognised for loans granted to key management (2009: nil). Mortgage loans are repayable monthly over 20 years. Other loans Opening balance 1 4 Advanced during year 119 182 Repayments during year (111) (186) Interest earned – 1 Closing balance 9 1 Instalment finance Opening balance 1 2 Advanced during year 2 2 Repayments during year (1) (3) Closing balance 2 1 No impairments have been recognised in respect of instalment finance (2009: nil). Credit cards Balance 1 July 1 1 Total annual spend 17 29 Repayments (17) (29) Closing balance 1 1 No impairments have been recognised in respect of credit cards held by key management (2009: nil). Interest rates are in line with normal rates charged to customers. Deposits Deposits by product Cheque and current accounts Opening balance 6 (115) Net (withdrawals)/deposits (11) 124 Net service interest, fees and bank charges (5) (3) Closing balance (10) 6 Savings accounts Opening balance 84 32 Interest income 84 14 Net new investments 8 38 Closing balance 176 84 Other including term deposits Opening balance 19 5 Interest income (18) 1 Net new investments – 13 Closing balance 1 19 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 401 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 2010 2009 Principal Principal R million shareholder shareholder 46 RELATED PARTIES continued 46.4 Key management personnel continued Insurance and Investment Insurance Life and disability insurance Aggregate insured cover 51 16 Surrender value 1 1 Other insurance Premiums received 1 1 Investment products Fund value opening balance 541 1 005 Deposits/(withdrawals) 11 ( 240) Net investment return credited 107 ( 220) Commission and other transaction fees ( 6) ( 4) Closing balance 653 541 Other fees Financial consulting fees and commissions 5 3 Key management compensation Salaries and other short term benefits 141 107 Share based payments 15 30 Total compensation 156 137 Deferred compensation payable in FirstRand shares in October 2012 22 A listing of the Board of directors of the Group is on page 437 of the annual report. 46.5 Post employment benefit plan Details of transactions between the Group and the Group’s post employment benefit plan are listed below: Fee income 1 1 Deposits held with the Banking Group 50 30 Interest expenses 2 2 Value of assets under management 2 483 2 320 402 47 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. (a) Credit impairment losses on loans and advances The Group assesses its credit portfolios for impairment at each reporting date. In determining whether an impairment loss should be recorded in the income statement, the Group makes judgements as to whether there is observable data indicating a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of loans. For purposes of these judgements the performing portfolio is split into two parts: (i) The first part consists of the portion of the performing portfolio where there is objective evidence of the occurrence of an impairment event. In the Retail and WesBank portfolios the account status, namely arrears versus non arrears status, is taken as a primary indicator of an impairment event. In the Commercial portfolios other indicators such as the existence of “high risk” accounts, based on internally assigned risk ratings and management judgement, are used, while the Wholesale portfolio assessment includes a judgemental review of individual industries for objective signs of distress. A portfolio specific impairment (“PSI”) calculation to reflect the decrease in estimated future cash flows is performed for this sub segment of the performing portfolio. The decrease in future cash flows is primarily estimated based on analysis of historical loss and recovery rates for comparable sub segments of the portfolio. (ii) The second part consists of the portion of the performing portfolio where an incurred impairment event is inherent in a portfolio of performing advances but has not specifically been identified. A so called incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) provision is calculated on this sub segment of the portfolio, based on historical analysis of loss ratios, roll rates from performing status into non performing status and similar risk indicators over an estimated loss emergence period. Estimates of roll rates, loss ratios and similar risk indicators are based on analysis of internal and, where appropriate external data. Estimates of the loss emergence period are made in the context of the nature and frequency of credit assessments performed, availability and frequency of updated data regarding customer creditworthiness and similar factors. Loss emergence periods differ from portfolio to portfolio, but typically range from 1 – 12 months. (b) Non performing loans Retail loans are individually impaired if amounts are due and unpaid for three or more months, or if there is evidence before this that the customer is unlikely to repay its obligations in full. WesBank’s loans are impaired upon its classification status, i.e. following an event driven approach and specific assessment of the likelihood to repay. Commercial and Wholesale loans are analysed on a case by case basis taking into account breaches of key loan conditions, excesses and similar risk indicators. Management’s estimates of future cash flows on individually impaired loans are based on internal historical loss experience, supplemented by analysis of comparable external data (for Commercial and Wholesale loans) for assets with similar credit risk characteristics. The methodology and assumptions used for estimating both the amount and timing of future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience. Refer to note 12 for a detailed analysis of the impairment of advances and the carrying amounts of the specific and portfolio provisions. (c) Fair value of financial instruments The fair values of financial instruments that are not quoted in active markets are determined by using valuation techniques. Where valuation techniques (for example, models) are used to determine fair values, they are validated and periodically reviewed by independent qualified senior personnel. All models are certified before they are used, and models are calibrated and back tested to ensure that outputs reflect actual data and comparative market prices. To the extent practical, models use only observable data, however, areas such as credit risk (both own and counterparty), volatilities and correlations require management to make estimates. Changes in assumptions could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. Note 41 provides an analysis of the effect of changes in managements’ estimates on the fair value of financial instruments. Refer to note 10 for a detailed analysis of the derivatives and the carrying amounts of the different types of derivative instruments. Note 41 provides additional details on the calculation of fair value of financial instruments not quoted in active markets. (d) Impairment of available-for-sale equity instruments The Group determines that available-for-sale equity instruments are impaired and recognised as such in the income statement, when there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below their cost. This determination of what is significant or prolonged requires judgement. In making this judgement, the Group evaluates among other factors, such as the normal volatility in share prices. In addition, impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of a deterioration in the financial health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flows. Where the Group determined that an available-for-sale equity instrument is impaired, the amount of the impairment is recognised in profit or loss. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 403 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 47 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued (e) Securitisations and special purpose entities The Group sponsors the formation of special purpose entities (“SPEs”) primarily for the purpose of allowing clients to hold investments, for asset securitisation transactions and for buying and selling credit protection. The Group consolidates SPEs that it does control in terms of IFRS. As it can sometimes be difficult to determine whether the Group does control an SPE, it makes judgements about its exposure to the risks and rewards, as well as about its ability to make operational decisions for the SPE in question. In many instances, elements are present that, considered in isolation, indicate control or lack of control over an SPE, but when considered together make it difficult to reach a clear decision. In such cases, the SPE is accounted for based on management’s best estimate of the economic reality of the underlying transaction. Refer to note 39 for more information regarding the Group’s synthetic securitisations and the respective carrying amounts. (f) Income taxes The Group is subject to direct tax in a number of jurisdictions. There may be transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination has an element of uncertainty during the ordinary course of business. The Group recognises liabilities based on objective estimates of the amount of tax that may be due. Where the final tax determination is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such difference will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. Refer to note 5 and 18 for more information regarding the direct and deferred tax charges, assets and liabilities. (g) Impairment of goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill is tested annually for impairment in accordance with the stated accounting policy. The recoverable amount of the cash generating units (“CGU”) has been determined based on value-in-use calculations, being the net present value of the discounted cash flows of the CGU less the tangible net asset value of the CGU. Details of the main assumptions applied in determining the net present value of the CGU are provided in notes to these financial statements. Refer to note 19 for the impairment loss recorded on goodwill. (h) Post retirement liabilities The cost of the benefits and the present value of the defined benefit pension funds and post retirement medical obligations depend on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the charge to the income statement arising from these obligations include the expected long term rate of return on the relevant plan assets, the discount rate and the expected salary and pension increase rates. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the charge to the income statement and may affect planned funding of the pension plans. The assumptions related to the expected return on plan assets are determined on a uniform basis, considering long term historical returns, assets allocation and future estimations of long term investment returns. The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year, which represents the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of the expected cash outflows required to settle the pension and post retirement medical obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rate on high quality corporate bonds and government bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. The expected salary and pension increase rates are based on inflation rates, adjusted for salary scales and country specific conditions. The inflation rate used is a rate within the government’s monetary policy target for inflation and is calculated as the difference between the yields on portfolios of fixed interest government bonds and a portfolio of index linked bonds of a similar term. Additional information is provided in note 27. (i) Share based payments Share based payment transactions of the Group are classified as either cash settled or equity settled. The amounts recognised in respect of these share based payment transactions are determined by applying valuation techniques which are based on various assumptions and estimates that require judgment in their application. These assumptions and estimates include expected volatility, expected dividend yield, the discount rate and the expected forfeit or lapse rate. Refer to note 33 for the detailed information regarding the share based payment expense and the assumptions used in determining the expense, liability and reserve. (j) Fair value of commodities The Group is long on certain commodities through the outright purchase of the specific commodity or through a series of OTC forward purchase agreements. Judgement has been applied in determining the fair value of the most recent transactions between market participants that is used to calculate the fair value of the physical commodity positions. In addition, judgement and estimation has been applied in determining the method for calculating the fair value of the commodity forward purchase agreements. 404 47 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued (k) Valuation of policyholder liabilities under insurance contracts The actuarial value of policyholder liabilities arising from long term insurance contracts is determined using the Financial Soundness Valuation method as described in the actuarial guidance note PGN 104 of the Actuarial Society of South Africa. The method requires the following assumptions: • the best estimate for a particular assumption is determined; • prescribed margins are then applied, as required by the Long Term Insurance Act of South Africa and Board Notice 72 issued in terms of the Act; and • discretionary margins may be applied, as required by the valuation methodology or if the statutory actuary considers such margins necessary to cover the risks inherent in the contracts. Best estimate assumptions as to mortality and morbidity, expenses, investment income and tax are used that may vary at each reporting date. A margin for adverse deviations is included in the assumptions. Improvements in estimates have a positive impact on the value of the liabilities and related assets, while deteriorations in estimates have a negative impact. (l) Non controlling interest Where the Group elects to measure non controlling interest in a business combination at fair value, the fair value is estimated by applying the same principles applied by the Group in the valuation of other listed or unlisted equity instruments adjusted as required for control premiums. Refer to note 41 for further information on the fair value of equity instrument. 48 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE The Group will comply with the following new standards and interpretations applicable to its business from the stated effective date. Effective date IFRS 1 (amended) Amendment to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS 1”) The amendment provides relief to first time adopters of International Annual periods commencing Financial Reporting Standards from providing the additional disclosures on or after 1 July 2010 introduced in March 2009 by the amendment to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments. The additional disclosure requirements included in the amendment to IFRS 7 requires enhanced disclosures about the fair value measurement and liquidity risk. This amendment will not have an impact on the Group, as the Group has already adopted IFRS. IFRIC 14 (amended) IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction The amendment applies in limited circumstances when an entity is Annual periods commencing subject to minimum funding requirements and makes a voluntary early on or after 1 January 2011 payment of contributions to cover those requirements. The amendment permits such an entity to treat the benefit of such an early payment as an asset. This amendment is not expected to have an impact to the Group. IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments The interpretation provides guidance on the accounting treatment of Annual periods beginning on transactions where a financial liability is extinguished by the issue of or after 1 July 2010 equity instruments. These transactions are often referred to as debt for equity swaps. This amendment is not expected to impact the Group’s results significantly. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 405 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 48 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE The Group will comply with the following new standards and interpretations applicable to its business from the stated effective date. Effective date IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS is the first phase in the IASB’s three part project to replace the Annual periods beginning on current IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. or after 1 January 2013 This phase deals with the classification and measurement of financial assets. Financial assets can be classified as financial assets at amortised cost or fair value. The classification is based on the entity’s business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. This standard is not expected to result in material reclassifications however the Group will reconsider the classification of its financial assets into financial assets at amortised cost or fair value. IAS 24 (amended) Related Party Disclosures The amendment removes certain of the disclosure requirements Annual periods commencing for government related entities and clarifies the definition of a on or after 1 January 2011 related party. This amendment addresses disclosure in the annual financial statements and will not affect recognition and measurement. The impact on the revised disclosure is not expected to be significant. IAS 32 (amended) Classification of rights issues The amendment clarifies the accounting for rights issues that are Annual periods beginning denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the on or after 1 February 2010 issuer. The amendment requires the rights issues offered pro rata to all of an entity’s existing shareholders to be classified as equity instruments regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated. This amendment is not expected to have an impact on the Group. Annual Improvements to IFRS Improvements As part of its annual improvements projects, the IASB has issued its editions of annual improvements. The annual improvement projects aim is to clarify and improve the accounting standards. The improvements include those involving terminology or editorial changes with minimal effect on recognition and measurement. Annual improvements projects undertaken in the 2009 calender year. Annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010 Annual improvements projects undertaken in the 2010 calender year. Annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2011 except for the improvements to IFRS 3 and IAS 27 that are effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 July 2010 There are no significant changes in the either of the improvement projects that are expected to affect the Group. 49 TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING THE LEGAL FORM OF A LEASE The Group entered into an arrangement with the counterparty for the refurbishment of moveable assets, which are for the exclusive use of the counterparty. The duration of the arrangement is for 14 years and will conclude in May 2016. The transactions are a series of back to back leases, which, although the transactions are structured as leases, are in substance a financing arrangement. Fees received are recognised annually in non interest income. Income received for the period amounted to R22 million (2009: R26 million) and is reflected in interest and similar income in the income statement. 406 FIRSTRAND COMPANY A NNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FIRSTRAND COMPANY Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June R million Notes 2010 2009 Continuing operations Interest and similar income 2 10 22 Interest expense and similar charges 2 (4) (4) Net interest income 6 18 Non interest income 3 3 989 5 048 – fees and commissions 3 36 26 – gains less losses from investment securities 3 3 953 5 022 Income from operations 3 995 5 066 Operating expenses 4 (100) (56) Income before tax 3 895 5 010 Tax 5 (4) (2) Profit for the year from continuing operations 3 891 5 008 Discontinued operations Loss attributable to discontinued operations (100) – Profit for the year 3 791 5 008 Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income for the year 3 791 5 008 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 3 447 4 544 Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares 344 464 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 791 5 008 408 Statement of financial position as at 30 June R million Notes 2010 2009 ASSETS Cash and short term funds 7 61 56 Loans and accounts receivable 8 – * Investment in subsidiaries 9 16 547 21 449 Property and equipment * * Deferred tax asset 10 – 3 Non current asset held for sale 5 116 – Total assets 21 724 21 508 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Liabilities Creditors and accruals 11 74 59 Tax liability * * Provisions 12 14 4 Long term liabilities 15 5 – Total liabilities 93 63 Equity Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders Ordinary shares 14 56 56 Share premium 14 7 082 7 082 Reserves 9 974 9 788 17 112 16 926 Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares 14 4 519 4 519 Total equity 21 631 21 445 Total equity and liabilities 21 724 21 508 * Less than R500 000. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 409 Statement of changes in equity Ordinary share capital and ordinary shareholders’ funds Share Share capital premium Retained R million (Note 14) (Note 14) earnings Balance at 1 July 2008 56 7 083 7 119 Conversion of convertible redeemable preference shares * (1) – Total comprehensive income for the year – – 4 544 Ordinary dividends – – (4 073) Preference dividends – – – Share based payment reserve – – – Balance at 30 June 2009 56 7 082 7 590 Balance at 1 July 2009 56 7 082 7 590 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 3 447 Ordinary dividends – – (3 157) Preference dividends – – – Share based payment reserve – – 4 Balance at 30 June 2010 56 7 082 7 884 * Less than R500 000. 410 Ordinary share capital and ordinary Perpetual preference shareholders’ funds shareholders’ funds Non Non cumulative cumulative Total preference preference Total Share based Capital ordinary share share preference payment redemption shareholders’ capital premium shareholders’ Total reserve reserve funds (Note 14) (Note 14) funds equity 2 158 1 16 417 * 4 519 4 519 20 936 – – (1) – – – (1) – – 4 544 – 464 464 5 008 – – (4 073) – – – (4 073) – – – – (464) (464) (464) 39 – 39 – – – 39 2 197 1 16 926 * 4 519 4 519 21 445 2 197 1 16 926 * 4 519 4 519 21 445 – – 3 447 – 344 344 3 791 – – (3 157) – – – (3 157) – – – – (344) (344) (344) (108) – (104) – – – (104) 2 089 1 17 112 * 4 519 4 519 21 631 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 411 Statement of cash flows for the year end 30 June R million Notes 2010 2009 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Cash generated by operations 17.1 3 921 4 997 Working capital changes 17.2 15 – Net cash flows from operating activities 3 936 4 997 Interest received 10 22 Interest paid (4) (4) Tax paid 17.3 (7) (31) Net cash inflow from operating activities 3 935 4 984 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Increase in investment in subsidiaries (320) (470) Redemption of preference share investment in subsidiary – 25 Loan (to)/from subsidiaries (109) 8 Net cash outflow from investment activities (429) (437) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Repayment of long term debt – (2) Dividends paid 17.4 (3 501) (4 537) Net cash outflow from financing activities (3 501) (4 539) Increase in cash and cash equivalents 5 8 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 56 48 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 61 56 412 Notes to the annual financial statements for the year ended 30 June 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The annual financial statements of FirstRand Limited (“FirstRand”) are prepared according to the same accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements of the Group. For detailed accounting policies refer to pages 232 to 258 of this report. 2010 R million Amortised cost Total 2 ANALYSIS OF INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE Interest and similar income – Cash and short term funds 10 10 Interest and similar income 10 10 Interest expense an similar charges – Borrowed funds 4 4 Interest expense an similar charges 4 4 2009 R million Amortised cost Total Interest and similar income – Cash and short term funds 22 22 – A preference share dividends received * * Interest and similar income 22 22 Interest expense and similar charges – Borrowed funds 4 4 – “A” preference share dividends paid * * Interest expense an similar charges 4 4 * Less than R500 000. R million 2010 2009 3 ANALYSIS OF NON INTEREST INCOME – Fees and commissions Fees from subsidiaries^ 36 26 Other fees * * Total fees and commissions 36 26 – Gains less losses from investment activities – Dividends received from subsidiaries – unlisted shares – Ordinary dividends^ 3 685 4 661 – Preference dividends^ 268 361 Total gains less losses from investment activities 3 953 5 022 Total non interest income 3 989 5 048 ^ Non interest income relates to non financial assets and liabilities. * Less than R500 000. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 413 Notes to the annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 4 OPERATING EXPENSES Advertising and marketing 2 2 Annual reports 7 9 Auditors remuneration – audit fees 4 3 – fees for other services – – – prior year under provision – – Depreciation – motor vehicles * * Directors fees paid 5 5 Direct staff costs – salaries, wages and allowances 35 20 – contributions to employee benefit funds 2 2 – share based payment expense – refer note 15 16 – – other 2 * Travel 2 2 Investor relations 7 5 Rental charges – property 1 3 – furniture and equipment 1 1 Professional fees paid to subsidiaries 6 – Professional fees 3 – Corporate memberships 1 1 Indirect tax – value added tax 3 1 Other 3 2 Total operating expenses 100 56 * Less than R500 000. 5 TAX South African normal taxation – Normal tax – current year 1 5 – Deferred – current year 3 – South African secondary taxation on companies ( STC ) – (3) Total tax charge 4 2 Actual 2010 2009 R million % % Tax rate reconciliation Effective rate of taxation 4 – – Total tax has been affected by: Dividends received 1 107 28.0 28.0 Non deductible expenses (17) – – Secondary taxation on companies (“STC”) credits (3) – – Standard rate of taxation 1 091 28.0 28.0 414 6 ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY CATEGORY Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on an ongoing basis either at fair value or at amortised cost. The principal accounting policies on page 232 to page 258 describe how the classes of financial instruments are measured and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised. The following table analyses the financial assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position per category of financial instrument to which they are assigned and therefore by measurement basis: 2010 Financial Non financial Loans and liabilities at assets and R million receivables amortised cost liabilities Total ASSETS Cash and short term funds 61 – – 61 Investment in subsidiaries – – 16 547 16 547 Non current asset held for sale – – 5 116 5 116 Total assets 61 – 21 663 21 724 LIABILITIES Creditors and accruals – 74 – 74 Tax liability – – * * Provisions – – 14 14 Long term liabilities – 5 – 5 Total liabilities – 79 14 93 2009 Financial Non financial Loans and liabilities at assets and R million receivables amortised cost liabilities Total ASSETS Cash and short term funds 56 – – 56 Loans and accounts receivable * – – * Investment in subsidiaries – – 21 449 21 449 Property and equipment – – * * Deferred tax asset – – 3 3 Total assets 56 – 21 452 21 508 LIABILITIES Creditors and accruals – 59 – 59 Tax liability – – * * Provisions – – 4 4 Total liabilities – 59 4 63 * Less than R500 000. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 415 Notes to the annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 7 CASH AND SHORT TERM FUNDS Balances with other banks 61 56 Cash and short term funds 61 56 The carrying value for cash and short term funds approximates the fair value. 8 LOANS AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES Receivables Sundry debtors – * Total receivables – * Total loans and accounts receivable – * * Less than R500 000. At the reporting date all loans and accounts receivables are considered to be neither past due nor impaired. The carrying value of loans and accounts receivable approximates the fair value. 9 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES Investment of holding company Amounts owing Investment through Effective by/(to) Shares at net equity settle share percentage holding subsidiaries carrying amount incentive schemes 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 % % R million R million R million R million R million R million Banking Group FirstRand Bank Holdings Limited (“FRBH”) – Ordinary shares 100 100 196 87 10 110 9 790 – – – Non redeemable preference shares 100 100 – – 3 000 3 000 – – Momentum Momentum Group Limited – Ordinary shares 100 100 – – – 4 633 – – – Non redeemable preference shares 100 100 – – – 500 – – FirstRand Investment Holdings (Pty) Limited – Ordinary shares 100 100 854 854 2 069 2 069 – – FirstRand Empowerment Trust 100 100 – – – – – – Investment through equity settled share incentive scheme 100 100 – – – – 318 516 Total 1 050 941 15 179 19 992 318 516 Total interest in subsidiary 16 547 21 449 416 R million 2010 2009 9 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES continued Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 19 992 19 547 Movement for the year: Increase in investment in FirstRand Banking Group 320 436 Increase in investment in FirstRand Investment Holdings (Pty) Limited – 34 Redemption of redeemable preference shares in FirstRand Investment Holdings (Pty) Limited – (25) Investment in Momentum Group Limited classified as non current asset held for sale (5 133) – Carrying amount at the end of the year 15 179 19 992 The following share trusts are controlled by FirstRand Limited: – Momentum Life Assurers Limited share trust – Southern Life Association Limited share scheme – First National Bank share purchase/option scheme – FirstRand Limited share trust – FirstRand staff assistance trust – FirstRand black employee trust – FirstRand black non executive directors’ trust The carrying amount of these investments is R nil R million 2010 2009 10 DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax asset Tax effects of temporary differences between tax and book value for: Deferred tax asset Opening balance 3 – – STC credits (3) 3 Closing balance – 3 Movement on deferred tax account is as follows: Opening balance 3 – – Charge to the income statement (3) 3 Closing balance – 3 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when the income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority and there is a right to offset at settlement. If the total reserves of R7 884 million as at 30 June 2010 (2009: R7 590 million) were to be declared as dividends, the secondary tax impact at a rate of 10% would be R788 million (2009: R759 million). FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 417 Notes to the annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 11 creditors and accruals Unclaimed dividends 28 26 Sundry creditors 46 33 Loan from FirstRand Empowerment Trust * * Total creditors and accruals 74 59 * Less than R500 000. The carrying value of creditors and accruals approximates their fair value at year end. 12 PROVISIONS Staff related provisions* Opening balance 2 1 Additional provisions created 11 1 Utilised during the year (1) – Closing balance 12 2 * Staff related provision mainly consists of provision for leave pay and staff bonuses. Audit fees Opening balance 2 5 Additional provisions created 4 3 Unused amounts reversed (1) (1) Utilised during the year (3) (5) Closing balance 2 2 Total provisions 14 4 418 2010 Carrying R million amount Current Non current 13 CURRENT/NON CURRENT SPLIT OF AMOUNTS RECOGNISED ON THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ASSETS Cash and short term funds 61 61 – Investment in subsidiaries 16 547 – 16 547 Non current asset held for sale 5 116 5 116 – Total assets 21 724 5 177 16 547 LIABILITIES Creditors and accruals 74 74 – Provisions 14 – 14 Tax liability * * – Long term liabilities 5 – 5 Total liabilities 93 74 19 2009 Carrying R million amount Current Non current ASSETS Cash and short term funds 56 56 – Loans and accounts receivable * * – Investment in subsidiaries 21 449 – 21 449 Property and equipment * – * Deferred tax asset 3 3 – Total assets 21 508 59 21 449 LIABILITIES Creditors and accruals 59 – 59 Provisions 4 – 4 Tax liability * * – Total liabilities 63 * 63 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 419 Notes to the annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 2010 Number of Number of ordinary “A” preference shares shares** 14 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM Authorised Number of shares 6 001 688 450 198 311 550 Issued Ordinary shares Opening balance 5 637 941 689 – Closing balance 5 637 941 689 – A preference shares Opening balance – – Closing balance – – B preference shares Opening balance – – – “B1” preference shares incorporated as “B” preference shares effective 4 January 2010 – – Closing balance – – B1 preference shares Opening balance – – – “B1” preference shares incorporated as “B” preference shares effective 4 January 2010 – – Closing balance – – Total issued share capital and share premium – closing balance 5 637 941 689 – Analysis of total issued share capital at the end of the year Ordinary issued share capital at end of year as above (1 cent each) – – “B” variable rate non cumulative non redeemable preference shares (1 cent each) – – Total issued share capital and share premium – closing balance – – Disclosed on the face of the statement of financial position – Ordinary share capital and share premium – – – Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares – – Total issued share capital and share premium – closing balance – – * Less than R500 000. ** The “A” preference shares are not listed. The “A” preference shares are variable rate, non cumulative, non redeemable preference shares. *** The “B1” preference shares. 1 The “C” preference shares are variable rate, convertible, non cumulative redeemable preference shares. 2 The “D” preference shares are variable rate, cumulative redeemable preference shares. 420 2010 Number of Number of Number of Share Share “B” preference “C” preference “D” preference capital premium Total shares*** shares1 shares2 R million R million R million 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 – – – – – – 56 7 082 7 138 – – – 56 7 082 7 138 – – – – – – – – – – – – 30 000 000 – – * 2 992 2 992 15 000 000 – – * 1 527 1 527 45 000 000 – – – 4 519 4 519 15 000 000 – – * 1 527 1 527 (15 000 000) – – * (1 527) (1 527) – – – – – – 45 000 000 – – 56 11 601 11 657 – – – 56 7 082 7 138 – – – * 4 519 4 519 – – – 56 11 601 11 657 – – – – – 7 138 – – – – – 4 519 – – – – – 11 657 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 421 Notes to the annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June 2009 Number of Number of ordinary “A” preference shares shares** 14 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM continued Authorised Number of shares 6 001 688 450 198 311 550 Issued Ordinary shares Opening balance 5 637 830 218 – – Conversion of convertible redeemable preference shares 111 471 – Closing balance 5 637 941 689 – A preference shares Opening balance – 3 322 500 – Redeemed during the year – (3 211 029) – Converted during the year – (111 471) Closing balance – – B preference shares Opening balance – – Closing balance – – B1 preference shares Opening balance – – Closing balance – – Total issued share capital and share premium – closing balance 5 637 941 689 – Analysis of total issued share capital at the end of the year Ordinary issued share capital at end of year as above (1 cent each) – – “B” variable rate non cumulative non redeemable preference shares (1 cent each) – – “B1” variable rate non cumulative non redeemable preference shares (1 cent each) – – Total issued share capital and share premium – closing balance – – Disclosed on the face of the statement of financial position – Ordinary share capital and share premium – – – Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares – – Total issued share capital and share premium – closing balance – – * Less than R500 000. ** The “A” preference shares are not listed. 1 The “C” preference shares are variable rate, convertible, non cumulative redeemable preference shares. 2 The “D” preference shares are variable rate, cumulative redeemable preference shares. 422 2009 Number of Number of Number of Share Share “B” preference “C” preference “D” preference capital premium Total shares shares1 shares2 R million R million R million 100 000 000 100 000 000 100 000 000 – – – – – – 56 7 083 7 139 – – – * (1) (1) – – – 56 7 082 7 138 – – – * 22 22 – – – * (21) (21) – – – * (1) (1) – – – – – – 30 000 000 – – * 2 992 2 992 30 000 000 – – – 2 992 2 992 15 000 000 – – * 1 527 1 527 15 000 000 – – – 1 527 1 527 45 000 000 – – 56 11 601 11 657 – – – 56 7 082 7 138 – – – * 2 992 2 992 – – – * 1 527 1 527 – – – 56 11 601 11 657 – – – – – 7 138 – – – – – 4 519 – – – – – 11 657 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 423 Notes to the annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 15 SHARE BASED PAYMENT For a detail description of share option schemes and trusts in which FirstRand Limited participates refer to note 33 of the Group annual report. The income statement charge for share based payments is as follows: FirstRand share incentive scheme (1) 1 FirstRand black non executive directors’ trust 1 1 FirstRand share appreciation right scheme 5 (2) Conditional share plan 11 – Forfeitable share plan * – Total share based payment expense 16 – Share based payment liability Opening balance – 2 Income statement charge 5 (2) Total share based payment liability 5 – * Less than R500 000. 16 DIVIDENDS Ordinary dividends An interim dividend of 34.00 cents (2009: 34.00 cents) per share was declared on 8 March 2010 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2009. 1 917 1 917 A final dividend of 43.00 cents (2009: 22.00) per share was declared on 13 September 2010 in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2010 2 424 1 240 Total ordinary dividends declared for the year 4 341 3 157 “B” preference shares An interim dividend of 342.329 cents (2009: 518.94 cents) per share was declared on 27 January 2010 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2009. 154 156 A final dividend of 354.997 cents (2009: 423.09 cents) per share was declared on 5 August 2010 in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2010 160 127 “B1” preference shares* An interim dividend of 518.94 cents per share was declared on 23 February 2009 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2008. – 78 A final dividend of 423.09 cents per share was declared on 25 August 2009 in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2009. – 63 Total preference dividends declared for the year 314 424 Total provisions 14 4 * The “B1” preference shares were incorporated with the “B” preference shares effective 4 January 2010. 424 R million 2010 2009 17 cash flow information 17.1 Cash generated by operations Net income before tax attributable to shareholders 3 895 5 010 Adjustment for non cash items 32 5 Interest received (10) (22) Interest paid 4 4 Cash generated by operations 3 921 4 997 17.2 Working capital changes Decrease in loans and accounts receivable – 27 Decrease in creditors and accruals 15 (27) Net working capital changes 15 – 17.3 Tax paid Tax payable and deferred tax at beginning of the year (3) (26) Charge to income statement (4) (2) Tax payable and deferred tax at the end of the year – (3) Tax paid (7) (31) 17.4 Dividends paid Ordinary dividends Final dividend paid on: – 19 October 2009 in respect of the year ended 30 June 2009 (1 240) – – 27 October 2008 in respect of the year ended 30 June 2008 – (2 156) Interim dividend paid on: – 6 April 2010 in respect of the period ended 31 December 2009 (1 917) – – 6 April 2009 in respect of the period ended 31 December 2008 – (1 917) Ordinary dividends paid (3 157) (4 073) Preference dividends on B preference shares Final dividend paid on: – 31 August 2009 in respect of the year ended 30 June 2009 (127) – – 25 August 2008 in respect of the year ended 30 June 2008 – (153) Interim dividend paid on: – 22 February 2010 in respect of the period ended 31 December 2009 (154) – – 23 February 2009 in respect of the period ended 31 December 2008 – (156) Preference dividends on B1 preference shares* Final dividend declared on: – 31 August 2009 in respect of the year ended 30 June 2009 (63) – – 25 August 2008 in respect of the year ended 30 June 2008 – (77) Interim dividend declared on: – 23 February 2009 in respect of the period ended 31 December 2008 – (78) Preference dividends paid (344) (464) Total dividends paid (3 501) (4 537) * The “B1” preference shares were incorporated with the “B” preference shares effective 4 January 2010. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 425 Notes to the annual financial statements / continued for the year ended 30 June R million 2010 2009 18 RELATED PARTIES FirstRand Limited defines related parties as: – The parent company – Associate companies – Joint ventures – Post retirement benefit funds (Pension Funds) – Key management personnel are the FirstRand board of directors and the FirstRand executive committee – Key management personnel includes close family members of key management personnel. Close family members are those family members who may be expected to influence, or be influenced by that individual in dealings with the Group. This may include: – Enterprises which are controlled by these individuals through their majority shareholding or their role as chairman and/or chief executive officer in those companies. The principal shareholder of the FirstRand Limited is RMB Holdings Limited, incorporated in South Africa. During the current year FirstRand Limited did not enter directly into transactions with its parent company. 18.1 Subsidiaries Details of interest in subsidiaries as well as loan account balances are disclosed in note 9. 18.2 Details of transactions with relevant related parties appear below: Interest received 10 22 Fees and commissions earned – 26 Dividends received 3 953 5 022 18.3 Key management personnel Please refer to page 400 for detailed disclosure. 19 EVENTS AFTER REPORTING PERIOD Refer to directors report for detailed events after reporting period. 20 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES FirstRand Limited provides put options to holders of certain debt instruments issued by its subsidiaries. The term of put option determines that in the instance where the subsidiaries default on the terms of debt instrument agreements, the capital amount of the debt and any accrued dividend will be repaid by FirstRand Limited. At 30 June 2010 no instance of default by a subsidiary had occurred. 426 Definitions Companies Act Companies Act of 1973 Dividend cover Normalised earnings per share divided by dividend per share. Diluted normalised earnings N  ormalised earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted average per share. number of shares including treasury shares adjusted for potential dilution effect of Outperformance scheme. National Credit Act (“NCA”) National Credit Act, No 34 of 2005 Net asset value (R million) Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders. Net asset value per share (cents) Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by number of issued ordinary shares. Net income after capital charge  ormalised earnings less the cost of equity times the average ordinary shareholders’ equity N (“NIACC”) and reserves. Normalised earnings (R million) T he Group believes normalised earnings more accurately reflect operational performance. Headline earnings are adjusted to take into account non operational and accounting anomalies. Refer to page 33 for a detailed description of normalised earnings. Normalised earnings per share N  ormalised earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted average (cents) number of share including treasury shares. Price earnings ratio (times) Closing price on 30 June divided by basic normalised earnings per share. Price to book (times) Market capitalisation divided by normalised net asset value. Return on equity (“ROE”) Normalised earnings divided by average normalised ordinary shareholders’ equity. Shares in issue (number) Number of ordinary shares listed on the JSE. Weighted average number of The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year as listed on the JSE. ordinary shares (number) Banking Group Bank’s Act Banks Act, No 94 of 1990 as amended Capital adequacy ratio (“CAR”) Capital divided by risk weighted assets. Cost to income ratio (%) Operating expenses excluding indirect taxes expressed as a percentage of total income including share of profit from associates and joint ventures. Exposure at default (“EAD”) Exposure at default is defined as the gross exposure of a facility upon default of a counterparty. Loss given default (‘LGD”) The loss given default is defined as the economic loss that will be suffered on an exposure following default of the counterparty, expressed as a percentage of the amount outstanding at the time of default. Probability of default (“PD”) The probability of default is the probability than a counterparty will default within the next year and considers the ability and willingness of the counterparty to repay. Risk weighted assets (R million) Prescribed risk weightings relative to the credit risk of counterparty, operational risk, market risk, equity investment risk and other risk multiplied by on and off balance sheet assets. Momentum Group Capital adequacy ratio (“CAR”) The amount by which the Financial Services Board requires an insurer’s assets to exceed it liabilities. The assets, liabilities and capital adequacy requirement must be calculated using a method which meets the Financial Services Board’s requirements. Deferred revenue liability (“DRL”) A DRL is recognised in respect of fees paid at the inception of a contract by a policyholder which are directly attributable to a contract. The DRL is then released to revenue as the investment management services are provided, over the expected duration of the contract, as a constant percentage of the expected gross profit margin (including investment income) arising from the contract. FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 427 Definitions / continued Discretionary participation featured A DPF entitles the policyholder to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed benefits, additional (“DPF”) benefits or bonuses. Embedded Value The embedded value is defined as: • the shareholders’ net worth, which includes subsidiaries and associates at the directors’ valuations; plus • the present value of future profits less the opportunity cost of capital in respect of the in-force insurance business. The value of the in-force insurance business is calculated as the present value of the projected stream of future after tax profits at the calculation date. The opportunity cost of capital reflects the fact that the expected long term investment return on the assets backing the capital adequacy requirements is less than the return assumed to be required by the shareholders, as reflected by the risk discount rate. Present value of in-force (“PVIF”) PVIF is determined by estimating the net present value of future cash flows from contracts in-force at the date of acquisition. 428 Abbreviations AIRB Advanced Internal Ratings Based approach FSB Financial Service Board ALCO Asset and liability management committee FSV Financial Soundness Valuation AMA Advance Measurement Approach FTP Funds transfer pricing ASSA Actuarial Society of South Africa GCRM Banking Group credit risk management ATM Automated teller machine GIA Group internal audit function BCBS The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision IBNR Incurred but not reported BEE Black Economic Empowerment ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process BPRMF Business performance and risk management IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations framework Committee BSA Bonus stabilisation account IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards BSM Balance Sheet Management IIA Institute of Internal Audit CAGR (%) Compound annual growth rate IRB Internal rating based approach CCF Credit conversion factors INVESCO Investment committee CEO Chief executive officer IRRBB Interet rate risk in the banking book CFO Chief financial officer ISDA International Swaps and Derivative Association CGT Capital gains tax ISMA International Securities Market Association CIS Corporate Social Investment JSE Johannesburg Stock Exchange COO Chief operating officer KPI Key performance indicators CPIX Consumer Price Index LCR Liquidity coverage ratio CRMF Credit risk management framework LGD Loss given default CSA Credit Support Annexes LRMF Liquidity risk management framework CV Curriculum Vitae LTV Loan to value DAC Deferred acquisition cost MIRC Market and investment risk committee DPF Discretionary participation features NIACC Net income after capital charge DRL Deferred revenue liability NII Net interest income EAD Exposure at default NIR Non interest revenue EL Expected loss Nitro 1 Nitro Securitisation 1 (Pty) Limited ERM Enterprise Risk Management Nitro 1 Plc Nitro International Securitisation Company 1 Plc ESG Environmental, social and governance risks Nitro 2 Nitro Securitisation 2 (Pty) Limited ETL Expected tail loss NOFP Net open foreign position FICC Fixed income, currency and commodities business NPL Non performing loans FNB First National Bank NSFR Net stable funding ratio FRB FirstRand Bank Limited ORC Operational risk committee FRBG FirstRand Bank Supersegment ORMF Operational risk management framework FRBH FirstRand Bank Holdings Limited PD Probability of default FRIE FirstRand Ireland Plc PE Price earnings FRIN FirstRand India PGN Professional Guidance Note FRIHL FirstRand Investment Holdings (Pty) Limited PIT Point In Time FSA Financial Services Authority' PVIF Present value of in-force FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 429 Definitions / continued QIS Basel Quantitative Impact Study RCC Risk, Compliance and Capital committee RCSA Risk and control self assessments RERIT Risk effectiveness reports for IT RMB Rand Merchant Bank ROE Return on equity RRM Regulatory risk management RWA Risk weighted assets S&P Standard and Poor SARB South African Reserve Bank SENS Stock Exchange News Service SME Small and medium enterprise SPE Special purpose entity STC Secondary tax on companies TSA The Standard Based approach TTC Through the cycle UK United Kingdom US United States VaR Value at risk WACC(%) Weighted average cost of capital 430 SHAREHOLDERS’ INFO The Annual General Meeting will take place at 09.00 on 2 December 2010 in the Auditorium, FNB Conference and Learning Centre, 114 Grayston Drive, Sandown, Sandton SHAREHOLDERS’ INFO FirstRand LIMITED 433 Group ownership structure 434 Group structure 435 Analysis of ordinary shareholders 436 Performance on the JSE Limited 436 Analysis of “B” preference shareholders 437 Administration 439 Notice of the annual general meeting 444 Important notes regarding attendance at annual general meeting 445 Form of proxy – ordinary shareholders SHAREHOLDERS’ INFO Group ownership structure Directors and Remgro Management 18.4% 25% RMB Holdings 30% 8.5% BEE Trusts 8.1% 100% 100% 100% 100% FirstRand EMA Holdings Limited FirstRand Bank Momentum Group FirstRand Investment (previously Firstrand Bank Limited Limited Holdings (Pty) Limited Holdings Limited FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 433 Group structure The listed holding company (FirstRand Limited, JSE: FSR) 100% 100% 100% 100% FirstRand Investment FirstRand Bank FirstRand EMA Momentum Group Holdings (Pty) Limited Limited Holdings Limited Limited* (”FRIHL”) Insurance and Banking Emerging Markets Other activities5 Asset Management 100% First National Bank1 100% FNB Lesotho 90% RMB Private Equity 100% Momentum Insurance1 Holdings Rand Merchant Bank1 62% FNB Namibia7 FNB Life1 91% RMB Private Equity WesBank1 100% FNB Swaziland 85% Advantage Asset 100% RMB Stockbroking Managers eBucks1 70% FNB Botswana 100% FirstRand 100% Momentum FirstRand Bank India 2 90% FNB Moçambique International Medical Scheme Wealth Management Administrators FirstRand Bank London 2 100% FNB Zambia 40% Eris Property Holdings 100% AdviceAtWork FirstRand Bank Dubai 3 47% OUTsurance 4 50% RMB Morgan Stanley 100% RMB Asset FirstRand Bank Shanghai3 100% FirstRand Management International 75% Rentworks FirstRand Bank Nigeria3 – Mauritius 100% Momentum Africa 33% Tracker FirstRand Bank Angola3 50% Momentum Short Term 100% FirstRand Insurance International – Guernsey 49% Momentum Life Insurance Namibia6 100% FNB Insurance Brokers Structure shows effective shareholding (consolidated) * The Group has announced the proposed unbundling 1 Division of Momentum which was 2 Branch approved by shareholders on 3 Representative office 28 September 2010, but 4 Effective shareholding in FirstRand Short Term remaining subject to certain Insurance Holdings Limited conditions precedent being met. 5 For segmental analysis purposes entities included in FRIHL are reported as part of Banking Group Supersegment within the respective franchise results 6 Includes 51% of Swabou Life 434 Analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 30 June 2010 Shares held 000’s % Shareholders holding more than 5% RMB Holdings 1 694 844 30.06 FirstRand Empowerment trust and related parties 493 653 8.76 Public Investment Commissioner 663 568 11.77 Financial Securities Ltd (Remgro) 481 142 8.53 Sub total 3 333 207 59.12 Other 2 304 735 40.88 Total 5 637 942 100.00 Shareholder type Corporates (RMB Holdings and Remgro) 2 175 986 38.59 Pension Funds 1 111 078 19.71 Insurance Companies and Banks 849 311 15.06 Unit Trusts 715 665 12.69 Individuals 34 539 0.61 Empowerment trusts 457 335 8.11 Employee share trusts 146 331 2.60 Other 147 699 2.63 Total 5 637 942 100.00 Number of Shares held shareholders 000’s % Public and non public shareholders Public 33 330 2 845 420 50.47 Non public – Corporates (Remgro and RMBH) 2 2 175 986 38.59 – Directors 9 12 850 0.23 – Empowerment trusts 4 457 355 8.11 – Employee share trusts 1 146 331 2.60 Total 33 346 5 637 942 100.00 Shares held 000’s % Geographic Ownership South Africa 4 601 285 81.61 International 647 608 11.49 Not analysed 389 049 6.90 Total 5 637 942 100.00 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 435 Performance on the JSE Limited as at 30 June 2010 2010 2009 Number of shares in issue (000’s) 5 637 942 5 637 942 Market prices (cents per share): Closing 1 806 1 406 High 2 100 1 774 Low 1 388 1 056 Weighted average (cents per share) 1 768 1 422 Closing price/net asset value per share (times) 1.98 1.50 Closing price/ basic headline earnings per share (times) 10.03 10.55 Volume of shares traded (million) 3 689 4 605 Value of shares traded (R million) 65 236 65 470 Market capitalisation (R billion) 101.82 79.27 Analysis of “B” preference shareholders at 30 June 2010 Number of Shares held shareholders 000’s % Public and non public shareholders Public 7 595 44 480 98.84 Non public – Directors 1 520 1.16 7 596 45 000 100.00 436 Administration Company information Directors Stock exchanges LL Dippenaar (Chairman), SE Nxasana (Chief executive officer), JSE Limited (“JSE”) JP Burger (Financial director), VW Bartlett, JJH Bester, L Crouse, Ordinary Shares Share code ISIN code PM Goss, Dr NN Gwagwa, PK Harris, WR Jardine, EG Matenge– FirstRand Limited FSR ZAE 000066304 Sebesho AP Nkuna, AT Nzimande, D Premnarayen (Indian), Non cumulative non redeemable preference shares KB Schoeman, RK Store, BJ van der Ross, Dr JH van Greuning, – “B” FSRP ZAE 000060141 MH Visser Namibian Securities Exchange (“NSE”) Secretary and registered office Ordinary shares Share code ISIN code FirstRand Limited FSR ZAE 000066304 BW Unser FNB Namibia Holdings 4 Merchant Place Limited FNB NA 0003475176 Corner Fredman Drive and Rivonia Road, Sandton 2196 Botswana Securities Exchange of South Africa Postal Address (“BSE”) PO Box 786273, Sandton, 2146 Ordinary shares Share code ISIN code Telephone: +27 11 282 1808 FNB Botswana Holdings Telefax: +27 11 282 8088 Limited FNBB BW 000000066 Web address : www.firstrand.co.za Bond Exchange of South Africa (“BESA”) Sponsor Subordinated debt Issuer Bond code ISIN code (In terms of JSE requirements) FirstRand Bank Limited FRB01 ZAG000021585 Rand Merchant Bank (a division of FirstRand Bank Limited) FirstRand Bank Limited FRB02 ZAG000021593 Corporate Finance FirstRand Bank Limited FRB03 ZAG000026774 1 Merchant Place FirstRand Bank Limited FRB05 ZAG000031337 Corner Fredman Drive and Rivonia Road FirstRand Bank Limited FRB06 ZAG000045758 FirstRand Bank Limited FRB07 ZAG000047598 Sandton, 2196 FirstRand Bank Limited FRB08 ZAG000047796 Telephone: +27 11 282 1847 FirstRand Bank Limited FRB09 ZAG000047804 Telefax: +27 11 282 8215 Momentum Group Limited MGL01 ZAG000029935 Transfer secretaries – South Africa Upper Tier II Computershare Investor Services (Proprietary) Limited Issuer Bond code ISIN code 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBC21 ZAG000052283 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBC22 ZAG000052390 Postal address Senior unsecured PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107 Issuer Bond code ISIN code Telephone: +27 11 370 5000 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBN01 ZAG000021601 Telefax: +27 11 688 5221 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBN04 ZAG000041005 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBN05 ZAG000042169 Transfer secretaries – Namibia FirstRand Bank Limited FRBN06 ZAG000073214 Transfer Secretaries (Proprietary) Limited FirstRand Bank Limited FRBN07 ZAG000073206 Shop No 8, Kaiserkrone Centre FirstRand Bank Limited FRBZ01 ZAG000049255 Post Street Mall, Windhoek FirstRand Bank Limited FRBZ02 ZAG000072711 FirstRand Bank Limited FRS30 ZAG000069147 Postal address FirstRand Bank Limited FRS31 ZAG000069154 PO Box 2401, Windhoek, Namibia FirstRand Bank Limited FRS32 ZAG000070368 Telephone: +264 612 27647 FirstRand Bank Limited FRS33 ZAG000070889 Telefax: +264 612 48531 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 437 Administration / continued Senior unsecured continued Investment security index contracts Issuer Bond code ISIN code Issuer Bond code ISIN code FirstRand Bank Limited FRS34 ZAG000071937 Rand Merchant Bank RMBI01 ZAG000050865 FirstRand Bank Limited FRS35 ZAG000076852 Rand Merchant Bank RMBI02 ZAG000052986 FirstRand Bank Limited FRS36 ZAG000077397 Rand Merchant Bank RMBI03 ZAG000054032 FirstRand Bank Limited FRS37 ZAG000077793 Rand Merchant Bank RMBI04 ZAG000055013 FirstRand Bank Limited FRS38 ZAG000077983 Rand Merchant Bank RMBI05 ZAG000055864 FirstRand Bank Limited FRS39 ZAG000078213 Rand Merchant Bank RMBI06 ZAG000056722 FirstRand Bank Limited FRJ11 ZAG000051111 Rand Merchant Bank RMBI07 ZAG000057910 FirstRand Bank Limited FRJ14 ZAG000069683 Rand Merchant Bank RMBI08 ZAG000072265 FirstRand Bank Limited FRJ16 ZAG000073826 London stock exchange (“LSE”) FirstRand Bank Limited FRX11 ZAG000051095 FirstRand Bank Limited FRX15 ZAG000051103 European Medium Term Note (EMTN) Programme FirstRand Bank Limited FRX18 ZAG000076472 Issuer Bond code ISIN code FirstRand Bank Limited FRX24 ZAG000073693 FirstRand Bank Limited EMTN XS0306783621 FirstRand Bank Limited FRX45 ZAG000076480 Namibia Securities Exchange (“NSE”) Inflation-linked bonds Issuer Bond code ISIN code Issuer Bond code ISIN code FNB of Namibia Limited FNB 17 NA000AONQ603 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBI01 ZAG000025156 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBI02 ZAG000025768 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBI03 ZAG000033473 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBI04 ZAG000044306 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBI07 ZAG000055849 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBI08 ZAG000071523 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBI23 ZAG000076498 FirstRand Bank Limited FRBI24 ZAG000077256 FirstRand Bank Limited FRI11 ZAG000051129 FirstRand Bank Limited FRI15 ZAG000051137 Credit-linked notes Issuer Bond code ISIN code FirstRand Bank Limited FRC01 ZAG000049800 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC04 ZAG000057563 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC05 ZAG000050873 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC06 ZAG000051178 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC07 ZAG000051244 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC08 ZAG000051749 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC09 ZAG000054347 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC10 ZAG000054149 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC11 ZAG000054131 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC16 ZAG000055914 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC17 ZAG000056011 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC29 ZAG000069857 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC30 ZAG000071697 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC31 ZAG000071705 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC32 ZAG000071713 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC33 ZAG000073701 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC34 ZAG000073818 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC35 ZAG000073800 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC36 ZAG000076217 FirstRand Bank Limited FRC37 ZAG000076712 438 Notice of the annual general meeting FIRSTRAND LIMITED Board committees (Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa) • Directors’ affairs and governance (Chair) (Registration number: 1966/010753/06) • Remuneration (Chair) Share code: FSR ISIN: ZAE000066304 Directorships JSE ISIN: ZAE000060141 • FirstRand Bank Limited NSX Ordinary Share code: FSR • RMB Holdings Limited (“FirstRand” or “the Company” or “the Group”) • Goss and Co (Pty) Limited NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2.3 NN Gwagwa Notice is hereby given that the fourteenth annual general meeting Non executive director of FirstRand Limited will be held in the Auditorium, FNB Date of appointment: 25 February 2004 Conference and Learning Centre, 114 Grayston Drive, Sandown, Sandton on Thursday, 2 December 2010 at 09:00 to deal with the Educational qualifications following matters and, if approved, pass the following resolutions • BA (Fort Hare) • MTRP (Natal) with or without modification: • MSc (cum laude) (London) 1. Adoption of Annual Financial Statements • PhD (London) To consider and adopt the audited annual financial statements of Board committees the Company and the Group for the year ended 30 June 2010 • Directors’ affairs and governance including the reports of the directors and auditors. • Transformation monitoring (Chair) 2. Re-election of directors by way of Directorships separate resolutions • FirstRand Bank Limited To re-elect the undermentioned directors who retire in terms of • Development Bank of South Africa Limited the Company’s Articles of Association and who, being eligible, • Massmart Holdings Limited offer themselves for re-election: • Sun International Limited 2.1 L Crouse 2.4 PK Harris Non executive director Non executive director Date of appointment: 16 September 2008 Date of appointment: 1 July 1992 Educational qualifications Educational qualifications • MComm • CA (SA) Board committees Board committees • Directors’ affairs and governance • Directors’ affairs and governance • Audit Directorships • Risk, capital management and compliance • FirstRand Bank Limited • Momentum Group Limited Directorships • RMB Asset Management (Pty) Limited • FirstRand Bank Limited • Remgro Limited • Remgro Limited • RMB Holdings Limited • Total South Africa (Pty) Limited • Dark Fibre Africa (Pty) Limited 2.5 AP Nkuna Non executive director 2.2 PM Goss Date of appointment: 3 May 2005 Non executive director Date of appointment: 27 May 1998 Educational qualifications • MAP (Wits Business School) Educational qualifications • BEcon (Hons) Board committees • BAccSc (Hons) • Directors’ affairs and governance • CA (SA) • Transformation monitoring FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 439 Notice of the annual general meeting / continued Directorships Board committees • FirstRand Bank Limited • Directors’ affairs and governance • Tracker (Pty) Limited • Audit • Metrofile Holdings Limited – Chairman Directorships • Primedia Limited – Chairman • FirstRand Bank Limited • BPSA (Pty) Limited • Advantage Asset Managers (Pty) Limited • Momentum Ability Limited 3 Election of directors by way of • Momentum Structured Insurance Limited separate resolutions • Finmark Trust To elect directors appointed since the last annual general meeting. • Botswana Export Development and Investment Authority 3.1 JJH Bester 4. Ordinary resolution number 1 Non executive director Non executive directors’ fees for the year to 30 June 2011 Date of appointment: 1 July 2010 4.1 Resolved that: 4.1.1 The fees of the non executive directors, as reflected below Educational qualifications be approved for the year to 30 June 2011. • BSc Eng Elect (Pret) • ISMP (Harvard) Proposed Rand per annum Fee Board committees • Directors’ affairs and governance FirstRand Board • Audit Chairman 1 000 000 Director 137 000 • Risk, capital management and compliance (Chair) Audit committee • Remuneration Member 45 000 • Credit Risk, capital management and compliance committee Directorships Chairman 90 000 • FirstRand Bank Limited Member 45 000 • FirstRand Ireland Plc Remuneration committee Chairman 90 000 3.2 WR Jardine Member 45 000 Non executive director Directors’ affairs and governance committee Date of appointment: 1 July 2010 Chairman 30 000 Member 15 000 Educational qualifications Transformation monitoring committee • BSc (Physics) Chairman 60 000 • MSc (Radiological Physics) Member 30 000 Ad hoc meetings (in exceptional circumstances) 2 950 Board committees • Directors’ affairs and governance The fees proposed represent a 9% increase on those paid in • Large exposures respect of the financial year to 30 June 2010. Directorships The fee proposed for the Chairman represents an increase of 21% • FirstRand Bank Limited and is part of a multi-year strategy to better align the Chairman • Aveng Limited fee to those of the comparable fees in the major SA banks. • McConnell Dowell Corporate Limited • Trident Steel Holdings (Pty) Limited 4.1.2 The fees for non executive directors who are based overseas be at twice the rate applicable to South African based 3.3 EG Matenge-Sebesho directors. Non executive director 4.1.3 Dr JH van Greuning be paid a fee of US$ 250 000 per Date of appointment: 1 July 2010 annum for his services as a non executive director. Educational qualifications Dr JH van Greuning, who is based in Washington, USA, is Chairman • MBA (Brunel University of London) of the Audit committee, a member of the Directors’ affairs • CAIB (SA) and governance committee, a member of the Risk, capital manage­ 440 ment and compliance committee and also sits on a number of the FirstRand Audit, Risk and Compliance Committees) and the specialist technical risk committees in the Group. He is a globally Large Exposures Committee. It is proposed that once regulatory recognised risk expert, who prior to moving to Washington to approval has been received for the Board committee restructure take up a position with the World Bank (from which he has now proposal, the Board and committee fees paid at the Banking retired) had extensive experience in South Africa in the Bank Group level be added to the FirstRand fees as approved in Supervision Department, including as Registrar of Banks. The fee resolution 4.1.1 to take cognizance of the greater span of authority proposed recognises the considerable expertise that he is able to that will be vested in these committees and their increased work bring to the Board, its committees, specialist risk committees in load. The effect of this proposal is that board fees will be paid only the Group and the time spent thereon. at the FirstRand level for directors serving on both the FirstRand Bank and the FirstRand boards and only at the FirstRand level for 4.2 Following the Group restructure, it is proposed that certain board committees. of the activities of Board and the Board committees, currently constituted at the FirstRand Bank Holdings and FirstRand Resolved that: Bank (“the Banking Group”) levels be consolidated and single committees, serving the FirstRand Group as a whole be constituted Contingent upon regulatory approval being received for the at the FirstRand level. The reconstituted committees will be vested proposed consolidation of the existing Banking Group board with the accountabilities previously vested in the separate committees’ accountabilities into the single FirstRand committees, FirstRand and and/or FirstRand Banking Group committees. In fees for non executive directors serving on the boards of FirstRand addition two committees, previously constituted at the FirstRand and FirstRand Bank as well as the FirstRand and FirstRand Bank Bank Holdings level will be constituted as new committees at the board committees be consolidated and paid as single fees at the FirstRand level. These are the Risk, Capital Management and FirstRand level effective from the date of the consolidation of the Compliance committee (this work was previously undertaken by committees to 30 June 2011. Proposed Current FirstRand Fee FirstRand Fee FirstRand effective from (as proposed in Bank committee Rand per annum resolution 4.1.1) Fee consolidation Current fee Rand Chairman 1 000 000 1 500 000 2 500 000 Director 137 000 207 600 344 600 Audit committee Member 45 000 135 000 180 000 Risk, capital management and compliance committee Chairman 90 000 360 000 450 000 Member 45 000 135 000 180 000 Remuneration committee Chairman 90 000 120 000 210 000 Member 45 000 60 000 105 000 Directors’ affairs and governance committee Chairman 30 000 50 000 80 000 Member 15 000 25 000 40 000 Transformation monitoring committee Chairman 60 000 – 60 000 Member 30 000 – 30 000 Rand per meeting Large exposures committee Chairman – 32 000 32 000 Member – 16 000 16 000 FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 441 Notice of the annual general meeting / continued 5. Ordinary resolution number 2 • the ordinary shares must be issued to public shareholders as defined by the JSE Listings Requirements and the Namibian Appointment of joint auditors Stock Exchange Listings Requirements and not related parties; Resolved that pursuant to the Company’s registration as a bank controlling company and as recommended by the Audit Committee, • the equity securities which are the subject of the issue for cash PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc. and Deloitte & Touche be appointed must be of a class already in issue, or where this is not the as joint auditors of the Company until the next annual general case, must be limited to such securities or rights that are meeting and that Messrs Tom Winterboer and Kevin Black convertible into a class already in issue; respectively be appointed as the individual registered auditors who • in respect of securities which are the subject of the general undertake the audit for the Company for the ensuing year. issue of shares for cash: The audit committee has recommended and the Board has – in the aggregate in any one financial year may not exceed endorced the proposed appointments. 5 (five per cent) of the Company’s relevant number of equity securities in issue (for purposes of determining the 6. Ordinary resolution number 3 securities comprising the 5% number in any one year, account must be taken of the dilution effect, in the year of Auditors’ remuneration issue of options/convertible securities, by including the Resolved that, as recommended by the Audit committee, the number of any equity securities which may be issued in directors fix the auditors’ remuneration for the year ended future arising out of the issue of such options/convertible 30 June 2011. securities); 7. Ordinary resolution number 4 – of a particular class, will be aggregated with any securities that are compulsorily convertible into securities of that Place the unissued ordinary shares under the class, and, in the case of the issue of compulsorily control of the directors convertible securities, aggregated with the securities of that Resolved that the authorised but unissued shares in the capital of class into which they are compulsorily convertible; the Company be and are hereby placed under the control and – as regards the number of securities which may be issued authority of the directors of the Company and that the directors of (the 5% number), shall be based on the number of securities the Company be and are hereby authorised and empowered to of that class in issue added to those that may be issued in allot, issue and otherwise dispose of such shares to such person future (arising from the conversion of options/convertible or persons on such terms and conditions and at such times as the securities), at the date of such application: directors of the Company may from time to time and in their discretion deem fit, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act ∆ less any securities of the class issued, or to be issued in (Act 61 of 1973) as amended (“the Companies Act”), the Banks Act future arising from options/convertible securities issued, No 94 of 1990 (as amended) (“the Banks Act”), the Articles of during the current financial year; Association of the Company and the Listings Requirements of the ∆ plus any securities of that class to be issued pursuant to: JSE Limited (“JSE”), when applicable. « a rights issue which has been announced, is Shareholders are asked to note that at 363 746 761, the unissued irrevocable and is fully underwritten; or ordinary shares represent approximately 6% of the authorised « acquisition (which has had final terms announced) share capital. may be included as though they were securities in issue at the date of application; 8. Ordinary resolution number 5 • a maximum discount at which the ordinary shares may be General issue of ordinary shares for cash issued is 10% of the weighted average traded price of the Resolved that the Board of directors of the Company be hereby Company’s ordinary shares measured over 30 business days authorised, by way of a renewable general authority, to issue all or prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or any of the authorised but unissued ordinary shares in the capital of agreed by the directors of the Company and the party the Company for cash as and when they in their discretion deem subscribing for the securities; and fit, subject to the Companies Act, the Banks Act, the Articles of Association and the JSE Listings Requirements, when applicable, • a paid press announcement giving full details, including the and the following limitations, namely that: impact on net asset value and earnings per share, will be published at the time of any issue representing, on a cumulative • this authority shall be valid until the Company’s next annual basis within one financial year, 5% or more of the number of general meeting or for 15 months from the date of this ordinary shares in issue prior to that issue, in terms of the JSE resolution, whichever period is shorter; Listings Requirements. 442 Approval for this ordinary resolution is obtained by achieving a 75% of the Company’s and Group’s working capital in writing to majority of the votes cast in favour of this resolution at the annual the JSE. general meeting by all equity security holders present or The Board of directors of the Company has no immediate intention represented by proxy. to use this authority to repurchase Company shares. However, the 9. Special resolution number 1 Board is of the opinion that this authority should be in place should it become appropriate to undertake a share repurchase in the Authority to repurchase Company shares future. Resolved that in terms of the Company’s Articles of Association, the Company’s directors be hereby authorised, by way of a general Having considered the effect in the event that the maximum authority, to repurchase issued shares in the Company or to permit allowed repurchase is effected, the directors are of the opinion a subsidiary of the Company to purchase shares in the Company, that: as and when deemed appropriate, subject to the Companies Act, • the Company and the Group will be able, in the ordinary course the Banks Act and the JSE Listings Requirements, when applicable, of business, to pay its debts for a period of 12 months after the and provided: date of the repurchase; • that this authority shall be valid until the Company’s next • the assets of the Company and the Group will be in excess of annual general meeting provided that it shall not extend beyond the liabilities of the Company and the Group for a period of 15 months from the date of passing of this special resolution; 12 months after the date of the repurchase. The assets and • that any such repurchase be effected through the order book liabilities have been recognised and measured for this purpose operated by the JSE trading system and done without any prior in accordance with the accounting policies used in the latest understanding or arrangement between the Company and the audited annual Group financial statements; counterparty (reported trades are prohibited); • the Company’s and the Group’s ordinary share capital and • that a paid press release giving such details as may be required reserves will be sufficient for ordinary business purposes for a in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements be published when period of 12 months after the date of the repurchase; and the Company or its subsidiaries have cumulatively repurchased in aggregate 3% of the initial number of the relevant class of • the Company and the Group will have sufficient working capital shares, and for each 3% in aggregate of the initial number of for ordinary business purposes for a period of 12 months after that class acquired thereafter; the date of the repurchase. • that a general repurchase may not in the aggregate in any one Reason for and effect of the special resolution number 1 financial year exceed 10% of the number of shares in the The reason for special resolution number 1 is to grant the Company’s issued share capital as at the beginning of the Company’s directors a general authority, up to and including the financial year provided that a subsidiary of the Company may date of the following annual general meeting of the Company, to not hold at any one time more than 10% of the number of issued approve the Company’s purchase of shares in itself, or to permit a shares of the Company; subsidiary of the Company to purchase shares in the Company. The effect of special resolution number 1 is to grant a general • that no repurchases will be effected during a prohibited period authority to the Company’s directors accordingly. as defined in the JSE Listings Requirements unless they have in place a repurchase programme where the dates and For purposes of considering the special resolution and in quantities of securities to be traded during the relevant period compliance with Rule 11.26 of the JSE Listings Requirements, the are fixed (not subject to any variation) and full details of the information listed below has been included in the annual report to programme have been disclosed in an announcement over shareholders for the year ended 30 June 2010 at the places SENS prior to the commencement of the prohibited period; indicated: • that at any point in time, the Company may only appoint one agent to effect repurchases on the Company’s behalf; • Directors and management – refer pages 111 to 113 of this report; • that, in determining the price at which shares may be repurchased in terms of this authority, the maximum premium • Major shareholders – refer page 435 of this report; permitted be 10% above the weighted average traded price of • For material changes refer page 112; the shares as determined over the five (5) business days prior to the date of repurchase; and • Directors’ interest in securities – refer page 70 of this report; • before entering the market to proceed with the general • Share capital of the Company – refer note 14 of the Company repurchase, the Company’s sponsor will confirm the adequacy annual financial statements; FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 443 Notice of the annual general meeting / continued • The directors, whose names are set out on page 437 of this Listings Requirements of the JSE, the directors, whose names report, collectively and individually accept full responsibility for are given on page 437 of the annual report of which this notice the accuracy of the information contained in this special forms part, are not aware of any legal or arbitration proceedings resolution and certify to the best of their knowledge and belief (including any such proceedings that are pending or threatened, that there are no other facts, the omission of which would make that may have or have had in the previous 12 months, a material any statement false or misleading and that they have made all effect on the Group’s financial position. reasonable enquiries in this regard; and that this resolution contains all information required by the JSE Listings Other than the facts and developments reported on in the annual Requirements; report, there have been no material changes in the financial • Litigation – save as reported in note 35 to the financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries since the date of statements on page 365, in terms of section 11.26 of the signature of the audit report and the date of this notice. Important notes regarding attendance at the annual general meeting General Dematerialised shareholders other than with Shareholders wishing to attend the annual general meeting have “own name” registration to ensure beforehand with the transfer secretaries of the Company Members who have dematerialised their shares, other than those that their shares are in fact registered in their name. members who have dematerialised their shares with “own name” registration, should contact their Central Securities Depository Certificated members and “own name” Participant (“CSDP”) or broker in the manner and time stipulated dematerialised shareholders in their agreement: Members who have not dematerialised their shares or who have • to furnish them with their voting instructions; and dematerialised their shares with “own name” registration are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and are entitled to • in the event that they wish to attend the meeting, to obtain the appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote in their stead. necessary authority to do so. The person so appointed need not be a shareholder. Proxy forms Voting will be by way of a poll and every shareholder of the must be forwarded to reach the registered office of the Company/ Company present in person or represented by proxy shall have one Company’s transfer secretaries by 09:00 on Monday, 29 November vote for every share held in the Company by such shareholder. 2010. Shares held by a share trust or scheme, treasury shares and unlisted shares will not have their votes at annual general meetings taken into account for the purposes of resolutions proposed in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements. 444 FIRSTRAND LIMITED (Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa) (Registration number: 1966/010753/06) Share code: FSR ISIN: ZAE000066304 JSE “B” Preference share code: FSRP JSE ISIN: ZAE000060141 NSX Ordinary Share code: FSR (“FirstRand” or “the Company” or “the Group”) Form of proxy – ordinary shareholders for the year ended 30 June 2010 Only for use by shareholders who have not dematerialised their shares or who have dematerialised their shares with own name registration. All other dematerialised shareholders must contact their CSDP or broker to make the relevant arrangements concerning voting and/or attendance at the annual general meeting. For completion by the aforesaid registered members who hold ordinary shares of the Company and who are unable to attend the 2010 annual general meeting of the company to be held in the auditorium, FNB Conference and Learning Centre, Grayston Drive, Sandown on Thursday 2 December 2010 at 09:00 (“the annual general meeting”). I/We, Of (address) Being the holder/s of ordinary shares in the company, hereby appoint (see instruction overleaf) 1. or, failing him/her 2. or, failing him/her 3. the chairman of the annual general meeting, as my/our proxy to attend, speak and vote for me/us and on my/our behalf or to abstain from voting at the annual general meeting of the Company and at any adjournment thereof, as follows (see instructions overleaf). Insert an “X” or the number of votes exercisable (one vote per ordinary share) In favour of Against Abstain Adoption of the audited annual financial statements Re-election of directors by way of separate resolutions 2.1 L Crouse 2.2 PM Goss 2.3 NN Gwagwa 2.4 PK Harris 2.5 AP Nkuna Election of directors by way of separate resolutions 3.1 JJH Bester 3.2 WR Jardine 3.3 EG Matenge-Sebesho Ordinary resolution number 1 Non executive directors’ fees for the year to 30 June 2011 Ordinary resolution number 2 Appointment of joint auditors Ordinary resolution number 3 Auditors’ remuneration Ordinary resolution number 4 Place the unissued ordinary shares under the control of directors Ordinary resolution number 5 General issue of ordinary shares for cash Special resolution number 1 Authority to repurchase company shares Signed at on 2010 Signature/s Assisted by (where applicable) PLEASE SEE NOTES ON REVERSE SIDE OF THE FORM FIRSTRAND ANNUAL REPORT 2010 445 Notes: USE OF PROXIES A member who holds ordinary shares in FirstRand (“member”) is entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting and to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in his/her stead. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. Every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at the annual general meeting of the Company shall, on a show of hands, have one vote only, irrespective of the number of shares such member holds, but in the event of a poll, every ordinary share in the company shall have one vote. Instructions on signing and lodging the proxy form: 1. A member may insert the name of a proxy or the names of two alternative proxies of the member’s choice in the space/s provided overleaf, with or without deleting “the chairman of the annual general meeting”, but any such deletion must be initialled by the member. Should this space be left blank, the chairman of the annual general meeting will exercise the proxy. The person whose name appears first on the proxy form and who is present at the annual general meeting will be entitled to act as proxy to the exclusion of those whose names follow. 2. A member’s voting instructions to the proxy must be indicated by the insertion of the number of votes exercisable by that member in the appropriate spaces provided overleaf. Failure to do so shall be deemed to authorise the proxy to vote or to abstain from voting at the annual general meeting, as he/she thinks fit in respect of all the member’s exercisable votes. A member or his/her proxy is not obliged to use all the votes exercisable by his/her proxy, but the total number of votes cast, or those in respect of which abstention is recorded, may not exceed the total number of votes exercisable by the member or by his/her proxy. 3. A minor must be assisted by his/her parent or guardian unless the relevant documents establishing his/her legal capacity are produced or have been registered by the transfer secretaries. 4. To be valid the completed proxy forms must forwarded to reach the company’s transfer secretaries, Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Limited, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001 (PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107), fax number (011) 688 5238 or in Namibia to Transfer Secretaries (Pty) Limited, Shop No 8, Kaiserkrone Centre, Post Street Mall, Windhoek (PO Box 2401, Windhoek, Namibia), fax number +264 6124-8531 by no later than 09:00 on Monday 29 November 2010. Proxy forms may only be completed by members who have not dematerialised their shares or who have dematerialised their shares with “own name” registration. 5. Documentary evidence establishing the authority of a person signing a proxy form in a representative capacity must be attached to the proxy form unless previously recorded by the transfer secretaries or waived by the chairman of the annual general meeting. 6. The completion and lodging of this proxy form shall not preclude the relevant member from attending the annual general meeting and speaking and voting in person thereat to the exclusion of any proxy appointed in terms hereof, should such member wish to do so. 7. The completion of any blank spaces overleaf need not be initialled. Any alterations or corrections to this proxy form must be initialled by the signatory/ies. 8. The chairman of the annual general meeting may reject or accept any proxy form which is completed other than in accordance with these instructions provided that he is satisfied as to the manner in which a member wishes to vote. 446 Shareholders’ diary REPORTING Financial year end 30 June Announcement of results for 2011 13 September 2011 Annual report posted by End October 2011 Annual general meeting 29 November 2011 DIVIDENDS Final for 2011 – Declared 12 September 2011 – Last day to trade cum-dividend 14 October 2011 – First day to trade ex-dividend 17 October 2011 – Record date 21 October 2011 – Payment date 24 October 2011 INTERIM FOR 2011 – Declared March 2011 – Payable April 2011 w w w. f i rstra n d . co . z a
