2011 Teijin Group CSR Report [Achievements in FY2010] Consolidating our Position as a Corporate Group with a Strong Global Presence… The Teijin Group established its corporate philosophy in June 1993, 75 years after its founding. In April 2003, we changed to a holding company system and established “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions” as our brand statement to represent the Teijin Group’s commitment to customers and society. We will continue striving to fulfill this commitment, developing and enhancing our “Quality of Life” corporate philosophy, and acting as a corporate group that can be trusted by society and by our customers. Corporate Philosophy In Harmony with Society Quality of Life Empowering Our People Our aim is to grow and evolve in harmony We encourage our employees to achieve with the progress of society, thus justifying The Teijin Group’s purpose is to self-realization by developing and exercising the trust of our shareholders, customers, enhance the quality of life through their abilities to the fullest. We nurture and the public at large. To this end, we a deep insight into human nature a corporate community with a wide variety strive constantly to raise corporate value and needs, together with the of abilities and personalities to foster and place our highest priority on safety creative innovation. application and the environment. of our creative abilities. Brand Statement The promise of the Teijin brand is summed up in the resonant statement: “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions.” Our promise is to continue to develop chemical technologies that are friendly to both people and the global environment and to provide solutions that deliver real value to our customers and society. “Chemistry” and “Solutions” summarize the Teijin Group’s strategy for the 21st century focusing on chemical materials and provision of services that create added value. Chemistry also refers to good relationships, expressing the importance of trust, goodwill, and mutual benefit. CSR Basic Policy (2009-2011) 1. Formalize and upgrade Sustainable Environmental Initiatives to help increase the value of our corporate brand. 2. Endeavor to reduce risks continuously by further enhancing safety management and disaster prevention management. 3. Promote the further spread of compliance and risk management activities to support enhanced corporate governance. 4. Reconsider the operation of the TRM Committee*, and further enhance the ability of the Teijin Group as a whole to cope with various risks. 5. Provide appropriate advice and support concerning CSR for the human resources and purchasing/procurement departments. 6. Check performance for product liability and quality assurance from the viewpoint of going back to basics, and implement further reforms to reduce risks. 7. Promote planning and implementation of social contribution activities with the aim of further expansion. 8. Recruit and nurture human resources effectively and upgrade the internal organization for group-wide CSR activities. * TRM Committee: see the figure at the bottom of page 21. 1 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 CONTENTS Message from the President . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Profile of the Teijin Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 Features The 5th Stakeholder Dialogue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..7 News Flash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..13 Explanatory Note In creating the 2011 Teijin Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report, we have considered the following points, aiming to increase Vision and Strategy the report’s audience and their understanding of the Teijin Group’s CSR Management System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15 CSR activities. FY2010 Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluation . . . . . . . .17 Completeness and Materiality Corporate Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21 The contents of this year’s CSR Report have been chosen according to Economic Report strict criteria, referring to the following guidelines and questionnaires on socially responsible investment (SRI), and considering the business Economic Report conditions of our group. Notably, the features section describes Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22 initiatives relating to themes that are important to both the Teijin Group and society. Environment, Safety and Health Report Clarity This report predominately targets readers who are interested in CSR, ESH Management (Environmental Preservation, and at the same time endeavors to promote understanding of our Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23 activities across a wide audience. To this end, we have minimized the Reducing Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25 Environment, Safety report’s length as much as possible, and adopted a layout arranged Design for Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..29 according to specific features of our group’s CSR management. In addition, to facilitate ease of reading and referencing, we have adopted Environmental Businesses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32 and Health Report language appropriate to the content of information and incorporated Disaster Prevention Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35 features such as cross-referenced pages. Where reference information is Occupational Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..36 not listed due to space limitations, the relevant website is provided to Health and Sanitary Measures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37 enable quick referencing. Overseas ESH Activities (Environmental Preservation, Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38 Reliability Emphasizing transparency in all aspects of management, the Teijin ESH Management Data (Environmental Preservation, Group is committed to active disclosure of information that can be Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39 trusted. On this basis, this report has been independently reviewed by Social Report KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., who have provided assurance of its Social Report reliability. Indicators on which assurance is provided are marked with a red star ( ). Compliance and Risk Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41 Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44 Time Period/boundaries In principle, this report includes information corresponding to the period Quality Assurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45 from April 2010 to March 2011. However, some information corresponds Human Resource Management and Labor-related CSR . . . . . . . .47 to the 2010 calendar year. Furthermore, information in this report generally CSR Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53 refers to all Teijin Group companies (Teijin Limited, plus 71 in Japan and 75 Social Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55 overseas). However, in some sections, such as environment, safety and Feature: Fostering Young Scientists through health management and human resource management, we have the Teijin Kumura Scholarship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .58 included notes indicating the use of a separate time period and boundaries. Additional Information Opinions from Third Parties Detailed information on topics such as our business activities, social contributions, financial data and environmentally friendly products is Opinions from Experts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .59 published and regularly updated on our company website. In addition, Independent Assurance Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61 the following documents are available for reference. Opinions from Readers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .62 • CSR Report (Japanese) • Teijin Group Company Profile (Japanese/English) Editor’s Note . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .62 • Annual Report (Japanese/English) • Fact Book (Japanese/English) All product and service names in this report are trademarks or registered • Financial Statements (Japanese/English) trademarks of the Teijin Group. Other names of products and services are • Shareholders’ Report (Japanese) trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. Reference Guidelines: Publishing Date and Schedule for Next Report • “Environmental Reporting Guidelines, 2007” (Ministry of the Published in September, 2011 Environment, Government of Japan) (next report scheduled for publishing in June, 2012). • “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 2006” (Global Reporting Initiative) Contact Teijin Limited CSR Planning Office URL: http://www.teijin.co.jp/english/ Tel: +81-3-3506-4508 Fax: +81-3-3506-4037 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 2 Message from the President Our Mission: Enhance Worldwide Quality of Life purposeful efforts to reduce the break-even point of all CSR in Management business group companies. At the end of the fiscal year, The earthquake and subsequent tsunami that hit the we notified all group employees that the state of Tohoku region on March 11, 2011 caused devastating emergency declared almost two years ago is now over, destruction in Japan. We would like to express our and we have set forth a policy to the effect that we will deepest condolences to those who lost loved ones in the now shift to a proactive strategy for growth. earthquake and heartfelt sympathies to all those suffering Throughout the period of structural reform, we have from the devastation. continued to invest in R&D in fields where sustainable Damage was sustained by the Teijin Group at some growth is expected, and made decisions that will lead to business sites, and by some of our employees and their the creation of new businesses. In our materials families. The operations of both the Utsunomiya and businesses, we developed carbon fiber composite Ibaraki Plants of Teijin DuPont Films Japan Limited, were materials and aramid pulp for high-performance materials, temporarily suspended due to earthquake-related damage and new products based on high-performance to the manufacturing facilities, but have returned to polyethylene. In our Medical & Pharmaceutical Business, normal as of June 29. In addition, the sales area of our we launched a new treatment for hyperuricemia and Medical & Pharmaceutical Business covers the whole gout, initially in North America and Europe, and later in disaster-affected area. Through the combined efforts of the Japan. Furthermore, in New Business Development, we Teijin Group, we provided as much support as possible to increased R&D in the advanced medical materials field, clients and users, many of whom suffered substantial while continuing to position bioplastics, new carbon fiber damage due to the disaster. In particular, we extended composite materials, high-performance electronics support to users of our home health care oxygen materials, high thermal conductivity materials, and water concentrator to ensure they were not inconvenienced in treatment as priority fields. the event of an emergency. To this end, support personnel In FY2011, we will formulate our mid-to long-term were assembled from branch offices throughout Japan, plan based on the future vision of the Teijin Group. For this and portable oxygen cylinders were distributed to specific purpose, we have designated business fields that we areas as a measure to prepare for a power outage. envision will be sustainable for many years to come, and Many of the serious problems that have followed the are currently discussing detailed strategic plans for earthquake, such as those related to the nuclear power plant accident, are still yet to be fully resolved. These Reform of Business Portfolios problems have raised questions that relate directly to the High-performance materials true nature of CSR in management such as issues of • Carbon fiber-based composite materials responsibility in supplying products and protecting safety Green businesses and energy Green Chemistry • Groundbreaking technologies in the and the environment. Our corporate philosophy is “To electrical and electronics fields enhance the quality of life through a deep insight into Integrated Bioplastics Business Advanced medical materials and human nature and needs, together with the application of Areas regenerative medicine our creative abilities. In Harmony with Society. Empowering Health Care Pharmaceuticals and home health care Our People.” Reflecting on these ideals as our starting point • Global marketing of TMX-67, a treatment for hyperuricemia and gout. for CSR, with renewed resolve we will apply ourselves to • Global expansion of home health care business creating value that can answer future needs in society. Reform of Regional Portfolios North America North America Structural Reforms and Midto Long-term Growth and Europe 20% and Europe 25% Strategies Japan 60% Japan 40% FY2008 FY2020 Viewing FY2010 as a year for completing structural (Approx.) Emerging Emerging reforms and restoring profitability, we implemented economies/ economies/ Asia Asia sweeping reforms of our financial structure, and made 20% 35% 3 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 expansion that will be driven by technological innovation. The Teijin Group is committed to accelerating growth. Our basic concept for achieving this is to increase the input of managerial resources, and pursue innovative changes in technology, business and market portfolios; actions that we believe will drive our future growth. CSR Activities Supporting Our Strategy for Growth Business growth requires more than management strategies; the culture and capabilities existing within the organization must be enhanced and developed in order to support the implementation of these strategies. The Teijin Group positions management strategies, corporate governance and CSR as pillars of corporate management. From the viewpoint of enhancing organizational capabilities to support business expansion, we have set three key themes: Global, Marketing Reform, and Diversity. To develop into a truly global corporation, we will focus on fostering and securing human resources, and proceed with systematic reforms from various perspectives. To help us in achieving this, we have the pleasure of welcoming Dr. Ei-ichi Negishi as a Teijin Group Distinguished Fellow. Dr. Negishi is a former employee of Teijin, winner of the 2010 Nobel Prize in chemistry and a Distinguished Professor at Purdue University. Specifically, Dr. Negishi will offer guidance in advanced R&D and in fostering a diverse range of human resources. Our aspiration is to foster human resources that can contribute to the sustainable development of Teijin Group, Japan and the whole world. Furthermore, as a corporation with globally expanding businesses, in order to raise our CSR management to the next level, in March, 2011, we announced our support for and participation in the United Nations Global Compact. In September 2010, we also declared our support for the Shigeo Ohyagi Women’s Empowerment Principles created by the UN President and CEO Teijin Limited Development Fund for Women. Our goal is continue providing a workplace that prioritizes competence and motivation irrespective of race, gender or age. To enhance worldwide quality of life, the Teijin Group will make further efforts to achieve higher levels of CSR management. In this, we ask for your continued support and understanding. September 2011 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 4 Profile of the Teijin Group Global Expansion in Diverse Businesses The Teijin Group’s key statement, “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions,” signifies the deep integration of our diversified, advanced technologies, and vast “solutions knowledge” in the lives of people, achieved through the help of our business partners and their activities The restructuring of our business has led to Expansion of the Teijin Group’s changes in the number of our employees. Teijin Limited Corporate Profile Businesses Currently, there are 17,542 group company (As of March 31, 2011) Established: June 17, 1918 The Teijin Group was established in 1918 as employees, including of 7,588 overseas Capital: 70,816 million yen the first manufacturer of rayon yarn in Japan. (approximately 200 transferred from Japan). Osaka Head Office 6-7, Minami-Honmachi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Starting with the launch of our polyester In FY2010, the average annual number of Osaka 541-8587 Japan business, and building on the foundation of temporary employees in companies in Japan Tel: +81-6-6268-2132 our strong technological prowess in fibers, we and overseas was 2,373. Tokyo Head Office Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1 have expanded to become a diverse business The Teijin Group is primarily involved in Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, group active in a broad range of fields. business activities in which we do not have Tokyo 100-8585 Japan Tel: +81-3-3506-4529 Today, Teijin Limited and 149 group direct contact with consumers, such as the Representative companies are active in our Synthetic Fibers, production of materials. Despite this, through Shigeo Ohyagi, President and CEO Films and Plastics, Medical & Pharmaceutical, our involvement in various industrial fields, URL: http://www.teijin.co.jp/english Fiber Products Marketing, and IT businesses. our innovative and numerous products and We continue to expand these businesses on services have become strongly integrated in a global scale in Asia, the USA and Europe. the lives of consumers. Profile of the Teijin Group (As of March 31, 2011) Holding company: 1 Group companies in Japan: 71 Materials Raw Our partners Group companies overseas: 78 materials (clients) Total: 150 Consumers Number of employees in Japan: 9,954* Our partners Number of employees overseas: 7,588* (clients) Total: 17,542* Finished Services products * Excluding temporary employees. Trends in Consolidated Net Sales and Trends in No. of Group Employees Operating Income Trends in Main Management Indexes Consolidated net sales Return on assets (ROA) In Japan Overseas Consolidated operating income Debt equity ratio (D/E) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) (%) 25,000 1,200 120 10.0 2.0 1,000 1,009.6 1,036.6 100 20,000 19,053 19,125 19,453 943.4 8.0 7.7 1.6 18,778 17,542 815.7 6.5 800 75.1 765.8 80 6.1 15,000 6.0 1.18 1.18 1.2 8,776 8,668 8,785 8,581 65.2 7,588 600 60 0.94 0.81 0.83 10,000 48.6 4.0 0.8 400 40 5,000 10,457 10,668 2.0 0.4 10,277 10,197 9,954 200 18.0 13.4 20 1.9 1.6 0 0 0 0.0 0.0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Breakdown of FY2010 Consolidated Net Sales Sales by Business Segment Sales by Business Location Others Synthetic Fibers Europe/Other Japan 38.3 billion yen (4.7%) 206.9 billion yen (25.4%) 59.1 billion yen (7.2%) 512.2 billion yen (62.8%) The Americas Fiber Products Total 64.1 billion yen (7.9%) Total Marketing 815.7 815.7 216.9 billion yen billion yen billion yen (26.6%) Medical & Pharmaceutical Films and Plastics Asia 136.4 billion yen (16.7%) 217.1 billion yen (26.6%) 180.2 billion yen (22.1%) 5 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Synthetic Fibers Business (53 companies) Aramid Fibers Business Group Carbon Fibers & Composites Business Group Polyester Fibers Business Group Core company: Teijin Techno Products Limited Core company: Toho Tenax Co., Ltd. Core company: Teijin Fibers Limited This group is engaged in the manufacturing and This group is engaged in the manufacturing and In addition to manufacture/sales of apparel and marketing of high-strength, high-tensile marketing of Tenax ® carbon fiber and its application, interior household materials, this group is responsible para-aramid fibers, and high heatand carbon fiber reinforced plastics (CFRP). The carbon for global expansion of the ECO CIRCLE™ closed-loop flame-resistant meta-aramid fibers. Notably, the fiber production capacity of this group is the world’s recycling system. group holds an approximate 50% share of the second largest. global para-aramid fiber market. ELK ® is a functional cushioning material with Tenax ® is used in aircraft, the blades of wind turbine superior elasticity, durability and ventilation. After Teijinconex ®, a meta-aramid-fiber, has generators and other similar applications owing to its use, ELK ® products can be recycled as part of the superior long-lasting heat and flame light weight, high strength and high tenacity. Through ECO CIRCLE™ system, and toxic gas emissions resistance, and is used in firefighting use of thermoplastic resin in CFRP, the Teijin during combustion are minimized. uniforms and industrial materials, a Composites Innovation Center (TCIC) has established a prime example being world-first technology heat-resistant filters. that enables mold production in less than one minute, and is now concentrating on developing applications of molded parts made of CFRP. Structure of concept car Firefighting uniform made entirely of made using Teijinconex® thermoplastic-CFRP ELK ® Medical & Pharmaceutical Business (15 companies) Films and Plastics Business (30 companies) Medical & Pharmaceutical Business Group Films Business Group Core company: Teijin Pharma Limited Core company: Teijin Films Limited Teijin Chemicals Ltd. manufactures and sells These companies are engaged in manufacturing This group is the world’s second largest ELECLEAR®, a film for resistive touch panels. This thin, and marketing of pharmaceuticals, as well as the manufacturer of polyester films, which are used in lightweight and transparent electroconductive film is manufacture of home health care products and back sheets of solar battery panels and LCD produced from the base of two materials, a polycarbonate film produced by Teijin Chemicals Ltd. provision of related services. Home health care televisions. Through in-house development of and a polyester film produced by Teijin DuPoint Films devices and a treatment for hyperuricemia and gout polyethylene naphthalate (PEN) film, this group’s Japan Limited. continue to be expanded internationally. share of the global PEN film market is almost 100%. In July 2010, Teijin Pharma launched Hi-Sanso™ 7R, a home health care oxygen Plastics Business Group concentrator that is highly functional and energy Core company: Teijin Chemicals Ltd. efficient. This new As Asia’s No. 1 manufacturer of polycarbonate Hi-Sanso™ Series model resin, this group takes advantage of compounding, focuses on energy processing and other technologies in producing savings, safety and various products, such as resin windows for anxiety-free performance. Shinkansen trains and automobiles, LED lighting, and films for touch panels. ELECLEAR® film for touch panels Hi-Sanso™ 7R Fiber Products Marketing Business (22 companies) Others (29 companies) Fiber Products Marketing Business Group IT Business Group New Business Development Group Core company: N.I. Teijin Shoji Co., Ltd. Core company: Infocom Corporation Established within Teijin Limited, this group This group handles the total planning and sales of This group provides operation, development and promotes activities to create and develop new fiber, apparel and industrial materials, films and maintenance services for information systems. businesses in cooperation with other group plastics, and other miscellaneous household companies. products. Emergency Call ™ is a system developed to enable confirmation of the safety of others, and to secure BIOFRONT ® is a new bioplastic with heat AEROSHELTER ® II is an ultralight and compact quick and accurate mutual communication. Evaluated resistance/molding characteristics comparable to large-scale temporary tent made using PowerRip ®, a highly for its effectiveness in protecting children those of petroleum-derived plastics. The applications lightweight, high-strength polyester fabric, as the base against risks such as those posed by natural disasters or of BIOFRONT® are expected to increase in diverse areas material. Owing to its ability to restrict the passage of crime, this system has been adopted in many private ranging from apparel to electrical appliances. outside air and excellent flame resistance, it has elementary schools in Japan. applications including at events and as an initial relief facility during disasters. How Emergency Call™ Works (1) Emergency contact General notice of disaster sent Office Users General General Notice Notice notice sent notice sent Emergency Call ™ Mobile phone, PHS, e-mail, phone, pager, fax, Information satellite mobile phone Users send Office on safety information Users of users on own safety Confirm information on safety of users Eyeglasses made using BIOFRONT® AEROSHELTER ® II (2) Safety confirmation TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 6 Features The 5th Stakeholder Dialogue How Should Environmental Initiatives for China be Structured? In the rapidly developing economy of China, what kind of environmental preservation initiatives will be required? What action is needed? The Teijin Group has continually endeavored to reduce the amount of CO2, chemical substances and waste produced as a result of our business activities. Owing to these efforts, emissions have been reduced year by year and we are advancing toward the achievement of mid-/long-term targets. We will continue to take up the challenge to identify and reduce substances that have a high impact on the environment. At the same time, the Teijin Group is expanding production and sales in the rapidly developing economy of China, and it must be said that this expansion will result in increased impact on the environment. As a response to this situation, we have invited environmental policy experts from China for their opinions regarding what kind of environmental initiatives should be implemented in China. volumes for 2020 targets have not changed, the The Teijin Group’s Environmental Initiatives environmental impact of individual chemical – Achievements and Plans *1 “Waste with no effective use” substances are “visualized” in order to strengthen refers to waste that is either put directly into landfill or The Teijin Group has set, and is working hard to management of substances with significant impact. incinerated without heat achieve, specific targets for the reduction of CO2, Utilizing the LIME2*2 life cycle assessment method recovery. chemical substances and waste. The results of our (LCA) method established by the Ministry of *2 LIME2 is the second version efforts are as follows. In FY2010, CO2 emissions were Economy, Trade and Industry, Japan, and the Japan of LIME, the Life Cycle Impact Assessment Method Based reduced 40%, achieving our target of a 20% reduction Environmental Management Association for Industry, on Endpoint Modeling, from the FY1990 level by FY2020 (in Japan). In we will identify substances that have significant developed in the second addition, the target for China to reduce CO2 emissions environmental impact, even in small amounts, and phase of the LCA national project (April 2003 to March by 1% per year per production unit has been endeavor to reduce these substances. 2006). It involves use of a achieved by all companies. Regarding chemical We are also striving to reduce chemical technique to measure and assess overall environmental substance emissions, we achieved a 62.2% reduction substances that have a large impact in terms of air impact according to 15 in emissions. The target for Japan is an 80% reduction pollution even in small amounts, such as nitrogen categories of environmental impact; for example, global from the FY1998 level by FY2020. For “waste with no oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx). warming. effective use,”*1 that is, waste which cannot be reused At plants in China too, we will identify and try to or recycled, we achieved an 89% reduction. The target reduce substances with high environmental impact for Japan is an 85% reduction from the FY1998 level while moving forward with efforts to reduce total by FY2020. plant emissions. A relevant upcoming issue will be Given this progress, the Teijin Group formulated how to respond to stricter emissions regulations a new plan in December 2010 to further reduce which the government will likely put in place as environmental impact. In this plan, while the total economic growth continues. Event Date/Time February 21, 2011 (Monday) from 10:00AM to 12:30PM Venue Shanghai International Trade Centre (Yan An Xi Road, Shanghai) Mr. Masao Dr. Chang Miao Tateba General Manager, Mr. Toshihiko Goto Mr. Takeshi Chief Advisor, Environmental Management Representative Director Muraoka Recycling-oriented Economic and Institute for Policy Studies Sustainability Forum Japan Promotion Project School of Environment, General Manager, Japan International Tsinghua University Environment, Safety Cooperation Agency (JICA) and Health Office Teijin Limited Mr. Shinji Takeshita President, Teijin Chemicals Plastic Compounds Shanghai Ltd. 7 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Relevant Leaders from Teijin Group Chinese Companies Discuss Future Environmental Challenges Future Challenges: Effective Use of Office Waste in Synthetic Resin Production, and Reducing/Recycling Wastewater from Textile Production Mr. Goto: Let’s begin with a question directed to Mr. Profile Muraoka, Manager of the Environment, Safety and Mr. Toshihiko Goto Health Office. Please tell us about the group-wide Mr. Goto has had roles Mr. Toshihiko including Representative approach to environmental issues, and the present Goto Secretary of the Environmental status and issues in China. Representative Auditing Research Group, and Director as a member of the Mr. Muraoka: Thanks to continued group-wide efforts, Sustainability Forum Japan Environmental Quality Control we have made progress in reducing the total waste Standard Committee EPE produced and total CO2 and chemical substances Ltd., a manufacturer of composite resin, is focusing subcommittee and 14005WG committee, and committee emissions. In China too, we have achieved annual targets attention on reducing waste. In 2006, we received the reviewing matters relating to through the outstanding efforts of all companies and Production Streamlining Award from the Pudong the state of disclosure of environmental information by offices. In this context, despite the difficultly in setting New-area Science and Technology Committee for our corporations. even stricter total emissions targets, we obviously hope proposal of a dust collector “Dust Recycler.” In 2007, we to reduce our environmental impact even further. achieved zero emissions; that is, a stable ratio for “waste Specifically, we are considering using the LCA with no effective use” of 1% or less of the total waste. method to identify substances that have high Continuing to improve, in 2008, we obtained approval environmental impact for small amounts emitted. to use the China Environmental Label (Type II)*3 for Through reducing such substances, we will be able to plastic waste and wastewater recycling systems. reduce the total environmental impact for the same Furthermore, in 2010, we received high appraisal of our total emissions. Furthermore, in China, where industrial environmental performance in terms of both energy output continues to increase, future regulations on total savings and reduced use of resources enabling us to *3 China Environmental Label emissions are anticipated to become stricter and stricter. pass the “clean-production” inspection. (Type II) is an environmental The challenge will be meeting these stricter restrictions. We have three challenges for the future. The first is label used in China. For type II, inspections are Mr. Goto: To all of you working hard for environmental to increase the number of waste disposal contractors. performed based on the preservation at Teijin Group Chinese companies, do Since there are few waste disposal contractors in China, self-proclaimed you have any comments? effective use of certain types of waste, such as used environmental statements of a company. If the Ms. Xin: Teijin Chemicals Plastic Compounds Shanghai copier cartridges and batteries, has not been achieved. statements conform to This waste amounts to several tens of kilograms each ISO14021 standards, use of the label is permitted. year. The second challenge is reduce waste even further. Mr. Takeshi The third challenge is strengthening internal waste Muraoka management of processes such as sorting waste. General Manager, Environment, Mr. Rong: Nantong Teijin Co., Ltd. situated in Jiangsu Safety and Health Office manufactures textiles. As our manufacturing involves Teijin Limited dyeing processes, treatment of wastewater is a big Ms. Xin Guifeng Manager, Safety, Environment, Mr. Wang Xuxiang and Quality Assurance Department Manager, Teijin Chemicals Plastic General Affairs & Compounds Shanghai Ltd. Personnel Department Mr. Hirotaka Nantong Teijin Co., Ltd. Nakagawa President Nantong Teijin Co., Ltd. Mr. Rong Shikun Dye Plant No. 1 Production Manager, Nantong Teijin Co., Ltd. TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 8 Features The 5th Stakeholder Dialogue How Should Environmental Initiatives for China be Structured? issue. After initial processing, wastewater is sent to the secondary treatment site, a public facility adjacent to Ms. Xin Guifeng our plant. However, of late, the Environmental Agency’s Manager, Safety, management of wastewater from the dyeing plant has Environment, and Quality Assurance become much stricter. For instance, they have installed Department Teijin Chemicals inspection equipment at our treatment site to collect Plastic Compounds Shanghai Ltd. *4 Chemical oxygen demand is daily chemical oxygen demand*4 data, and inspections the amount of oxygen consumed when organic without prior notice are also conducted. Taking steps conditioners, and even lighting with energy-efficient matter in the water is to improve wastewater treatment, we started models, and invested in filters and heat-recovery dissolved by an oxidant. It is a wastewater recycling the year before last and now systems. The combined effect of these measures is an common indicator used to measure the quality of recycle 15% of the total wastewater. approximate 30% reduction in power consumption. seawater, and water in lakes In addition, we are implementing energy-saving For the past several years, we have taken thorough and marshes according to the extent of pollution resulting measures that take thoroughness to a new level. Based measures covering every aspect of energy savings, to from organic matter. on expert advice, we replaced old transformers, air the extent that it seems we have exhausted all means (smiles). Coupled with this, I am also in charge of cost management, so as you can imagine, there are difficult Mr. Rong issues to grapple with. Finally, although chemical Shikun substance emissions in FY2010 were reduced 43.0% Dye Plant No. 1 Production compared to those in 2005, and “waste with no Manager, Nantong Teijin effective use” was reduced 4.6% compared to the Co., Ltd. previous year, further efforts are required. Chinese Expert Discusses Future Environmental Challenges Environmental Pollution Regulations: The No. 1 Priority in China Compliance with Total Emission Regulations Will Also be Important Mr. Goto: We have heard about the challenges of the enabling collection of fees from organizations which Teijin Group in China. Now, let’s ask Dr. Chang of discharge more pollutants than the standard values. Tsinghua University about the characteristics of There are also five relatively new systems that focus Chinese environmental administration. on measures to reduce pollution. Profile Mr. Goto: You are saying that the present situation in Dr. Chang Miao Dr. Chang China corresponds to the time when environmental Miao Dr. Chang has been engaged General Manager, pollution became a problem in Japan? in water-related infrastructure Environmental issues in Japan from an early Management Dr. Chang: Yes. CO2 reduction is considered less and Institute for stage as a staff member of the Policy Studies important than the environmental pollution Institute for Global School of Environment, measures. At the moment, demand for energy is Environmental Strategies. She Tsinghua University also has a central role in increasing rapidly, so there is a focus on energy environmental policy Dr. Chang: Above all, I would like you to understand savings. Although CO2 emissions are reduced as a exchanges between Japan and China. that environmental administration in China prioritizes result of energy savings, the priority is definitely on environmental pollution regulations. This places the energy savings. At the same time, the most important Chinese approach in a different phase to the environmental policy in China now relates to total approach in Japan. Currently in China, environmental emission regulations. As part of this, a Pollutant countermeasures are needed most for pollutants Emissions Permit System has been implemented. In emitted as a result of corporate activities and daily life. this system, companies apply to a local Environmental Specifically, this means countermeasures for water, air, Agency office for approval on the types and amount waste, soil and noise pollution. of pollutant to be emitted. There is also a Three systems already established are the time-limit-based system for areas of high pollution Environmental Impact Assessment System, the whereby non-complying companies may be forced Three-step System, and the Pollutant Emissions Fee to suspend operations for a certain time, with Collection System. The Three-step System is a resumption of operations subject to improvement. measure to reduce new sources of pollution Regulations governing both the total sulfur through requiring pollution-preventing facilities to dioxide (SO2) emitted into the atmosphere and the be installed when a new business starts. The COD level, which is used to determine water quality, Pollutant Emissions Fee Collection System is a system were successful policies of the 11th Five-year Plan*5 9 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 (2006–2010). In this plan, the central government set recycle-oriented statutory regulations to be enforced *5 11th Five-year Plan: Mid-term plan for the five-year period total emissions targets and allocated them to local successively. Teijin Chemicals has indicated that they from 2006 to 2010 that governments. In the 12th Five-year Plan (2011–2015), are looking for waste disposal contractors who can includes goals for the development of society and an Emissions Trading System is expected to be effectively use waste such as used copier cartridges. the Chinese economy, and implemented. I’m currently engaged in research on the Moreover, I think there will be an increase in waste incorporates priority projects, Emissions Trading System, and I am designing the disposal contractors who can respond to such needs measures and industrial policies that aim to achieve systems for Shandong, Shanxi, and Tangshan in Hebei. in the future. While still few in number, there are these goals. In this system, emission quota such as for SO2 and COD reportedly Japanese waste disposal contactors who are set for each company and trading is based on this already provide these services. *6 Ammonia nitrogen: Nitrogen that is found in water as an quota. A growing emphasis is expected on substances Attention must also be paid to the total ammonium salt. The source is such as ammonia nitrogen*6, heavy metals and NOx. power-consumption regulations relating to energy. industrial wastewater, and decomposed human Mr. Goto: Which areas you think the Teijin Group In 2010, there were areas where power outages were excrement and organic Chinese companies should focus on in the future? necessary in order to achieve the energy-saving matter in household sewage. Dr. Chang: In relation to Nantong Teijin, I would say targets for the final year of the 11th Five-year Plan. Ammonia nitrogen is an important indicator of water that plant wastewater treatment will remain important. pollution, and is one With increasing demand for industrial water, water substance that causes eutrophication of ocean recycling technology should be enhanced. I think areas, lakes and other bodies Teijin’s membrane processing is very promising. Mr. Shinji of water. Takeshita In view of the ever-increasing industrial output President, Teijin Chemicals *7 3Rs: Reduce, Reuse and and consumption in China, the 3Rs*7 relating to Plastic Compounds Recycle. The 3Rs is an Shanghai Ltd. resources are also important and I expect important concept in realizing a recycling-oriented society and minimized environmental impact. Chinese Experts Discuss Future Environmental Challenges Guidelines for Reporting Corporate Environmental Information to the Public and the Corporate Environmental Supervisor System Mr. Goto: Mr. Tateba, from the viewpoint of JICA, Environmental Supervisor System. This latter system what do you think deserves our attention in relation corresponds to the Pollution Control Manager System to corporate activities for environmental preservation in Japan. in China? These two measures are an important part of cooperative efforts for the Recycling-oriented Profile Mr. Masao Economic Promotion Project that I am engaged in. Mr. Masao Tateba Tateba Mr. Goto: Both these measures closely concern Mr. Tateba joins the present Chief Advisor, project with a wealth of Recycling-oriented Japanese companies operating in China, don’t they? experience at JICA in the Economic Promotion Project Mr. Tateba: That’s right. The Guidelines for Reporting Training Center, Medical Japan International Cooperation Department, Cooperation Corporate Environmental Information to the Public Agency (JICA) Social Development and (draft), which were started during your visit to China in Research Department, Mr. Tateba: China has taken a positive approach to September, 2009, have been completed. For listed Thailand Office, and the Sino-Japan Friendship Clinic environmental issues, as evidenced by the companies, we also invite public comment relating to Project. Environmental Protection Law established in 1989, these guidelines on our website. In addition, there are and the Japanese government has supported these discussions among relevant departments and efforts. JICA established the Sino-Japan Friendship agencies relating to the introduction of environmental Center for Environmental Protection, which is now accounting. This will involve technical difficulties, and being used as a base for various cooperative projects we are now discussing how to make it practical. in four fields; corporate activities from the input of Meanwhile, support for the Corporate resources through to production and sales; education Environmental Supervisor System, which uses the to enhance environmental awareness, mainly focusing Japan’s Pollution Control Manager System as a on consumers; recycling and reuse of resources from reference, is underway with trial training already consumer waste; and appropriate disposal and initiated at 7,000 companies (so far 6,678 people have management of waste. attended lectures). The training is currently centered Recent movements related to corporate activities on large, major Chinese companies in the electric are the formulation of Guidelines for Reporting power and steel industries, but when the systems Corporate Environmental Information to the Public reaches full-scale, many more companies are expected (draft) and support for the creation of a Corporate to be included in the initiative. TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 10 Features The 5th Stakeholder Dialogue How Should Environmental Initiatives for China be Structured? What Kind of Environmental Initiatives are Required in China? Reinforce Capability to Comply with Total Emissions Regulations, and Communicate Corporate Opinions to Policymakers given to how we should respond to these regulations while increasing production output. This will be an Mr. Wang issue not only for Nantong Teijin but all Teijin Group Xuxiang Manager, Chinese companies. A clear group-wide policy of the General Affairs & Personnel Teijin Group is to expand activities in China. As such, Department Nantong Teijin we need to quickly understand Chinese Co., Ltd. environmental regulation trends and share the Mr. Goto: Thank you for your contributions, Dr. Chang information with all group companies. from Tsinghua University and Mr. Tateba from JICA. Now there will be an opportunity for those of you from Teijin Group companies to express your opinion or ask questions. Mr. Hirotaka Mr. Wang: As a manager at Nantong Teijin, I have Nakagawa President recently become acutely aware of the importance of Nantong Teijin Co., Ltd. preventing wastewater pollution. In the 17 years since Nantong Teijin was established, management of water Mr. Yamamoto (Regional CEO for China/ quality is now at its strictest level. When the company Participating as an observer): In China, our plastics was established, the dyeing industry was still in its business includes our Zhejiang plant and Teijin initial stages. The situation has changed dramatically. Chemicals Plastic Compounds Shanghai Ltd. The Nantong City is still eager to invite companies, but the Zhejiang plant uses a lot of water, so we have been dyeing industry is refusing. focusing on measures to reduce/recycle wastewater in Mr. Shimizu: Currently in China, COD regulations addition to our efforts to reach the various imposed on the dyeing industry are levels up to environmental targets of the Teijin Group. However, 100mg for class 1, 180mg for class 2, and 500mg for we may have to change our stance depending on the class 3. Nantong Teijin, situated adjacent to the future environmental regulations in China. Earlier, Mr. secondary treatment site, is subject to class 3 Tateba spoke about the possibility of the public regulations. However, there have been recent opinions commenting on the Guidelines for Reporting voiced by the relevant authorities that permissible Corporate Environmental Information to the Public emissions should be reduced from 500mg to 100mg. (draft). Adding to this, I feel that corporate opinions Is there a possibility that regulations will become should be reflected in the environmental regulations. this strict? This has already started to some extent with the Dr. Chang: Nantong City in Jiangsu is near Lake Tai. subcommittee of the Japan Chamber of Commerce Regulations as strict as this are quite possible in the and Industry in Beijing and Shanghai submitting vicinity of important lakes, marshes and rivers. proposals to the Chinese government via the Mr. Goto: Water pollution has become a significant Japanese Embassy. issue globally. Solutions emphasize environmental Mr. Goto: I think it very important that opinions of the impact on water rather than the amount of industry are reflected in government policies. Dr. pollutants released. Therefore, in areas where water Chang and Mr. Tateba, what are your opinions? pollution is severe or where there is a high necessity Dr. Chang: An effective way of achieving this may be for preserving water quality, it is quite possible that to direct opinions to organizations such as the regulations stricter than the national standard will research institution of our university. Research be imposed. institutes are usually involved in policy research and Mr. Nakagawa: Considering the total emissions drawing up policy drafts to be deliberated on. The regulations that Dr. Chang stressed, thought must be Sino-Japan Friendship Center for Environmental Protection to which Mr. Tateba belongs is another of these institutions. Mr. Tateba: I would like Japanese corporate Mr. Hirohisa members to understand that when the Japanese Shimizu government extends assistance relating to design of Vice President Nantong Teijin institutional systems in China through JICA and Co., Ltd. others, reference is made to past experiences in 11 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Japan, the current situation and future orientations. Environmental Agencies, and approaching university This approach benefits China, Japan and the rest of and other research institutions. the world. Bearing this in mind, it is necessary to Mr. Goto: Thank you all very much for a lively resolve issues on a case-by-case basis, through discussion. actively keeping a close eye on government Mr. Muraoka: We appreciate your valuable websites, maintaining close relations with local comments. Thank you very much. Summary by the Coordinator Mr. Toshihiko Goto Representative Secretary, Environmental Auditing Research Group As Mr. Tateba of JICA mentioned, in the capacity of I am pleased to say that the dialogue was very JICA temporary advisor, I officially support the effective and is something to be proud of. I consider formulation of Guidelines for Reporting Corporate the largest contributing factor to be the fact that Environmental Information to the Public set by the Teijin deployed local personnel responsible for Chinese government. The 2010 training team was environmental issues rather than the local Japanese received by Teijin for a half-day visit and an management personnel. This decision was a explanation of initiatives was provided. Teijin also manifestation of the company’s policy to value and participated in the Chinese CSR Investigative Team select local people. I was deeply impressed by the organized by CBCC of Keidanren (Japan Business local people involved. They reminded me of the Federation) to observe and rank CSR report Japanese people making sincere efforts to tackle initiatives of the Chinese Academy of Social pollution problems during the years of steep Sciences. On this basis, the necessity of creating a economic growth in Japan. Chinese version of the CSR report and a dialogue in Points emphasized in the dialogue were that *8 Bluesign Standard certification: Standards for China was recognized. Subsequently, a dialogue in China has had a serious stance on environmental evaluating the environmental Shanghai was arranged. Although similar dialogues issues for quite a few years, and that under the 12th impact resulting from dyeing and final processing in the have been conducted by several Japanese Five-year Plan starting this year, the reduction of fiber/textiles field. The companies in the past, I would like to express my pollution and water pollution measures in particular, standards relate to five areas: deep respect for Teijin for their wise decision and will be extremely important. Although not resources and productivity, wastewater, atmospheric highly advanced efforts. Based on the experiences mentioned in the main text, I was also surprised to emissions, workplace above, I agreed to act as a coordinator and had the find that China closely follows world trends, even hygiene and workplace environments. pleasure of working with long-time acquaintances, closer than Japan; for example the Bluesign Dr. Chang and Mr. Tateba. Standard certification*8. Comment from Teijin Opinions and Requests Received from Stakeholders For the stakeholder dialogue this time, we adopted those involved for taking time out of busy schedules the theme “Efforts for Environmental Preservation in to participate. China,” invited Chinese environmental policy experts, Many challenges still remain for our had our activities evaluated, and created an environmental preservation activities. One such opportunity to learn about future orientations. challenge will be to consider the overall reduction in From Dr. Chang of Tsinghua University, Mr. environmental impact achieved through identifying Tateba of JICA, and the coordinator Mr. Goto, we substances with high environmental impact. How heard timely and frank opinions from broad we respond to changes in total emissions spectrum of viewpoints regarding environmental regulations that accompany economic growth will policy trends in areas such as reducing CO2, also be important. Referring to the valuable opinions regulations on total SO2 emissions and wastewater we received, we will make all possible efforts to COD levels, the 3Rs of resources, and environmental make further improvements in terms of education. The dialogue was an extremely valuable reducing/recycling wastewater and energy-saving time in which a lively exchange of views with local measures at production and marketing sites in personnel responsible for environment was possible. China. The Teijin Group appreciates your continued We would like to express our sincere appreciation to guidance and support. TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 12 News Flash Major topics relating to the Teijin Group in FY2010 are presented below. This year we received high appraisal and various awards for group company CSR initiatives and originality in environmental technologies. Society Joined United Nations Global Compact Award Two Textile Group Companies in In March 2011, we announced our participation in the UN Global Thailand Presented with Safety Award Compact*. Participation in this global initiative for sustainable for 6th/8th Consecutive Year development is voluntary. Participating companies are required to In July 2010, Teijin Polyester (Thailand) Limited (TPL) and Teijin follow the 10 basic principles of the Global Compact relating to “the (Thailand) Limited (TJT), companies engaged in the manufacture protection of human rights,” “the elimination of all forms of forced and marketing of polyesters, received the National Occupation and compulsory labor,” “initiatives to promote greater environmental Safety and Health Award, the most prestigious safety award in responsibility,” and “anti-corruption.” Thailand. This year marks the 8th/6th consecutive year that TPL and Leveraging our participation in TJT have received this award, respectively. Global Compact, we will further This award, which has been presented annually since 1986, is concentrate efforts on realizing a given to companies after high-quality standard of CSR inspection of 143 items relating management as a global corporation. to environmental, safety and * The United Nations Global Compact is a set health policies, safety, health, and of voluntary corporate-action principles work environment by the Thai proposed by the former Secretary General Kofi Annan during the World Economic government Ministry of Labor. In Forum (Davos Forum) held in January, 1999. 2010, a total of 900 companies applied, and 90 Japanese companies were selected. Award Award-winning CSR Report In January 2011, the 2010 Teijin Group CSR Report received the Award for Excellence in the Sustainability Report Awards section of Award ECO CIRCLE™ Receives ICIS the 14th Environmental/ Sustainability Report Awards. In February Innovation Award 2011, we received the Award for Excellence (Global Environmental In October 2010, the ECO CIRCLE™ closed-loop recycling system (see Forum President’s Award) in the Environmental Report section of the page 34) developed by Teijin Fibers Limited received the 14th Environmental Communication Awards. Environment Division Award in the ICIS Innovation Awards 2010. FY2010 marks the third consecutive year in which we have ICIS, who sponsors the awards, is an influential U.K.-based journal in received high evaluations in these two awards. the chemical industry. Judges, consisting of global chemical manufacturing and research company management, highly evaluated Teijin Fibers’ Award Received Award for Excellence in 2011 activities to establish the recycling system and contributions to Japan Internal Control Awards reducing environmental impact through the chemical recycling In February 2011, we received the Award for Excellence in the 2011 technology unique to ECO CIRCLE™. Japan Internal Control Awards. These awards recognize progressive companies with excellent internal control and compliance systems. The Teijin Group received the Award for Excellence based on Award Received FY2010 Polymer Science Award high evaluations of the “implementation of CSR-based management In May 2011, copolymerized polycarbonate optical film developed according to corporate ethics,” “promotion of the corporate code of by Teijin Limited and Teijin Chemicals Ltd. received the 2010 Annual conduct including in overseas group companies,” “public Polymer Science Award (Technology). announcement of information in internal reports, and willing attitude to This technology is the first time in the world that film with these make improvements in this area,”“group promotion of CSR procurement optical characteristics has been realized/produced. The technical and cooperation in the industry,” and “stance of proactively announcing originality leading to this achievement and the impact on academic human resources data.” institutes and the industry were highly evaluated. This was the 5th time the Teijin Group has won this award. 13 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Society Continue to be Listed in SRI Indexes Environment Japan’s First Closed-loop Curtain Teijin Limited is listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, Recycling System for Hospitals and the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia-Pacific Index, the FTSE4 Good Welfare Facilities Index series, and the Ethibel Investment Register, which are The Amended Green Purchasing Law that came into effect in recognized global indicators of socially responsible investment February 2010 clearly lists “the existence of a recycling system” and (SRI). We also continue to be listed in the Morningstar Socially “use of recycled fiber” as criteria to decide which curtains to procure. Responsible Investment Index, a representative SRI index in Japan. In January 2011, in a joint initiative with Kingrun Co., Ltd. engaged in Another honor we received was acquisition of a “Silver Class” the curtain leasing business for medical and welfare facilities, Teijin rating in the CSR assessments by Sustainable Asset Management, Fibers Limited started Japan’s first closed-loop curtain recycling a globally recognized SRI rating company. Teijin Limited is the system for hospitals and welfare facilities. only Japanese firm in the chemical industry sector that has Under this system, Flow Diagram of KG Recycling System acquired a rating. Kingrun leases/sells curtains made of Teijin fibers Hospitals/ conforming to the Facilities Amended Green Purchasing • Leasing contract Law and collects the Kingrun Kingrun curtains after use. Teijin • Application of Green • Collection of Fibers then recycles the Purchasing Law Curtains • Produces curtains curtains into new polyester Teijin Fibers fibers as part of the the ECO CIRCLE™ system. • Recycling-oriented production Environment Participant in the Industry Forum, Part of the China/Japan/Korea Tripartite Environment Ministers’ Meeting Environment Teijin Factory Effluent Treatment The 13th Tripartite Environment Ministers’ Meeting (TEMM13) Equipment Adopted by Chinese between China, Japan and Korea was held on 28–29 April, 2011 in Fluorescent Dye Manufacturer Busan, South Korea. Representatives from each country were Mr. In May 2011, our wastewater treatment system was adopted for a Zhou, the Chinese Minister of Environmental Protection, Mr. Kondo, fluorescent dye factory in Jiangsu Province, China by Zhaoyuan the Japanese Senior Vice-minister of the Environment and Mr. Lee, the Advanced Chemical Co., Ltd., a Chinese company part of the Nippon Korean Minister of the Environment. Kayaku Group. As part of TEMM13, an industry forum was held between Zhaoyuan Advanced Chemical has been using large amounts of representative companies from China, Japan and Korea. Teijin dilution water to treat wastewater containing fluorescent dye. Limited was one of the companies representing Japan. In the forum, However, in view of anticipated water shortages due to China’s information was shared with the goal of expanding the rapidly growing economy, the need for water conservation and the eco-business market, and opinions were exchanged regarding joint reuse of industrial wastewater is growing. As a response, through ventures designed to improve the environment in developing use of our Multi-stage Activated Biological Process (MSABP®) (see countries. The outcome of the forum was summarized in a report, page 34) and our ELCAT ™ wastewater treatment system (see page and a question-and-answer and reporting session was held with the 34) consisting of electrolytic and catalytic tanks, we succeeded in three ministers on the 29th. realizing a wastewater treatment system that complies with local Additionally, the participating companies from Japan made a environmental regulations while reducing the amount of dilution formal visit to Mr.Kondo and Mr.Lee, and discussed further water significantly. The company will become the first company in cooperation between the three countries’ governments and China to use Teijin’s ELCAT ™ system. companies in regard to the promotion of eco-business. China/Japan/Korea Tripartite Formal visit to Mr.Kondo, the Japanese Environment Ministers’ Meeting Senior Vice-minister of the Environment Multi-stage Activated Biological Electrolytic–Catalytic treatment Process (MSABP®) system (ELCAT™) TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 14 Vision and Strategy CSR Management System We have appointed a Chief Social Responsibility Officer (CSRO) under whose strong leadership we are implementing comprehensive group-wide CSR management. We classify various CSR issues into three fields, and have created a CSR management system that is appropriate to each respective field. Expansive CSR Chief Technology Officer (CTO), the CSRO’s Activities to Promote CSR “Expansive” CSR issues have traditionally Assistant (in charge of disaster prevention), We consider CSR to be an important been handled under the leadership of the and the General Managers of the Public element of corporate management, and Chief Human-resources Officer (CHO) and Relations/Investor Relations Office, the aim to promote CSR as an integral part of Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Legal Affairs Office, and the Management management. In 2005, the Teijin Group This field includes (1) Human resources/ Auditing Office. created the new post of Chief Social Labor, and (2) Purchasing/Procurement (to Under the Group CSR Committee, there Responsibility Officer (CSRO). The CSRO meet supply chain needs). As of recently, in are five subcommittees or conferences (see acts as proxy for the Chief Executive Officer order to respond to advancing social needs, page 16: The Teijin Group’s CSR (CEO) in overseeing all CSR-related affairs. the CSRO advises/supports the CHO and CFO Management System). Four of these Since being appointed, the CSRO has been on “expansive” CSR issues. subcommittees discuss and address “basic” showing strong leadership in promoting CSR issues – a focus of the Teijin Group – the Teijin Group’s CSR activities. Selective CSR such as compliance, environmental To implement the Teijin Group’s CSR In “selective” CSR, companies conduct preservation, safety and disaster prevention, management in a unified, efficient voluntary activities irrespective of legal and health. The fifth subcommittee is the manner, various CSR issues are classified obligations. Group CSR Promotion Subcommittee into three fields, “basic,” “expansive” and The Teijin Group is proactively engaged in consisting of staff from the holding “selective.” A main division/ organization in this field and is strongly committed to various company and representatives of the nine charge is specified for each field, and philanthropic activities. Business Groups. This subcommittee is starting with midand short-term engaged in discussing and taking action on planning, we implement the Plan, Do, major CSR-related issues other than those Check, Act (PDCA) approach. Teijin Group CSR Committee dealt with by the four subcommittees The Teijin Group has established the Group above. These include human Basic CSR CSR Committee to discuss and take action on resources/labor, procurement (supply The Teijin Group’s “Basic” CSR is directly key issues and initiatives relating to chain), logistics and social contributions. controlled and supervised by the CSRO. group-wide CSR. The Committee meets twice This field includes (1) Corporate ethics a year: in FY2010, meetings were held in April and compliance, (2) Risk management, (3) and October. Environmental preservation, Safety and Chaired by the CSRO, the Group CSR Abbreviations for Position Titles disaster prevention, and Health activities, Committee consists of the Business Group CEO: Chief Executive Officer CSRO: Chief Social Responsibility Officer and (4) Product liability/Quality assurance. General Managers (presidents of eight core CTO: Chief Technology Officer While observing laws and international companies and the General Manager of the CMO: Chief Marketing Officer CFO: Chief Financial Officer standards, we are striving to achieve results New Business Development Group), the CHO: Chief Human-resources Officer that exceed the level of these standards. CHO, the Chief Marketing Officer (CMO), the The Teijin Group CSR Pyramid PDCA Approach to CSR Activities • Holding company programs: • Long-term policies: As part of short-term plans, each division Corporate philosophy, implements measures relating to Corporate Code of Conduct, environmental protection, safety/disaster Selective CSR Corporate Standards of prevention, product liability/quality Conduct assurance, compliance, risk management, Philanthropic activities • Environmental policy: Plan Do human resources/labor, purchasing/ Midand long-term procurement, and social contributions. environmental targets • Group company programs: • Action plans: Midand Implement respective plans at short-term CSR action plans individual companies. Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; • Self-check by CSR-related division of Purchasing/Procurement the holding company (included in the CSR Report) • CSRO specifies next year’s • Self-check by group companies Basic CSR challenges Action Check • Assurance by an assurance provider • Report to the Group CSR Compliance; Risk management; Committee • CSRO audit (hearing) (see page 41) Environmental preservation, • Assessment and guidance by four Safety and disaster prevention, external experts and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance • SRI assessment 15 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 The Teijin Group’s CSR Management System Corporate ethics, compliance and risk management activities, CSRO CSR Planning Office reporting/counseling center operations, activities to raise awareness of secure export control, philanthropic activities Environment, Safety and Activities relating to environmental preservation, safety/disaster prevention, Health (ESH) Office occupational safety and hygiene, and product liability/quality assurance. Group Compliance and With the CSR Planning Office as its secretariat, this subcommittee appoints Group CSR a person in charge of group-wide compliance and risk management, Committee Risk Management Subcommittee and integrates, manages/operates the relevant activities. With the ESH Office as its secretariat, this subcommittee appoints a person in Group ESH Subcommittee charge of group-wide environment, safety and health activities, and integrates, manages/operates the relevant activities. Group Product Liability/ With the ESH Office as its secretariat, this subcommittee appoints a person in Quality Assurance Subcommittee charge of group-wide product liability/quality assurance activities, and integrates, manages/operates the relevant activities. Group Secure Export With the CSR Planning Office as its secretariat, this conference raises awareness Control Conference of issues relating to secure export control at the applicable group companies and manages/operates the relevant activities. With the CSR Planning Office as its secretariat, this subcommittee consists of Group CSR Promotion the holding company division heads (human resources/labor, purchasing/ Subcommittee distribution public relations/investor relations, marketing, management auditing, environment, safety and health), and representatives of nine business groups. Towards High Quality CSR Management The large earthquake which hit the Tohoku and safety and disaster prevention, corporate Cooperation Agency (JICA), and local staff Kanto regions on March 11, 2011 not only left ethics, risk management, contribution to from Teijin Group companies in China in tremendous damage as a result of the tremors society, and work-life balance. Our activities charge of environmental preservation. We and the tsunami, but led to the radioactive have been well-received externally; I would plan to continue active efforts to expand our exposure problems at the Fukushima No. 1 like to introduce some activities worthy of CSR activities globally. Nuclear Power Plant and subsequent special mention. As part of social contribution activities, power-shortage problems. All these factors First, in environmental preservation, we have embarked on a new trial in FY2011, have caused unrest and hardship for many safety and disaster prevention, and health, we a “Volunteer support program.” The aim of people and businesses. We would like to are engaged in efforts that suitably reflect the this program is to financially support convey our deepest sympathies to those importance of this element as it relates to all volunteer activities undertaken by Teijin suffering from the devastation and express business activities. In 2005, in order to take an Group employees with a view to nurturing respect to those who are engaged in the expert’s perspective in supporting disaster volunteer personnel. Our support will strenuous recovery and reconstruction work. prevention activities in chemical and other enable employees to be actively engaged The Teijin Group has extended support plants, we set-up a Special Disaster Prevention in contributions to society, regional areas in a number of ways; making donations Team consisting of leading employees with and other public activities. through the Central Community Chest of vast knowledge and experience in this area. CSR activities are the foundation of Japan, providing relief goods as needed in We also provided training and specialist business activities. We will continue to collaboration with emergency headquarters information relating to disaster prevention strive for better CSR management with the in three Tohoku prefectures/NPOs working in and support for disaster prevention activity goal of enhanced satisfaction for various the affected areas, and giving assistance to plans. Combined, these efforts have resulted stakeholders. our employees who put their hand up for in enhanced disaster prevention capabilities September 2011 volunteer activities. In addition, we have and zero serious accidents in Japan in FY2010. acted on the principle of putting our internal The next step will be to expand these and external stakeholders first even in an activities to our overseas bases. emergency, through prompt checking of With regard to environmental employees’ whereabouts and safety, and management, we held a stakeholder dialogue strict regulation of the accumulated radiation in Shanghai in February 2011 under the exposure for employees working in the theme of environmental preservation affected areas. activities in China. There was a lively exchange Osamu Our group-wide CSR activities are of opinions between participants, consisting Nishikawa progressing steadily in a wide variety of of an environmental policy expert in China, an Senior Executive fields such as environmental preservation, advisor to the Japan International Officer, Member of the Board, CSRO TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 16 Vision and Strategy FY2010 Plan, Target and Achievements, and Self-evaluations The Teijin Group organizes CSR issues into three categories; Basic, Expansive and Selective, and sets midand long-term goals for each fiscal year. In FY2010, as an attempt to organize the Teijin Group’s CSR activities from external point of view, we integrated the core or main principles of ISO26000 into our approach. Paying due attention to international standards and guidelines such as ISO26000, we will consolidate the orientation of our activities, and seek to make further improvements. FY2010 targets FY2010 challenges and plans Conduct a systematic review of corporate governance regulations Corporate governance Enhance corporate governance and ensure compliance with laws and regulations Harmonize the effectiveness and efficiency of internal controls regarding financial reporting Keep careful track of social demands and use the knowledge gained to enhance Identify issues through stakeholder dialogues management Group-wide CSR Promote CSR education Continue to hold environmental forums Apply CSR management indexes to group companies in Ensure cooperation between relevant departments in group companies Japan Make continued efforts to increase recognition and Corporate ethics activities in Japan awareness of the Code of Conduct and Standards of Conduct Corporate ethics/ Continue to conduct thorough corporate ethics Corporate ethics activities overseas Compliance education activities Continue to promote use of hotlines in Japan and Operate hotline overseas Implement earthquake response drills, and review the Risk management activities earthquake manual Risk management Formulate BCPs at business groups (with earthquakes in Business continuity plans (BCPs) mind) Implement strict management overseas and correct Group-wide differences among group companies environment safety Enhance ESH management and health (ESH) Make cooperative efforts with local communities in regards to biodiversity Long-term targets (by FY2020) FY2010 challenges and plans Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions*1 by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 level by FY2020. Review the FY2020 targets, and improve performance in Overseas (Europe & USA): Reduce CO2 emissions*1 by 10% or more compared to the relation to targets on CO2 emissions per unit of Efforts to FY2010 level by FY2020. production amount for overseas group companies. prevent Overseas (Asia): Reduce CO2 emissions*1 per unit of production amount by 10% or Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions*1 by 10% or more global more compared to the FY2010 level by FY2020. compared to the FY1990 level by FY2010. warming Group: Reduce CO2 emissions*1 per unit of production amount by 1% or more compared to Overseas: Reduce CO2 emissions*1 per unit of the preceding fiscal year (evaluate the effect of energy-saving and other projects while production amount by 1% or more compared to the excluding the influence of increased/decreased production). New Target preceding fiscal year. Basic CSR Respond to the Amendments to the Chemical Substance Management Law and the Law Concerning the Examination and Regulation of Manufacture, etc., of Chemical Substances. Implement training for relevant departments, review Group: Reduce chemical substance*2 emissions by 80% or more compared to the specified chemical substances, and update the data Managing/ compilation system. FY1998 level by FY2020. Adopt LIME2, the second, Japanese version of the Life Cycle Reducing Impact Assessment Method Based on Endpoint Modeling, as a method of risk chemical assessment that considers the impact of business activities on humans, ecosystems, substance and the environment as a result of exposure to chemical substances, and focus on Create standards and a manual for the risk management Environemissions reducing chemical substances that have a large environmental impact. New Target system ment Japan: Reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) by 50% or more compared to the FY2000 level by FY2010. Group: Reduce “waste with no effective use” (waste that is either put directly into landfill or incinerated without heat recovery) by 85% or more compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. Conduct audits to manage the promotion of activities to Group: Achieve zero emissions at all major business sites in Japan and overseas. reduce waste at overseas group companies. Waste New Target Review training and standards concerning amendments to reduction Japan: Excluding coal ash and similar waste, endeavor to reduce the amount of waste the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law. generated, and achieve zero emissions*3 for group companies in Japan. Reduce residual polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and Japan: Reduce the total waste generated per unit of production amount by 1% collect information on disposal of trace PCBs. compared to the preceding fiscal year. New Target Mid-term targets FY2010 challenges and plans Further instill the Design for Environment concept. Review existing products considering the life cycle of Design for Establish/Formalize the Teijin Group Design for Environment Guidelines each product (in Japan and overseas). Environment Develop products compliant with Design for Environment guidelines. *1 CO2 emissions include methane and N2O emissions. *2 Chemical substances listed as Class 1 chemical substances in the Chemical Substances Management Law revised in April 2010, and those specified by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. Excluding duplicated listings, there are 575 specified chemical substances. *3 Zero emissions: Reducing the ratio of “waste with no effective use” to 1% or less of the total waste generated. 17 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 The Teijin Group CSR Pyramid Selective CSR Philanthropic activities Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; Purchasing/Procurement Basic CSR Vision and Strategy Compliance; Risk management; Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, and Health; Environment, Safety and Health Report Product liability/Quality assurance Social Report FY2010 performance and results SelfFY2011 challenges ISO26000 core principles Reference page evaluation A total of six independent outside directors/corporate auditors who Conduct a systematic review of corporate met our criteria for independence were registered as independent A P21 governance officials based on the Tokyo Stock Exchange criteria Respond to the announcement by the Financial Services Agency and Business Accounting Council entitled, Corporate governance Internal controls of financial reporting as of March 31, 2011 were “Council Opinions on the Revision of the Standards effective A P21 for Management Assessment and Audits for Internal (submitted “internal control report” in June 2011) Control of Financial Reporting” on March 30, 2011 (maintain effectiveness and promote efficiency) Held stakeholder dialogue under the theme “How Should Corporate governance/ Environmental Initiatives for China be Structured?” in February 2011 A Identify issues through stakeholder dialogues P7-12 Environment in Shanghai, China Held environmental forum at the Tokyo head office on September 15, 2010. Twelve sites at group companies in Japan were connected to the A Continue to hold environmental forums Environment P28 forum via the web and approx. 900 employees participated. Have not applied CSR management indexes to group companies in Apply CSR management indexes to group C Corporate governance P15 Japan companies in Japan In addition to level-based workshop training, workshops were held for all Revise the Teijin Group Corporate Ethics Human rights/ employees during the Corporate Ethics Month and a read-through of A P41 Handbook Fair operating practices the Teijin Group Corporate Ethics Handbook was conducted Conducted a read-through of the Teijin Group Corporate Code of Conduct during the Corporate Ethics Month Campaign. Continue to conduct thorough corporate ethics Human Rights/ A P41 Distributed posters (this year, a German version was added to the education activities Fair operating practices existing English, Chinese, Thai and Indonesian versions). Responded to 38 cases of reporting or consultation in Japan, and Continue to promote use of hotlines in Japan Human rights/ internal disclosure of information relating to the operating status B P42 and overseas Fair operating practices (twice a year) was continued Implemented earthquake response drills and Emergency Call® drills. Implement earthquake response drills, and A Corporate governance P43 Partially reviewed the earthquake manual. review the earthquake manual A BCP was formulated to supplement the manual. Formulate BCPs at business groups (with The organization and important tasks in relation to formulating a B Corporate governance P43 earthquakes in mind) BCP were confirmed at each business group. Management was performed based on ESH audits in Japan and B Strengthen group-wide ESH management Corporate governance P38 overseas, ESH workshops and similar means Measures for biodiversity were presented at information-exchange Continue with activities at each business site meetings in local communities (Matsuyama, Mihara, Mishima, Gifu, B and hold information-exchange meetings in Environment P28 Ibigawa) local communities to explain activities FY2010 performance and results SelfFY2011 challenges ISO26000 core principles Reference page evaluation Group: Prepare for the new target based on Japan: Achieved a 40% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to the CO2 emissions per unit of production amount FY1990 level. B from FY2012. P25-26 Overseas: Achieved target at 12 out of 17 business sites. Japan: Cut CO2 emissions by 20% or more compared to the 1990 level by FY2020. Group: Reduce chemical substance emissions by 30% Even before the amendment, provided information as appropriate to or more compared to the FY2005 level by FY2011. relevant departments and also implemented training. Using the chemical substance emissions in FY2010 The review of the specified substances after the April 2010 amendment is as a model case, specify representative chemical A substances that affect humans and the environment. P27 almost completed, and we are responding without problems. The data compilation system has been automated for streamlined Discuss plans with relevant businesses to work and to eliminate transcription and other human errors. reduce emissions. Using the chemical substance emissions in FY2010 as a model case, specify representative chemical substances that affect humans and the environment, and discuss Environment As part of risk management, we adopted LIME2, an LCA technique, emission reduction plans with relevant businesses. as an index that considers and assesses the impact of our business Regarding proposals of reduction targets in the B P27 activities on humans and the environment resulting from exposure FY2011 mid-term plan and long-term plan up to to chemical substances. FY2020 (80% reduction of chemical substance emissions compared to the FY1998 level), check the midand long-term plans of each business and Reduced emissions of VOC substances by 51.8% compared to the investigate whether reductions of chemical substance A P27 FY2000 level. emissions should also incorporate units of production amount (for improved production efficiency). Group: Reduce the amount of “waste with no effective use” (waste that is either put directly into landfill or incinerated without heat Group: Reduced the amount of “waste with no effective use” by 89% recovery) by 50% or more compared to the compared to the FY1998 level. A P27-28 FY2005 level by FY2011. Japan: Achieved zero emissions at all business sites. Japan: For business sites/plants emitting over 500 tons of waste per year, achieve zero emissions by the end of FY2011. FY2010 performance and results SelfFY2011 challenges ISO26000 core principles Reference page evaluation We were successful in further instilling the Design for Environment concept to Further instill the Design for Environment a certain degree. As a result, Design for Environment approved concept (strengthen brand power, and apply products were realized at companies other than core group companies. A concept to systems developed by business Environment P29-31 The Design for Environment concept was incorporated into group groups). R&D regulations and systemized. Review LCA of in-house products. Self-evaluation Ratings A: Goals achieved B: Goals achieved to a certain extent C: Inadequate TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 18 Vision and Strategy FY2010 Plan, Target and Achievements, and Self-evaluations FY2010 targets FY2010 challenges and plans Continue to prevent the recurrence of accidents similar to previous ones by identifying the underlying causes of accidents, and sharing information on accidents Implement disaster prevention measures at high-risk facilities Reduce risks through more effective disaster prevention assessments Disaster prevention Identify potential fire risks and implement preventive measures Improve group-wide disaster prevention capabilities Implement earthquake-resistance measures for 19 buildings newly identified as requiring measures under the 2006 amendment to the law. These buildings include gyms and buildings where hazardous substances are handled. Promote mitigation of work stress and strengthen the Formulate and promote measures to prevent mental disorders system for supporting remote districts Health and hygiene Basic CSR Establish a method of risk assessment for chemical Prevent damage to health due to hazardous chemical substances substances Mid-term targets FY2010 challenges and plans Promote Safety activities to Carefully examine the content of the three major prevent Maintain the frequency of workplace accidents to under 0.3 workplace accident prevention guidelines, and workplace notify/implement at group companies accidents Formalize activities of the Product Liability/Quality Assurance Unit System and continue to apply it to Prevent activities at overseas group companies. Product product liabilityFormalize the reporting system through implementing liability/ related incidents Achieve zero product liability claims and zero serious quality claims special audits. Quality and serious assurance quality claims Continue to consider and promote chemical substance management throughout the supply chain FY2010 targets FY2010 challenges and plans Expand systems to ensure a work−life balance for employees (e.g. increase the number of companies with a work-at-home system, and expand childcare Promote a work−life balance for employees support measures), and continue to implement measures under an action plan based on the next-generation law (e.g. activities to raise awareness of maintaining a work−life balance). Increase recruitment of female employees (maintain the ratio of newly recruited career-minded female university graduates at 30% or more, and increase the ratios of career-minded female employees and females in managerial positions) Human resources and labor Enhance the personnel management system through Promote diversity the Global Human Resources Office, and increase the number of overseas employees selected for the core human resources training program Expansive CSR Increase the re-employment rate for those who desire to be re-employed At group companies, achieve the employment rate required by law for people with a disability Check each group company’s rules and personnel management systems regularly, and confirm Compliance compliance with law amendments Appoint employees on a limited-term contract to appropriate positions at group companies Improve management systems and operating flows and promote adoption by Follow-up establishment of a central management companies across the group system and promote subsequent improvements Provide support for improved CSR at suppliers and Purchasing and improve the follow-up system distribution Expand and formalize CSR procurement management within the group and promote standardization in the industry Implement measures to reduce the environmental impact of logistics in response to customers’ needs Continue to spend at least 1% of ordinary profit (converted to a cash amount) on philanthropic activities Selective Group-wide activities Continue to conduct picture book donating activities CSR Social contributions and consider support for volunteer activities of employees Continue to hold nature observation leader workshops, and nature observation and bird watching programs 19 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 The Teijin Group CSR Pyramid Selective CSR Philanthropic activities Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; Purchasing/Procurement Basic CSR Vision and Strategy Compliance; Risk management; Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, and Health; Environment, Safety and Health Report Product liability/Quality assurance Social Report FY2010 performance and results SelfFY2011 challenges ISO26000 core principles Reference page evaluation Achieved zero serious accidents through recurrence prevention Enhance measures against earthquakes and activities and sharing of information A tsunamis at high-risk business sites/plants P35 Labor practices On a trial basis, a specialist Teijin Group chemical accident Enhance disaster prevention assessments for prevention (TCAP) team participated in disaster prevention B overseas plants P35 assessments with favorable results As part of the Teijin Group Fire Prevention Day activities, potential fire Enhance activities of fire prevention risks were identified and preventive measures were taken. A management communication meetings P35 Achieved zero fires. Labor practices/ Environment Earthquake-resistance measures are being implemented Review measures with a view to completion in systematically B 2015 P35 Assess work stress after workplace Workplace improvement activities were undertaken based on improvement activities. assessments of work stress. Assess changes in risk values and continue Retired employees visited remote areas and we introduced an A efforts to improve workplaces. P37 employee assistance program incorporating face-to-face counseling. Review system for enhanced individual Labor practices counseling functions. Investigations are in progress B Review nano-material handling guidelines P37 FY2010 performance and results SelfFY2011 challenges ISO26000 core principles Reference page evaluation Expand implementation of the three major On a trial basis, the three major workplace accident prevention workplace accident prevention guidelines to guidelines were implemented at three business sites in Japan other business sites in Japan. (Matsuyama, Tokuyama, Gifu). B Labor practices P36 Maintain a lost time injury frequency rates of Maintained a lost time injury frequency rates of 0.25. under 0.25. Enhance product liability and quality assurance assessments. The operating system was reviewed. Enhance operations of business group product The reporting system based on special audits was formalized. B liability and quality assurance organizations. Consumer issues P45-46 Conduct thorough education of product liability and quality assurance. We responded appropriately to REACH and CLP regulations. Respond to chemical legislation in Japan and Information was communicated appropriately throughout the supply chain. overseas. Information on chemical substances management and controls in B Ensure appropriate information is Environment P46 Japan and overseas was monitored. communicated throughout the supply chain. FY2010 performance and results SelfFY2011 challenges ISO26000 core principles Reference page evaluation Expanded the childcare support system (childcare leave for fathers can be taken in portions; childcare leave when a child is sick or has an injury has been expanded, nursing care leave has been newly established). Ten group companies in Japan have introduced a work-at-home Raise employees’ awareness of work−life balance system (up from nine companies in FY2009), and there are 16 C and increase system registrants and users P50 registrants, including five males). Including 38 males, 171 employees took childcare leave (also 171 in FY2009, including 54 males). Increase recruitment of female employees Of employees who joined in April 2011, the ratio of career-minded (maintain the hiring ratio of newly recruited female university graduates was 19% (28% in FY2009). career-minded female university graduates to The overall ratio of career-minded females was 16% (also 16% in C 30% or more for FY2010 and FY2011 combined, P49 FY2009) and the ratio of females in managerial positions was 3.15% and increase the ratios of career-minded female (3.11% in FY2009). employees and females in managerial positions) The Global Human Resources Office of Teijin Creative Staff Co., Ltd. Enhance the personnel management system Labor practices developed EaGLES, a standardized leadership training program for through the Global Human Resources Office, the Teijin Group conducted in four languages. C and increase the number of overseas employees P47, 49 Ten overseas employees are registrants of the core human resources selected for the core human resources training training program (out of 146 registrants) (11 out of 129 in FY2009). program The re-employment rate for those wishing to be re-employed was Increase the re-employment rate for those 78% (65% in FY2009) B wishing to be re-employed P51 The hiring rate for 33 group companies in Japan who hired 56 or Comply with the hiring rate required by law at more employees was 1.8%, the rate required by law. However, nine C all group companies in Japan P49 companies did not reach this ratio. The rules and personnel management system of all group Regularly check the rules and personnel companies were checked regularly, and compliance with law A management system of all group companies, P51 amendments were confirmed and confirm compliance with law amendments Progress was regularly confirmed at each group company B Regularly confirm progress at each company P51 Established a central management system and made subsequent Develop CSR management at suppliers on a improvements as necessary (e.g. improved green purchasing ratio A group-wide/global basis P53-54 calculating system) Provided support for improved CSR at suppliers, created direct Develop and expand CSR management at Human rights/ guidance system, and provided guidance A suppliers on a group-wide/global basis Fair operating practices/ P53-54 Through steadily implementing measures to reduce environmental Environment Achieve target through further enhancing impact, we achieved a 4.4% reduction in CO2 emissions, thus measures to reduce the environmental impact achieving the target of 1% or more reduction per unit of A P53 transportation amount compared to the preceding fiscal year of logistics Spending on philanthropic activities totaled 0.93 billion yen (1.8% of Continue to spend at least 1% of ordinary profit A (converted to a cash amount) on philanthropic P55 ordinary profit, 50.3 billion yen) activities We collected and donated 88 used picture books worth 91,546 yen, and Continue to collect and donate picture books Community involvement donated 50,000 yen towards operational expenses of a library in Thailand. A P55-56 Implement the volunteer support program and development Preparations were made for introducing the volunteer support program. Continue to hold nature observation leader A nature observation leader workshop was held, as well as seven A workshops, and nature observation and bird P56 nature observation programs and one bird watching program. watching programs Self-evaluation Ratings A: Goals achieved B: Goals achieved to a certain extent C: Inadequate TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 20 Vision and Strategy Corporate Governance The Teijin Group positions corporate governance as an essential element in realizing sustainable improvements in shareholder value and fulfilling our responsibility to stakeholders including employees, customers, the local community and residents, and we are implementing measures to strengthen corporate governance. necessary reforms for improvements. An transparency in management. Additionally, History of Corporate Governance annual internal control report is also we have established the Committee of Teijin Improvements published. In accordance with the Financial Group Corporate Auditors consisting of In 1999, the Teijin Group began a series of Investments & Exchange Act, this report auditors of group companies. This board, groundbreaking management reforms with includes the opinions of an accounting which integrates management of the group, the aim of achieving corporate governance auditor and helps to ensure the reliability of seeks to increase the effectiveness of that is built on fairness, transparency, quick financial reporting. In addition, a body under group-wide monitoring/auditing and decision-making, and ensuring objectivity. the direct control of the CEO has been maintain fair auditing. These reforms include establishing the established in order to increase the Advisory Board, reducing the number of effectiveness of our internal control activities. directors, introducing a corporate officers’ Total Risk Management system and establishing a compensation A Total Risk Management (TRM) Committee system for directors in accordance with Separation and Strengthening of has been established within the Board of consolidated return on assets (ROA). Decision-making, Internal Operation Directors based on our view that it is and Monitoring/Supervision Roles Further evidence of our progressive important to evaluate, manage and counter actions was our pioneering release of the Our articles of incorporation limit the size of all uncertainties or risk that may be faced by Corporate Governance Guide 2003, guidelines the holding company’s (Teijin Limited’s) the Teijin Group in an integrated and efficient that integrated the Teijin Group’s corporate Board of Directors to ten members with the manner. The system we have established governance and the supporting areas of goal of realizing quick decision-making and allows quick decision-making and a compliance and risk management. In clear accountability. We have also introduced group-wide approach to managing risk from response to changes in social and legal a corporate officers’ system and delegated strategic and operating perspectives. circumstances, we have continued to revise considerable authority and responsibility to these guidelines to reflect the appointment of corporate officers. Three directors are independent outside directors and an independent individuals appointed from Advisory Board increased number of independent outside outside the Group. To separate We have established an Advisory Board, corporate auditors. These guidelines are now responsibilities for monitoring/supervision consisting of members from Japan and published as the Teijin Group Corporate and those for internal operations, the Teijin overseas, which provides advice to the Board Governance Guide. Limited Chairman of the Board is not of Directors. The board, which meets twice a involved as a corporate officer. year (May and November in 2010), has The Board of Corporate Auditors members including five or six independent Internal Control consists of five members and is in charge of outside advisors (3 from Japan, 2 or 3 from Our internal control system was created and overseeing and auditing management. The overseas), the Chairperson and the President operates according to decisions made by the majority (three) of the Corporate Auditors (CEO). Its role is to give advice and make Board of Directors. The Board performs are independent and appointed from proposals regarding overall management, annual reviews of the system and makes outside the Group to ensure outward and it also function of nomination and compensation committee. Three specific Teijin Group’s Corporate Governance System tasks of the Board are as follows: 1) handling a change of president and nomination of Corporate Governance System Advisory Board successor, 2) discussing the Teijin Group’s Majority of members are external Function of Nomination and Compensation Committee compensation system for directors and Holding Company System levels, and 3) evaluating the president and Nine Business Groups Board of Directors CEO representative director. Ten members (of whom three are external) Shareholders’ Group Strategy Meeting TRM Committee Committee (CEO, CSRO, CTO, CFO, CHO, Corporate Strategy Director) Group Management Committee Board of Committee of Corporate Auditors Teijin Group Five members Corporate (of whom three are external) Auditors * Please see page 15 for explanations of position-title abbreviations. 21 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Economic Report Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders There are a wide range of stakeholders in the Teijin Group. With this in mind, as the social responsibility of the Teijin Group, we place importance on maintaining a profit through our business, and distributing the resulting added value to stakeholders in an appropriate manner. and adding independently calculated social Percent allocation of added value Distribution of Added Value to contribution expenses and environmental to stakeholders Stakeholders preservation expenses. The environment Shareholders The added value obtained in FY2010 was These final two expenses are included in 9.0% 4.5% distributed to major stakeholders as follows. either other sales management expenses or Company (Teijin Limited) The total amount of added value was manufacturing costs. Additionally, social 20.7% calculated by subtracting expenses for contribution expenses include the use of Local Total: Employees communities transportation/tariffs, depreciation, R&D, company facilities by local residents and 108.2 49.8% 0.8% billion yen Economic Report marketing promotion, tenancy, and other services provided by employees converted Administrative organizations sales management from gross operating to a monetary value. (national and local governments) Creditors profit (net sales minus manufacturing cost), (financial institutions) 11.1% 4.1% Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders Amount Stakeholders (billions of yen) Breakdown Remarks Figures are shown in financial statements (in the Dividends table of the Consolidated Shareholders 4.9 Dividend Environment, Safety Financial Statements Summary [For the year ended March 31, 2011]) Salaries/Wages, bonuses and Figures are shown in portfolio reports. Note that the amounts shown above do not Employees 53.9 retirement allowances include personnel expenses, which are calculated as part of production costs. and Health Report Figures are shown in financial statements (as Interest expenses in the Consolidated Creditors (financial institutions) 4.4 Interest paid Financial Statements Summary [For the year ended March 31, 2011]) Administrative organizations Taxes paid, such as corporation, Figures are shown in financial statements (as Income taxes in the Consolidated Financial (national and local governments) 12.0 local and business taxes Statements Summary [For the year ended March 31, 2011]) Monetary donations, and article donations, free renting of company Local communities 0.9 facilities, and services provided by employees converted to a monetary Calculated by the CSR Planning Office (see page 55) value using the Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) method. Figures are shown in financial statements (as Retained earnings in the Consolidated Company (Teijin Limited) 22.4 Increase in retained earnings Social Report Financial Statements Summary [For the year ended March 31, 2011]) Expenses for environmental The environment 9.7 preservation Calculated by the Environment, Safety and Health Office (see page 39) Total amount 108.2 Trends in Added Value Distribution to Stakeholders Teijin Group’s Stakeholders (Billions of yen) Gross operating profit Direct stakeholders Indirect stakeholders Investors 256.4 250 Employees and Shareholders labor unions 229.3 Job seekers 225 218.6 Local Customers residents Polyester and NGOs Fibers consumers NPOs New Business 200 Aramid Business Group Fibers 191.9 Total: Development Business Total: 108.2 Group Group 100.6 100 Carbon Suppliers, Employees Local IT Fibers & logistic 50.9 governments Business Composites and other Shareholders Group contractors Business 7.9 Group Creditors 53.9 75 Company 10.8 (Teijin Administrative Company Fiber Limited) Products organizations (Teijin Films (national -49.1 Limited) Marketing Business National and local -37.9 4.9 government Business Group Financial 50 governments) Group institutions and 14.7 4.4 agencies Medical & Plastics Local 55.8 12.0 Pharmaceutical Business communities 54.2 Business 4.9 0.9 Group 0.9 2.0 Group 25 Company 10.5 (Teijin Limited) 5.8 22.4 Industrial 3.1 7.3 7.8 Media associations The 0.9 environment 1.0 12.6 The global 0 12.4 9.9 9.7 environment 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 22 Environment, Safety and Health Report ESH Management (Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, and Health) Promoting Group-wide Environmental Preservation, Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health Activities The Teijin Group positions the environment, safety and health (ESH) as a key area relating to all business operations. The Group ESH Subcommittee has established an integrated system for management of issues concerning environmental preservation, safety and disaster prevention, and health. ESH Promotion System Group ESH Management System ESH chain of command The Teijin Group positions ESH as a key issue Board of Directors relating to all business operations. As basic President and CEO management policies that relate to ESH, and on the basis of our corporate philosophy, we have CSRO established the Teijin Group Global Environmental Group CSR Committee (Chairperson: CSRO) Charter, the Teijin Group Global Environmental Activity Goals and the ESH Basic Policies. Group ESH Subcommittee (Chairperson: General Manager of the Teijin Limited ESH Office) In addition, in order to manage ESH, we have set-up the Group CSR Committee. This Polyester Fibers Business Group Business Group ESH Committee committee is chaired by the CSRO who has Aramid Fibers Business Group Business Group ESH Committee authority and responsibility delegated from the CEO. Under the Group CSR Committee, is Carbon Fibers & Composites Business Group Business Group ESH Committee the Group ESH Subcommittee, which is chaired Fiber Products Marketing Business Group Business Group ESH Committee by the General Manager of the Teijin Limited ESH Office and has members including Films Business Group Business Group ESH Committee corporate staff leaders and the chairperson Plastics Business Group Business Group ESH Committee of each business group’s ESH committee. Medical & Pharmaceutical Business Group Business Group ESH Committee The subcommittee discusses and makes decisions on various measures and activities IT Business Group Business Group ESH Committee regarding ESH management, and oversees New Business Development Group Business Group ESH Committee the expansion of these measures/activities to each business group. Corporate staff Business Group ESH Committee ESH Office ESH Auditing, Report Meetings and Training Sessions ESH Auditing between the heads of business groups, the management, ESH staff, and production line ESH Audits I, II, and III are conducted according chairperson of the Business Group ESH managers in individual group companies. to our ESH Auditing Rules (see table on Committee, and the ESH Office. Respective We hold a workshop once a year for group page 24). procedures for the implementation of companies in Japan, and every two years for In ESH Audits I and II, the chairpersons of these meetings are specified in the overseas group companies. each business group’s ESH committee conduct Implementation Guidelines for Group ESH In July, FY2010, an ESH education audits on the ESH activities of production Debriefing Session and Business Group Annual workshop for group companies in Japan was sites and group companies within their ESH General Assembly. held at the Osaka head office, with the respective business group in Japan and The Group ESH Report Meeting for FY2010 participation of 177 managers (65 in the overseas. The CSRO conducts ESH Audit III on was held at the Tokyo head office in July 2010, management class, 60 in the staff class, and the basis of the results of Audits I and II, thus with 43 participants. The General Manager of 52 in the advanced class) . Workshops for realizing a double-audit system. the ESH Office gave an overview of the overseas group companies were held in the group-wide ESH management in FY2009, and USA in July, in Singapore and Netherlands in Group ESH Debriefing Session and Business the heads of all business groups reported on September, and in China in October. Group Annual ESH General Assembly the results of ESH activities in their business Group ESH Debriefing Session is held once groups and other matters of special note. Training Seminar for Internal Auditors of every year, providing an opportunity for the ESH Compliance Business Group General Managers to report Group ESH Education To enhance compliance with laws and to the CEO. In addition, the Business Group To enhance group-wide ESH management, regulations related to ESH, we held an ESH Annual ESH General Assembly is held to we established the ESH Education Program compliance training seminar for internal allow information-sharing and discussions for presidents and executives involved in ESH auditors at the Osaka head office in 23 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 The Teijin Group Global The Teijin Group Global Environmental Activity Goals Environmental Charter Promotion of Environmental Preservation Activities To fulfill the Teijin Group’s corporate philosophy 1. Throughout our business operations, we will make efforts to reduce our environmental impact, including “We place the highest priority on safety and the the reduction of CO2 emissions, conserve energy and resources, and make effective use of waste. preservation of our natural environment” to 2. We will appropriately manage biological and chemical substances in compliance with the related laws and ensure society’s sustainable development, we will: regulations to ensure that our use of these substances will not cause damage to the environment or to the 1. Strive to promote efficient use of resources and safety and health of people. energy and reduction of environmental impact 3. We will provide as many people as possible with appropriate information and support so that our products will to preserve the global environment. be transported, used, and disposed of in a safe and environmentally friendly manner. 2. Provide products and services that reduce the Economic Report Promotion of Design for Environment and Environmental Business environmental impact for society through 4. We will design products in an environmentally friendly manner in cooperation with our customers and progress in science and technology with a focus suppliers, while promoting green purchasing and procurement as well as green transportation. In addition, we on global environmental consciousness. will conduct necessary assessment at the planning stage of business projects, thereby reducing potential risks 3. Participate in social activities aiming at to human health and the environment. conserving the global environment through 5. We will further develop technologies for environmental preservation and environmental improvement, education and raising awareness for group including technologies that contribute to energy conservation and 3R activities (activities to promote the employees, and cooperation with local reduction, reuse, and recycling of materials) and will expand our environmental business taking advantage of communities involved in our business activities. our Group’s proprietary technologies and strong market presence. (Established in December 1992; revised in July 2007) Expansion of Environmental Communication and Social Contribution Activities 6. We will clearly show our commitment to making contributions to society by such measures as setting and Environment, Safety announcing environmental impact reduction targets and will engage in communication with a range of our Teijin Group ESH Basic Policies stakeholders, including local communities in which we conduct business. 1) Safety is our highest priority, in accordance with 7. We will raise the awareness of all Group employees and provide them with education on environmental and Health Report our philosophy of protecting human life. preservation as well as support them in conducting environmental preservation activities, such as energy 2) ESH is the responsibility of every production conservation activities at their households and in their local communities. line manager. (Established in December 1992; revised in July 2007) 3) ESH efforts are an integral part of every stage of business activities. Midand Long-term Environmental Preservation Targets Classification Coverage The Teijin Group Targets for FY2010/2011 The Teijin Group Targets for FY2020 Social Report (established in April 2006) (established in December 2007) Global warming Japan Reduce CO2 emissions by 10% or more compared to the FY1990 level Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 level (CO2 emissions by FY2010. by FY2020. reduction) Overseas Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production amount by 1% or more Europe and USA: Reduce CO2 emissions by 10% or more compared to compared to the preceding fiscal year. the FY2010 level by FY2020. Asia: Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production amount by 10% or more compared to the FY2010 level by FY2020. Chemical Group Reduce chemical substance emissions by 30% or more compared to 1. Reduce chemical substance emissions by 80% or more compared to substances the FY2005 level by FY2011. the FY1998 level by FY2020. 2. Establish a method of risk assessment and set numerical targets by FY2011. Japan Reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) by 50% or — more compared to the FY2000 level by FY2010. Waste Group Reduce “waste with no effective use*1” by 50% or more compared Reduce “waste with no effective use*1” by 85% or more compared to to the FY2005 level by FY2011. the FY1998 level by FY2020. Japan For business sites/plants emitting over 500 tons of waste per year, Excluding coal ash and similar waste, endeavor to reduce the amount achieve zero emissions*2 by the end of FY2011. of waste generated, and achieve zero emissions*2 for group companies in Japan. *1 “Waste with no effective use” refers to waste that is either put directly into landfill or incinerated without heat recovery. *2 Zero emissions: Reducing the ratio of “waste with no effective use” to 1% or less of the total waste. January, 2011. Outline of the ESH Audits A total of 63* employees were newly approved as 1st-grade or 2nd-grade Outline of the audits Auditors FY2010 audit results auditors. Since the system started in 2005, ESH Audit I ESH audits at production Chairperson of Business 24 in Japan, 12 overseas sites Group ESH Committee there have been a total of 612 internal auditors of ESH compliance . ESH Audit II Audits mainly concerning Chairperson of Business One annual audit for each of the eight environmental activities Group ESH Committee business groups * 1st-grade: 47 employees; 2nd-grade: 16 employees. ESH Audit III Audits of the results of ESH CSRO One annual audit of eight business groups Audits I and II and independently managed companies TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 24 Environment, Safety and Health Report Reducing Environmental Impact Reducing Environmental Impact over the Entire Product Life Cycle Environmental preservation is one of the three core elements of the Teijin Group’s Sustainable Environment Initiatives. With the goals of reducing waste and emissions of CO2 and chemical substances, as well as managing waste more effectively, we evaluate the environmental impact of our business activities over the entire life cycle of each product and take positive measures to reduce our environmental impact. based on the Teijin Group Design for caused by the economic recovery, CO2 Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Environment system (see page 29). emissions for group companies in Japan for Impact in All Processes from FY2010 were 1.57 million tons, a 3% increase *1 “Waste with no effective use” refers to waste that is Procurement to Disposal either put directly into landfill or incinerated from the FY2009 level of 1.52 million tons. without heat recovery. The Teijin Group’s operations affect the While we are still able to achieve the target environment in various ways; in processes such based on a 40% decrease compared to the as manufacturing and processing, the FY1990 level, we will continue with our environment is affected through handling of Climate Change Initiatives efforts for energy savings and conversion to chemical substances, fuel and other energy substitute fuels to further reduce CO2 Targets for FY2006-2010 usage, water consumption and generation of emissions. From FY2012, in addition to the Japan: Cut CO2 emissions by 10% or more “waste with no effective use.*1” In addition to compared to the 1990 level by FY2010. conventional total emissions targets, targets compliance with rules and regulations and Overseas: Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of for CO2 emissions will be set per unit of production amount by 1% or more compared agreements with local governments relating to to the preceding fiscal year. production (1% improvement every year) to environmental impact, the group is carrying out assess the effects of energy-saving projects various voluntary activities aiming to further Reducing Greenhouse Gases Emitted while excluding the effects of production. reduce the overall environmental impact of our During Manufacturing Meanwhile, for overseas group business activities. These include efficient use of The Teijin Group is a long-time promoter of companies, we have improved energy resources and energy, minimizing chemical energy-saving initiatives. In response to the efficiency through replacing air conditioners at substance emissions, efficient use of waste, and enforcement of the Kyoto Protocol in February Thai Namsiri Intertex Co. Ltd. (Thailand) with preventing soil and groundwater pollution. 2005, we set targets to reduce the total CO2 water-cooled models, and replacing air For processes other than manufacturing emissions for group companies in Japan (see conditioner consumable parts at Teijin and processing, it is necessary to consider the Targets for FY2006-2010 above) and are Chemicals Plastic Compound (Shanghai) Co., environmental impact caused by the use, shifting to renewable energy sources such as Ltd. (China) as necessary. As production consumption, and disposal of products by biomass fuel, and fuels that emit less CO2. recovered and was possible at many sites in customers of the Teijin Group. For this reason, In FY2010, in Japan, we implemented FY2010, the CO2 emissions per unit of we have established a system to assess the energy-saving measures to reduce CO 2 production improved. The target for FY2010 environmental impact of each product through emissions, including introduction of was reached by 12 of the 17 sites. Mainly due its life cycle including raw materials, production, optimized output control of to P.T. Teijin Indonesia Fiber Corporation use and disposal. We are also pursuing the turbo-compressors at Teijin Fibers Tokuyama (TIFICO) being excluded from calculations, the creation of products that can be easily recycled Plant and inverter-based water pumps and CO2 emissions for overseas group companies and reused, and developing new functions for air conditioners at Matsuyama Plant. amounted to one million tons in FY2010, a products to reduce environmental impact However, as a result of increased production 25% decrease from the FY2009 level. Teijin Environmental Impact of the Teijin Group in FY2010 Energy Chemical substances handled Freshwater consumption Seawater consumption Input 38.5 × 106 GJ 1.571 million tons 87 million tons 101 million tons Intermediate products Products Use Teijin Group Manufacturing and processing Disposal Raw materials Recycling Recovery CO2 Chemical substance emissions Waste with no effective use Total water discharged Output 2.57 million tons 3,026 tons 5.7 thousand tons 182 million tons 25 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 business sites are currently not involved in the targets for each site in FY2009, and are Reduce transportation frequency (e.g. bulk EU-ETS*2, but we will keep track of the promoting activities to cut CO2 emissions. transportation, cooperative transport with post-Kyoto Protocol trends in amendments In FY2010, CO2 emissions from offices other companies) to the scheme, and take action as necessary. were 13 thousand tons, a 18% decrease from Improve loading efficiency (e.g. innovative The group-wide CO2 emissions amounted the FY2009 level, while for company vehicles, methods for loading and receiving orders to 2.57 million tons in FY2010, a 10% decrease the result was nearly the same as the 8,300 from customers) from the FY2009 level. tons emitted in FY2009 . Minimize Japanese domestic transportation *2 EU-ETS: European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (load/unload exports/imports at the Reducing Environmental Impact in Logistics nearest port) Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions from In FY2010, CO2 emissions by the Teijin Review transportation routes Offices and Company Vehicles Group’s specific consignors, Teijin Fibers In FY2011, these activities to reduce the At our Osaka head office, a building which we Limited, Teijin Dupont Films Japan Limited, environmental impact from logistic own, we have implemented building-wide and Teijin Chemicals Ltd., amounted to 18.5 operations were affected by the Great East Economic Report energy-saving activities. Similarly, at our Tokyo thousand tons, which corresponds to a unit Japan Earthquake. For example, due to head office, business group offices, and other index of 0.087 per thousand ton-kilometers. damage to ports used by Japanese domestic sales offices, we have set measures to improve This result translates to a 4.4% improvement, ships, we were forced to revert to truck the efficiency of energy consumption. At our thus achieving the annual target of reducing transportation. In addition, the reduced size Tokyo research center we have installed CO2 emissions per unit of transportation of shipments resulting from the substantial energy-efficiency monitors to realize improved amount by 1% or more compared to the decrease in Japanese domestic production “visualization” of energy use. In addition, since previous year’s level. lowered the transportation efficiency of the Great East Japan Earthquake in March The main contributing factor was to some businesses. 2011, we have take measures to dim or turn expand a shift from transporting by truck Despite these difficulties, we will continue Environment, Safety off lighting throughout the Tokyo head office to transporting by ship and container take measures as required by the situation and building to save power (see page 44). transportation through the Japan Freight exhaust all possible means to reduce our and Health Report Company vehicles are also being Railway Company (JR Freight). CO2 emissions environmental impact in logistics. targeted as part of our efforts to reduce CO2 have decreased by 9,487 tons compared to emissions. For example, at Teijin Pharma the level in FY2006 when management of Raising Employees’ Awareness Regarding Limited we are replacing vehicles used for CO2 emissions from logistics started. Per unit CO2 Reductions marketing activities with hybrid vehicles of transportation amount, this corresponds To raise employees’ awareness of Social Report and other eco-cars with low emissions, and to an 11.3% reduction. environmental issues in daily life, we encouraging employees to drive in a The Teijin Group is taking the following designated July, 2010 as “ecomoti” month and fuel-efficient manner through a system of measures to reduce CO2: held employee-oriented environmental recording fuel consumed and distance driven. Modal shift activities. The name “Eco-moti” derives from In FY2008, we began collecting data on Shift from truck transportation to sea/rail the words “eco” and “motivation” and signifies CO2 emissions from our offices and company transportation (use of Japanese domestic the concept of attempts to raise motivation in vehicles. We set independent numerical ships, JR Freight containers) relation to environmental action. Operated by the Fuluhashi Environmental Institute, Trends in Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Trends in CO2 Emissions and the Unit Index for “ecomoti” is a website-based system of Manufacturing Operations Teijin Group Specific Consignors awarding points to participants for Japan Overseas CO2 emissions (Million tons-CO2) CO2 emissions per transportation amount environment-conscious actions in daily life, 3.5 3.50 3.46 3.41 3.33 (tons-CO2) (compared to the level (1) such as turning off computer monitors when 3.25 in the base year FY2006) 3.0 0.90 27,987 2.86 30,000 1.000 1.00 they are not in use, and carrying reusable 1.27 2.57 27,576 2.5 1.44 1.45 1.48 chopsticks for personal use (rather than using 25,000 0.98 1.34 21,823 2.0 1.00 20,000 0.963 19,260 18,500 0.96 disposable ones). Participants can donate 1.5 15,000 0.94 their accumulated points to NPOs and NGOs, 2.60 0.928 1.0 2.06 2.02 1.96 1.77 1.52 1.57 10,000 0.930 0.92 thereby contributing to international society 0.5 5,000 0.90 and the local community. 0 0.887 In total, 200 Teijin Group employees 0 0.88 1990 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) participated in the program, and their (Base year) (FY) environmental action resulted in a 10kg CO2 * Includes CO2, methane and dinitrogen monoxide. * Although the raw materials and polymer business were * Calorific values and CO2 emissions are calculated according to transferred from Teijin Fibers Limited to Teijin Limited in April reduction per person. Based on the success of the coefficient specified in the Law Concerning the Promotion 2010, for comparison purposes, the figures for these of Measures to Cope with Global Warming (an emissions businesses have been included in those of Teijin Fibers. this program, we are making plans for more factor for electricity of 0.555kg-CO2/kWh is used for every * The calorific value of light oil was changed to 37.7GJ/kL in fiscal year). For power purchased overseas, where known, the FY2010 (38.2GJ/kL till FY2009) employee-oriented events in the future, relevant emissions factor is used for calculations. * There was a substantial decrease in FY2010 because TIFICO, including tree-planting volunteer activities. who emitted 470,000 tons of CO2 in FY2009, was excluded from the calculations. TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 26 Environment, Safety and Health Report Reducing Environmental Impact Details of Chemical Substance Emissions Group-wide, we generated 5.1 thousand tons Reducing Chemical Substance In Japan, the Teijin Group emitted 1,752 tons of of SOx in FY2010, a decrease of 30.1% Emissions chemical substances in FY2010, a 29.9% increase compared to the FY2009 level. from the FY2009 level. Factors that contributed The Teijin Group used a total of 87 million Targets for FY2006-2011 to this increase were the recovery of demand tons of tap water/industrial water (including Group-wide: Reduce chemical substance emissions by 30% or more compared to and the effects of structural reforms, which led ground water) in FY2010, including 74.5 million the FY2005 level by FY2011. to increased production, as well as delays in the tons in Japan and 12.8 million tons overseas. The Japan: Reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) by 50% or more emission-reduction measures associated with amount of seawater consumed as a coolant to compared to the FY2000 level by FY2010. the so-called “Lehman Shock.” Overseas, even reduce freshwater consumption at group though production increased, we emitted 1,274 companies in Japan was 100 million tons. The The Teijin Group is actively committed to tons, a level comparable to FY2009. This can be total amount of water discharged group-wide, reducing emissions of all chemical substances attributed to the sale of some group companies, including seawater, was 182 million tons, a 7.1% listed as Class 1 chemical substances in the which were excluded from calculations. reduction compared to the FY2009 level. Chemical Substances Management Law*1 Group-wide, emissions increased by 13.0% The total amount of chemical oxygen revised in April 2010, and those specified by compared to the FY2009 level. Compared to the demand (COD) load and biochemical oxygen the Japan Chemical Industry Association. FY2005 level, there was a 12.1% reduction, demand (BOD) load associated with the water Excluding duplicated listings, there are 575 which falls short of the 30% target. discharged group-wide was 809 tons, a slight specified chemical substances. Of the total chemical substances emitted increase on the FY2009 level. At group companies in Japan, in addition into the environment, 98.7% was released to the efforts mentioned above, we are striving into the atmosphere, 1.3% into the water, to reduce the emissions of volatile organic and 0% into landfill or the soil. Emissions Reducing/Managing Waste compounds (VOCs) by 50% or more compared of Class 1 chemical substances specified in Targets for FY2006–2011 to the FY2000 level by the end of FY2010 (by 72% the Chemical Substance Management Reduce “waste with no effective use*3” by or more compared to the FY1998 level). We have Law were 2,173 tons, a 12.0% increased 50% or more compared to the FY2005 level by FY2011. also established a long-term goal for reducing compared to the FY2009 level. emissions of chemical substances by 80% or The VOCs emitted at group companies in The Teijin Group has made a strong more compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. Japan in FY2010 totaled 1,648 tons, achieving commitment to reducing the amount of To date, regarding the issue of reducing the target with a 51.8% reduction compared to waste generated, and also reducing the chemical substances, the Teijin Group has focused the FY2000 level . “waste with no effective use.” This is on the hazardous properties of substances. As of manifested in promoting reuse of waste, and FY2010, we are also considering this issue from SOx Emissions and Wastewater Loading shifting from simple incineration/landfill to the perspective of “risk” to humans, the ecosystem (COD, BOD) material, chemical, and thermal recycling. and the environment. Using LIME2*2, a life cycle In FY2010, group companies in Japan Our mid-term target for “waste with no assessment (LCA) method, as an evaluation index, generated 4.8 thousand tons of SOx as a effective use” is a reduction of 50% or more we will also concentrate our efforts on reducing result of fuel use, a 5.9% decrease compared to the FY2005 level by FY2011. When chemical substances, which have a large influence compared to the FY2009 level. Overseas compared to FY1998, this represents a reduction in terms of environmental impact. group companies generated 0.3 thousand of 81%. In our long-term target for FY2020, we *1 Chemical Substance Management Law: Law tons, a substantial 86.4% decrease compared to aim to achieve a reduction of 85% or more Concerning Reporting, etc., of Releases to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and the FY2009 level due in part to TIFICO, a compared to FY1998. In FY2010, group-wide, we Promoting Improvements in Their Management. company with high SOx emissions, being generated 5.7 thousand tons of “waste with no *2 LIME2: The second, Japanese version of the Life Cycle excluded from calculations due to its sale. effective use,” 6.9% of the total 82 thousand tons Impact Assessment Method Based on Endpoint Modeling. Trends in Chemical Substance Emissions Top 10 Chemicals Substance Emissions in Trends in SOx Emissions FY2010 Japan Overseas Japan Overseas Inorganic cyanogen compound (tons) (excluding complex salt Xylene 2.4% (thousand tons) and cyanate) 4,000 Propyl alcohol 2.2% 12.5 3,614 2.6% 3,444 3,283 Methyl alcohol Others 7.4% 10.3 10.3 3,000 3,026 10.0 9.5 2,883 2,677 2.7% 8.9 Mid-term target 7.5 7.3 2,000 Tetrahydrofuran 3.3% Dichloromethane 5.0 5.1 1,000 Acetone Total (methylene chloride) 2.5 3.6% emissions 50.7% 0 N3,026 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Methylpyrrolidone tons 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) (Base year) 4.5% * Emissions of Class 1 chemical substances listed in the Chemical Substances Management Law and chemical Methyl ethyl ketone N,N-Dimethylformamide substances specified by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. The figures shown are the total of emissions 9.3% 11.3% into the atmosphere, soil and water, and landfill amount within business sites. * Red text denotes chemical substances specified as Class 1 in the Chemical Substances Management Law. 27 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 of waste generated. Efforts at each business greenhouse gases, chemical substances and site/plant to reduce “waste with no effective Water Purification and Preventing other emissions from our business activities use,” combined with decreased production, Soil/Groundwater Pollution is the basis for expanding preservation resulted in a reduction of 68% compared to In FY2006, the Teijin Group formulated activities. Another aspect of sustainable the FY2005 level, thus achieving the mid-term guidelines for preventing soil and groundwater management is our Earth Symphony ® target. We will continue persevering to ensure pollution. Under the guidelines, we are certification system (see page 29), which this standard is maintained. striving to prevent soil and groundwater considers the impact that our products have An additional goal for individual business pollution resulting from our business on biodiversity. Under the system, a figure sites and plants is achieving zero emissions, operations in Japan and overseas. In the corresponding to effect on biodiversity which is defined as reducing the ratio of “waste future, we will continue taking pollutionenables the environmental impact to be with no effective use” to 1% or less of the total preventing measures as appropriate. quantified and is used in the evaluations and waste generated. As a mid-term target, we aim certification of products. to achieve zero emissions by the end of FY2011 Aiming to raise environmental awareness Initiatives to Preserve Biodiversity Economic Report for 23 business sites and plants in Japan that of employees, the Teijin Group: holds an emit over 500 tons of waste in one year. Basic Perspective and Aims Regarding environmental forum once a year to deepen In FY2010, five business sites/factories Biodiversity understanding and interest in the global newly achieved zero emissions: Teijin environment and biodiversity; organizes cicada 1. Promote Sustainable Management Chemicals Mihara Plant and Plastic Technical exuviae surveys from environment-education Actively promote sustainable management Center, Kinkai Chemicals, Teijin Chemicals and investigative perspectives; co-sponsors a based on recognition of the fact that Matsuyama Plant, and Teijin Cordley Shimane biodiversity is critically important to preserving Nature Observation Leader Workshop to Plant. This result was in line with zero emission and reducing impact on the global environment. nurture leaders who are able to lead naturetargets for the year. In Japan, “waste with no 2. Encourage Full Participation of All preservation education (see page 56); and Environment, Safety effective use” totaled 334 tons, a reduction of 38% Employees supports employees’ voluntary activities such compared to the FY2009 level. Basing future Increase employees’ awareness and as planting cherry trees. and Health Report understanding of biodiversity and support steps on the 3Rs principle, we will strive for further Thirdly, to build strong bonds with society, we voluntary activities relating to biodiversity. reduction of total waste generated. For FY2012 implement “local risk communication,” that is, 3. Build Strong Bonds with Society onward, we have set a target of reducing total information-exchange meetings in local Through communication and cooperation waste generated per unit of production by communities. We invite representatives from with local communities, express a high 1% or more every year. priority on the relationship between local community associations, and other Social Report At overseas group companies, three residents and the environment. concerned parties from nearby schools, business sites/plants achieved zero emissions, companies and government organizations the same result as in the previous year. “Waste The teijin Group has set the following aims to these meetings and explain issues such with no effective use” amounted to 5.4 regarding biodiversity: (1) Promote as the impact of our business activities on thousand tons, representing a 5% reduction sustainable management, (2) Encourage full our ecosystem, our production activities and compared to the FY2009 level. Although participation of all employees, and (3) Build our management of chemical substances. progress on finding effective uses for this strong bonds with society. As a leading environment-oriented waste has been advancing steadily at group The first step in our efforts was to corporate group, we will continue to companies in Japan, this is not the case at prepare a “map” of how our business assertively promote sustainable management overseas group companies. We will focus on activities are related to biodiversity and the and biodiversity, and thereby contribute to improving the situation through action such environment. Understanding how the both improving living standards and as searching for suitable recycling companies. environment and biodiversity are affected by preserving the global environment. Trends in COD/BOD Load Trends in Water Consumption and Trends in “Waste with no Effective Use*3” Total Water Discharged COD (Japan) BOD (Japan) Japan Overseas (tons) COD (overseas) BOD (overseas) Water consumption Japan Overseas (tons) Total water discharged Japan Overseas 1,500 20,000 (million tons) 17,974 1,195 1,113 250 15,000 1,062 215 211 1,000 950 200 212 196 12,225 797 809 182 10,000 9,977 150 7,780 Mid-term target 500 100 102 97 6,240 5,691 100 91 87 5,000 50 0 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) (Base year) * Applies to wastewater discharged into rivers, oceans and * Water consumption amount includes industrial water, *3 Waste with no effective use: Waste that is either put lakes. groundwater and tap water. directly into landfill or incinerated without heat recovery. * COD data is used in cases where both COD and BOD data * Total water discharged includes seawater used for cooling. are available. TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 28 Environment, Safety and Health Report Design for Environment Product and Manufacturing Process Design Contributing to Reduced Environmental Impact All products, manufacturing processes, and IT services are designed based on evaluations of the environmental impact throughout the product’s life cycle. As an original initiative, products approved by the Teijin Group as having an environment-conscious design are labeled with the “Earth Symphony ®” logo, aiming to raise public awareness of our Design for Environment products. liability/quality assurance audits, and What is Design for Environment? Design for Environment Approval decisions on whether to renew or withdraw The Teijin Group positions Design for System approvals are made. Environment as one of the three core The Teijin Group has an original system for * Key items: Important safety-related items or items relating to compliance with laws and internal regulations. elements of environmental management. approving Design for Environment products, Design for Environment is defined as: in place since January 2008. “Product design that aims to reduce the The approval system applies to products environmental impact of each product and IT services for which sales are expected Design for Environment Approved through evaluating the overall to exceed a specified amount, or products, IT Products “Earth Symphony®” environmental impact throughout the services or manufacturing processes for In July 2007, we developed the “Earth product life cycle including raw materials, which there is a specific desire to obtain Symphony ®” concept, a logo to be displayed production, use and disposal.” Design for Environment approval. The first on products that have received Design for (Environmental impact includes release of step is for the relevant department head to Environment approval. In June 2010, “Earth CO2/sulfur oxides that contribute to global conduct a five-stage self-evaluation using Symphony ®” became a registered trademark warming/air pollution.) Based on this the checklist. The department head can of the Teijin Group. definition, in January 2008, we established apply for approval provided that the Through use of this standardized brand the Teijin Group Design for Environment product, IT service, or process is shown to logo, we aim to promote awareness of our Guidelines, which apply to six areas; safety, have no ratings of 1 for any key items, plus Design for Environment activities and design energy saving, resource saving, environmental either a rating of 5 for at least one key item products that can penetrate global markets. conservation, provision of information, and or a rating of 4 for two or more key items*. Furthermore, by FY2020, we aim to environmental impact reduction in the The results of the self-evaluation are verified substantially increase the ratio of total net manufacturing stage. by the Business Group Product Liability/ sales accounted for by products with the When a product, manufacturing process Quality Assurance Committee, and an Earth Symphony ® logo. or IT service is newly designed or the design application for approval is submitted to the is improved, the guidelines and a special Expert committee for Promoting Design for checklist are used to evaluate the design. Environment. This committee examines the Various measures to reduce the application, and if successful, approval is environmental impact are investigated, and granted by the committee chairman. the results are reflected in the design of new Even after approval, compliance is products, manufacturing processes and IT checked periodically through product services. The evaluation also incorporates items, such as those relating to the safety of chemical substances, that show consideration Design for Environment Bodies and Approval System for biodiversity. Group CSR Committee Summary of the Design for Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee Environment Evaluation Checklist 1 Safety 2 Energy saving Group Product Liability/ Expert committee for 3 Resource saving Quality Assurance Committee Promoting Design for Environment 4 Environmental conservation 5 Provision of information 6 Environmental impact reduction in the Approval application Examination for approval manufacturing stage Under the six major items, there are sub-items Self-evaluation (checklist) Approval and spaces for scoring evaluations. The checklist is available in three versions with sub-items/spaces for scoring evaluation relating Verification: Product Liability/ Application to either raw materials/materials, finished Quality Assurance Audits products, or IT services. Review of guideline implementation planning 29 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Reviewing the Guidelines Results of In-house Questionnaire The United Nations declared 2010 as the and Future Plans International Year of Biodiversity, and in October In November 2010, employees in Japan of the same year, the Convention on Biological were surveyed to evaluate the Design for Diversity held the 10th Conference of the Environment approval system. Parties (COP10) meeting in Nagoya, Japan. The survey results revealed that the This logo is used to promote awareness among the Against this background, we decided to system has not gained sufficient recognition. Economic Report general public of our initiative for harmonization with the global environment through environmentally review the Design for Environment On this basis, we plan to review the extent conscious corporate activities based on the Teijin Guidelines for FY2010, aiming to conduct an and mechanisms of training in order to Group Design for Environment Guidelines. even more detailed evaluation of the impact increase awareness. on biodiversity in relation to the item, “environmental impact reduction in the manufacturing stage.” Environment, Safety Comments on Design for Environment and Health Report The Teijin Group has consulted with external experts to maintain and increase the effectiveness of our Design for Environment activities. The Teijin Group’s Design for Environment consumers, materials such as initiative has significant benefits: it is a bio-polycarbonates that enable reduced use group-wide initiative with a scope from of fossil resources in the material Social Report materials through to finished goods and IT procurement stage, and materials such as Masahiko services; common guidelines make it easier ECO CIRCLE™ FIBERS which provide the final Hirao Professor to set goals and address issues; the approval link for a closed-loop recycling system that The University of Tokyo’s system enables evaluations both internally includes consumers. These coordinated Graduate School of Engineering and externally. Products of ten group efforts with users and suppliers result in more companies have already received Design for than simply Design for Environment Environment approval. These products are products; in a world where further it as being environment-friendly. Regarding the fruitful results of a system with such environmental consideration will be required, biodiversity too, gaining societal trust benefits. I anticipate further expansion of the these efforts also represent significant through LCA-based quantitative evaluations voluntary PDCA system to realize the change business opportunities. A good example is will be required. to all products being designed and laminating film for canned beverages, a Based on the report on the results of manufactured according to the Design for Design for Environment product which was the 2011 internal survey I received, although Environment Guidelines. produced via joint efforts with a beverage the Teijin Group is recognized in society as However, the Design for Environment can manufacturer. We need to take an environment-oriented manufacturer, objectives cannot be realized by one advantage of the Teijin Group’s strength of internally, the level of full participation in company or division alone. As I commented having businesses that span from materials to activities has not been reached. On the last year, expanding the Design for assembled products. other hand, I also found that the initiative is Environment initiative requires coordinated The approach to life cycle assessment better understood by the management and efforts in supply chains that go beyond (LCA), which is based on the same concept as new business divisions. I sincerely hope that individual companies or divisions. Examples that of a supply chain, still seems to be in its the image of Teijin as an of these coordinated efforts include carbon initial stages. Carrying out LCA makes the environment-oriented corporation held by fibers and heat-reflective/insulating film for Design for Environment initiative a those outside the company will also windows, products/services such as virtual quantitative and effective activity both permeate internally to the full participation hosting services that contribute to reducing internally and externally. The sole fact that a in activities by all employees. environmental impact when used by material is biomass-based no longer qualifies TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 30 Environment, Safety and Health Report Design for Environment TOPICS Products that Received Design for Environment Approval in FY2010 (Earth Symphony® Certified Products) Cordley®, Artificial Leather Using ECOPET® Cordley ®, an artificial leather using ECOPET ® and manufactured by Artificial leather Cordley® Teijin Cordley Limited was newly approved in FY2010. To date, mainly (Teijin Cordley Limited) existing products of core companies have received approval. Now using ECOPET® Cordley ®, a group company product has been approved, evidence of the steady progress of the initiative. This logo is used to promote awareness among the general public of our initiative for harmonization with the List of Products and Processes that have Received Design for global environment through environmentally conscious Environment Approval (Earth Symphony ® Certification) corporate activities based on the Teijin Group Design for (Products in red are those approved in FY2010) Environment Guidelines. Name of product, Name of company Applications/Features process or service PET resin (heavy metal-free) Bottles (Sb Ge) PC resin (chemical recycling) Utilization of sheet waste PC resin (material recycling) PC-COM (headlamp lenses, laptop computers, laser printers and copying machines) Teijin Chemicals Ltd. PC resin molded plate Windows of Tokaido Shinkansen: Series N700 (substitute for glass, absorbs heat and ultraviolet rays) PC-COM (electromagnetic wave shielding: laptop computers, digital cameras/game Nonhalogen flame resistant PC consoles, optical components) PC made using raw materials originating from plant life (reduction in CO2 through Bio-PC change in raw fuel) ECO CIRCLE™ FIBERS Polyester fiber regenerated by chemical recycling technology PURITY ® PET containing no heavy metals Teijin Fibers Limited ECOPET ® Spin-dyeing Civil engineering materials (bottle units, filter units) ELK® Cushioning polyester material used as a substitute for urethane foam ECOPET ® SF Uniforms, daily life supplies (drain bags, wipers), etc. Para-aramid fibers Sheet for anti-seismic reinforcement (weight-saving) Teijin Techno Products Limited Para-aramid fibers Geotextile-reinforced embankment Adem (longer lifecycle) Para-aramid fibers Automotive belt reinforcement (weight-saving, smaller) Teijin DuPont Films Laminating films for Substitute for paints (eliminate painting, cooling and drainage treatment process) Japan Limited canned beverages Energy-efficient oxygen concentrator (good mass balance, decreased power Hi-Sanso™ 2U consumption, lighter weight) Teijin Pharma Limited Energy-efficient oxygen concentrator (good mass balance, decreased power Hi-Sanso™ 3R consumption, lighter weight) AutoSet™ C CPAP apparatus–automatic pressure adjustment model (compact and lightweight) Pyromex ® (Oxidized PAN fiber) Brake lining for aircraft (weight-saving, higher performance) Blades for wind turbine generation (glass fiber substitute: energy saving at the time of use, resource saving) Aircraft: interior material, etc. (glass fiber substitute: energy saving at the time of use, Toho Tenax Co., Ltd. resource saving) Tenax ® (Carbon fiber) Aircraft: structural material, etc. (duralumin substitute: energy saving at the time of use, resource saving) Pressure vessel bodies (glass fiber substitute: energy saving at the time of use, resource saving) N.I. Teijin Shoji Co.,Ltd. REFTEL® Highly transparent heat-reflective insulating films (energy saving) On one server, several different operating systems and application services can be run Infocom Corporation Virtualization hosting services (energy saving, space saving) Cordley ® artificial leather Teijin Cordley Limited (100% use of ECOPET ® SF) Artificial leather using ECOPET ® (reduced use of resources, environmental preservation) PET production process Teijin Limited Process approval Major reduction of CO2 emissions compared to production from petroleum PET: polyester, PC: polycarbonate, PC-COM: polycarbonate compound, DMT: dimethyl terephthalate 31 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Environment, Safety and Health Report Environmental Businesses Promoting Businesses Contributing to Reduced Environmental Impact With the ultimate aim of helping solve global environmental issues, we are utilizing our technologies cultivated over many years to focus efforts on developing cutting-edge materials that contribute to reducing CO2 emissions, and recycling technologies that enable reuse of water and other resources. The Teijin Group’s Environmental Businesses Teijin Group’s Environmental Businesses Global warming Environmental pollution Fossil fuel depletion The Teijin Group Global Environmental Charter was established in 1992. Climate change/ Air pollution Water pollution Extreme weather Subsequently, in 2007, we announced the Declaration of Sustainable Environment Initiatives. Recognizing the substantial impact Pollutant Reduction Economic Report Disaster Prevention Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Removal of our business activities on the global environment, we are striving to preserve the • River/Shore revetment • Technologies/Materials • Storage battery materials • Recycling technologies • Banking/Soil for weight reductions in • Fuel cell battery materials for reuse of industrial environment through providing products and reinforcement transportation • High-efficiency lighting and household effluent • Chemical recycling (see page 34) services that reduce environmental impact. (LED/organic EL related technologies for materials) • Flue gas NOx/SOx polyester products removal equipment Influencing the situation are (see page 34) • Heat-reflective/ Insulating film for environmental pollution controls, mandatory • PET/PEN films for solar windows battery panels back • Bioplastics reduction of greenhouse gas emissions aiming sheets (see page 33) • Carbon fiber for to prevent global warming, and various Environment, Safety reinforcement of wind resource issues such as depletion of oil reserves turbine blades and the uneven distribution of rare metals. In and Health Report response to these issues, we are strengthening Carbon Fiber Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), a Japan Carbon Fiber Manufacturers Association Model development of bioplastics, which help reduce CO2 Reduction through Adopting Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastics (CFRPs) CO2 emissions, and advanced and composite Overall product life cycle (10 years) (unit: t) materials, which contribute to energy-savings Raw Operation Type Condition Assembly Disposal and reduced use of resources. materials (10 years) Conventional 3.9 1.2 26.0 0.3 Effect in reducing Social Report CO2 (10 years) Contributing to Reduced CO2 -5 30% weight Automobiles reduction 5.1 0.8 20.2 0.3 Emissions (1): Weight Reductions in 17% CFRP use Transportation Conventional 700 3,800 390,000 Effect in reducing CO2 (10 years) In the automotive and aircraft industries, initiatives to improve fuel efficiency and Aircraft 20% weight reduction 50% CFRP use* 900 3,000 364,000 -27,000 * Applies to structural components (excludes engine and interior) reduce CO2 emissions are continuing. In the CO2 reduction per ton of carbon fiber automotive sector, particularly in advanced CO2 emissions during countries, regulations relating to fuel manufacturing of 20 carbon fiber efficiency and emissions have been Life cycle CO2 Effect in reducing reduction CO2 tightened. In the aircraft industry, one of the (including -50 resolutions adopted at an international Automobiles emissions during manufacturing) -30 environmental preservation conference of the Life cycle CO2 Effect in reducing International Civil Aviation Organization reduction CO2 (including -1,400 (ICAO) held in February 2010 was to establish CO2 emission standards by 2013 and improve Aircraft emissions during manufacturing) -1,380 Calculations were made under the conditions shown below. fuel efficiency every year by 2% until 2050. Automobiles Body weight: 1,380kg (gasoline-fueled, 4-door, FF; source: Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association), In this context, the Teijin Group is working actual-driving fuel efficiency: 9.8 km/L (source: Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association), total mileage: 94,000km (average for vehicles in use for 10 years, source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan) hard to develop and increase the widespread Aircraft Aircraft body size: medium-sized transport plane (B767) with Japanese domestic route specifications, operation: Japanese domestic route (Haneda to Chitose [500 miles]), total distance flown based on 2,000 flights per year for 10 years use of carbon fiber and polycarbonate resin, (source: All Nippon Airways) materials which are more lightweight and stronger than conventional materials such as efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions. Polycarbonate resin is used in the window iron, aluminum and glass. Use of these Applications of carbon fiber include panels of the N700 Series Shinkansen trains materials realizes weight savings for finished wind generator blades and the upper-deck and automobile windows. In addition to being products, and contributes to improved fuel floor cross beam of the AIRBUS A380. lightweight, polycarbonate resin has superior TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 32 Environment, Safety and Health Report Environmental Businesses TOPICS Award-winning Technical Contributions to the Lexus LFA In January 2011, Toho Tenax Co., Ltd. received an award from Toyota Motor Corporation in the Technical Section of the Toyota Project Awards. This award is given to suppliers who have made outstanding technical contributions. We received high evaluations of our new carbon fiber material, Semipreg, which is used in the Lexus LFA. Semipreg, a refined version of Toho Tenax’s own large mold manufacturing technology, was a joint development with Toyota Motor Corporation. It is used as the most suitable material for the vehicle cabin structure, the area requiring the highest level of reliability. Use of this molding material has made it possible to achieve performance equivalent to that of composite materials, which have conventionally been used in the primary structure of aircraft for their high reliability. Furthermore, applying this technology to carbon fiber, which is Taken at Toho Tenax Ibigawa Plant upon highly versatile, realizes a stable supply at low cost. the completion of the production system for the LFA processing characteristics, raising expectations BIOFRONT ® other plants. The bio-content is as high as of further improvements in design. Compared to conventional bioplastics, 70%. It has excellent transparency, chemical As we move forward, we will continue to BIOFRONT ® has superior heat resistance, resistance, scratch resistance and durability. appeal the weight-saving benefits our materials durability and molding characteristics. Taking There are numerous applications that take to customers, and seek to provide solutions that advantage of these benefits, we intend to advantage of these features, including those contribute to curbing global warming. develop the applications of BIOFRONT ® to in the automotive/electronics, medical, food, the electronics and automotive fields. and cosmetics industries. Extending further, we are fully utilizing Contributing to Reduced CO2 Plant-derived Polycarbonate our compounding and alloying technologies Emissions (2): Diversification of Raw (Bio-polycarbonate) to develop high-performance Materials Plant-derived polycarbonate is an bio-polycarbonate resins, thus taking up the Bioplastics, which are made from renewable eco-friendly polycarbonate-like resin, challenge of pioneering development of feedstock, are regarded as carbon-neutral. containing isosorbide made from corn and new markets. Using plants, which capture CO2 during Development of Teijin’s Bioplastics their growth, as a feedstock, contributes to less consumption of fossil resources and inhibits increases in CO2 concentration in the atmosphere. The Teijin Group will continue to promote the introduction of bioplastics into the engineering plastics field. High-performance PEI PEEK plastics LCP Highly heat-resistant bioplastic: BIOFRONT ® ECO CIRCLE™ Plantfiber (Bio-PET) PES Bio-polycarbonate Bio-PET: ECO CIRCLE™ Plantfiber ECO CIRCLE™ Plantfiber is a partially bio-derived PSU PPS Engineering PC PAG, PAGG PET fiber. Ethylene glycol, one of the plastics mPPO PBT, PET, POM Conventional components of PET resin, is made from biofuels bioplastics derived from biomass such as sugarcane. Commodity ABS, PMMA PLA, PBS, PHA plastics PS, PVC PE, PP The bio-content of ECO CIRCLE ™ Plantfiber is roughly 30% and it has the same characteristics and quality of Amorphous (transparent) Crystalline (opaque) oil-derived PET. Recycling is also possible via the ECO CIRCLE™ closed-loop recycling system (see page 34). With full-scale production expected to start in April 2012, we are focusing on applications ranging from apparel and car seats/interiors , to personal hygiene products, and as a raw material for polyester fiber products. This will be the world’s first commercial Gowns made of BIOFRONT® worn by the wives of Eyeglasses designed by Katharine E. Hamnett. All production of a bio-derived PET fiber. world leaders who visited Japan for APEC JAPAN 2010 plastic parts are made of BIOFRONT®. 33 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 with more than 150 apparel and retailers in savings and cost reductions are realized. ECO CIRCLE™ Closed-loop Polyester Japan and overseas. We have also developed sophisticated Recycling System * 80% reduction: Source: Report on “Textile Goods Life technologies for wastewater reuse, Cycle Assessment (LCA) Survey,” Ministry of Economy, ECO CIRCLE ™ is a closed-loop recycling Trade and Industry, Japan. CO2 emissions includes including ELCAT ™, an electro catalytic system based on a world-first chemical those produced during incineration. method and HiPOx ®, an advanced recycling technology developed by Teijin oxidation water treatment. Fibers Limited. In the mid-1990s, we began recycling polyester products to cope with Wastewater Recycling/Reuse growing waste issues such as disposal of PET through Biological Processes Environmental Impact Surveys and bottles. First, we began marketing ECOPET ®, Water shortages and water pollution are Monitoring a fiber recycled from PET bottles. Later, we becoming increasingly serious problems in Teijin Eco-Science Limited links its three expanded the scope of our recycling various areas of the world. Raising hopes of a departments, Environmental Surveying, initiative to include all polyester products, solution are Japan’s outstanding water Environmental Analysis and Environmental Economic Report and, with the aim of realizing a closed-loop purification treatment technologies. The Teijin Consulting as part of efforts to handle recycling system, we developed a chemical Group hopes to be a part of this solution to environmental issues on an integrated basis. recycling technology that allows polyester alleviate water shortages problems around This company provides highly reliable analysis products to be recycled into a highly pure the world. To this end, we are proactively of soil, water quality, air and microchemical raw material. Chemical recycling of polyester promoting our water purification treatment substances such as dioxins, and proposes products enables repeated regeneration of business under the concept of recycling and solutions to environmental issues. new products without quality deterioration. reuse of wastewater. Furthermore, in response to a request In addition to reducing the volume of The core technology of our wastewater from the Ministry of the Environment, Japan, waste, ECO-CIRCLE ™ recycling realizes an purification treatment system is the from the base of the Teijin Group’s structural Environment, Safety approximate 80%* reduction in energy multistage activated biological process analytical technology, we established a consumption and CO2 emissions compared (MSABP®). As well as purifying wastewater via method for determining whether asbestos and Health Report to newly producing polyester feedstock microorganisms, MSABP® uses the microbial has been detoxified using transmission (DMT) from petroleum. food chain to control the generation of electron microscopy (TEM). This analytical Product development, collection and excess sludge. As a result, compared to method involves a special technology that is recycling are now in progress in cooperation ordinary activated sludge equipment, energy possessed by a select few companies in Japan. Towards Continuous Reuse of Resources Aiming for Reuse of Water Social Report ECO CIRCLE™ closed-loop Concept/Technologies of our Water recycling system Purification Treatment Business Industrial Factories/ wastewater/ Industrial/ Reuse Homes sewage Film Film Tap water products products Advanced treatment Biological process Fiber DMT Chips Fiber Water Purification products products Treatment (WPT) Business HiPOx ® ELCAT ™ PET MSABP ® PET bottles Bio-derived bottles Ethylene glycol Advanced Biological (PET raw treatment process material) (core technology) Rivers/Sewage (effluent) TOPICS Participation in Environment-oriented Exhibitions in China and India Global coordinated efforts are required to reduce CO2 emissions. Particularly, in fast-growing China and India, economic growth needs to go hand in hand with environmental preservation. Of key importance to achieving this are “green” manufacturing processes and raising environmental awareness. With this in mind, the Teijin Group participated in environmental exhibitions held in China and India in FY2010. As we continue to consolidate our products, materials, and technologies, we will continue contributing to sustainable development of these two nations. China: China International Green India: Eco-products International Industry Expo (November 2010) Fair 2011 (February 2011) TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 34 Environment, Safety and Health Report Disaster Prevention Activities Protecting Local Communities and Employees from Disasters In order to prevent accidents and disasters such as explosions, fires, leaks and spills, we are enhancing disaster prevention management including fire prevention and earthquake countermeasures. strengthen the disaster prevention system. completed the training course in FY2010 . Promoting Disaster Prevention We have also performed mini disaster The wide-ranging program includes Management prevention assessments since 2008 at topics such as technologies related to disaster Our disaster prevention activities are based on locations where there may be a risk of prevention in operation and facility the group-wide Disaster Prevention small-scale fires, such as near boilers and management, and perception training. Guidelines. Our efforts range from places where hazardous materials and Furthermore, with a view to providing training preventative measures such as disaster combustibles are stored. In FY2010, mini that is practical and sustainable, opportunities prevention assessment and fire prevention, as disaster prevention assessments took place at 7 for discussions are provided in addition to well as earthquake countermeasures and business sites in Japan. lectures. Trainees are required to prepare a activities to prevent the expansion of damage, short essay on “How I will apply what I learned Trends in the Number of including disaster prevention training, drills Disaster-prevention-assessed Plants in my workplace,” and to submit a report on and upgrading of fire prevention equipment. the results of their efforts one year later. Disaster prevention assessments In 2010, these activities resulted in the Mini disaster prevention assessments number of serious accidents at group (Number of events) companies in Japan and overseas group 20 Fire Prevention Activities 17 15 companies being zero*1. We will continue November 10 is the Teijin Group Fire our efforts to maintain this record of no 10 9 Prevention Day. On this day each company’s 8 7 7 serious accidents. 5 5 5 own fire prevention activities and group-wide 4 *1 Serious accident: Any accident involving an 2 2 activities such as the periodical fire prevention 0 0 0 explosion, fire (excluding fires extinguished in their 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Year) check are carried out. Since starting Fire initial stages) or external leak of hazardous substances. Prevention Day in 2008, shared group-wide activities have continued to develop and the Trends in the Number of Serious Accidents Activities of the Specialist Disaster and Disasters fire prevention system has been strengthened. Prevention Team Explosions/Fires Leaks/Spills/Other (Number of events) The Teijin Group has set-up a Specialist Disaster 2 2 2 Prevention Team consisting of leading experts Earthquake Countermeasures who have vast knowledge and experience in We have set-up countermeasures to this field. The team works to upgrade disaster minimize the possible damage resulting 1 1 1 1 1 1 prevention in the Teijin Group, through from a large earthquake. providing technical support for voluntary As part of earthquake-resistance 0 0 0 0 0 disaster prevention activities at our chemical measures, we took action for group company 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Year) plants and in-house power generation plants. buildings in Japan that were built before the In 2010, we provided technical support for Building Standards Law was revised in 1981, disaster prevention assessments and disaster and completed demolishing and Implementing Disaster Prevention prevention management for each plant. We earthquake-resistance reinforcing work in 2009. Assessments also prepared an English version of the “List of In addition, under a 2006 revision of the The Teijin Group has been conducting disaster Don'ts Regarding Disaster Prevention,” a Promotion of Building Earthquake-resistance prevention assessments in line with our own disaster prevention guidebook originally Reinforcement Law, 19*2 company buildings independent standards since 1980. Safety is compiled in 2009 including case examples were classified as having inadequate assessed every five years by experts in within the group, which is now being utilized earthquake resistance. To date, as part of manufacturing, facilities and environment, worldwide as an instructional material. planned measures, reinforcement of safety and health at a total of 27 plants in earthquake-resistance has been completed Japan and internationally. These are plants at one of these 19 buildings. where large amounts of high-pressure gases Disaster Prevention Management *2 19 company buildings: In 2010, we reported this figure or hazardous substances are handled. Experts and Technical Training as 21 buildings. However, two buildings are no longer used as part of the business. review and upgrade the safety and disaster Since 2007, we have conducted disaster prevention measures. In FY2010, five domestic prevention management and technical plants and two overseas plants were training for managers at chemical plants and identified as needing measures to verify and power generation plants. Sixteen managers 35 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Environment, Safety and Health Report Occupational Safety Creating a Safe and Secure Workplace Environment Aiming to realize zero serious workplace accidents and to upgrade group-wide safety, we implement both preventative and recurrence-prevention measures. kinds of workplace accidents, and machinery Occupational Safety Initiatives OHSAS18001 Certification Acquired safety assessment standards. The Teijin Group places a strong emphasis on at 41 Sites For serious accidents, which are defined accident prevention activities. In 2008, one of To reduce risk in the workplace, the Teijin in our rules for reporting accidents related to the targets set in the mid-term plan was to Group encourages all of its manufacturing the environment, safety and health (ESH), maintain the lost time injury frequency rates*1 and processing sites to comply with measures to prevent recurrence of similar to under 0.3. We achieved this target in both OHSAS18001 occupational health and safety accidents are implemented group-wide. In 2008 and 2009 with a workplace-accident management system standards. 2010, there were zero serious workplace Economic Report frequency of 0.25. Attempting to raise the As of March 2010, a total of 41 sites (34 accidents at Teijin Group companies. standard one level higher in FY2010, we in Japan and 7 overseas) had acquired implemented group-wide environment, approval, accounting for 76% (81% in safety and health training/guidance and Japan, 58% overseas) of the applicable Response to Workplace Accidents other measures. The result was a business sites. For “very serious accidents,” which are workplace-accident frequency of 0.20 in defined in our ESH auditing rules, and Japan and 0.25 overall, once again achieving accidents attributable to an elementary the target. The figure of 0.20 for Japan is well Promoting the Three Pillars of Safety problem, the Teijin Group conducts a Environment, Safety below the FY2010 average value of 0.72 for Activities special audit supervised by the General the chemical industry in Japan. In order to prevent workplace accidents, the Manager of the ESH Office. The cause of the Other measures range from Teijin Group has established three pillars of accident is investigated on-site, and and Health Report preventative actions such as reducing risk in safety activities: the “5S” initiative (5 Japanese support is provided for recurrencethe workplace based on compliance with words [Seiri, Seiton, Seisou, Seiketsu and preventative measures and planning. OHSAS18001 (standards for occupational Shitsuke] which correspond to organization, In FY2010, we conducted the special health and safety management systems), tidiness, cleaning, hygiene and discipline), audit*2 of an accident involving being and promoting the three pillars of safety the “Hiyari-Hatto” (meaning close call or near caught in a machine that occurred at a Social Report activities, to recurrence-prevention such as miss) initiative and safety patrols. business site in the Setouchi region. sharing workplace-accident information and Utilizing the information obtained *2 Special audit: Accidents subject to a special audit include accidents attributable to an elementary applying it group-wide. through these activities, we aim to enhance problem, even if the extent of damage is small. With the twin goals of zero serious individual awareness of risks, and workplace accidents and reducing lost time communication in the workplace. injury frequency rates, we will seek to further strengthen our efforts. *1 lost time injury frequency rates: The number of Sharing Workplace Accident workplace accidents resulting in leave of absence per Information and Preventing one million labor hours. Recurrences lost time injury frequency rates Information relating to all workplace Japan Overseas Teijin Group accidents that occur at Teijin Group Safety activities (TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE CHINA Ltd.) Manufacturing industry (Japan) Chemical industry (Japan) companies is distributed group-wide to (%) enable these experiences to be used as a 1.2 1.12 reference, and to help prevent the 1.09 1.0 recurrence of similar accidents. 1.01 0.99 0.98 The three major kinds of workplace 0.84 0.8 0.78 accidents have been specified as: 0.62 0.72 0.72 1) accidents involving being caught in 0.6 rotating machinery, 2) accidents involving Safety activities (Nantong Teijin Co., Ltd.) 0.4 0.40 contact or collision with transport 0.35 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.32 equipment, and 3) falls or slips on walkways 0.2 0.25 0.22 0.20 or staircases. In an attempt to prevent these 0.0 0.11 kinds of accidents, we have established 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Year) prevention guidelines for these three major TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 36 Environment, Safety and Health Report Health and Sanitary Measures Fostering Employees with Healthy Mind and Body To foster employees with ongoing vigor and enthusiasm for work, we are focusing on integrated management of health status and mental-health measures, thereby offering support for a healthy mind and body. communication in the workplace and at Japan, we have been taking measures to help in Enhancing Mental Health Measures home and promote a healthy mind and body. this regard. For example, we have set voluntary In addition to the Health Care Administration After the Great East Japan Earthquake in standards, such as exposure-prevention Office established in April 2009, each group March 2011, through the coordinated efforts of standards, and operating standards for company in Japan has elected a person in the related internal departments, internal asbestos-related health check-ups of charge of health administration, and an industrial health staff, and the EAP organization, employees, both current and retired. integrated system to manage the health status we collected/provided health-related Group-wide, all friable asbestos has been of employees has been created. A focus in information and offered support and removed from any equipment which people FY2010 was measures relating to the mental counseling for employees and their families. are in contact with ordinarily. We are also health of employees. In October 2010, the *1 The Teijin Group Health Walk: An employee-oriented continuing to take appropriate measures for annual event implemented in October in Health Care Administration Office established cooperation with the Teijin Group Health Insurance the friable asbestos that remains in locations a system to collect monthly information on Association. Employees enter the number of steps where it is not ordinarily in contact with earned every day on a special website. These steps the mental health status of employees in people, and semi-friable asbestos in are then converted into a distance, allowing group companies in Japan, and, according on employees to move along a virtual version of the equipment completely isolated, such as the situation, to use this information as part of “Fifty-three Stations of the Tokaido”. thermal materials and heat insulators. For group-wide mental health measures. example, we are removing the remaining In FY2010, other main activities for group asbestos during periodical maintenance and companies in Japan were: determining switching to substitute materials. mental health status, reducing workplace There are no current employees affected stress, improving the counseling system, and by asbestos. However, in FY2010, two former stimulating increased communication. employees were newly found to have Every March, we perform an investigation asbestos-related health problems. Since FY2005, A poster to promote use of into stress in the workplace at all group the hotline the cumulative number of employees found to companies in Japan. For workplaces where have asbestos-related health problems is 22. risk to health is found to be relatively high, we Health check-ups for former employees are implement activities for a period of six Promoting Health Management and to be conducted until the end of 2011. months aiming to improve the workplace Prevention of Lifestyle-related Diseases environment. The effectiveness of these In April 2008, it became mandatory for health activities are then checked in the following insurance providers in Japan to provide specific Preventing Nano-material-related March as part of the attempt to create health check-ups and guidance. In cooperation Health Problems workplaces that are open and easy to work in. with the Teijin Group Health Insurance In July 2008, we established guidelines to prevent Furthermore, with the assistance of an Association, we responded quickly to these damage to health caused by work involving external Employee Assistance Program (EAP) changes. Group or individual guidance is the production or handling of nano-materials organization, it was previously possible for mainly provided by industry medical staff at in response to a notice issued by the Ministry employees to consult with a counselor about the head offices and other business sites, and of Health, Labor and Welfare, Japan.*2 mental health issues via telephone or e-mail. we are supporting constant improvements. In March 2009, the relevant authorities However, after a review of the contract with While continuing to promote the annual issued a further three notices relating to the EAP organization, in April 2010, we Teijin Group Health Walk, we changed the nano-materials. In response, in June 2009, we started a new face-to-face counseling service previous arrangement of voluntary expanded the scope of our guidelines to for employees at remote branches and sales participation, and have positioned the event apply not only to nano-materials, but also offices. In addition, we distributed cards and as a group-wide initiative to promote good recycling of nano-materials, added enhanced displayed posters to encourage active use of health, reduce the ratio of health check-up safety measures and clarified issues such the counseling service, and provided reports with an abnormal finding and as how information is communicated. In managers with guidance booklets. prevent lifestyle-related diseases. line with these revised guidelines, we are The Teijin Group Health Walk*1 is an expanding our effects to prevent event held every October. Participants in this nano-material-related damage to health. event “earn” a certain number of steps for Approach to the Asbestos Issue *2 Notice issued by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare: “Measures to Prevent Exposure to verbal praise or appreciation given at the Since 2005, when asbestos-related health Nano-materials at Workplaces Where They Are home or workplace. The aim is to encourage problems hit the headlines as a social issue in Produced or Handled.” 37 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Environment, Safety and Health Report Overseas ESH Activities (Environmental Preservation, Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) Implementation of ESH Activities According to Regional Characteristics We are actively raising awareness of workplace safety and disaster prevention and conducting other ESH activities at companies and plants in all countries, for example China, Thailand and Singapore, through events and campaigns designed to match the regional and national characteristics of each country. Intensive Training at TNI Relating to BBS Activities for All Business Groups ESH Activities in Thailand Safety and Disaster Prevention The Polyester Fibers Business Group, which Each of the four group companies (five plants) At Thai Namsiri Intertex Co., Ltd. (TNI), a includes the four group companies in in Thailand conduct distinctive ESH activities. company engaged in textile manufacturing Thailand, has adopted the concept of Behavior All companies/plants are situated close to the and dyeing, many spinning elements and for Basic Safety (BBS) as the base for its safety capital city Bangkok, and are important players dangerous items are used. To raise awareness activities. Safety activities are designed to fit in the polyester business of the Teijin Group. of the danger among employees, simulations the national characteristics specific to are performed to show the actual effect of an Thailand. Examples are the daily safety Economic Report Enthusiastic Participation of All Members object being caught in a spinning element. meeting at TNI and a safety song before the in Safety Activities at TPL In addition, new recruits are expected to start of work at TCT. The goal is for employees Teijin Polyester (Thailand) Limited (TPL) has a take part in fire drills four times a year under the to enjoy participating in safety activities. history in Thailand spanning more than 40 new and enhanced employee training program. years. It has been commended for its excellence in safety, health and work Reinforced Hiyari-Hatto (Close Call) Activities in China and Singapore environment by the Thai Labor Minister for Activities and Reference to Accidents at TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE CHINA Ltd. (TPC) in eight consecutive years. As part of its Other Companies at TCT Zhejiang, China is raising safety awareness activities, TPL is promoting “visualization” of At Teijin Cord (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (TCT), a through constant display of safety Environment, Safety work procedures to prevent workplace manufacturer of cable cords for transmission information on electronic billboards in the accidents through various measures including belts situated in Ayutthaya, the office and a streamlined plant layout. and Health Report easy-to-understand displays in the workplace. strengthening of Hiyari-Hatto activities, A safety awareness campaign is planned TPL also holds an exhibition during ESH which started in 2007, is showing good at TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE SINGAPORE PTE week once a year in which all departments results. The submission rate, which was Ltd. (TPS) to share safety awareness present the results of ESH activities using previously approx. 0.5 cases per month per information and raise awareness levels of all panels, thereby boosting the awareness and employee has risen to over 2 cases per month employees, especially considering the high Social Report attitude towards safety. per employee in FY2010, a relatively high turnover and multiracial composition of submission rate even compared to the Teijin employees. Besides holding safety Happy 8 Activities at TJT to Increase Group companies in Japan. presentations, safety meetings are held Employee Satisfaction Aiming to prevent disasters, the before work to explain safety precautions. Teijin (Thailand) Limited (TJT) aims to create company is also pointing out potential happy workplace environments based on disaster areas at its own plant through eight factors relating to workplace happiness. referring to disasters that have occurred at These activities help to increase satisfaction other companies and raising awareness with the company, ensure safety and among employees. productivity, and develop employee loyalty. TOPICS Safety Workshop and Evacuation Drill at Sewing Plant in Vietnam Environment, safety and health issues are actively promoted at massage and bandaging wounds is provided, and the enthusiastic FASHION FORCE NO.1 FACTORY Co., Ltd., a sewing plant under the participation of employees is expected. direct management of N.I. Teijin Shoji Group, and situated at Long Binh Techno Park (LOTECO) in Vietnam. A nurse is employed full-time to manage the health and hygiene of the approximate 400 employees, and hold fire evacuation drills, safety workshops and meetings to explain company policies on safety and related issues. The evacuation drill is supported by the local fire department which deploys an actual fire engine to make the drill more realistic. Employees must cooperate with each other to complete the drill as quickly as possible. Training in emergency procedures such as cardiac An evacuation drill TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 38 Environment, Safety and Health Report ESH Management Data (Environmental Preservation, Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) For Constant, Efficient Improvements of ESH Activities We quantify ESH-related investments/expenses and link this to promoting and improving ESH activities in an efficient manner. We are also building an environmental management system based on ISO and Eco-Action 21 to promote steady group-wide improvements in ESH activities. Trends in ESH-related Investments Trends in ESH-related Expenses ESH-related Accounting Environmental preservation investments Environmental preservation expenses The Teijin Group calculates the investments, Japan Overseas Japan Overseas Safety and disaster prevention, and health investments Safety and disaster prevention, and health expenses expenses, and effect of ESH activities at all Japan Overseas Japan Overseas group companies. The investments, expenses (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) and effect of activities for environmental 4.0 15.0 3.6 preservation, energy savings, reduced use of 12.4 12.6 12.0 natural resources, and recycling are calculated 3.0 3.0 9.4 9.9 9.7 2.5 with reference to the environmental accounting 2.4 9.0 2.0 2.1 2.0 2.0 guidelines published by the Ministry of the 6.0 Environment of Japan. We also calculate the 1.0 0.9 investments and expenses for safety and 0.8 0.7 3.0 2.3 2.4 2.9 2.2 2.0 disaster prevention, and health. 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) (FY) Group-wide environmental preservation investments Group-wide, FY2010 environmental preservation totaled 0.9 billion yen in FY2010, a considerable decrease expenses were 9.7 billion yen, a decrease of 3% of 64% compared to the previous year. This decrease compared to the previous year. This result occurred due resulted from reduced investment in R&D in Japan, even to decreased resource recycling expenses in Japan, and despite increased group-wide investments in pollution despite increased group-wide global conservation control and global environmental preservation. expenses and increased R&D expenses in Japan. Group-wide investments related to disaster prevention, For disaster prevention, safety and health expenses, safety and health totaled 0.7 billion yen in FY2010, a although occupational safety expenses increased in decrease of 11% compared to the previous year. This was Japan, group-wide disaster prevention expenses mainly due to the influence of the economic downturn, decreased. Expenses for disaster prevention, safety and and occurred even despite increased investments for health in FY2010 were 2 billion yen, a decrease of 12% occupational safety measures overseas. compared to the previous year. Breakdown of ESH-related Costs of the Teijin Group in FY2010 (Unit: Hundreds of millions of yen) Economic Item Main activities Investment Expenses benefit* Actual effect Measures to prevent pollution (air, water, soil, • Reduced chemical substance emissions (see page 27) Pollution groundwater, noise, odor and other) and reduce 3.16 20.66 0.14 • Management of SOx emissions and COD load (see pages prevention chemical substance emissions 27–28) Business Global Measures such as those relating to energy savings • Measures to help prevent global warming and promote area environmental 3.61 5.27 4.83 and prevention of global warming energy-saving and other activities (see pages 25–26) conservation Environmental preservation Resource Measures to increase effective use of waste, including 0.19 17.48 5.87 • Reduced “waste with no effective use” (see pages 27-28) recycling promotion of waste recycling and solvent recovery Products and services Measures such as those to promote used-product 0.01 2.14 2.15 — recycling Establishment and maintenance of an Administration environmental management system, including costs — 6.24 — — for administrative personnel R&D Expenses for R&D of products and technologies 1.56 38.49 — — designed to reduce environmental impact Disclosure of environmental information at Social activities exhibitions; payment of SOx levy, environmental — 6.03 — — association memberships and other fees Repairing environmental Investigation and measures to deal with soil, • Investigation of soil and groundwater pollution, and necessary — 0.27 — damage groundwater and other pollution measures for decontamination (see page 28) Total 8.52 96.58 12.99 — Economic Item Main activities Investment Expenses benefit* Actual effect • Understanding conditions that can cause workplace injuries Occupational safety Ensuring occupational safety 4.01 3.99 — Safety and disaster prevention, and health (see page 36) Workplace environment Activities relating to ventilation, lighting, and evaluating, 0.81 0.88 — — improvement maintaining and improving the workplace environment Physical examinations and other measures to Health promotion 0.31 4.94 — — promote health Investigation of the seismic resistance of buildings, • Disaster prevention activities (e.g. preventing explosions/fires) Disaster prevention maintenance, and improvement of fire prevention 1.66 3.29 — (see pages 35-36) and extinguishing systems R&D of equipment and systems for safety and R&D 0.00 0.01 — — disaster prevention Establishment and maintenance of occupational Administration health and safety management systems, including — 6.44 — — costs for administrative personnel Total 6.79 19.55 — — * Monetary effect: Only those items that had a substantial effect are included in the calculations. 39 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 the Environment of Japan (and equivalent Scope of ESH Report (Plants/Business Sites) Obtaining Management System standards overseas if applicable). In doing Certifications this, we aim to take our independent (Blue text signifies facilities newly added in FY2011) In the Teijin Group, each group company activities for environmental preservation to Polyester Fibers creates an environmental management the next level through continuous Japan: Teijin Fibers, Teijin Tedy, Teijin Modern Yarn, Wako, Teijin Monofilament, system (EMS) based on ISO14001 and improvements. Union Tire Cord, Unisel Eco-Action 21 proposed by the Ministry of Overseas: Teijin Polyester (Thailand), TEIJIN(THAILAND), TEIJIN CORD(THAILAND), Thai Namsiri Intertex, Nantong Teijin, Teijin Current Status of ISO14001 Certification Modern Yarn (Nantong), Nantong Teijin Automotive Fabrics Finishing, Teijin Monofilament Germany Japan (28 companies, 48 business sites) Aramid Fibers Teijin (Iwakuni, Matsuyama, Mihara, Osaka Research Center), Teijin Fibers (Tokuyama), Teijin DuPont Films (Gifu, Utsunomiya, Ibaraki), Teijin Chemicals (Matsuyama, Mihara, Chiba), Hiroshima Plastic, Teiyo, Toho Japan: Teijin Techno Products, Teijin Cordley Economic Report Tenax (Mishima, Tokushima, Ibigawa), Teijin Monofilament, Teijin Modern Yarn (Komatsu, Kaga, Mihara), Overseas: Teijin Aramid Teijin Tecloth, Owari Seisen, Wako, Teijin Nestex, Otsuka Polymer Industry, Teijin Tedy, Teijin Cordley (Shimane), Teijin Pharma (Tokyo Research Center), Teisan Pharmaceuticals, Union Tire Cord, Unisel, Teijin Carbon Fibers Logistics (Iwakuni, Ehime, Mihara), Infocom (head office, Kansai, Yodoyabashi, Nishihonmachi, Shinyokohama, Kasumigaseki, Akasaka), Infocom East Japan (Shin-Yokohama), Infocom West Japan Japan: Toho Tenax, Toho Textile, Toho (Matsuyama), Teijin Eco-Science (Matsuyama), Teijin Kosan (Ehime, Mihara), N.I. Textile, Naps Chemical Engineering & Construction, Toho Machinery Overseas (14 companies, 17 business sites) Overseas: Toho Tenax Europe, Toho Tenax America, Diversified Structural Composites The Netherlands: Teijin Aramid (Delfzijl, Arnhem, Emmen) Indonesia: P.T. Teijin Indonesia Fiber, P.T. INDONESIA TEIJIN DUPONT FILMS China: Nantong Teijin, Teijin Chemicals Plastic Compounds Shanghai, Films Environment, Safety TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE CHINA Thailand: Teijin Polyester (Thailand), Teijin (Thailand), Thai Namsiri Intertex (Weaving, Dyeing), TEIJIN CORD(THAILAND) Singapore: TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE SINGAPORE Japan: Teijin DuPont Films, Gifu Kosan, Film USA: Teijin Monofilament U.S. Germany: Teijin Monofilament Germany, Toho Tenax Europe, NTA Process and Health Report Overseas: P.T. INDONESIA TEIJIN DUPONT FILMS Current Status of OHSAS18001 Certification Plastics Japan Japan: Teijin Chemicals, Hiroshima Plastic, Kinkai Chemicals, Teiyo Teijin (Iwakuni, Matsuyama, Mihara), Teijin Cordley (Mihara), Teijin Fibers (Tokuyama), Teijin Chemicals (Matsuyama, Mihara), Teijin DuPont Films (Gifu, Utsunomiya, Ibaraki), Teijin Modern Yarn (Mihara), Union Overseas: TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE Tire Cord, Unisel, Teijin Tedy, Teijin Monofilament, Hiroshima Plastic, Teisan Pharmaceuticals, Kure Kogyo SINGAPORE, Teijin Chemicals Plastic Social Report (Matsuyama, Iwakuni), Teijin Eco-Science (Matsuyama), Teijin Logistics (Iwakuni, Ehime, Mihara), Teijin Compounds Shanghai, TEIJIN Kosan (Ehime, Mihara), Teijin Engineering (Matsuyama Post), Toho Tenax (Mishima, Tokushima, Ibigawa), POLYCARBONATE CHINA Toho Textile, Toho Chemical Engineering & Construction (Mishima, Gifu, Tokushima), Toho Machinery Medical & Pharmaceutical Overseas Japan: Teijin Pharma, Teisan Pharmaceuticals, Teijin Home Healthcare The Netherlands: Teijin Aramid (Delfzijl, Arnhem, Emmen) Thailand: Teijin Polyester (Thailand), Teijin (Thailand) Singapore: TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE SINGAPORE Germany: Toho Tenax Europe Trading and Retail Japan: N.I. Teijin Shoji, Teijin Associa Retail, Current Status of ISO9001, ISO13485, ISO16949 and Other Certifications Shinwa Gosen, Teikyo Lace, Teisho Sangyo, (Blue text signifies facilities that newly obtained certification in FY2010) Techset Japan Overseas: FASHION FORCE NO.1 FACTORY Teijin (Polymer Plant 1, Polymer Plant 2, Matsuyama Raw Materials, Tokuyama Raw Materials & Polymer IT Plant, HFC Production Department), TS Aromatics, Teijin Fibers (Yarn, Cotton, Iwakuni Kosen), Teijin Tedy, Japan: Infocom Teijin Modern Yarn, Teijin Monofilament, Union Tire Cord, Unisel, Wako, Teijin Techno Products (Conex, Technora), Teijin Cordley (Mihara, Shimane), Toho Tenax (head office, Mishima Plant, Tokushima Plant, Individual Management Companies Ibigawa Plant, R&D Institute), Toho Chemical Engineering & Construction (Mishima, Tokushima), Toho Machinery, Teijin DuPont Films (Gifu, Utsunomiya, KF, Ibaraki), Film Process, Teijin Chemicals (Matsuyama, Japan: Teijin Kosan, Kure Kogyo, Teijin Mihara, Plastic Technical Center, TF, LCD Materials), Hiroshima Plastic, Teiyo, Kinkai Chemicals, Teijin Pharma Logistics, Teijin Eco-Science, Teijin Engineering (Iwakuni Medical Plant, Home Medical Care Technical Service Center), Infocom, Infocom East Japan, Infocom West Japan, Infovec, Teijin Engineering (Osaka, Matsuyama), Kure Kogyo (Iwakuni, Matsuyama), Corporate Staff and Others Teijin Eco-Science (Ibaragi, Hamura, Matsuyama, High Performance Analysis Center), Teijin Entech (Matsuyama Utility Center), Teijin Logistics (Osaka, Ehime, Tokuyama, Tokyo) Japan: Teijin Creative Staff, Teijin Entech Overseas China: Nantong Teijin, Teijin Chemicals Plastic Compounds Shanghai, TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE CHINA, * Company names are correct as of September 2011. Nantong Teijin Automotive Fabrics Finishing Thailand: Teijin Polyester (Thailand), TEIJIN (THAILAND), * Limited (Ltd.), Co., Ltd., Inc., GmbH, Corporation, B.V. TEIJIN CORD (THAILAND), Thai Namsiri Intertex Indonesia: P.T. INDONESIA TEIJIN DUPONT FILMS and the like have been omitted from the company USA: Toho Tenax America (TTA), Diversified Structural Composites Germany: Teijin Monofilament names. Germany, Teijin Aramid (Wuppe), Toho Tenax Europe The Netherlands: Teijin Aramid (Emmen, Arnhem, Delfzijl, QRI, Arnhem Central Office), Teijin Kasei Europe Singapore: TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE SINGAPORE TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 40 Social Report Compliance and Risk Management Promoting Compliance and Risk Management We believe that compliance and risk management are the basis for sound corporate governance and our CSR activities are focused on these two elements of internal control. We are working hard to ensure that our Corporate Code of Conduct and Corporate Standards of Conduct are followed closely at all group companies and we are implementing business continuity plans that assess the major risks. management activities of each group Compliance and Risk Management company and each business group on the Group-wide Application of Corporate The Teijin Group considers compliance and basis of the compliance and risk Ethics and Compliance risk management to be pillars of internal management activity survey submitted. In The Teijin Group’s Corporate Code of control that support corporate governance. FY2010, 54 of 72 companies in Japan and Conduct and Corporate Standards of Operations relating to these two elements are 40 of 78 companies overseas submitted a Conduct were revised in 2006 and 2007, combined, and company executives and survey form. respectively, to reflect the changing social employees are unified in efforts to raise In 2010, there were no serious accidents demands on corporations. Furthermore, awareness and complete tasks thoroughly. reported to the CEO and CSRO. However, since 2006, major overseas group companies Compliance is essential for creating a there was one sexual harassment case which have created US, EU, Chinese, Thai, and sound corporate culture. With this in mind, we was viewed to be a problem in terms of Indonesian versions of the Corporate not only comply with internal rules and laws internal rules relating to “making comments Standards of Conduct. We are also working to relevant to our business, but also carry out that constitute sexual harassment and ensure that all group companies perform various educational programs on corporate knowingly repeating such comments.” training on these corporate ethics standards at ethics. Recognizing that risk management is a Disciplinary action was taken for the person least once a year. key to successfully assessing and preventing concerned, and managers were given In the Corporate Ethics Month campaign in corporate risks, we are conducting training and guidance relating to appropriate workplace October 2010, a message from the CEO and implementing risk control systems. management. campaign posters were prepared in six The prompt for reporting this case languages (Japanese, English, Chinese, Thai, Results of CSRO Audits (Law Violations (reported via the hotline [see page 42]) was Indonesian and and Occurrence of Accidents) the routine Corporate Ethics Month German) and Since FY2003, every February, the Chief campaign, part of workplace training, a fact distributed to all Social Responsibility Officer (CSRO) has which reaffirms the significance of continued group companies. In been in charge of an audit to assess the ethics-related awareness-raising activities. addition to displaying compliance and risk management activities the posters, of the previous calendar year. The CSRO workshops involving audit assesses whether there were any all employees were serious violations of laws or accidents in this held at individual Corporate Ethics Month campaign poster area, and confirms the compliance and risk companies. Positioning of Compliance and Risk Management PDCA Cycle of Compliance and Risk Management Activities Develop and Maintain of Educational Materials Establish Yearly Plan and • Improve the content, and update the Q&A and Prioritize Activities case-study lists Corporate Governance • Confirmed by the Group Implement Training A fair, transparent and objective Compliance and Risk • Workshops for corporate ethics staff management system Management Subcommittee Plan • E-learning about compliance • Level-based workshops Approach to Risk • Training relating to verifying safety in emergencies Internal Control • Clarifying and evaluating risks • Creating business continuity plans Action Do • Earthquake response drills Corporate Ethics Month Campaign • Display corporate ethics posters Lessons Learned from • Display posters aiming to prevent abuse of This Fiscal Year to Be authority Compliance Risk Management Incorporated for the • Workshops for all employees Activities focusing on Mechanisms, systems Following Year Check • Conduct surveys of all employees using check • Achievements for this sheets legal and ethical and training for year and selection of compliance, as well as evaluating, preventing, Information Disclosure issues • Set up a corporate ethics website on the on internal regulations, and controlling to create a sound corporate risks corporate intranet corporate culture CSRO Audit: Once a year • Disclose the results of corporate ethics surveys Corporate Ethics Awareness Survey: Operate Hotline Once a year • Notices to all group employees and individual responses • Disclose hotline information (every six months) 41 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 useful for helping employees solve issues. E-learning about compliance Corporate Ethics Awareness Survey The Teijin Group internal counseling and Since 2004, we have performed e-learning To monitor employees’ awareness of reporting system was launched in 1999 on about compliance, mainly for those in corporate ethics, we have conducted the intranet and via a consultation center managerial and mid-level positions who anonymous questionnaires on random operated through a contract with an have not taken the course. In Japan, since samples of group employees in Japan external organization. The system is not 2008, we have provided a mini e-learning (approx. 10%) every year since 1999. limited to full-time employees; it is also open course with abridged training materials, In FY2010, 1,272 employees (including to contract and temporary employees. Since aiming to increase the number of people contract employees and part-timers, but 2006, a consultation link for business taking the course. excluding temporary staff ) were asked to partners has been available on our website. take part in the survey, and 1,069 responded The hotline system is operated under (84% response rate) . The results revealed the direction of the CSRO in accordance with Check Sheets to Survey All Employees that 66% of respondents answered legal and ethical compliance and internal at the Corporate Ethics Workshop Economic Report “Outstanding” or “Good” to the question, “What regulations, giving due consideration to To increase the interest and awareness of all do you think about the Teijin Group’s awareness protecting those who ask for consultation or group employees in relation to the of ethical issues?” This represents a slight increase seek to file a report. Major risk issues are Corporate Code of Conduct and Corporate on the FY2009 level of 62%. reported to the Total Risk Management Standards of Conduct, we have conducted a Committee (see page 21), and are handled by Results of Corporate Ethics Awareness Survey questionnaire on the Teijin Group Corporate top management. While protecting the privacy Question: What do you think about the Teijin Group’s Ethics Handbook since FY2007. As of FY2009, awareness of ethical issues? of individuals, the content and details of we use check sheets, which have further responses to issues raised by employees via Environment, Safety Outstanding Good improved upon the questionnaire. Average Slightly problematic consultation/reports are summarized and The check sheet contains six questions (CY) 2 disclosed to group companies every six and Health Report directed at group company executives and 2010 14 52 32 months for educational purposes. In FY2010, 3 employees in managerial positions, and 2009 12 50 35 there were 38 cases of reporting/consultation by another six for general employees. Some 2 employees and others outside the group. examples of questions are: “Have you read 2008 14 54 29 Content of Reports/Consultation From the handbook?” “Do you report violations?” 0 20 40 60 80 100 Employees/Those Outside the Group in FY2010 (%) and “Do you observe the Code of Conduct Irregular billing for expenses Social Report and the Standards of Conduct?” The survey, Personal relationship or accounting issue which requires all respondents to write their Counseling and Reporting System 2cases 1case name, was completed by a total of 11,152 (Hotline) Operations Treatment, Others (e.g. opinions on earthquake response) labor management, executives, and full-time and contract The aim of the Teijin Group counseling and employee benefits 4cases employees at group companies in Japan in reporting system (hotline) is for early 11cases FY2010. Of these, a total of 10,578 responses detection of legal or ethical problems within Unfair practice (approx. 95% response rate) were obtained . the group which can then be resolved at work, rule violations 38 cases The response rate for executives and through our internal mechanisms. As well as 4cases full-time employees was 96%. The survey for having the obvious function of a corporate Sexual harassment Abuse of authority FY2011 will be conducted in the same risk management tool, the hotline is very 7cases 9cases manner as FY2010. Teijin Group’s Hotline Corporate Ethics Opinion Box (internal intranet in English, overseas) Group executives/Employees Anonymous CSRO, CSR Planning Office accepted Corporate Ethics Opinion Box Anonymous Internal intranet (e-mail, telephone, letter) accepted General Manager Compliance Hotline Anonymous External lawyer’s office (e-mail, telephone) accepted Sexual Harassment Hotline Anonymous External agency (e-mail, telephone) accepted Business Consultation Center CSR Planning Teijin Group corporate ethics monthly check partners Real name Website Office staff sheet distributed to all employees TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 42 Social Report Compliance and Risk Management for central management (top-level disaster, the emergency headquarters Activities to Promote Corporate management under the CEO) to prepare for simultaneously sends emergency Ethics at Overseas Group Companies large earthquakes in metropolitan areas. We information to all employees. Upon We have been making steady progress in are gradually expanding the application of receiving the information, employees overseas corporate ethics activities while BCPs to group companies. Since the Great respond by reporting their situation, maintaining the Teijin Group’s basic policies East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, which including family details, and whether they and considering the culture and traditions of exceeded our expectations in its effects, we can come to work. The information is sent up each country. To enhance compliance and are reviewing our simulations and to 100 times to six previously registered risk management in overseas group countermeasures. Moreover, as a part of the addresses for mobile phones e-mail, and companies, we hold compliance and risk BCP to respond to large earthquakes, we are fixed telephones. management meetings in major overseas considering measures such as shifting the The Teijin Group introduced the regions every year. functions of head office temporarily and Emergency Call TM system in FY2005. As of For FY2010, meetings were held in setting up a work-at-home system in the FY2010, approximately 12,000 employees of Wuppertal, Germany in September 2010, in case of scheduled power outages in Tokyo. group companies in Japan have registered. Shanghai, China and Singapore in October Two safety-verification drills are performed 2010, in Tennessee, USA in January 2011, and A Business Continuity Plan to Respond annually for each business group and in Bangkok, Thailand in February 2011. to Large Earthquakes company. To ensure that the important functions of How Emergency Call™ Works decision-making and internal operations are Risk Management Activities maintained even in the event of a serious (1) Emergency contact General notice of disaster sent Since FY2003, to strengthen its risk disaster, such as a major earthquake in the Office Users Notice General notice sent management according to the COSO*1 greater metropolitan areas of Tokyo or Osaka, Emergency Call™ guidelines, the Teijin Group has been focusing we formulated a BCP for central management Mobile phone, PHS, e-mail, phone, pager, fax, on clarifying risks, assessing risks based on in FY2006. Since then, training has been satellite mobile phone Information Users send frequency and effect, risk prevention and conducted and the program has been Office on safety information Users of users on own safety control, and response training. updated as necessary. Confirm information on safety of users In FY2010, each group company In FY2010, we established earthquake (2) Safety confirmation implemented risk management activities. Risk response headquarters at the Tokyo and that is common to many companies was Osaka head offices to prepare for a major selected as important risk for the Teijin Group, earthquake in the greater metropolitan Information Security and measures to deal with the risk are being areas. We conducted initial response drills, In the Teijin Group, the IT Planning Office put in place across the entire group. which included verification of employees’ promotes information security and *1 COSO: Global standards for internal control systems safety and reports by regional teams*2, and protection of personal information under created by the Committee of Sponsoring communication drills using satellite telephones the supervision of the Chief Information Organizations of the Treadway Commission. and the Emergency Call TM system. Officer (CIO). *2 Regional team: In the Tokyo head office, we have In addition to voluntary activities by Progress of Business Continuity Plans established disaster prevention teams for each each company, we make it compulsory block (a specific area on each floor) consisting of a A business continuity plan (BCP) refers to “an block leader, area leader, disaster prevention leader for all group companies to take an action plan by which a company can protect and fire warden. e-learning course on information security itself from loss of corporate value in in order to enhance the standard of emergencies, such as accidents and group-wide management. disasters, by preventing interruption of its The IT Planning Office also conducts business activities or by quickly restoring the annual audits regarding the protection of activities if interrupted.” In recent years, personal information and information companies have been facing a broader security. For group companies handling range of risks; in addition to earthquakes, highly confidential personal information, we and other accidents and disasters, these conduct special periodical audits on the A drill in the Tokyo head office simulating risks include threats of terrorism and the protection of personal information. a large earthquake H1N1 swine flu. It is crucial that business After taking the e-learning course, all activities can continue or quickly be Utilizing Emergency Call TM full-time employees and new ID holders restored if interrupted, even in such Emergency Call TM (see page 6) is a system to who have applied to use the Teijin network emergencies. verify employees’ safety in emergencies. It is are required to take a verification test and The Teijin Group established BCP basic operated by the Teijin Group company, continue training until reaching the policies in FY2006 and first formulated a BCP Infocom Corporation. In the event of a specified standard. 43 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake After the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, we immediately Notable efforts were made by the home health care business to established the Teijin Group Earthquake Response Headquarters promptly check the safety of approximately 24,000 patients living in headed by the CEO at the Tokyo head office. The intensity of the areas hit by tremors of lower-5 or higher intensity. This was achieved earthquake was upper-5 in the Tokyo head office, so the first step through use of a disaster response and support map system, a Teijin was to check the safety of employees and visitors in the building, and original development, and through increased staff at call centers to the extent of damage. Following this, we checked the safety of group enable 24-hour assistance. Each day, between 30 and 45 support company employees and damage to the company dormitories, and personnel were dispatched to the disaster areas from branch offices gathered all available earthquake information. throughout the country. In addition, approximately 17,000 portable Soon after the earthquake, telephone lines were blocked due to oxygen cylinders were sent from all over the country, and too much traffic. However, through use of Emergency Call TM, our approximately 600 oxygen emergency safety confirmation system, we were able to secure enrichers and 280 batteries for communication via satellite phone and confirm the safety of our respirators were procured and employees. Via Emergency Call TM, we transmitted a total of 11 reports delivered to patients. Economic Report to approximately 3,800 employees in areas where intensity was We also provided oxygen lower-6 or more, and within six hours, we were able to confirm the enrichers to medical institutions safety of over 80% of employees. The system also proved useful for that continued to provide medical communicating emergency information regarding attendance at services despite sustaining damage Provision of oxygen cylinders work at times of scheduled power outages or transit system delays. from the tsunami. to patients Fortunately, there were no casualties and only slight damage at the Tokyo head office, but stopped traffic systems forced approximately 2. Support for Affected Areas 650 employees to stay overnight in the office building. Past training The Teijin Group donated 100 million yen through the Central sessions proved effective in the initial response, which included Community Chest of Japan, and relief goods such as blankets, verifying safety and measures for those who could not go home. emergency mats, futons, masks, antiseptic, and men’s and children’s Environment, Safety Nevertheless, several issues remain regarding large-scale earthquakes clothing. The total amount of support, including the oxygen cylinders that cause damage over a wide area. For example, how to avoid mentioned above, amounted to approximately 500 million yen. and Health Report confusion in collecting information. Through measures such as Voluntary donations were also made by employees at group reviewing the BCP, we will address these issues and aim for improvement. companies in Japan and overseas, and we joined the following programs as part of the Nippon Keidanren’s 1% Club: Impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake on the Teijin Group and (1) Program to collect necessities for affected areas and pack them in Relief Work bags for distribution to each family group The Teijin Group Earthquake Response Headquarters exercised group (2) Volunteer program for activities in affected areas such as Iwate, functions and input human resources to assist employees and business Miyagi and Fukushima according to local needs. sites affected by the disaster, working hard to ensure a quick recovery. 3. Response to Aftershocks and Power Outages Social Report 1. Extent of Damage and Support Activities Anticipating large aftershocks and disruption in public transit systems (1) Teijin DuPont Films Japan Limited: Utsunomiya and Ibaraki Plants due to scheduled power outages, to secure the safety of employees At Utsunomiya and Ibaraki Plants, infrastructure for electricity, water, working in the metropolitan area, we recommended a work-at-home communications and other services could not be used, which forced system, and continually maintained an environment to enable more the plants to suspend production from March 11, the day the than 2,000 employees to work at home in an emergency. In addition, earthquake struck. The extent of damage was reported to the as a measure to respond to power usage restrictions, we fully utilized response headquarters at the head office. Response headquarters our in-house power generators, and to conserve electricity, we were also established regionally to confirm evacuation routes and recommend turning off air conditioners, dimming lighting, reducing take measures to prevent secondary disasters. standby power, and avoiding overtime whenever possible. Every possible effort was made by the Teijin Group to ensure We also changed the venue for the company orientation held on a quick recovery. Experts in power transmission, machinery, April 1 from the Tokyo head office to the Osaka head office. electric equipment, construction and purchasing from respective departments and affiliates were called upon to assist in the 4. Response to the Radiation Issue recovery. In addition to dispatching personnel to work sites, we Considering the safety of its employees as its highest priority, in held daily meetings to check the progress of recovery at the response to the radiation issue, the Teijin Group promptly prepared Osaka head office, and provided support in terms of logistics, management guidelines related to work performed in radiationincluding technical assistance and human resources. Amid affected areas, and is monitoring radiation levels at business sites, continuing aftershocks, recovery and branch and sales offices. As of September 2011, we are work involving over 400 continuing to record and calculate the accumulated exposure to construction personnel per day radiation of employees. went ahead without incident. The International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) Operations were resumed at states that the maximum accumulated exposure to radiation per Ibaraki Plant on March 25 and year with no influence to an Utsunomiya Plant on June 29. Repair of cable ducts individual’s health is 100mSv. The Teijin Group has set its managerial (2) Medical & Pharmaceutical Business Group level to 1mSv, or one-hundredth of For the Medical and Pharmaceutical Business Group, at the Sendai this value (the standard maximum and Takasaki branches, damaged was sustained at sales and satellite for radiation exposure per year for offices in the form of power outages, flooding, ground subsidence, the general public). submerged company vehicles and other effects of the tsunami. Measuring radiation levels TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 44 Social Report Quality Assurance Creating a Secure Quality Assurance System and Improving Customer Satisfaction To provide products that are safe for our customers to use, and to ensure customer satisfaction, we promote product liability/quality assurance activities under an independent management system. Group-wide Product Liability/ Product Liability/Quality Assurance Response to Claims Quality Assurance Management Management for the Product Line-up of Each Business Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance Goals The Teijin Group Product Liability/Quality Product liability claims*1 Zero Assurance Regulations apply to all Teijin The Product Liability/Quality Assurance Unit Serious quality claims*2 Zero Group products and services and can be System is a quality-assurance management considered the base for our product safety system unique to the Teijin Group. Its In 2010, we once again achieved zero and quality assurance activities. purpose is to increase customer satisfaction, product liability claims . This result was Based on these regulations, we are prevent product defects, and ensure an possible based on the guidance and promoting product liability/quality assurance appropriate response in the event a product support provided through auditing, the activities for our business groups through defect occurs. This system has been Product Liability/Quality Assurance basic policies and associated targets set by established for the product line-up of all Committee and other processes. the Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance business groups, and is applied consistently Despite this, there were 12 serious Subcommittee (see figure at bottom left). throughout the life cycle of the product, quality claims . We took each claim very We also examine group-wide activities from R&D through to sales. seriously and we are continuing with through evaluations carried out by the The Product Liability/Quality Assurance measures to prevent recurrence while aiming for chairman of the Product Liability/Quality Unit System covers the whole scope of the closer ties with our customers. The results of Assurance Subcommittee, link these ISO standards for quality management these measures will be described in future evaluations to our actions, and make systems, and incorporates perspectives on CSR reports and other documents. recommendations to any business group product liability/quality assurance such as *1 Product liability claim: A claim involving that requires guidance. responses to customers and product safety. (large-scale) damage to property or people caused by a product defect, where a cause-and-effect Through performing these activities, we This approach allows us to create and operate a relationship is established between the damage are able to offer quick responses to a system in which both quality management and and the defect. diversifying social environment, and ensure quality assurance are fully functioning. We *2 Serious quality claim: A claim relating to a product defect where there is no related damage but a that the products we provide are safe for our also implement the PDCA approach strong possibility that there may be, or a defect customers to use. including checking for and improving on that causes or is likely to cause loss of trust in the Teijin Group. weak points (see figure at bottom right). Group-wide Product Liability/Quality Assurance System PDCA Cycle for the Product Liability/Quality Assurance Unit System Business group CEO CSRO Teijin Limited Environment, Safety and Health (ESH) Office Business Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance Committee Administrator Eight business groups Group CSR Committee New Business Product Liability/Quality Development Assurance Unit System Group Directly Group Product Liability/ Expert committee Manager managed Quality Assurance for promoting companies Subcommittee Design for Environment Action Chairperson REACH information Deputy Chairperson meetings Review Business group representative members Check Secretariat: Teijin Limited Heads of Business Group ESH Office Collecting information Audit Planning Plan Internal Administrator Business Group Product Liability/ audit Quality Assurance Committee R&D Set of Products Chairperson (Administrator) Deputy Chairperson Committee members Manager Secretariat Design Laws Product Liability/Quality Business Group Product Liability/ Assurance Unit System Quality Assurance System Environment Production Market Customers Sales Do Product environment 45 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Based on the audit results, we will system that includes supply chain Product Liability/ undertake the following activities from management. In doing this we will take Quality Assurance Assessment FY2011 to improve the reliability of product measures to proactively disclose Before new products are released, they pass liability/quality assurance. information to customers. through our Product Liability/Quality *3 REACH: Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and • Improve the functioning of Product Restriction of Chemicals (EC No.1907/2006) Assurance Assessment System where we Liability/Quality Assurance assessment *4 CLP: Classification, Labeling and Packaging of check the product’s safety and quality over its • Improve management/organization of Substances and Mixtures (EC No. 1272/2008) whole life cycle. We are now consolidating the business group product liability/ quality assurance system, including adoption of a simplified • Implement thorough product assessment method. liability/quality assurance training Efforts of Teijin Chemicals to Ensure In FY2010, we made approximately • Respond to new chemical substance Customer Satisfaction regulations 1,000 assessments, consisting of roughly 900 As a measure for strengthening marketing new product assessments and 100 reviews capabilities, Teijin Chemicals Ltd. has Economic Report of already-launched products . prepared a Marketing Handbook. This Compliance with New Regulations handbook, which adopts the style of an Regarding Chemical Substances (e.g. online encyclopedia, allows each employee Product Liability/ REACH/CLP) to search and obtain useful basic Quality Assurance Audits In June 2006, in order to achieve knowledge on the intranet. It will serve as a Since FY2005, the chairman of Product compliance with REACH, new regulations useful tool for new employees to build Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee has relating to chemical substances in Europe, basic marketing skills. In parallel with the performed audits on all business groups that we set-up a special subcommittee within the sharing of basic information, its utilization have introduced the Product Liability/Quality Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance will help strengthen marketing capabilities Environment, Safety Assurance Unit System (eight business Subcommittee. Since establishment, this even further. The handbook is full of groups, the New Business Development special subcommittee has been working technical information and is a useful and Health Report Group and four directly managed companies hard to ensure compliance with REACH. As a resource enabling quick responses to as of March 2010). We have also carried out result of these efforts, we can confirm the customers’ inquiries and requests. audits to check how the system is working completion of necessary procedures before We plan to issue English and Chinese and to verify its effectiveness. the applicable deadlines; November 30, 2010 versions of the Marketing Handbook for In FY2010 audits uncovered some issues for primary registration under REACH group companies in Singapore and China, Social Report in various business groups. In response, we regulations*3, and January 3, 2011 for and aim to reinforce our customer-orientated have implemented periodical audits to procedures relating to existing chemical approach on a global basis. maintain and improve product substances under CLP regulations*4. In the liability/quality assurance activities. In future, we will continue striving for addition, we carried out special audits of compliance with these regulations. three business groups who did not report on Through this compliance with REACH, serious quality claims at an appropriate time, CLP and other regulations in Japan and and we are now checking whether overseas, we plan to create a chemical improvements have been made. substance information management TOPICS Overall Ranking of 16th in the 6th JUSE Examination of Quality Management Level Teijin Limited received an overall ranking of 16th in the 6th Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers (JUSE) Examination of Quality Management Level sponsored by Nikkei Inc. In addition, we were placed 2nd in the chemical industry section. The examination involves objective evaluations for a total of six factors relating to corporate initiatives to improve quality and the progress of these initiatives. Examples of these factors are quality training and human resource development, and customer service and quality assurance. Teijin’s quality management is also introduced in the following publications. • Monozukuri Nihon no Hinshitsu-chikara — “Kigyou no Hinshitsu Keiei-do” Chousa ni Miru Genjou to Kadai (High Level of Quality in Japanese Manufacturing — Present Status and Issues Revealed by JUSE Examination of Quality Management Level); Author: Hiroshi Nagata. JUSE Examination of Quality Management Level; edited by Planning Committee. TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 46 Social Report Human Resources Management and Labor CSR Allowing Employees to Grow and Achieve Work–Life Balance The Teijin Group makes continual efforts to improve the quality of life of our employees. In FY2010, in spite of the tough economic circumstances, we made all possible efforts to secure employment at group companies. We also worked to further develop human resources and to help employees realize work–life balance. As stated in the mid-term management companies including overseas. Midand Long-term Goals and plan, one of the most important policies We also launched the Strategic Leader Measures of Teijin Group is to hire, train and Development Program (SLP) in 2006 with the cultivate human resources. To this end, we aim of fostering leaders. This program has Teijin Group Basic Human Resources Policy have set the following five ideals as the focus evolved to the Strategic Three-year Human Goals of Human Resources Management of human resources management: promote Resources Development System. • Fulfill the corporate philosophy of global expansion of our business, strengthen “Empowering Our People” group management, review personnel The Teijin Group Human Resources • Realize continuous improvements in Development Policies management to stay ahead of changes in employees’ productivity and enhance their 1) The source of growth is within oneself quality of life the business environment, increase the Growth comes from employees identifying Basic Principles vitality of employees and the organization, challenging issues for themselves, setting far-reaching goals, and endeavoring to 1) Take all possible measures to secure and ensure appropriate management of accomplish these goals, which in turn leads employment based on company-wide company-owned facilities. As part of this to improved abilities and allows employees efforts to improve corporate performance management, which is being carried out to have a real sense of growth. and employees’ efforts to increase productivity from group-wide and global perspectives, 2) Creating a culture of learning The role of managers and supervisors is to 2) Base the treatment of employees on factors we are pushing ahead with group-wide set shared goals, motivate each trainee, and relating to the employees’ duties, achievements, capabilities and action while measures to secure employment, promote provide support in order to allow each member to grow as part of the team. pursuing transparency, fairness and diversity and realize work–life balance while responsibility 3) Development through on-the-job training considering the sense of value of all group We view on-the-job training (OJT) as a key 3) Actively support the development of employees, and aiming for a smooth for human resources development in employees’ capabilities handover of technologies and skills to the accordance with the basic concept, “People 4) Assign employees to positions based on grow of their own accord through doing suitability for that position next generation. work that carries responsibility.” 5) Evaluate employees objectively and use 4) Development through job rotation/appointment evaluation as a tool for determining system supported by OJT benefits and developing abilities Human Resources Development Thro ugh a planned job rotation/ 6) Respect for diversity appointment system supported by OJT, Group Core Human Resources Development we seek to take a long-term perspective Since changing to a holding company Systems in the development of career-minded human resources. system in 2003, we have established the In 2003, we instituted the STRETCH I and II 5) Personal development through off-the-job Teijin Group Basic Human Resources Policy group-wide core human resources training aiming to improve employees’ quality of life development systems. Taking a global We view off-the-job training as an opportunity to promote employee growth under our corporate philosophy of perspective, the systems target the and foster more ambitious and broader “empowering our people.” development of employees at all group perspectives away from the workplace. The Teijin Group Training and Job Rotation/ Appointment System Teijin Group Group-wide training system *1 Succession plan: A plan to foster successors to important and each posts from the viewpoint of business continuity. business group (core companies) *2 Strategic Executive Team Challenge (Stretch): A group core human resources development system Division for leaders of business sites. Employees in Executive tenure-ofheads Succession plan*1 Development and evaluation of abilities Transfer of long-term employees *3 Strategic Leader Development Program (SLP): Study abroad linguistics programs Department Strategic Executive Annual human resources plan Team Challenge Leadership skills development program for general Multifaceted observation managerial positions office limitations Job Challenge System*5 Self-application System managers (STRETCH)*2 employees in mid-level positions with a desire to become key staff in the future. Section managers *4 Speciality Development Program (SDP): An educational program designed to enable career-minded Strategic Leader employees to gain specialized knowledge relating New recruits − Development Employees in Program (SLP)*3 to marketing, engineering or clerical work. mid-level *5 Job Challenge System: An in-house staff recruitment positions Speciality Development system. Any employee can file an application for a Program (SDP)*4 position without permission from the division manager, and the manager cannot overrule decisions. 47 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Job Rotation/Appointment System Human Rights Protection Employee Satisfaction Survey We have set a range of measures to ensure that To raise group employees’ awareness of The CSR Planning Office has conducted employees are assigned to positions based on human rights, we conduct training for all a comprehensive employee satisfaction employees’ desires and suitability for positions. employees at every department of all group survey* for all group companies in Japan In relation to personnel transfers, we have companies during the Corporate Ethics every year since 2003. established an annual personnel plan for Month campaign in October (see page 41). In this survey, we emphasize two items employees, aiming to realize objectivity and During Corporate Ethics Month, a message that relate to respect for individuality and transparency in relation to transfers. At group from the CEO (Japanese, English, Chinese, character, and creating a comfortable work companies in Japan we have added a German, Thai and Indonesian versions) is environment. Over the past four years, the self-application system*6 that respects each distributed to each workplace for the purpose degree of satisfaction has increased employee’s views regarding transfers and new of stimulating discussion and raising awareness gradually for both items (see graph below). appointments. Additionally, in as early as of human rights and corporate ethics. Economic Report 1988, we introduced an in-house staff Employee Satisfaction Survey recruitment system (Job Challenge System*6 see figure on page 47: The Teijin Group’s Maintaining Sound Working “Are you satisfied that the Teijin Group Training and Job Rotation/Appointment Relationships respects your individuality and character?” System) that was pioneering for Japanese The Teijin Group sees the labor union as an Very satisfied Somewhat satisfied companies at the time. Every year, the system important stakeholder, and we are working Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied Somewhat dissatisfied Very dissatisfied is utilized by several people (no positions to maintain and improve our good relationship were advertised in FY2009 and FY2010). with the union. As fundamental concepts in (Year) Environment, Safety 2010 industrial relations, we emphasize “mutual Career Challenge System understanding and thorough prior consultation.” and Health Report 2009 From 2007, rather than individual group Amid the structural reforms to cope with companies recruiting and assigning people the sudden economic changes in FY2009 2008 to positions, under a new recruitment and FY2010, we held repeated consultations system, Teijin Limited is responsible for hiring to secure continued employment, and 2007 all new career-minded recruits. Five years maintain and improve the work environment. 0 20 40 60 80 100 after joining the company, recruits are then At group companies in Japan, to Social Report assigned to group companies. discourage long working hours and promote We have also created a system in which good work−life balance, we have been “Are you satisfied that the Teijin Group has realized employees can arrange a meeting with working to ensure strict implementation of a comfortable environment for employees?” their division manager and request a the no-overtime-day rule, including patrols Very satisfied Somewhat satisfied Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied transfer to a particular business. For on no-overtime days in close cooperation Somewhat dissatisfied Very dissatisfied employees who joined the company in with the labor unions at the Osaka and Tokyo (Year) FY2006 or before, this system came into head offices since 2008. Under the same 2010 effect together with the self-application objective, since January 2009, all lights are system in FY2007 and forms part of the turned off at a designated time in selected 2009 Career Challenge System*6. areas of the Osaka and Tokyo head offices. *6 Currently, the Self-application/Job Challenge/Career 2008 Challenge Systems are mainly in operation at group Preamble to the Labor Agreement between companies in Japan but we are working to Teijin Limited and Seven Other Group gradually introduce similar systems for overseas Companies, and the Teijin Labor Union*7 2007 group companies in a form most suitable for the employment practices of each country. Teijin Limited and seven other group 0 20 40 60 80 100 companies, and the Teijin Labor Union shall respect each other’s presence and work * Temporary staff are included. together for the benefit and development of business. Both groups shall work to ensure the social welfare of union members, establish industrial peace, and sincerely respect each others’ viewpoints. This statement is a declaration that all parties to Teijin Labor Agreement shall observe the agreement in good faith. *7 The Teijin Labor Union: The largest labor union in the Teijin Group. TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 48 Social Report Human Resources Management and Labor CSR total number of women in managerial reached this goal in FY2007 with 62 females Promoting Diversity Among Employees positions, that is, section manager level or in managerial positions, and the figure rose Since December 1999, efforts to promote above, at 12 core group companies in to 71 at the end of FY2010. and support female employees to work to Japan*1 to 60, triple the FY2002 level. We In the mid-term plan for 2009–2011, we the best of their abilities have been have set the goal of increasing the number undertaken by the Teijin Group. From Changes in the Number and Ratio of Newly of women in managerial positions by FY2007, we have stepped up our efforts to a Recruited Career-minded Female University 1.5-fold the number at the end of FY2008, Graduates focus on promoting diversity. While we are which was 19. Overall Females Percentage of females naturally continuing our activities to *1 Twelve core group companies in Japan,accounting (Persons) for 80% of all Teijin Group employees in Japan. promote and support female employees, we 200 100% 185 are also focusing on enabling good Global Management of Human Resources 160 160 80% work–life balance to be achieved by male 142 In line with the global expansion of our and female employees alike. 120 60% businesses, we established the Global The Teijin Group respects the character Human Resources Office in the Personnel and individuality of all employees 80 79 40% Management Department in April 2009. 68 74 40% 53 31% 30% 57 irrespective of gender, age, nationality, race, 21% 49 28% The Global Human Resources Office is 40 42 20% 29% 19% disability or other forms of discrimination, in structured as a project with the mission of 15% 14 16 14 all facets of our business, but particularly in 8 enhancing human resources who are able to 0 0% recruiting, employment and promotion. We 1999 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) respond to global trends. Led by a German aim to put people in suitable positions, general manager, project members are Changes in the Number of Female Employees where they can attain job satisfaction and in Managerial Positions working to create globally focused personnel realize their full potential. No. of females in managerial positions management and appointment systems for We employ experienced workers and Percentage of females in managerial positions* group employees overseas and in Japan. (Persons) run a year-round recruitment program for 80 4.0% For example, we are creating the foreign students and foreign nationals in 69 71 infrastructure to enable sharing of the group 64 Japan. We also promote the recruitment of 60 62 3.0% personnel information overseas and in 3.11% 3.15% those with a disability; as of April 1, 2011, at 52 2.87% Japan, running workshops aiming to foster 45 2.83% 33 group companies in Japan, the number of 40 2.25% 2.50% 2.0% human resources with a global perspective, employees with a disability was equivalent and planning training/education to enhance to 216.5 full-time positions exceeding the 20 1.0% communication and language-learning skills. figure of 205 required by law for a corporate A more specific example is the group-wide group of our size . Despite this, nine 0 leader training program, EaGLES (see 0 individual companies have not met the legal 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) column below). We are conducting training requirement . Seeking to remedy this, we * Percentage of female employees in managerial positions of in four languages (English, Chinese, Thai and the total number of managerial positions in the company. will continue to promote the employment of Japanese) for employees in managerial people with a disability. In relation to all future appointments and promotions, we will set specific goals for all our businesses and aim to employ a diverse TOPICS range of people in managerial positions. Developing the EaGLES Leadership Training Standards From the viewpoint of the increased diversity of employees in terms of nationality and race Progress of Measures to Promote Female owing to our global focus in regard to human resources and business, it is essential that all Career Development group employees understand and share the basic concept of the company, as expressed in our For recruitment at 12 core group companies corporate philosophy and our sense of value. There is also a growing need to foster managers in Japan*1, we have set a goal of maintaining capable of responding to our global expansion. the ratio of newly recruited career-minded It was in this context that we developed the Teijin Group leadership training standards, EaGLES, female university graduates at 30% or more. in 2011. The name EaGLES is derived from “Global Since FY2001, we have achieved or come Leadership Excellence Standard for Early newly close to achieving this goal every year. assigned Managers.” Unfortunately, in FY2010 and FY2011, this This training consists of three steps: e-learning, goal was not achieved. To compensate, we group training, and measurement of learning aim to increase the ratio to beyond 30% in outcomes. As of March 2011, this program is implemented in four languages for managers in five FY2012 and thus improve the overall ratio. A training session in the USA areas; EU, US, China, Thailand and Japan. We have also set a goal of increasing the 49 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 positions in five areas; EU, US, China, Thailand In addition, in April 2008, we implemented to the FY2009 level. We will seek to rectify and Japan. a work-at-home system at nine group this in FY2011 through reinforced companies in Japan to increase the work awareness-raising measures. options for employees. One more company Although the length of childcare leave VOICE introduced the system in April 2010, and we taken by male employees is short, we believe Aya are currently working on increasing the this action plan is highly significant as a Nishimoto flexibility of the system for users. measure for promoting awareness of Teijin Creative staff Co., Ltd. Global Human Resource We have also introduced a work–life balance. A total of 10 out of 12 core office re-employment system for employees who group companies in Japan have acquired Our efforts have been well paid off! left Teijin for family or other reasons (see certification under the Next-generation Law. This global program was developed by a page 51), as well as a flex-time system, and For female employees, the average length of global team. We, over 10 HR specialists from 6 companies in 7 countries got we are considering expanding the scope of childcare leave is approximately 1 year, and a together and spent our energy on making these systems. high percentage of women return to work Economic Report one comprehensible and practical *2 Twelve core group companies in Japan,accounting after taking childcare leave. program for all managers in multiple for 80% of all Teijin Group employees in Japan. Business Groups and countries. Therefore, *3 Eight core group companies in Japan,accounting for I was so excited when the participants in 55% of all Teijin Group employees in Japan. different regions gave us the same feedback telling this program provided Number of the Work-at-home System them “very practical leadership skills and Registrants (FY2010) good information of Teijin Group overall.” Next Generation Women 11 Certification Mark “Kurumin” Environment, Safety Registrants Men 5 Total 16 Tokyo/Osaka head offices 14 Trends in the Number of Employees Taking and Health Report Measures to Promote Work–Life Balance By Childcare Leave*4 Research centers 1 workplace Plants 1 (Persons) Overall Male employees The Teijin Group views the ability to respond 200 By reason for Childcare 15 to employees’ diversified perspectives on application Nursing care 1 171 171 work as one facet of CSR. With this in mind, 150 154 Utilized almost every month 5 143 we are focusing on activities that facilitate By status of 129 Utilized several times a year 7 work–life balance, in order that employees utilization according to need 100 89 Social Report can feel a sense of accomplishment and No opportunity to use yet 4 happiness with their work. 50 50 54 43 38 For example, Teijin Limited and other Promoting Childcare Leave for Male Employees 28 group companies in Japan are proceeding Creating a work environment where it is easy 0 0 with the following activities aiming to for male employees to participate in 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) decrease the number of working hours. child-rearing is becoming increasingly *4 Twelve core group companies in Japan,accounting for 80% of all Teijin Group employees in Japan. important. For example, under the Act for • Enforcing system of prior application for Measures to Support the Development of overtime work • Reorganization of duties to increase the Next Generation, (the Next-generation workplace efficiency Law) which came into effect in Japan in April • Strict implementation of the 2005, one of the requirements of acquiring no-overtime-day rule • Raising awareness through the intranet the relevant certification is to have at least and printed materials one male employee who took childcare • Setting recommended days for annual paid holidays (to ensure paid holidays leave in the specified period. are used) To promote childcare leave for male employees, 12 core group companies in Through these activities, the average Japan* 4 have submitted an action plan overtime per month for employees at 12 based on the next-generation law (stage 1: core group companies in Japan*2 in FY2010 FY2005-2006; stage 2: FY2007-2011). As was 13.8 hours, and the rate of taking annual specific measures, this action plan lists paid holidays was 64% , a negative change expanding the system for promoting of 1.9 hours and five percentage points short-term childcare leave and compared to the FY2009 results of 11.9 hours awareness-raising activities. The result for and 69% for employees at eight core group FY2010 was 38 male employees who took companies in Japan*3. childcare leave. This is a decrease compared TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 50 Social Report Human Resources Management and Labor CSR Re-employment Systems Volunteer Leave System made the necessary corrections in relation to As part of diversified employment formats, To promote volunteer activities, the Teijin the amendment of the Labor Standards Law the Teijin Group operates two re-employment Group has implemented a Volunteer Leave and completion of the special exception systems, the Hello Again System operating at System (paid) for 10 core group companies period for the Law Concerning Stabilization eight core group companies in Japan*1 and in Japan (see page 55). of Employment of Older Persons. the Senior Partner System operating at all As of March 31, 2011, there were 12 Based on the survey results, we also group companies in Japan. employees using the Volunteer Leave System . provide guidance for improvements, and in The Hello Again System targets those FY2010, we followed up on several employees who left the company for reasons companies where no leave systems for including marriage, pregnancy, child-rearing, Determining the Status of Group-wide pregnancy, childcare and nursing care have nursing care, or work transfer of their spouse. Labor Management been set due to the absence of applicable Employees in this situation who wish to The Teijin Group carries out regular surveys employees. return to Teijin due to the reason for leaving on labor management at group companies. The results of the FY2010 survey for no longer applying will be rehired as To fulfill our social responsibility, we identify basic labor CSR indicators are shown in the full-time employees on the condition that it management issues in our group personnel Data on Human Resources table. In 2009 and is not more than 10 years since they left and management system and implement 2010, we implemented structural reforms provided that the need exists. To date, seven effective measures as required, particularly and endeavored to secure continued people have been rehired under this system. from the viewpoint of labor CSR. employment through transfers to other Additionally, regardless of whether the Two survey forms are sent to 70 group positions at group companies or placements employee’s spouse is an employee of the companies, 58 in Japan and 12 overseas. outside the group. Our stance in regard to Teijin Group, if an employee wishes to From the survey, we obtain data on basic retiring employees is to support them in accompany his/her spouse to a transfer labor CSR indicators and the status of labor continuing employment. destination, we will try to arrange the management. As of March 31, 2010, approximately 630 employee’s transfer to an appropriate The results of the FY2010 survey on temporary employees were employed at 12 location to avoid the employee having to labor management at group companies led core group companies in Japan*2 . leave his/her job. Overall, there have been to a thorough inspection of the work rules *1 Eight core group companies in Japan,accounting for 55% of all Teijin Group employees in Japan. over 20 instances of such cases. and personnel management systems of all *2 Twelve core group companies in Japan,accounting The Senior Partner System aims to facilitate group companies in Japan as in FY2009. We for 80% of all Teijin Group employees in Japan. re-employment of former employees after mandatory retirement if they wish to rejoin Survey Items (group companies in Japan) the company. In FY2010, 104 employees who retired at the fixed age wished to be 1) Basic labor CSR indicators 1: Number of employees (by position/gender) 6: Number of executives (by gender) re-employed, and 81 (78%) were 2: Average years at company and average age 7: Number of fixed-term recruits re-employed (total for 47 group companies) . 3: Number of newly recruited employees (by 8: Overtime hours (per month) position/gender/career stage (new versus 9: Rate of taking annual paid holidays/Number mid-career)/type of work (clerical versus of annual paid holidays taken Expanding the Nursing Care Leave System technical) 10: Use of childcare leave/childcare part-time In May 2010, our nursing care leave system 4: Number of retired employees (by work system operating at nine group companies in Japan position/reason) 11: Use of nursing care leave/nursing care 5: Data on re-employment after age-limit part-time work system was expanded. Substantially exceeding the retirement (by position) 93 days of leave specified under the Child Care 2) Status of labor management and Family Care Leave Law, each applicant [Legal compliance] can take up to 730 days of nursing care leave 1: Employment of the elderly 4: Maternity protection and childcare per reason, which can be taken in portions. 2: Work hours 5: Care and nursing 3 :Temporary/Contract workers 6: Equal-opportunity employment In FY2010, a total of five group employees [Labor affairs measures] (including three men) used the system . 1: Work–life balance (e.g. overtime work 4: Recruitment and education hours/annual paid holidays/flex-time 5: Health and welfare system system) (dormitories/other issues) 2 :Retirement allowance system 6: Other issues (e.g. existing issues for which 3: Progress in promoting diversity demand for support exists) * For overseas group companies, we determine the following basic labor CSR indicators: 1) Number of employees, 2) Average years at company and average age, 3) Number of new recruits, 4) Number of retired employees, 5) Number of fixed-term recruits 51 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Data on Human Resources Data on 47 group companies in Japan who hire employees directly (as of March 31, 2011) (including companies other than the consolidated companies listed on page 5) 1) Number of Employees in managerial 2) Number of temporary 3) Number New graduate regular employees positions out of 1) employees of recruits recruits out of 3) Male 8,830 2,486 669 301 79 Female 2,152 90 1,083 103 35 Total 10,982 2,576 1,752 404 114 4) Number of retiring employees Employees who retired at fixed Employees who retired for Employees who retired for their age out of 4) company reasons out of 4)*3 own reasons out of 4) Employees in managerial positions 121 76 3 32 General employees 409 123 15 237 Total 530 199 18 269 Number of employees who took Number of employees who took Average age Average years at company childcare leave nursing care leave Male 40 3 40.4 15.5 Economic Report Female 163 2 37.1 11.5 Total 203 5 39.8 14.7 *3 The number of employees who retired for company reasons includes those re-employed at contractors and other companies outside the Teijin Group. Reasons for retirement other than those above include personnel transfers within the group and deaths. Data on 12 core group companies overseas 1) Number of employees 2) Temporary employees Employees in managerial positions out of 1) Male 4,379 553 431 Female 2,302 129 153 Environment, Safety Total 6,681 682 584 and Health Report 3) Number of recruits 4) Number of retired employees Average age Average years at company Employees in managerial positions 65 85 — — General employees 879 776 — — Total 944 861 37.1 9.0 Social Report TOPICS Women’s Networking Forum Held in Osaka and Tokyo The Women’s Networking Forum, which was held in Osaka and Tokyo participant made an action plan in a letter format under the theme: on August 28, 2010 and February 5, 2011, was jointly organized by “Self-leadership – Actions for my future and the future of the five companies: Sharp Corporation, Daikin Industries, Ltd., Panasonic organization.” These letters were then sent to participants at a later date. Corporation, PanaHome Corporation, and the Teijin Group. Other companies were also invited to participate in the event. In total, there were approximately 600 participants. The objective of the forum is to create a cross-company network for women, and provide a place for women to reaffirm their own value, consolidate their vision in relation to work, and improve motivation to take the initiative and positively affect others. As a result of this, we aim to enable women to take actions that will lead to the growth of the organization. At the forum in Osaka, each TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 52 Social Report CSR Procurement Focusing on CSR Throughout the Supply Chain in Cooperation with Suppliers To promote factors such as environmental consideration, legal compliance, and protection of human rights in supply chain management, the Teijin Group has established and is putting into practice CSR procurement guidelines. Regular surveys of suppliers are performed to actively provide guidance and support for the CSR activities of these suppliers. Group’s website (in Japanese & English). suppliers are graded from I to V with Viewpoints/Standards Relating to These policies deal with matters such as reference to specified standards. These CSR Procurement procedures prior to the start of dealing with ratings are then put into a database, thus To manufacture and distribute its products, the a new supplier and purchasing/procurement creating an ongoing system to rate the CSR Teijin Group procures a wide variety of raw flows. CSR procurement guidelines have activities of suppliers. materials, equipment, components and services been posted on our website in Japanese The questionnaire consists of from many companies around the world. since FY2006, and in English since FY2007 as approximately 50 questions and confirms As part of CSR in supply chain part of our global expansion. whether the standards of the Teijin Group management, we clarify and publicize our CSR procurement guidelines are met. viewpoints and standards relating to CSR In FY2008, Fiberfrontier Co., Ltd.*1 took procurement and purchasing. Examples of Ongoing Surveys and Ratings of over operations of the system to manage the this relate to improving the environmental Suppliers CSR of suppliers, and we began jointperformance of procured goods, Simply outlining procurement policies and management/cooperation with Toray encouraging environmental consideration, standards in a one-sided manner is not Industries, Inc. for CSR procurement. This legal compliance and protection of human sufficient to ensure CSR in supply chain marked the beginning of evaluating the CSR rights by suppliers, and also promoting fair management. From this perspective, in performance throughout supply chains of trade practices with suppliers. FY2007, we launched an originally developed the whole chemical synthetic fiber industry Since FY2006, the Teijin Group’s basic system to manage the CSR of suppliers. as well as our own supply chain. policies for purchasing and procurement Under the system, we run online surveys *1 Fiberfrontier Co., Ltd.: An electronic commerce textile sales and procurement management activities have been posted on the Teijin of suppliers regarding CSR activities, and company jointly established by chemical synthetic fiber companies in Japan. CSR Procurement Guideline Regarding the Teijin Group’s procurement activities, we ask our suppliers to meet the following requirements. 1. Quality and safety 6. Philanthropy 11. Environmental management system • Inclusion of items concerning “quality and • Inclusion of items concerning “philanthropy” in • Establishment and operation, and continual safety” in company-wide policies, code of company-wide policies, code of conduct, etc. improvement of environmental management conduct, etc. • Proper management concerning “philanthropy” system. • Proper management of “quality and safety” through establishment of a promoting 12. Minimize impact on the environment (air, through establishment of a promoting department and manager. wastewater, soil) department and manager. 7. Environment • Recognition of current status with facts and 2. Human rights and labor • Inclusion of items concerning the “environment” data obtained from in-house surveys, etc., • Inclusion of items concerning “human rights in company-wide policies, code of conduct, etc. through formulation of self-imposed standards. and labor” in company-wide policies, code of • Proper management of the “environment” 13. Reduce the discharge of chemicals into the conduct, etc. through establishment of a promoting environment • Proper management of “human rights and department and manager. • Recognition of current status with facts and labor” through establishment of a promoting • Official announcement of the policy or code data obtained from in-house surveys, etc., department and manager. that has provided matters concerning the through formulation of self-imposed standards. 3. Safety and health “environment”. 14. Effective use of resources/energy • Inclusion of items concerning “safety and health” 8. Management of chemicals contained in products • Recognition of current status with facts and in company-wide policies, code of conduct, etc. • Recognition of the latest information on the data obtained from in-house surveys, etc., • Proper management concerning “safety and chemicals prohibited by law and regulations to through formulation of self-imposed standards. health” through establishment of a promoting be contained, and proper management of such department and manager. chemicals based on facts and data obtained 15. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions through in-house surveys etc. • Recognition of current status with facts and 4. Fair trade and ethics data obtained from in-house surveys, etc., • Inclusion of items concerning “fair trade and 9. Management of chemicals used in the through formulation of self-imposed standards. ethics” in company-wide policies, code of manufacturing process conduct, etc. • Recognition of the latest information on the 16. Waste reduction (3R) • Proper management concerning “fair trade and chemicals prohibited by law or regulation to be • Recognition of current status with facts and ethics” through establishment of a promoting used, and proper management of such data obtained from in-house surveys, etc., department and manager. chemicals based on facts and data obtained through formulation of self-imposed standards. 5. Information security through in-house surveys, etc. 17. Disclosure of commitment to environmental 10. Approval and license concerning environmental conservation • Inclusion of items concerning “information security” in company-wide policies, code of conservation (air, wastewater, noise, • Periodical summarization and disclosure of conduct, etc. vibration, etc.) commitment to environmental conservation. • Proper management concerning social responsibility • Proper management for notification on facilities for “information security” through establishment or work for which appropriateness is required of a promoting department and manager. and election of administers, etc., as required by law and regulations. 53 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 suppliers on an individual basis, a practice hazardous substances found in raw materials Data Relating to Supplier Surveys which started in FY2010. that may become contained in our products, In FY2010, under the system to manage the At the same time, new group IV and V strengthening our controls on chemical CSR of suppliers, 406 major suppliers, suppliers have appeared, mostly from among substance purchasing, such as those relating accounting for 75% of all purchases, new suppliers and suppliers surveyed for the to substances specified in the RoHS regulations completed the survey. This was an increase first time. We will continue to guide these and the Law Concerning the Examination of 32 suppliers and 3% improvement in suppliers to ensure improvements. and Regulation of Manufacture, etc., of coverage of all suppliers compared to FY2009. Chemical Substances. We have listed prohibited Major reasons for this increase were the substances including those prohibited in addition of new suppliers, and a wider Strengthening Guidance and Support principle on our website to ensure that evaluation scope at Teijin Chemicals Ltd., Toho to Improve the CSR Performance of suppliers are fully aware of these substances. Suppliers Tenax Co., Ltd., and Teijin Pharma Limited. The results of the survey revealed that In FY2010, we strengthened guidance and Consideration for Contractors and Economic Report 94% of suppliers corresponded to groups I support of individual suppliers to assist and II, compared to 93% in FY2009. There improvements in CSR performance. One Work Contracts was judged to be no problems in continuing measure was to prepare a model for CSR The Teijin Group is focusing on maintaining to do business with these suppliers. Moreover, guidelines. Using this model, we provided proper work contracts based on mutual trust the ratio of purchases from group I and II guidance and support to group IV and V and cooperation with contractors. In FY2007, suppliers increased from 98% in FY2009 to suppliers to enable them to establish their we implemented a series of independent 99% in FY2010. In FY2009, there were 18 own CSR guidelines and approach to CSR, inspections of work contracts. By FY2008, we suppliers classified as group IV and V that did ultimately helping them improve their CSR completed actions to voluntarily improve not meet our criteria. However, in FY2010, performance. At the same time, we revised contracts which are legally correct but require Environment, Safety seven of these suppliers improved their the existing “Improvement Declaration” to revisions to more closely reflect the demands rating to group III or higher. make it more realistic and ensure steady of society (applying to 32% of all work). This and Health Report Possible reasons for this outcome are improvements. particularly applied to contracts for non-regular activities for CSR procurement further To the basic business agreement, we work*2. Since FY2008, no contract has been instilled across the group, and the effect of also added clauses on legal compliance, judged to need revising and proper work the directly demanding improvements and respect for human rights and environmental contracts have been maintained. strengthening support for group IV and V and safety-related activities. The new To cope with the sudden economic Social Report agreement will be used for new suppliers slowdown and changing market environment Breakdown of Suppliers by Rating and when a current agreement with existing due to the so-called “Lehman shock,” since suppliers expires. FY2009, we have been implementing Group IV Group V In this area, we are cooperating with structural reforms of our business and 4% 1% Toray Industries, Inc. through exchanging considering the impact of these reforms on Group III 1% information and opinions. contractors, regional employment, and other areas. At the end of FY2010, we took several Group II measures in response to contracted work in 17% Green Procurement/Purchasing the Setouchi area being reduced by Since establishing the Green Procurement approximately 25% compared to before the Guidelines in FY2003, suppliers who provide structural reforms. Aiming to minimize the Group I specified substances are required to operate effect on our contractors and employment in 77% an environmental management system, regional areas, these measures centered on Breakdown of Purchase Value by Rating which is then checked by the Teijin Group. major contractors with high dependence on Since FY2007, our green procurement the Teijin Group, and included providing Group III Group IV standards have been posted on our website immediate information on likely future 0% 0% (in Japanese & English) to ensure that the orders and contract cancellations, and Group II Group V suppliers are fully aware of and comply with actions that consider the cost and easing the 3% 1% our environmental quality standards. sudden impact of contract cancellations. The purchasing of stationery and other *2 Non-regular work: Maintenance, repair or other work that are not part of regular duties. The number of office supplies is based on the Green workplace accidents that occur during this kind of Purchasing Guidelines. In FY2010, the green work is relatively high. purchasing ratio was 87%, an increase of 6% Group I compared to FY2009. 96% We are also focusing on management of TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 54 Social Report Social Contributions Promoting Group-wide Social Contributions Together with group-wide social contribution activities, we offer comprehensive support systems for each plant and group company making use of their unique characteristics to conduct their own social contribution activities. In FY2006, we established the Teijin CEO Promoting Social Contribution The Teijin Group’s Initiatives Social Contributions Award in the Teijin Activities We joined the Keidanren (Japan Business Limited Commendation Rules to award We are engaged in social contribution Federation) 1% Club in March 2003, and employees and organizations which activities making the most of the distinctive since then we have been setting aside at demonstrated good performance in social characteristics of each business group and least 1% of our current profits for social contribution activities. There were no each region. In FY2010, we spent contribution costs. suitable applicants that matched the approximately 0.93 billion yen on social To help each employee engage in requirements in FY2010, but in FY2011 (as of contribution activities. The Group CSR volunteer activities, we run various support June 2011), the activities of the Home Health Promotion Subcommittee holds two systems, including a volunteer leave system, Care Business to help those affected by the meeting annually to discuss and promote a leave system for bone marrow transplant Great East Japan Earthquake were group-wide social contribution activities. donors and registered firefighters, and commended. In compliance with our Corporate Code holidays reserved for volunteer activities. In of Conduct and Corporate Standards of FY2011, we established the Volunteer Conduct, the Teijin Group set basic policies Support Program (see page 56) as a system Supporting the Arts, Culture and for social contributions in FY2006. for encouraging employees to join social Sports contribution activities and nurturing Supporting Amateur Sports Corporate Standards of Conduct: Item 3 volunteer personnel. Under this program, Through our sponsorship of the All-Japan (Social Contribution Policy) part of the expenses for volunteer activities High School Soccer Tournament since 1991, We shall contribute to society through our undertaken by the Teijin Group employees is we have been supporting amateur and business activities, form symbiotic relationships with society and engage in supported by the fund of donations from youth sports. Since 1996 we have been appropriate social contribution activities as a volunteer employees and company officers. donating footballs made from Teijin Cordley’s good corporate citizen. As a good corporate citizen, we will continue artificial leather to schools representing their to make appropriate social contributions. respective prefectures. Expenses of Social Contribution Activities Systems for Leave/Paid Holidays for Social Others 9% Contributions (in Japan) Group-wide Social Contributions • Volunteer Leave System Program The environment • Volunteer Leave System Based on 1% Backup Holidays Three themes of our group-wide social Science and Sports research • Leave of Absence to Join Japan Overseas contributions are the environment, 7% 70% Cooperation Volunteers international exchange, and social Culture and Total • Leave of Absence to Be a Bone Marrow the arts 0.93 Donor (Bone Marrow Bank) education. Of these, we have specified the 13% billion yen • Leave of Absence for Local Fire Station environment as a key theme. We are Activities implementing the following programs based on group employee volunteer activities. Group-wide Programs Spending on Social Contribution Activities* Programs based on group employee volunteer activities Amount 1. Nature observation program – Nature Item Description (millions of yen) observation leader workshop Monetary Monetary donations and other expenses for social contribution activities 800 2. Bird-watching program Donations of goods Donations of our products and other goods to social welfare organizations 4 3. Picture book donation activities –Book Free renting of Dream Project– Expenses for free renting of company facilities such as gyms and playgrounds 39 company facilities Personnel expenses for employees who participated in philanthropic activities Participation/Dispa during their work hours, such as joining local events as part of their work, and 86 tch of employees employees who gave lectures at meetings Total 929 * Data for all group companies, based on the Keidanren “Procedures for Implementing FY2009 Survey on Results of Corporate Philanthropic Activities”. * Money used to support the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake is not included. 55 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 employees, and converted them into cash Nurturing Environmental Volunteers VOICE through the “Takuhonbin” visiting used-book Co-sponsors of a Nature Observation Leader Masayuki collection service operated by Bookoff Workshop Kokubo Online Corporation. With the money earned, Since FY2007, we have co-sponsored a Teijin Pharma Limited we bought picture books, added translated Academic Information program for nurturing leaders who are able Division caption sheets, and donated them to to register with the Nature Conservation Protecting Nature through Observing Nature libraries in Indonesia. Society of Japan (NACS-J) and conduct After taking the nature observation leader In the FY2009 program, 2,692 used Economic Report nature conservation education. In FY2010, workshop, a group-wide program run books and other materials were collected, two group employees participated in the jointly by the Teijin Group and the Nature and converted into 121,531 yen. In FY2010, Conservation Society of Japan (NAC-J), I workshop. During the school holidays last 88 picture books were donated. In FY2010, acquired certification as a nature summer, with the help of local leaders, observation leader. Based on the the collection of used books yielded a total employees registered as Nature Observation catch-phrase “protecting nature through of 91,546 yen. In FY2011, we will buy and Leaders held a nature observation program observing nature,” I am personally involved donate more than 50 picture books. called the Cicada Exuviae Survey. as a volunteer leader of nature observation Of the total amount converted in programs in local communities to protect FY2010, 50,000 yen was donated to support Environment, Safety nature and make friends who join me in libraries in Thailand through the Shanti this task. I also belong to the Nature Volunteer Association. and Health Report Conservation Society of Tokyo (NACOT) in a private capacity, holding various nature observation programs open on a casual basis to anyone living and working in or near Tokyo who wants to join. TOPICS Bird Watching at Business Sites Starting the Volunteer Support Employee Volunteer Activities in Program Social Report We run bird watching sessions close to our business sites with the cooperation of the International Exchange and Social In FY2011, we plan to introduce the Education Volunteer Support Program, a new Wild Bird Society of Japan. At Toho Tenax Mishima Plant, this activity, which is popular Picture Book Donation Activities initiative aimed at nurturing volunteer –Book Dream Project– personnel. This is a program to financially among employees, is run every year. support volunteer activities of the Teijin The Book Dream Project is a social Group company employees. We will contribution program to donate picture extend our full support so that employees books to libraries in Indonesia now in its can be proactively engaged in social and third year since starting in FY2008. community contributions, and other public activities. As in the past, we collected used books, CDs, DVDs and other materials from group Picture Book Donation Activities –Book Dream Project– Project Period Content Results May 25–October 31 Application of translated caption sheets More than 36 employees participated 3,887 books collected, packaged in 71 cardboard boxes; 14 December 13–January 31 Collection of used books employees volunteered time to participate in the project Nature Observation Program (Cicada Exuviae Survey) Total number of participating Total number of employees Project Period Locations in Japan Cooperating Organization employees (volunteer leaders) (other than volunteer leaders) Iwakuni, Yamaguchi; Nagaizumi, Nature Conservation Society of Shizuoka; Chiyoda/Koganei/Hino, Tokyo; July 2–September 4 160 49 Japan (support by members of Yokohama, Kanagawa; Hokuto, local nature observation groups) Yamanashi TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 56 Social Report Social Contributions TOPICS Provision of Eco-bags with “Ganbare! Japan” Logo at US-Japan Cultural Exchange Event in New York Teijin Holdings USA, Inc. (THUS), the U.S. holding company of the Teijin Eco-bag with Group, provided 600 eco-bags to the organizers of Japan Day held on “Ganbare! Japan” logo May 22, 2011 at Central Park, New York, USA. Japan Day is a Japan–US cultural exchange event that has been Event venue held every May since 2007. This year approximately 30,000 people attended. As a part of social contributions, THUS has been providing eco-bags every year since 2008. This year in line with the theme of the event, we added the “Ganbare! Japan” logo to the bags. The eco-bags are made of ECO CIRCLE™FIBERS, a recycled polyester fiber made from used polyester products. The used eco-bags are recovered by the ECO CIRCLE™ system and recycled to a new polyester fiber at the Teijin Fibers Matsuyama Plant in Ehime, Japan. Local-production, Local-consumption Carbon Offsetting Teijin Matsuyama Plant in Ehime has been implementing local-production local-consumption carbon offsetting since November 2010. Infocom Corporation, part of the Teijin Group, developed the scheme. Under the scheme, the power consumed in two years by the commercial billboard at the Matsuyama Plant is offset via two methods. Half the power or approximately 10,000kWh, is offset by purchasing Uniform of Teijin Junior 170,000 yen worth of Matsuyama Green Power Certificates created in Soccer School (image) Matsuyama. The other half of power consumed, which is equivalent to Learning through the approximately six tons of CO2 emissions, is offset by purchasing environment at Odamiyama Uchikocho J-VER* created in Uchikocho, Ehime. In addition, CO2 emissions resulting from the manufacture of 200 soccer uniforms for elementary and junior high school students belonging to the Teijin Junior Soccer School were calculated. The result of approximately one ton is offset via Uchikocho J-VER. We also held a “learn through the environment” session for 150 children at the soccer school covering topics such as forest thinning, tree planting and clearing undergrowth. This carbon offset scheme in cooperation with the local community was selected as a Carbon Offset Model Project for 2010. * Uchikocho J-VER: Supported by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan, a service to support businesses in utilizing the offset and credit system. Its main activities are increasing CO2 absorption through forest management activities and promoting forest-thinning. Established Scholarship System in China China Education Development As part of activities in China to promote and support science and Foundation meeting and contract completion technology and foster outstanding human resources, the Teijin Group has implemented projects to support academic cooperation between Before the China Education Development Foundation Tokyo Institute of Technology and Tsinghua University, and the Nantong meeting Teijin Scholarship for high school students run through the Shanghai Charity Foundation. In addition, we established a new scholarship system in June 2010, for which there is no repayment obligation. In FY2010, we provided 12 technical master’s degree students of Tsinghua University, Beijing University, and Fudan University with an annual scholarship of 8,000 yuan (about 110,000 yen) per student. In FY2011, we will expand the scholarship to include four universities and 24 recipients, and continue to gradually increase the scale in the future. 57 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Fostering Young Scientists through the Teijin Kumura Scholarship Feature In 1953, Teijin Limited established the Japan’s first scholarship by a private company, the Teijin Kumura Scholarship. We have since supported science and technology students of academic excellence for almost 60 years, and contributed to fostering human resources to play leading roles in Japanese national and social development. Our Focus: Fostering Human Resources to Play Leading Roles including on viscose rayon, a recycled fiber. in Japanese National and Social Development Economic Report In November 2010, we had the pleasure of making Dr. One of the Teijin Group’s scientific and Negishi a Teijin Group Distinguished Fellow. With a view to cultural promotion activities is the Teijin enhancing R&D and the technical development capabilities of Kumura Scholarship. The scholarship was the Teijin Group, as well as to enhancing our presence both named after Seita Kumura, the 4th internally and externally, we plan to seek his advice and president of Teikoku Jinzo Kenshi (the suggestions on overall matters relating to R&D and technical current Teijin), who independently developments of the group, drawing on his great insight and established the first manufacturing broad perspective. Environment, Safety technology of artificial silk (rayon). Seita “Father of the Japanese rayon industry,” Kumura is known as the “Father of the and Health Report Seita Kumura Japanese rayon industry.” The scholarship aims to pass on and develop an original R&D spirit, as well as foster young scientists who will contribute to Japanese national and social development and the creation of new culture. The scholarship was set-up in 1953 to commemorate the 35th anniversary of the company, and was followed by the establishment of the Teijin Foundation in 1954, a further development of the scholarship system. Social Report Shigeo Ohyagi, CEO (left), Dr. Ei-ichi Negishi (right) The Teijin Kumura Scholarship was Japan’s first scholarship created by a private company, and approximately 1,500 science and technological students have so far benefited from the Message from Dr. Ei-ichi Negishi scholarship over a period of almost 60 years. The scholarship now Teijin Limited has shown remarkable developments in recent applies to a wide range of fields, such as medical and years, particularly in the field of life science. Even when I was pharmaceutical, bio-science, science and technology, working at Teijin I saw these early signs of this. engineering and information science. In FY2010, 43 graduate When I joined Teijin, the then president Mr. Shinzo Ohya students (22 in master’s courses, 21 in doctoral courses) received told us, “The young should go abroad. If you master one funds totaling 46 million yen. language in ten years, you will have mastered three languages This scholarship is not intended to benefit Teijin Limited in 30 years, and you will have developed world-class talent.” directly; its main purpose is to foster human resources who will The origin of my career is in these words of President Ohya. play leading roles in future Japanese national and social When I decided to leave Teijin, I was asked many times to development. As such, scholarship students who continue their reconsider my resignation. I eventually left Teijin, saying “I would look forward to the opportunity of reciprocating your research in universities or public research institutes after kindness with what I will have learned through further honing graduation are exempt from scholarship repayment, thereby myself and taking a broader view of matters.” freeing students from binding obligations. The scholarship is Time has flown since then, and now, I have the honor of open to students with an excellent academic record and there becoming a Distinguished Fellow. I am very grateful to Teijin are no economic conditions set for eligibility. for extending a warm welcome to a “runaway son” like me. Through research in my field of specialization, organic Dr. Negishi, Recipient of the Scholarship in its Fifth Year, synthetic chemistry, I sincerely hope that I can be of some is Awarded Honorary Fellowship help to Teijin in the future. Dr. Ei-ichi Negishi, Distinguished Professor at PURDUE University August, 2011 and a 2010 Nobel laureate in chemistry was a recipient of the Ei-ichi Negishi Teijin Kumura Scholarship in its fifth year. Dr. Negishi worked at Teijin’s research institutes in Iwakuni, Yamaguchi and Hino, Tokyo from 1958 to 1969 and was engaged in various research TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 58 Opinions from Third Parties Opinions from Experts Plans and Targets Need to be Specific and Self-evaluation Ratings Defined Mainly on Corporate Governance and Corporate Ethics In reading this report, so far I have found that “self-evaluation ratings” needs to be addressed. the “CSR Management” and “Corporate For example, it states the challenges and targets Governance” of the Teijin Group are consistent for “Corporate Ethics/Compliance” in fiscal 2010 with each other, creating a set of clearly defined are to “Make continued efforts to increase structures. CSR activities are also classified into recognition and awareness of the Code of “Basic,” “Expansive” and “Selective,” and the Conduct and Standards of Conduct,” but what is consistency of this classification throughout the the basis of judgment for increasing recognition report make it easier for readers and employees and awareness? I think some ingenuity is to understand the contents. needed here such as using an analytical index However, there is some ambiguity in the based on the results of an internal survey. section regarding plans, targets, performance These are problems commonly found in Dr. Yoshinari Koyama, Ph.D. (Commerce) and self-evaluations. In the challenges for many corporate CSR reports. Unlike Professor of Business Administration, College of Economics Kanto Gakuin University “Corporate Governance” in FY2011, it is written environmental conservation issues where that a “systematic review” is planned but, unless targets and performance can be defined in After serving as an assistant professor at the School of Commerce of Yamanashi Gakuin University and the contents to be reviewed are stated numerical values, it is rather difficult to do associate professor at the College of Economics of Kanto Gakuin University, Professor Koyama assumed his specifically, you may end up describing the this in terms of compliance. I would like the current position in 2010. He is also a part-time lecturer same thing year after year. Additionally, in the Teijin Group to overcome this problem. Since at the School of Business Administration of Yokohama National University and a concurrent lecturer at the issues for “Group-wide CSR” in the next fiscal year, the CSR structure is already consistent and School of Commerce of Meiji University. He is the author of many literary works including “CSR Management it is written, “Identify issues through stakeholder easy to understand, further efforts in (forthcoming)” published by HAKUTO-SHOBO dialogues” every year. Here, a specific theme for embodying issues and goals, as well as Publishing Co., “Gendai CSR Keiei Youron” (Modern CSR Management Summary) published by SOSEISHA Co. dialogue each fiscal year should be described. better defining self-evaluation ratings, will and “Nihon no Kigyou Rinri” (Corporate Ethics in Japan) Furthermore, the ambiguity in the result in a clear and concise report. published by HAKUTO-SHOBO Publishing Co. A Clear Way Forward through a Broad Perspective Regarding Environmental Preservation Activities The impression of the corporate characteristics There is no report on the BCP verification results and culture I had after reading this report can which should have been implemented after the be summed up in two words: sincere and earthquake. In addition, perhaps the following precise. I was particularly impressed by the stems from being sincere and precise, but CO2 boundaries and collection of data used in the emissions would be better understood if there report, and the fact that the data collection for were a total report (chart) inclusive of emissions accounting included overseas subsidiaries. from production, offices and logistics. Finally, on However, although the report is sincere the whole, I suggest that more conceptual and precise, there is a feeling that the report diagrams and other schematics be inserted lacks a broad perspective in terms of a view for instead of giving details in written form. the distant long-term and consideration of Of course, there are many good points. In Masahiko Kawamura world trends. For instance, the environmental particular, the stakeholder dialogue on the Senior Research Fellow, Insurance Research Group, NLI Research Institute goals only apply up to 2020; there is no environmental preservation in China is information relating to goals for the much excellent. Experts as well as local staff actively Mr. Kawamura graduated from the Graduate School of Engineering, Kyushu University. After being engaged in longer term up to 2050. In future reports, broad participated in the dialogue and expressed their offshore oil-related project management at MODEC, Inc., he joined NLI Research Institute in 1988. His strategies and targets should be clarified further opinions, which made the content realistic. research has centered on environmental management, relating to where Teijin will position itself and In the future, in addition to being sincere environmental ratings, corporate social responsibility, and environmental business. Mr. Kawamura is the what role it will take when the depletion of and precise, I hope that Teijin will be able to take author of many papers including “CSR Keiei de Nani wo Mezasu no ka?” (What to Aim for in CSR Management), resources and the world population, which is a much broader perspective considering major and other publications such as “Kankyou Keiei continuing to increase mainly in developing world trends, and create a report defining a Nyuumon – Sustainable Management wo Mezashite” (An Introduction to Environmental Management – countries, reach a critical point. clear way forward for environmental Aiming for Sustainable Management) (Nippon Kogyo Here are several other points I noted with management (including environmental Shimbun), “SRI to Atarashii Kigyou/Kinyuu (SRI and New Corporate Finance) (Toyo Keizai Inc.), and “Carbon concern. In the PDCA circle, there is a larger business) and CSR management. Disclosure” (Zeimukeiri Kyokai Co., Ltd.). section for P and D than there is for C and A. 59 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Focus on Enhancing Employees’ Quality of Life Regarding Human Resources and Labor Management The characteristics of the Teijin Group are with opportunities to exchange opinions evident in the clear aims to “Improve Quality of among themselves. Maintaining a culture and Life” and “Empower Our People,” stated in the climate for female employees to further utilize Corporate Philosophy and basic corporate such a system may further increase the number mission, respectively. I can also identify with use of female managers. of the Chinese character for “fortune” in the The report should consciously include word for human resources, which expresses more detailed information on employee Teijin’s philosophy of valuing and treating each training. The Teijin Group is focusing on training employee with respect. and education in safety, ethics and other areas; Notably, efforts to increase the number of I recommend details of this training be female employees in managerial positions could disclosed. In other words, there should be Dr. Kohji Okubayashi, Ph.D. serve as a model for other companies. Even more information on empowering people not (Business Administration) within a society which is gender-equal in principle, only in a business sense but also as members Vice President & Professor, Faculty of Business Administration, DBA, Setsunan University it is still a big challenge for Japanese companies of society. Acquiring general knowledge as a After serving as a visiting researcher at the University of to increase the number of female managers. member of society as well as technical California, Berkeley, Mr. Okubayashi was a visiting fellow The Teijin Group has come close to knowledge and skills is directly linked to the at the Industrial Relations Research Institute, the University of Wisconsin, a professor at the School of achieving its target of maintaining the hiring growth and career advancement of employees. Business Administration at Kobe University, and a visiting professor at Aix Marseille Universite. He assumed ratio of newly employed career-oriented female Particularly in emerging countries, employee his present post in 2008. Mr. Okubayashi is the author of university graduates at 30% or more. The next training is considered to be an important part many publications including “Nyuumon. Jinteki Shigen Kanri” (Introduction to Human Resources Management) challenge will be to increase female employees of corporate responsibility. and “Kyuu-Sorenpo no Roudou” (Labor in the Former Soviet Union), and co-author of “Flat-gata Soshiki no Jinji in managerial positions, and maintain a high I hope that Teijin will be able to lead Seido” (Flat Organization of Personnel Systems) (all ratio. I was very impressed when I heard that other Japanese companies in efforts to published by Chuokeizai-sha). female managers in the group are provided enhance employees’ quality of life. Promote Social Contribution Activities Together With Suppliers Regarding Social Contribution Activities The Teijin Group is developing its business conducted to manage suppliers’ CSR are a very activities under the corporate philosophy of important part of Expansive CSR and I highly “In Harmony with Society” and “Empowering admire the implementation. In the future, it will Our People.” In this report, the focus on become important to not only evaluate “Empowering Our People” in social suppliers but also promote activities together contribution activities is clear. The program with suppliers in the area of Selective CSR. If the newly launched in FY2011 on a trial basis to burden of activities can be shared with support employees’ volunteer activities suppliers, activities with double or triple the matches the corporate philosophy and I effect of those that can be performed by the have high expectations for the program. Teijin Group alone will be possible. Joint studies It is a slightly regrettable that the report with suppliers and further cooperation with Yoko Takahashi presents details of social contribution NGOs and NPOs may also lead to activities President, Japan Philanthropic Association activities by the Teijin Group, but does not based on innovative ideas. Ms. Takahashi joined the Japan Philanthropic explain the reasons for the activities in depth. Social contribution activities, whether Association in 1991 after serving as a high school teacher and a psychologist. After positions as a director Clarifying the reason for activities will help to promoted together with employees or and the secretary-general, she assumed her present post in 2001. Ms. Takahashi is the author of “Philanthropy educate employees and promote activities, suppliers, should prove to be beneficial to Nyuumon” (Introduction to Philanthropy) (Kainan and support from the people outside the business as well. Through social contribution Shobo) and “Rokujuusai Kara no Iki-iki Volunteer Nyuumon” (Introduction to Becoming an Active group can be expected. activities, communication will be enlivened Volunteer After Reaching Sixty) (Nippon Kajo Shuppan). Furthermore, in the future I hope that and teamwork strengthened. social contribution activities will be promoted I hope both the business and social together with stakeholders outside of the group, contributions of the Teijin Group can assist in particularly with suppliers. Questionnaires revitalizing society and employees. TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 60 Third-party Reviews Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report To the President and CEO of Teijin Limited Purpose and Scope We were engaged by Teijin Limited (the “Company”) to provide limited assurance on its CSR Report 2011 (the “Report”) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. The purpose of our assurance engagement was to express our conclusion, based on our assurance procedures, on whether: 1) the environmental and social performance indicators and environment, safety and health accounting indicators marked with a red star (the “Indicators”) for the period from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011 included in the Report are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s reporting criteria; and 2) all the material sustainability information defined by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (“J-SUS”) is included in the Report. The content of the Report is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement and to express our conclusion based on the work performed. Criteria The Company applies its own reporting criteria as described in the Report. These are derived, among others, from the Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2007 of Japan’s Ministry of the Environment and Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 of the Global Reporting Initiative. We used these criteria to evaluate the Indicators. For the completeness of material sustainability information, we used the ‘Criteria for Granting a Sustainability Report Assurance and Registration Symbol’ of J-SUS. Procedures Performed We conducted our engagement in accordance with ‘International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and the ‘Practical Guidelines of Sustainability Information Assurance’ of J-SUS. The limited assurance engagement on the Report consisted of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and applying analytical and other procedures. The level of assurance provided is thus not as high as that provided by a reasonable assurance engagement. Our assurance procedures included: • Interviews with the Company’s responsible personnel to obtain an understanding of its policy for the preparation of the Report. • Reviews of the Company’s reporting criteria. • Inquiries about the design of the systems and methods used to collect and process the Indicators. • Analytical reviews of the Indicators. • Examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the generation, aggregation and reporting of the Indicators in conformity with the Company’s reporting criteria, and also a recalculation of the Indicators. • Visit to the Company’s overseas factory selected on the basis of a risk analysis. • Assessment of whether or not all the material sustainability information defined by J-SUS is included in the Report. • Evaluating the overall statement in which the Indicators are expressed. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: 1) the Indicators in the Report are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s reporting criteria as described in the Report; and 2) all the material sustainability information defined by J-SUS is not included in the Report. We have no conflict of interest relationships with the Company that are specified in the Code of Ethics of J-SUS. KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Tokyo, Japan September 5, 2011 61 TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 Opinions from Readers Responses to a questionnaire on the 2010 Teijin Group CSR Report were received from readers. We appreciate and highly value the opinions we received, and we would like to use these opinions positively to promote future CSR activities and improve the report. Here, we introduce some of the opinions. Major Remarks • Some pages have too much text so it is a little hard to read. achievements as in the case of CO2 emissions. I am looking forward to • The report is full of information with a lot of blank space (white area) further efforts by Teijin in this regard. making it look neat, but there may be some people who find it rather • The present net sales ratio stands at 70% for Japan and 30% for overseas. hard to read because of the small font size. If the overseas portion is to be increased, I hope the report will contain • The report clearly shows how hard Teijin is working in areas such as case examples of overseas activities and stakeholder dialogues. increasing the ratio of female employees in managerial positions. • I am impressed that even fiscal year targets not achieved were However, globally, this has moved on to efforts to increase the ratio of disclosed in figures and strict self-evaluations have been made. I think female directors. This is a field where Japanese companies are still well describing the reason, countermeasures and similar aspects more behind, and I hope there will be further efforts made. clearly on the items evaluated as insufficient may help deepen the • In regard to the environment, the active efforts being made to reduce readers’ understanding of your CSR activities. CO2 emission were very clear, and the large amount of accompanying • I am interested to know what kind of report this would be if real efforts data helped. I think it is excellent. As for water issues, which are a focus were made to assume a wider range of readers and further promote worldwide, there will soon be demand for quantified targets and ease of reading. Reliability of contents Ease of understanding Understanding of the Teijin Group Trust in the Teijin Group Reliable Very reliable Easy to understand Improved Improved Improved greatly Improved greatly 17% 83% 100% 50% 50% 50% 50% Unreliable 0% Very easy to understand 0% Did not change 0% Did not change 0% Very unreliable 0% Difficult to understand 0% Decreased 0% Decreased 0% Very difficult to understand 0% Editor’s Postscript First of all, I would like to express my heartfelt advisors gave with strict directions and at other production and marketing. We have taken sympathies for all victims of the Great East times words of encouragement. I wish to take various measures for the reduction of Japan Earthquake. We sincerely hope for a this opportunity to express my heartfelt environmental impact caused by our activities in quick recovery and reconstruction of the appreciation for the valuable guidance given China. The dialogue was an extremely valuable disaster-affected areas. by Mr. Mitsuhiro Umezu (Faculty of Business & opportunity enabling a lively exchange of views It is very gratifying to know that the 2010 Commerce, Keio University), Mr. Mitsutsune with the management and local personnel Teijin Group CSR Report was awarded the 14th Yamaguchi (Research Center for Advanced responsible for environmental conservation Environmental Communication Grand Prize and Science and Technology, the University of (Chinese staff ) of the group companies in China. the 14th Sustainability Report Award. This marks Tokyo), Mr. Yoshiki Midorikawa (The Valdez We will make the most of this experience to the third consecutive year that Teijin has received Society), and Mr. Noboru Hayase (Osaka achieve further improvements. these awards. Some comments from evaluators Voluntary Action Center). From FY2011, the Finally, this year, we were once again were as follows: “The high-quality and level of Teijin Group has asked four new experts for permitted to use the real names of many information disclosure, including value-added their remarks. Referring to the opinions given, individuals, suppliers, NPOs and other information, were evaluated highly” and “In we will strive to overcome new challenges and organizations. All of these groups and addition to independent assurance by an continue strengthening our CSR activities. individuals understand the objectives of our assurance provider, the opinions from third This time, we held a stakeholder dialogue CSR reports well, and willingly cooperated in parties comprising four stakeholders of different in Shanghai, adopting the theme of “Efforts for enabling us to disclose this information. We positions added to the reliability of the report.” Environmental Preservation in China” and would like to take this opportunity to thank This report would not have been possible inviting Chinese environmental policy experts. In everyone for their cooperation and support. without the perspectives of expert advisors China, where rapid economic development is over the five years since 2006. At times, these continuing, the Teijin Group has nine bases for Teijin Limited CSR Planning Office J-SUS: Regarding the reliability of the sustainability information published in this CSR report, the J-SUS mark on the back cover is registration proof that the report satisfies the J-SUS mark standards formulated by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (http://j-sus.org/english.html). TEIJIN CSR Report 2011 62 Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1 Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585 Japan Contact: CSR Planning Office Tel: +81-3-3506-4508 Fax: +81-3-3506-4037 URL: http://www.teijin.co.jp/english/ Issued in September 2011
