ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Financial Report citizenship Review CLOSE THE YArA CItIzenShIp revIew 2010 Closing the global gap between food demand and crop yield by improving agricultural productivity GAPS Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Overview / 2 GLOBAL GAPS require innovation. Extensive know­ ledge is needed to feed 9.1 billion people by 2050. The answer lies in improved productivity / page 8, in­creasing yields by applying crop nutrition and application knowledge. Engaging its core business / page 10, Yara can contribute to closing critical gaps. On the global level, Yara is interacting with key stakeholders / page 19, linking the global challenges of food security and climate change to agriculture. Yara has also demonstrated the value of innovation in the production of mineral fertilizers, reducing emissions / page 27 of greenhouse gases – strengthening agriculture´s con­tribution to solving the interconnected global food and climate challenge. Read more / Yara’s Read more / Yara’s Read more / Yara’s global setting / carbon guarantee / global solutions / yara.com/citizenship yara.com/climate yara.com/gaps Yara Citizenship Review 2010 contents / 3 Report contents Overview Who we are 4 How we performed 6 Strategy CEO message 8 Strategic approach 10 MD&A Business overview 12 Global environment 13 Global developments 13 Global gaps 14 Global contributions 15 Major issues – global solutions 15 Leadership ambition 16 Key initiatives 16 Knowledge development 17 MIND Innovation culture Research & development 17 17 THE YARA FINANCIAL REPORT 2010 Minding the gap between food demand and crop yields – improving global People development 18 agricultural productivity Knowledge transfer 18 GAP Stakeholder engagement 19 Public affairs 19 Partnerships 21 Memberships 21 Sponsorships 22 Positions 22 Product stewardship 22 IFA program 23 REACH program 23 Certification 23 Ethics and compliance 24 YARA´S CITIZENSHIP REVIEW 2010 is the Corporate processes 24 company´s summary on citizenship initiatives, Citizenship commitments 25 activities and performance. For complete Performance review 26 reporting on Yara’s performance, please refer to the Citizenship Reporting 2010 online. Economic performance 26 Reporting is based on the Global Reporting Environmental performance 27 Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines and reporting Social performance 29 framework. www.yara.com/citizenship Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Overview / 4 Who we are Yara International ASA is a global company specializing in crop nutrition and industrial solutions. As the world’s largest supplier of mineral fertilizer, we help provide food and renewable energy for a growing world population. Our environmental solutions are also used to cleanse the air and eliminate toxic gases. What we do Upstream is the backDownstream provides a Industrial creates value bone of Yara’s manufacturing global presence through its by developing and selling system. It includes large-scale worldwide marketing and chemical products and indusproduction of ammonia, urea, distribution activities. It offers trial gases to non-fertilizer nitrates and other nitrogena comprehensive range of segments. It works closely based products, as well as fertilizers, knowledge and with customers to tailor phosphoric acid. tools to optimize application ­solutions and promote and yield. correct handling. Supply & Trade is a global function responsible for optimization of energy and raw materials purchases, ammonia trade and shipping, maritime ­logistics, third-party sourcing, and feed phosphates. What we offer Mineral fertilizers Industrial products Environmental solutions We offer the industry’s most complete We offer a wide range of nitrogen and We offer a range of complete solutions range of crop nutrients, matching the specialty chemicals, CO2, dry ice and for NOx abatement, odor control, water needs of all major food and cash crops. civil explosives solutions. treatment and corrosion prevention. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 overview / 5 Where we are Yara plants 2010 Sales 2010 As the industry’s only global player, we have production on Joint venture plants 2010 Africa projects six continents, operations in more than 50 countries – and Sales offices 2010 R&D units sales to about 150 countries. our history Scandinavian pioneer European position Global presence Corporate citizenship Our history started when Our strong position was estabOur global presence grew with Our citizenship history started Norsk Hydro, the world’s first lished in the 1970s and 80s, marketing in the USA 1949; a in Norsk Hydro with its extenproducer of chemical nitrogen acquiring NSM, Netherlands sales office in Rio 1977; a sive engagement. In 2005, fertilizer, was established on 1979; Supra, Sweden 1981; sales partnership in Thailand Yara’s Africa program was iniDecember 2, 1905. Regular Fisons, UK 1982; Ruhr Stick1982; an office in Zimbabwe tiated, part of which has been production started at Notodden stoff, Germany 1984; Windmill/ 1985. We expanded outside the Yara Prize, linked to the 1907, with several production Hamm Chemie, Netherlands/ Europe through investments, African Green Revolution Conplants constructed in Norway: Germany and Cofaz, France, including Qafco JV, Qatar ference since 2006. The global Rjukan 1911; Notodden 1928; 1986, DMW Rostock, Germany, 1969; Tringen, Trinidad 1991; corporate citizenship approach Porsgrunn 1929; Glomfjord 1991; Enichem Agricoltura, Italy Adubos Trevo, Brazil 2000; was presented with the first 1949. Building on fertilizer pro1996; Phosyn, UK 1997/2006; Olmeca, Mexico, 2006; Fertiseparate report in 2007, and in duction, industrial products Kemira GrowHow, Finland bras, Brazil 2006/07; Saske2008 Yara launched its Agriwere developed in the 1930s, 2007; shares in Rossosh, ferco, Canada 2008; Lifeco JV, cultural Growth Corridor conincluding heavy water 1934 Russia 2005. We acquired CO2 Libya, 2009; stakes in Kynoch, cept, brought into the WEF and CO2 1935. We moved plants in Norway 1972, Sweden South Africa 1999; Burrup, arena in 2009. In 2010, Yara abroad, first within Scandi1976, Denmark 1978, and Australia 2005; Balderton, initiated development of the navia, when we opened sales opened a new plant in Switzerland 2006/10. Climate-Compatible Agriculoffices in Copenhagen 1919, Germany, 2004. tural Growth initiative. Stockholm 1945. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Overview / 6 How we performed Yara has adopted ten strategic goals for long-term value ­creation, of which four are related to citizenship. For a full presentation of the ten goals, see the Financial Report 2010: www.yara.com/2010 For complete reporting on Yara’s performance, please refer to the Citizenship Reporting 2010 online: www.yara.com/citizenship Citizenship Safety Yara’s goal is to positively address major global challenges, Yara’s goal is to be a leading performer in the area of worker and to pursue industry leading standards in all our operasafety, with a targeted accident rate as close to zero as possible. tions and activities. Performance 2010: Yara achieved a TRI rate of 3.8, and a LTI Performance 2010: Yara’s engagement in the African Agrirate of 1.6 which is one third of the average rate of European cultural Growth Corridors saw two investment blueprints fertilizer producers. However, the company experienced launched, aiming to lift more than 3 million people out of three fatal accidents, leading to a total of four fatalities. poverty over a 20 year period. Human resource management Environment Yara’s goal is to optimize the management of its people, Yara’s goal is to be among the most energy efficient compato ensure that it continues to have the skilled and engaged nies in the industry, and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions workforce it will need to meet future business challenges. by 45 percent from 2004 to 2013. Performance 2010: A Global HR Function and a new strategy Performance 2010: Yara outperformed its goal, reducing GHG were launched. An increased number of standardized proemissions by 45 percent from 2004 to 2010. In 2011, Yara cesses and policies were implemented. In addition, a global will develop its sustainability strategy and revise its goal. HR IT system was launched. What we did in 2010 Main events Business development Stakeholder engagement Operational activities In 2010, Yara initiated a sustainability Yara carried out extensive engagement Yara continued to reduce its carbon footstrategy process. As part of its Africa with key stakeholders, locally, regionally print, which has been reduced by 45 perprogram, Yara with partners unveiled and globally in 2010. Adopting the WEF as cent between 2004 and 2010. Largely due the investment blueprint for the Beira a primary arena for interaction, Yara partici­ to the installation of Yara´s N2O catalyst Agricultural Growth Corridor in January. pated in the annual meeting in Davos in technology, the company launched the Connected to the Southern Agricultural January, and regional meetings in Africa in world´s first carbon footprint guarantee for Growth Corridor of Tanzania, Yara May, in Asia in June and November. Yara fertilizers in the Nordic markets in April. launched a USD 20 million investment CEO participated in a meeting on climate Year-end safety results show an LTI rate in a fertilizer terminal in Dar es Salaam issues with the Prince of Wales in Sepof 1.6, one-third of the average of the in January 2011. READ MORE / Strategy / tember. Among a number of major events, European fertilizer industry. Regrettably, Page 10 Yara was represented at the first Food, Yara experienced three fatal accidents, ­Climate and Agriculture conference in with four fatalities. In Dec­ember, Yara The Hague in October. READ MORE / Trinidad was certified to the international Stakeholder engagement / Page 19 standards ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. READ MORE / Performance sectors / Page 26 global challenges such as food security and climate change affects Yara’s business environment, the market and end­ users, in particular the world’s farming community. Identifying and monitoring megatrends and challenges that inﬂuence on strategic direction and business performance, adds to the corporate awareness of risks as well as opportunities – and the role of the company in society. One major role for Yara, an important contribution, is to offer solutions to close global gaps, especially the one be­ tween growing food demand and stagnating crop yields. stRategY responding to global gaps, Yara has founded its approach on the company’s core business, developing solutions and sharing knowledge; engaging in extensive public­private partner­ ships. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Strategy / 8 CEO Jørgen Ole Haslestad Contributing to sustainable food security In 2010, Yara made important progress on its Citi­ I was pleased to take part in launching the World Ecozenship priorities, addressing the issues of food nomic Forum’s (WEF) “New Vision for Agriculture” in ­security and climate change. Davos in January 2011. Yara played a key role in developing this strategy, which targets three ambitious goals for the Throughout 2010, global attention was focused on agriculindustry: reducing greenhouse gas emissions, reducing tural development and food security. Drought, fires and rural poverty and increasing agricultural productivity – by flooding led to failed or weak harvests, and increases in 20 percent each decade. food prices prompted memories of the food riots of 2008. In presenting the strategy to UN Secretary General Ban Even though grain prices were primarily driven by drought Ki-Moon, President Kikwete of Tanzania together with in the Former Soviet Union (FSU), the parallel increase in other key players on the global arena, used the Southern price levels of other agricultural commodities such as sugar, Agricultural Growth Corridor in Tanzania (SAGCOT) inicoffee and cotton indicate that there are broad challenges to tiative as a prime example of the public-private partnership the supply chain. approach, which brings scale to development efforts. Yara has played a key role in developing the concept. For the foreseeable future, land suitable for agricultural production will continue to be scarce. Areas with the In addition, President Kikwete and Yara launched an greatest potential to become cropland are largely covered Investment Blueprint at the WEF, providing a 20 year by forests. Cutting down forests to grow crops is not the investment plan to increase agricultural productivity in most sustainable option, as it causes massive emissions of the entire region in Tanzania. USD 1.3 billion of public greenhouse gases. investment, mainly for infrastructural improvements, will in turn catalyze private sector investments of USD 2.1 Yara’s 2010 Citizenship activities focused on the global billion more. The net impact is a projected tripling of the challenges of food security and climate change. These are agricultural output. issues where Yara’s core business and knowledge have contributed to the successful development of solutions. Our As a result, this will improve the food security in the surapproach is to build partnerships, provide knowledge, and rounding region. The initiative also has mechanisms to leverage our global position. include smallholder farmers and to create jobs. Overall, the Yara Citizenship Review 2010 strategy / 9 partners in the SAGCOT aim to lift more than two million The company has stepped up its skills and training requirepeople out of poverty. ments for operators, engineers and leaders. Yara also continues to implement Behavior Based Safety in newly In the market place, Yara pursued the climate change acquired plants and has introduced regular safety-focused issue, introducing the world’s first fertilizer with a carbon Toolbox meetings for shifts and teams. footprint guarantee (CO2 campaign) to the Nordic markets. Leveraging Yara’s catalyst technology, the company In 2009, Yara set a new, ambitious target for continued gained third party endorsement of its low carbon footreduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, aiming to print on a range of products from selected plants. This reduce the company’s 2004 GHG emissions level by 45 enables Swedish farmers using Yara products to brand percent by 2013. Yara achieved this goal, ahead of schedule, their products with a carbon footprint guarantee. By by the end of 2010. drawing on Yara’s fertilizer application knowledge, the carbon footprint of crop production can be cut in half. I am confident that a leading position in environmental performance is beneficial in the short and long term for An important key performance indicator (KPI) throughYara. Future business and policies will need to adapt to a out the company is safety. Yara has a strict zero tolerance situation with limited resources, filling the gap between policy with regard to accidents, founded on the belief food demand and agricultural output. that every accident is preventable. Even though Yara statistically ranks as one of the leading among European To broaden Yara’s scope and further develop its approach fertilizer companies on safety management, in 2010 the to these issues, the company embarked on a sustainability company regrettably experienced three lethal accidents strategy process in 2010. The result of the process will be that caused four fatalities. incorporated directly into Yara’s future management processes and targets. JØRGEN OLE HASLESTAD President and CEO Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Strategy / 10 Strategic approach Yara`s corporate citizenship strategy is anchored Adding to Yara’s own performance, the company also in its business strategy – and its citizenship engages with external stakeholders. Yara contributes to ­activities embedded into the core business. solutions through collaboration with governments, the World Economic Forum, global and local businesses, By identifying the key trends and issues influencing busidonors and other stakeholders. In Africa, where Yara has ness and society, Yara approaches the global challenges focused its external citizenship efforts, the company has which it is best positioned to help solve, as a leading global engaged in former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan’s call company specializing in crop nutrition and industrial for a uniquely African green revolution. solutions. The company applies its core business resources and knowledge, contributing solutions to global challenges For Yara, the preferred instrument for implementing actions such as food security and climate change. on the ground has been public-private partnerships (PPP). This tool involves public bodies entering business ventures Yara develops its corporate citizenship as an integrated with private companies to fund and develop projects. part of business strategy and development. In Yara’s view the business approach is the sustainable approach, creating The goal is to create added value and efficiency gains, which shared value to shareholders and society. can be achieved when government and the private sector each focus on their areas of strength. Through PPPs, partYara is committed to complying with the laws and regulaners learn from each other how to prioritize and strategize tions of the countries which it operates in, as well as the in areas beyond their own core competence. The process company’s own Code of Conduct and stringent rules, not has been especially useful in helping to increase Yara’s least with regard to safety and product stewardship. understanding of many aspects of the public agenda. Global challenges Going forward The trends of population growth, increased affluence While Yara’s dedication to pursue its goals within these driving dietary changes, globalization, climate change and areas remains firm, the company also recognizes the need resource scarcity are all direct drivers of Yara’s business. to continue its work on improving its operations and However, they are also issues that society faces challenges broadening the scope of its sustainability perspectives. In with and needs solutions for. 2010, Yara began a renewed strategy process to revitalize and clarify its sustainability efforts. This process will help In 2010, Yara focused on food security and climate change. ensure that the company continues to improve its perforOn a different level, we also focused on the interconnect­i­v­ity mance, not least relating to business risks and opportuniof these issues and their relation to the company’s business, ties, and the needs and expectations of the public and Yara’s positioning and knowledge. entire set of stakeholders. While fertilizers are vital for increasing yields, which helps Sustainable business development lies at the heart of Yara’s the agriculture sector to supply the increasing demand for strategy. The company strongly believes that sustainable food, the industry is also a major emitter of greenhouse development must include profitable solutions. By creating gases (GHG). Yara has responded on two fronts. First, by shared value for its shareholders, customers and society continuously improving its own performance, reducing as a whole, Yara’s business can perform as a truly global GHG emissions per unit of output. Meanwhile, Yara is corporate citizen. developing knowledge to provide agricultural production solutions that combine increasing yields while reducing agriculture’s carbon footprint. 11 global developments in the ﬁelds of economic and political development, includ­ ing environmental and social issues, affect Yara’s business. They drive risks and create opportunities. The core of Yara’s business is offering crop nutrition solutions that improve agricultural productivity. This positions Yara’s business at the heart of a key global issue: increasing food production while battling climate change and improving agricultural management practices. management discussion & analYsis responding to global gaps, Yara has offered its agronomic expertise and industrial expe­ rience, advocating knowledge­based use of crop nutrition, improving cropland productivity, reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 12 Management discussion & analysis Closing gaps – increasing yields Global business focus has increasingly been directed towards Business awards global challenges, such as food security and climate change. Yara continues to provide thought leadership, advocating sustainable Best Global Business in Africa improvements to agricultural productivity. Yara’s achievements through its African projects and long-term presence on the In 2010, Yara maintained its business-driven global citizenship engagement continent were honored at the third annual and process-driven internal sustainability performance, also launching a African Business Awards. strategy process to reinforce its combined focus on global issues and business International Business Leader development. READ MORE / Strategic approach / Page 10 of the Year On the external front, Yara in 2010 continued its strong support of an African Yara CEO Jørgen Ole Haslestad was honoured at the Africa investor 2010 Investment and green revolution, acting as a catalyst in establishing novel public-private Business Leader Awards ceremony in partnerships and agricultural growth corridors. Yara also furthered its Washington DC. engagement in a global stakeholder dialogue connecting the food and climate issues, launching its new Climate-Compatible Agricultural Growth (CC–AG) initiative (see separate story, page13). On the internal front, Yara in 2010 advanced its efforts on compliance, conSafety awards tinuing the roll-out of the human resources strategy and ethics program launched the previous year. The continuous focus on occupational health Peter J. Jackson Safety Award and safety was further intensified, and GHG emissions further reduced. Yara Praxair was presented with the The company’s innovation platform was introduced, reinforcing its innovaPeter J. Jackson Safety Award 2009 for tion culture and R&D activities. the most improved safety performance over the past five years by the EIGA. Road Safety Award Business overview Yara UK was presented with the Road Safety Award 2009 for the low accident rate in CO2 distribution activities by the EIGA. Yara’s global business activities range from phosphate mining and ammonia production, through commodity trading and energy arbitrage, to building Yara Safety Award local market knowledge. Delivering its knowledge and premium-branded products, Yara develops customer relationships by providing value-adding Yara Pocklington was presented with the Yara Safety Award 2009 for its efforts to solutions. The company offers the industry’s most comprehensive crop improve safety performance at the site. nutrient product portfolio, supported by large-scale sourcing, production and trade as well as a widespread presence in local markets. UK Factory of the Year Awards Yara Pocklington received two Highly During 2010, Yara retained its global position as the world’s leading provider Commended honors in the UK Factory of nitrogen-based mineral fertilizers and industrial products, extending its of the Year Awards. unrivalled global presence with sales to about 150 countries and territories (see map, page 5). In 2010, with the global economy recovering after the financial crises of 2008–2009, world fertilizer market conditions improved considerably. Yara’s Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 13 fertilizer volumes were up three percent on the previous year, at 17,195 tons Climate-compatible produced. Yara’s industrial products and environmental solutions also saw – agricultural growth strong volume growth in 2010, partially driven by increased demand for Air1 in Europe and the USA. MORE on the company / www.yara.com Through the novel concept of Climate– Compatible Agricultural Growth (CC–AG), Yara aims to promote sustainable agricultural intensification – improving cropland productivity while mitigating the climate Global environment change impact of global agriculture. Yara argues that improved agricultural In 2010 the key role of agriculture in climate change mitigation – and the productivity is necessary for future food need for sustainable gains in agricultural productivity, increasing food security, avoiding land use change driving production whilst avoiding land use change – received broad acceptance in global warming. Addressing global chal­len­ ges, the initiative integrates the agriculture, scientific, political and business quarters alike. food security and climate change agendas. Yara has acted as a catalyst on the global arena, making the case for the need to connect the food, climate and agricultural productivity issues. Concept With its extensive agronomic knowledge and expansive market reach, In 2010, Yara presented the CC–AG concept Yara engages in global agendas to contribute relevant solutions, while also around the world; at the African Green Revo­ exploring emerging business opportunities. lution Forum in Accra, and at the Global Con­ference on Agriculture, Food Security and Climate Change, in The Hague, and at GLOBAL DEVELOPMENTS the WEF annual meeting in 2011, the concept Yara is directly or indirectly influenced by major trends that drive demand presents an approach to agricultural growth that is compatible to global climate chalfor both the company’s fertilizer and industrial products. The megatrend lenges, i.a. championing improved agriculmost relevant is growth: population growth increasing food demand and tural management, including a balanced economic growth driving affluence. By 2050, the world’s population is application of crop nutrition. estimated to reach 9.1 billion, driving demand for Yara’s crop nutrients and agronomic solutions – reinforcing the food security issue. Economic Cooperation growth stimulates dietary changes, increasing the demand for grain, which in turn requires crop nutrition. Responding to a session co-chaired by the Yara CEO at the WEF annual meeting in 2010, continued at the WEF on Africa, and The increasing demand for fiber and fuel, including bio-energy from agriwith baseline data collected by McKinsey, cultural feedstock, adds to the challenge facing world agriculture: By 2050, Yara initiated an international dialogue, inviting potential partners to take part in total output needs to double, compared to 2005/2007 levels. the process. Among those joining, are the governments of Norway and Tanzania, the Economic development: New Partnership for Africa’s Development In 2010, the global economy recovered after the financial crisis and recession (Nepad), the Alliance for Green Revolution in Africa, and Syngenta from the private of 2009. At the end of 2010, the IMF and the OECD both estimated continued sector. Syngenta is also launching a joint growth in 2011. World real GDP growth reached 4.6 percent in 2010. On R&D project with Yara in Tanzania as part agriculture’s response to the financial crisis, the OECD and the FAO, in their of the SAGCOT. joint ‘Agricultural Outlook 2010–2019’ report noted that the sector showed “remarkable resilience”, with strong supply response to high prices. With food prices remaining high, rising to a historic peak in January 2011, the two organizations anticipated that international commodity prices will on average be higher in the next decade, compared to the decade before the price spike of 2007–2008. READ MORE / Economic performance 2010 / Page 26 Environmental development: In 2010, the mitigating role of agriculture gained momentum on the climate change agenda. For the second time, an ‘Agriculture & Rural Development Day’ was included in the proceedings of the UN Climate Change Conference, Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 14 the Sixteenth session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 16) in Cancún in Vital resources – December. Here, agricultural intensification was broadly accepted as a key increased efficiency strategy, linking agriculture to the REDD+ – the global scheme for Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation and enhancement of Considering the vital importance of scarce forest carbon stocks in developing countries. Deforestation is a major cause of resources in closing global gaps and feeding the future, Yara is determined to use GHG emissions, largely driven by agriculture’s need for land. Reducing land its knowledge and concepts to improve use change also helps preserve biodiversity. 2010 was the International Year cropland producti­vity and increase food of Biodiversity. The Biodiversity Summit convened in Nagoya in October, production. addressing deforestation and land degradation, among other issues. READ Land and water scarcity are determining MORE / Environmental performance 2010 / Page 27 factors in food production, calling for increased resource efficiency. Crop nutrients Social development: are another vital input, while energy is a key resource in both fertilizer production In 2010, the number of undernourished people in the world declined comand farming. pared to the previous year. However, at 925 million, the number remained “unacceptably high”, the FAO noted when presenting the ‘State of Food Land Insecurity 2010’ report. High food prices challenge efforts to reach the Land is vital, but future agriculture will UN Millennium Development Goal (MDG) Number 1: eradicate extreme have to do without more of it. Although poverty and hunger. The UN Summit on the MDGs in September focused abundant, expanding farmland usage on agriculture. Part of the plan adopted at the summit was strengthened causes global warming. Increased farm output has to come from improved producsupport for smallholder farmers. The summit also called for effective publictivity on essentially the same amount of private partnership. Here, and in the ‘2010 Global Hunger Index’, particular crop land, with only about five percent attention was paid to children, including the ‘hidden hunger’ related to added by 2050. lack of micronutrients, which was addressed at the first global conference Water on bio-fortification, held in Washington in November. READ MORE / Social performance 2010 / Page 29 Water is vital; future agriculture will have to do with less. Agriculture consumes about 70 percent of fresh water withdrawals. Water GLOBAL GAPS stress will increase especially through food A number of ‘global gaps’ illustrate some of the major global challenges facconsumption, urbanization and climate change. ing humanity – which are related to world agriculture and food production. Achieving food security requires agriculture to use water much more efficiently. These gaps are largely emerging as a result of rapidly increasing demand for agricultural products, in contrast to the scarce resources available for Nutrients farming in a time of climate change. Nutrients are vital; future agriculture will need more. Nitrogen and other crop nutrients Resource gap are essential for increasing yields. Balanced, There is an increasing resource gap – between the demand for food and precise fertilization plays a key role in future production of sufficient food and fiber, while other agricultural produce, and the amount of land and water available limiting land and water usage, and mitigating for farming, as well as the amount of crop nutrients needed. Relatively less climate change. farmland and fresh water will be available per capita as the world’s population increases. While production must double by 2050, only about five per Energy cent more land is expected to be used for farming. Energy is vital; future agriculture will need more. Agricultural production uses about Yield gap four percent of global fossil-fuel energy, of which about half is used in fertilizer producThere is a substantial yield gap – between actual and potential yield. In tion; largely natural gas. However, agriculorder to satisfy anticipated demand using the limited resources available, ture also produces energy: growing feedefficiency and yields must increase. Alarmingly, yield growth is currently stock for bio-energy, providing calories. declining in developed countries, and there is a significant gap between existing and required agricultural productivity growth rates. To double agricultural output by 2050, the annual productivity growth rate must rise to 1.75 percent from the current level of 1.4 percent. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 15 Global contributions Africa program – green revolution In 2010, Yara continued its global engagement in two ways; by engaging on the global arena, catalyzing action, and through developing and offering Responding to a call for action by the then knowledge-based solutions. Internally, Yara improved its operational perforSecretary-General of the UN, Kofi Annan Yara established its Africa program in conmance on GHG emissions. junction with its centenary in 2005. Five years into the program, Yara products MAJOR ISSUES – GLOBAL SOLUTIONS tangible support for the African Green Revolution. Yara has developed technologies as well as products and solutions that are highly relevant for some of the most pressing global challenges and issues, In 2004, Kofi Annan challenged the public particularly those of food security, climate change and resource scarcity. and private sector alike to support what he defined as a genuine African green revolution. From its initial response, supporting the Food security issue Millennium Villages and establishing the Yara’s business is directly related to food production. With its agronomic Yara Prize, Yara has engaged in creating solutions, Yara contributes to improving food security mainly by enhancing a platform for public-private partnership cropland productivity – increasing yields. Also, by increasing farm output, (PPP) in support of the African Green Revolution: Yara helps to improve the profitability of farming, a prerequisite for sustainable agricultural development. Agricultural platform Climate change issue In 2006–08, Yara hosted the Oslo series Yara’s operations depend heavily on the use of fossil energy, causing emission of African Green Revolution conferences, of GHGs. But with its technology solutions, Yara has reduced its emissions subsequently supporting its transformation and improved its energy efficiency. Furthermore, by improving agricultural to the African Green Revolution Forum, co-sponsored in Accra, 2010. Promoting productivity, Yara also helps to eliminate land use change for agriculture; a productivity increase and income growth key driver of climate change. for African farmers, the forum looked into actions, citing the Yara-initiated Agricultural Resource scarcity issue Growth Corridors (see separate story, page 16) as a prime example. In 2010, Yara addressed land scarcity with its work on improving land use efficiency through improved management methods to improve cropland productivity. The company tackled water scarcity by intensified innovation Value chain partnerships and an aim of developing a corporate approach to water use efficiency and Based on the PPP approach, and in addition to improve its fertigation offerings. Finally, it helped solve nutrient shortto the two corridors, Yara has played a key ages by pursuing its dissemination of knowledge to growers, particularly catalyst role in launching three value chain through its Crop Nutrition Concept (see page 22) and tailored offerings. projects on the continent: the Malawi Agricultural Project (MAP); the Ghana Grains Partnership (GGP); and the Tanzanian AgriCrop nutrition solutions cultural Partnership (TAP), developing Yara promotes the position that global food security depends on increasing replicable partnership models. agricultural productivity. This implies utilizing existing cropland to its full potential through improved farm management, rather than expanding acreFertilizer terminal age at the expense of forests and other habitats. With this approach, pressure on remaining forests is eased, reducing land use change, which is a major driver Responding to a request by the Governof global warming. MORE on fertilizer products / www.yara.com ment of Tanzania, In 2010, Yara launched a USD 20 million investment into a new fertilizer terminal by the port in Dar es Industrial solutions Salaam, strengthening the company’s Yara has employed its knowledge of nitrogen chemicals, derived from the long-term commitment to the country’s agricultural sector. The terminal will have a production of fertilizers, to develop complete solutions for abatement of revolving storage capacity of 45,000 tons. nitrogen oxides (NOx) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). Through 2010, Yara continued to explore opportunities and offer solutions that satisfy the demand for environmental products in industrial growth markets. MORE on industrial products / www.yara.com Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 16 LEADERSHIP AMBITION Agricultural corridors Yara’s vision is to be an Industry Shaper – to develop and share industry – economic growth standards that stretch to corporate citizenship and sustainability. Contributing towards the vision, Yara in 2009 established its Leadership Agenda designed to Developing the innovative concept of support the company’s strategic ambitions, and to inspire innovation. Agricultural Growth Corridors (AGC), Yara has contributed a replicable and scalable partnership model to support Leadership agenda the African Green Revolution and Africa’s Yara’s Leadership Agenda aims to inspire innovation and a consistent drive economic and social development, thus to explore new business opportunities driven by global developments, the improving food security. company’s knowledge base and market-oriented R&D activities. The agenda Announced at the UN General Assembly covers five focus areas, in the quest for industry shaping performance: Yara in 2008, and developed within the context needs to grow steadily and profitably; lead global agricultural development; of regional partnerships, with the World drive strong performance and positioning in environmental solutions; drive Economic Forum (WEF) as a main arena for international endorsement, the corridor perfect operations; and apply best practice corporate governance throughout concept has become one of the most cited the organization. examples of contributions to the African Green Revolution. In 2010, Yara continued to act on all aspects of its Leadership Agenda: innovation was re-organized, operational performance was improved, environmental Concept solutions strengthened its market position, and the leadership position in global The concept is based on public-private agricultural development was manifested through several key initiatives. partnership and a value chain approach, engaging key stakeholders from authorities Change catalyst – thought leadership and agriculture, with infrastructure providers Yara plays a thought leadership and change catalyst role, within and beyond and produce processers, to distributors and retailers. Creating hubs within areas of the agricultural industry. The company contributes solutions to global chalgreat agricultural potential, the corridors lenges such as sustainable agricultural development, which impacts both food draw on synergies from existing infrastrucsecurity and climate change. ture and economic activities, adding vital services for agriculture. Targeting both largeand small-scale agriculture, the corYara has opted to use the World Economic Forum as the main platform for ridors have a potential to improve food its global engagement. Since joining as an Industry Partner in 2009, Yara has security, create jobs and spur economic helped define the scope of agriculture and agribusiness within the forum’s development. framework, engaging in processes and participating at periodic meetings, using these as a venue for introducing its Agricultural Growth Corridor Corridors concept (see right). Since the idea was conceive in 2008, two corridors have been launched, with investWhile adopting a global approach, Yara has chosen to focus in particular on ment blueprints presented at the WEF in Africa south of the Sahara, advocating public-private partnerships to improve 2010 and 2011, respectively, for the Beira Agricultural Growth Corridor (BAGC) and the productivity of African agriculture, catalyzing change through innovative the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor concepts and international initiatives. Looking towards Asia, Yara in 2010 of Tanzania (SAGCOT). Yara’s role has initiated a Coffee Partnership in Vietnam (see page 20). mainly been that of a catalyst. In 2010, the company contributed to the SAGCOT value chain by investing in a fertilizer terminal KEY INITIATIVES in Dar es Salaam. In 2010, Yara was involved in three key initiatives related to its core business and citizenship commitment: Carbon Guarantee In 2010, Yara unveiled the market’s first fertilizers with a Carbon Footprint Guarantee, contributing to climate-smart agriculture and climate change mitigation, helping the agricultural sector to minimize GHG emissions from farming. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 17 Agricultural Growth Corridors N2O catalyst In 2010, Yara and its partners secured international endorsement for the AgriYara´s catalyst technology can reduce emiscultural Growth Corridors concept. The investment blueprint for the Beira sions of N2O – which has about 300 times corridor in Mozambique was launched at WEF, Davos, in January 2010. The the effect of CO2 on climate change – from nitric acid production by up to 90 percent. It Tanzanian growth corridor, SAGCOT, followed suit one year later. does so by breaking down N2O into harmless nitrogen and oxygen in the first stage of a Climate Compatible Agricultural Growth nitric acid plant. Building on over 15 years of In 2010, Yara launched its new Climate Compatible Agricultural Growth research and a NOK 200 million investment, the catalyst technology has made a signifiinitiative, integrating the agriculture, food and climate agendas by supportcant impact on GHG emissions from nitric ing improved cropland productivity, which increases food production while acid production, both within Yara and in the adapting to and mitigating climate change. industry as a whole. GHG savings Knowledge development Yara’s N2O catalyst technology contributes to annual reductions of about 30 million tons of Building on its culture of agronomic and technological innovation and supCO2 equivalents. If implemented in all nitric acid plants worldwide, it could contribute to ported by a unique research and development (R&D) structure, Yara emphaa global reduction of nearly 100 million tons sizes the value of knowledge – internally in driving business, and externally of CO2 equivalents a year. in contributing to global solutions. INNOVATION CULTURE In 2010, Yara intensified its innovation approach by developing a new innovaAir1 milestone tion road map, designing an innovation platform, and creating an Innovation In 2010, Yara passed the million ton mark in Hub – preparing to face future market demands and societal trends. The annual sales of its Air1 solution for reducing new function of Chief Technical Officer (CTO), established in 2009, became NOx emissions from heavy-duty vehicles. This equals a reduction of about 650,000 operational, and an innovation team was established. This revamp is aligned tons of NOx emissions from our customers’ with the launch of a Yara Global Innovation process, tackling the issue from applications. Based on Selective Catalytic idea generation to commercialization and selecting market arenas for growth. Reduction (SCR) technologies, the Air1 solution converts harmful NOx emissions from combustion into harmless nitrogen and Building on its culture of agronomic and technological innovation and supwater. Yara also offers a similar solution, ported by a unique research and development (R&D) structure, Yara emphaNOxCare, for stationary applications and sizes the value of knowledge – internally in driving business, and externally vessels. in contributing to global solutions. RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Yara’s R&D activities are unparalleled in the industry. The company has Growing algae retained its own R&D structure, which carries out agronomic R&D on plant Algae has been touted as an ideal future nutrition and innovative solution for agriculture, as well as technological fuel. It multiplies quickly and can be harR&D focusing on production processes and industrial applications. vested year-round. This means higher productivity and CO2 fixation potential, compared to conventional crops for biofuel. In the agronomic field, Yara continued to develop and improve decision-making Increasing interest in algae has spurred tools for growers in 2010, including a set of fertigation tools. Ongoing work also a new R&D project in which Yara aims to includes a tool to calculate the on-farm carbon footprint of crop production optimize nutrition strategies for algae growing in so-called photo-bioreactors. and a project to investigate nutrition strategies for algae (see box). Yara’s R&D Yara is cooperating with the University organization has been instrumental in the development of the carbon footprint of Duisburg to refine the bioreactor, and certificates launched in 2010 and is also proceeding on research to better underwith E.ON AG to conduct large-scale stand and mitigate nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions from agriculture. In 2010, testing in their pilot plants. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 18 Yara joined the scientific advisory board of the Global Agricultural Climate Carbon footprint – Assessment. Yara´s technology centers continued their work towards improving reduction guaranteed production efficiency and reliability, product quality and market support. This included improvement of the company´s N2O catalyst technology, and leaderContributing to a climate-smart agri­cul­ ship of an EU-funded project to investigate a new catalyst technology for nitric ture, Yara in 2010 launched the world’s first carbon footprint certificates for mine­ acid production. ral fertilizers. It helps farmers, retailers and others with interests in agriculture to PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT minimize GHG emissions from farming. In 2010, Yara implemented a new human resource (HR) strategy, built upon Using Yara’s proven low-carbon fertilizers three interdependent priorities: optimizing workforce performance; buildand best practice application tools, the caring a “candidate pipeline”; creating a highly valued work culture. The latter bon footprint from crop production can be means an increased focus on talent retention, teamwork, and processes. halved or more while maintaining yields. Integrating diversity and mobility with these objectives is high on the management agenda. GHG savings The spark for the campaign was the new Yara believes that focusing on workforce diversity will attract and retain Swedish Climate Certification program for top talent, and encourage all employees to reach their own full potential. food. Products with at least 25 percent GHG To ensure that we retain and attract the right talent, Yara has launched a savings will be marked in each food category, Talent Management Framework. This framework provides a consistent and introducing a ceiling level for GHG emissions from fertilizers. Answering this new requirerepeatable approach to identifying, supporting and nurturing talent and ment, Yara guarantee emissions below four performance across the business. It also supports Yara’s business strategies kilograms of CO2-equivalents per kilogram and plans by ensuring that the company has the right talent in the right nitrogen from fertilizers sold in Scandinavia. position. Proving its success in this region, the climate guarantee campaign is being adapted and expanded to international markets. KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER Yara contributes to knowledge development and dissemination through global initiatives and partnership projects, such as the one on Climate-Compatible LCA approach Agricultural Growth, launched in 2010 (see page 13). Through these efforts, The Carbon Footprint Guarantee is a maniwe are helping to close the ‘knowledge gaps’ in agriculture mitigation and fest of the company’s work to reduce emissions of GHGs throughout the life cycle of adaptation, highlighted at the COP 16 in Cancún. fertilizers. Yara has pinpointed emission hotspots by the use of life cycle assessYara builds its crop knowledge in close collaboration with the market. ments (LCA), and has made significant Cooperating with Yara, local growers, sales representatives and agronomist investments in cata­lyst technology to reduce N2O emissions from the production raise questions, address problems and promote ideas to growers worldwide. of nitric acid. Low-­carbon fertilizers are the Backed by the industry’s most complete range of plant nutrition products, starting point for sustainable intensification, Yara is able to provide sound advice that aims not just for optimal yields making agriculture part of the solution to climate change. but also aids growers in achieving the crop quality required by the market. Yara’s Plantmaster series is a key element in this knowledge transfer, offering easy-to-use advice on plant growth and fertilizer application for most cash crops. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 19 Stakeholder engagement Brazil: Knowledge approach Yara continuously engages with key stakeholders, including its shareholders, In the Brazilian market, Yara has used its partners and customers, national and regional authorities, as well as global knowledge approach and product portfolio and local organizations. In addition, the company is engaged in a number of to strengthen its position. In field trials, conducted in close cooperation with external partnerships and networks, industry associations, special interest organizations scientists as well as Yara personnel, Yara and initiatives. demonstrated how its Crop Nutrition concept added value for farmers, increasing yields PUBLIC AFFAIRS while reducing the amount of fertilizers needed. Maize yields increased by 14.5 During 2010, Yara was involved in international dialogue related to key global percent, while the amount of phosphates issues, with priority given to food security and climate change, particularly supplied were reduced by 50 percent. This from the perspective of African agriculture: was achieved by applying the right amount of the right fertilizer, at the right time. Global issues Yara engaged in a dialogue with the United Kingdom’s Prince of Wales on climate change financing. Cooperating with the Prince’s Rainforest Project (PRP), Yara attended a regional workshop in Ghana and a private sector Visions for agriculture workshop in London. The Yara CEO was among a select group of industry Yara played a key role in the 18-month leaders meeting with HRH at his home, discussing climate change financing, long process leading up the launch of the outlining several actions involving the private sector. Yara committed itself to ambitious “New Vision for Agriculture” work on identifying ready-to-go low carbon projects in developing countries. roadmap at the 2011 World Economic The projects will bring together the public and private sector actors, and serve Forum in Davos. This new roadmap aims as demonstration projects, for example for fast-start finance. to unleash the power of agriculture to drive food security, environmental sustainability and economic opportunity. Championed by Leading up to the Cancún conference, Yara participated in parallel processes Yara along with 16 other global companies to reinforce the role of agriculture in global mitigation of climate change. The in the fertilizer, agricultural and food sectors, company presented its Climate-Compatible Agricultural Growth initiative at it calls for concerted and better coordinated actions between the public and private the Global Conference on Agriculture, Food Security and Climate Change in sectors, and civil society. The Hague. This conference initiated the ‘Roadmap for Action: Agriculture, Food Security and Climate Change’. The roadmap links agriculture-related investments, food security and climate change. It was presented at the Cancún conference by several global leaders, including the President of the World Bank Group, Robert B. Zoellick. Preparing for the WEF annual meeting in Davos 2011, Yara participated in a high-level roundtable hosted by Zoellick. The dual challenge of food security and climate change was featured prominently at the WEF annual meetings in 2010 and 2011, during which Yara took a representative position for the agricultural business sector. Yara co-hosted private sessions on rural economy and agricultural development, took part in launching the “New Vision for Agriculture” strategy and presented the “Financing sustainable land use” analysis. Yara CEO, Jørgen Ole Haslestad served as Co-Chair of the 2010 WEF Africa regional meeting in Dar es Salaam, where key issues included sustainable growth and agricultural growth corridors. Yara also participated in WEF regional meetings in Asia, in Ho Chi Minh City and New Delhi. Yara was represented on the board and the working groups of the WEF ‘New Vision for Agriculture’ project, as well as on the board of the ‘Financing Sustainable Land Use’ project. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 20 Additionally, Yara took part in a number of international events related to food Vietnam: security and climate change in 2010, i.e. at the International Zinc Conference, Profitable coffee Scottsdale, on ZnO-based fertilizer delivery systems; Commonwealth BusiCoffee is a major cash crop in Vietnam. ness Council Africa Investment Forum, Accra, on accelerating intra-African Within just a few years the country has risen trade and investment; the Joining up Africa conference, London, on regional to the top echelon of world coffee exporters, economic integration; the G8 African Business Forum, London, on African surpassing Colombia to claim second place behind global leader Brazil. While extensive success stories and partnerships; the IFA Africa Forum, Paris, on agricultural fertilizers use has yielded results in Vietnam, growth corridors; the World Food Prize Borlaug Dialogue, Des Moines, on Yara has advised local growers to lower their reaching the world’s smallholders; the KfW Financial Sector Development application rates because unnecessarily high application is costly for the farmer, and has Symposium, Frankfurt, on financing for agriculture; the Brussels Developnegative impacts on the environment. ment Briefings, Brussels, and the ACP Regional Briefing, Lilongwe, on innoEmploying its crop knowledge, Yara has vative public-private partnerships; the Global Conference on Agriculture, ­recommended the use of a combination of Food Security and Climate Change, the Hague, on Climate-Compatible products in order to achieve balanced nutrition. The result is improved plants with a Agricultural Growth; and the Annual Conference of the IFS, London, on best reduced fruit drop rate, more uniform ripenmanagement principles and techniques to optimize nutrient use efficiency. ing and bigger berries with heavier beans – all of which improve farmers’ profits. Yara has also made note of the ongoing process of revising the EU Common Agricultural Policy. As a business stakeholder in the agricultural value chain, Yara prepares to engage in the process based on our extensive agricultural knowledge. Yara’s key position is to maintain focus on increasing yields while improving resource use efficiency through the value chain, which is the only ETS viable solution to sustainable agricultural development. The EU Emissions Trading System (ETS) is the world’s largest international scheme Industrial issues for the trading of GHG emission allowYara is Europe’s largest industrial consumer of natural gas and has strengthances. A cornerstone of the EU’s policy to ened its role as key stakeholder in the processes leading to liberalization of combat climate change, the ETS covers about 11,000 power stations and industrial the European gas market. Yara has valuably contributed to several political plants in 30 countries. initiatives that have been proposed at the pan-European level, based on the company’s European position, experience and technical knowledge. Processes leading to increased transparency for the benefit of gas customers, more efficient balancing and better regulation of the European gas market are political efforts in which Yara is currently strongly involved. Moreover, the European Commission, Energy Regulators and the European Parliament rely upon expert information being communicated to them by Yara, as a result of Yara’s significant level of gas consumption and key role as a pan-European industrial actor. Yara has also opened dialogue and cooperation with relevant authorities from a number of EU member states, in order to improve their understanding regarding the future implementation of new legislation. The fertilizer industry is energy-intensive and a considerable source of GHG emissions. However, there are significant differences in energy-efficiency and emissions levels between regions, with European producers representing the most efficient part of the industry. From 2013, all European ammonia and nitric acid plants will be regulated under the European Emission Trading Scheme (ETS). This will lead to added production costs for Yara and other European producers, especially in the ammonia sector. The European industry is deeply concerned that this will lead to competitive distortion relative to non-European producers. This would result in increased imports from less Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 21 efficient producers outside the EU, while producing carbon leakages and more Warm CO2 GHG emissions globally . Yara expects to meet the new requirements for its In the Netherlands, Yara Sluiskil delivers nitric acid plants by having installed the company’s N2O reduction technolwaste heat and CO2 to local greenhouses. ogy and is examining the possibility for further technical improvements in Replacing gas burners previously used to some of the ammonia plants. provide heat and CO2 supporting plant growth in the greenhouse, the WarmCO2 project reduces GHG emissions and local In January 2010, Yara reached an agreement to sell its shares in the Brazilian environmental impacts from discharges of company Fosfertil to Vale, along with its stake in the Anitápolis phosphate excess process heat. In 2010, Yara delivered rock project in southeastern Brazil. The latter was held through Yara’s joint 355 TJ of heat and 11,000 tons of CO2 through WarmCO2, which is a joint project with the venture company, Indústria de Fosfatados Catarinense. The project of develport authority Zeeland Seaports and infraoping the phosphate mine, still at an early stage, caused some contention the structure specialist Visser & Smit Hanab. previous year, due to environmental concerns and some local opposition. Combined reductions from deliveries of Yara’s interest in the project resulted from its acquisition of Adubos Trevo heat and CO2 amounted to an estimated 25,500 tons CO2.large-scale testing in in 2000. their pilot plants. Other issues In February 2010, the CEO participated in the Baltic Sea Action Summit, in Helsinki, Finland. The summit was a multi-stakeholder platform for heads of state, companies, business leaders, non-governmental organizations as Baltic trapping well as individual citizens, aiming to find ways to rescue the area. The CEO Yara´s TraP research program is a key presented the research project TraP (see right), in which Yara and its partners element in the company´s commitment have developed a solution that significantly reduces phosphorous leakage to contribute to a cleaner Baltic Sea. Using from fields into waterways. It uses gypsum to better trap phosphorous in gypsum to trap phosphorus in the fields, it fields, and midway results are very encouraging. Erosion has been reduced offers a solution that significantly reduces leakage into waterways, thus reducing by 30–70 percent, and nutrient uptake improved. eutrophication. TraP testing has been being carried out in laboratories, on fields, PARTNERSHIPS in catchments and on a number of pilot farms in Finland. Studies have concluded Yara engages in private-public partnerships in support of an African green that gypsum has the potential to reduce revolution. Yara has been involved in three local partnerships; one each in discharges of particle-bound phosphorus Ghana, Malawi, and Tanzania, plus two regional agricultural growth corriby 60 percent, with no effects on land dors located in Mozambique and Tanzania (see page 16). The growth corridor use or cultivation practices. in Malawi was terminated in 2010. In 2010, Yara partnered with Syngenta AG to introduce climate-compatible farming as an additional layer to the Tanzanian growth corridor. Greener orange juice Yara’s initial partners in developing a high-impact program related to CliIn 2010, Yara began a joint project with mate-Compatible Agricultural Growth (see page 13), are the Government of Pepsico, aiming to reduce the carbon footNorway, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (Nepad), and the Alliprint of Pepsico’s Tropicana orange juice ance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA). Yara continued its partnership brand. Yara brings its low-carbon fertilizer with the environmental organization Bellona to address key environmental and expertise in plant nutrition into the fiveyear trial project, which eventually could challenges. reduce the carbon footprint of Tropicana orange juice by up to 20 percent, while MEMBERSHIPS increasing grower´s profitability. Yara is a corporate member of the two leading fertilizer industry associations, the International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA), and Fertilizers Europe, as well as the International Fertiliser Society (IFS); European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA); the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC), Sector Group Inorganic Feed Phosphates; and the Fertilizer Institute (TFI). Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 22 Yara is a member of Business Action for Africa (BAA), and a signatory to Crop nutrition concept Business Action Against Corruption (BAAC), to the UN Global Compact Yara’s Crop Nutrition Concept is designed (UNGC), and the UNGC Caring for Climate initiative. Yara has joined Transto tailor fertilizer application to the specific parency International (TI), Norway and Ghana, and is an Industry Partner of crop and growing conditions, for maximum the World Economic Forum (WEF). Through IFA, Yara is part of the multieffici­ency and optimal yields. Bringing local stakeholder Farming First coalition, and the Zinc Nutrient Initiative. answers to global challenges, it offers growers a unique package of products and services: SPONSORSHIPS Yara has a defined set of sponsoring guidelines, for all levels of the organizaCrop knowledge Yara has unrivalled knowledge in crop tion. First and foremost, the company supports activities and organization nutrition and uses it to create win-win with the common ambition of contributing to solutions for major global situations with successful growers. challenges related to energy, climate, food and health. In line with this, Yara has developed its Africa Program. Yara also partners with leading NGOs and Portfolio combinations Yara offers a comprehensive product portsupports R&D projects that target environmental improvements, such as the folio that meets the needs of all crops, difTraP project for reduced leaching of nutrients into the Baltic Sea (see page 21). ferent growing conditions and application Additionally, Yara’s operations worldwide are engaged in and support a wide methods. variety of community projects and local initiatives for the benefit of the public. Application competence Yara applies a just-in-time approach to In 2010, Yara supported the Corporate Leadership Coalition for Smallholder application that matches the exact needs Farmer Livelihoods, Boston; the Development Policy Forum (DPF), Brussels; of crops, supported by an array of decisionmaking tools. and the Zero Emission Resource Organisation (Zero), Oslo. POSITIONS Yara executives hold a number of industry and related positions, promoting Plantmaster the company’s positions and pursuing its vision, goals and agenda. Yara’s Plantmaster nutrition management programs are a series of crop nutrition In 2010, the Head of Yara’s Upstream segment, Tor Holba held the position guides. They combine the results of research of Vice President at FE; Director of Technical Services Yara Pocklington, and development with the practical expe­ Kevin Moran was President of the International Fertiliser Society (IFS); Head rience of Yara´s specialist from around the world. The Plantmaster guides are available of Yara energy sourcing, Steinar Solheim was Chairman of the International for 12 major cash crops, in several languages. Federation of Industrial Consumers (IFIEC) Working Party Oil and Gas; Yara’s Vice President for HESQ, Tore Jenssen was Vice Chairman of IFA’s Technical Committee; Yara’s Vice President Global Business Development and Public Affairs, Sean de Cleene served as member of the respective boards of the World Economic Forum (WEF) projects ‘New Vision for Agriculture’ and ‘Financing Sustainable Land Use’, as well as member of the technical committee of the Africa Progress Panel Business Action Group, and as Vice Chair of the Tanzania Kilimo Kwanza Growth Corridor Executive Committee. Product stewardship Yara’s activities are all guided by the principles of product stewardship as set out by Fertilizers Europe. They ensure that proper care is taken along the entire value chain, from product development and sourcing of raw materials, through production, storage and distribution to sales, delivery and usage. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 23 IFA PROGRAM In early 2011, the International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA) • More information on Fertilizer Europe´s launched an industry-wide product stewardship initiative. Through 2010, product stewardship program: www.fertilizerseurope.com Yara was involved in the development of the initiative, drawing on its experience and helping to establish the framework and contents of IFA’s product • More information on IFA’s product stewardship program. As a first mover participant in the program, Yara is stewardship initiative: reviewing its existing stewardship management procedures and preparwww.protectandsustain.org ing for the certification process to become recognized as an IFA Product Steward. REACH PROGRAM Reaching REACH After completing the first phase of REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) in 2008, Yara forged ahead The EU REACH regulation targets improved with preparations for next registration deadline in December 2010. This control and knowledge of chemical substan­ ces to help safeguard human health and the work has included assessments of uses for Yara’s products, contacting environment. It requires classification, testsuppliers to gather information on purchased substances and the launch ing and registration of all substances in the of an online tool to assure customers that their use of substances would be European chemical industry. included in Yara’s registration. Yara successfully registered all substances Yara’s REACH program is tackling the ahead of the 2010 deadline. regulation in four ways: To ensure future compliance with the REACH and similar legislation coming Get compliant: Registration of substances according to deadlines, defining business into force in other regions, Yara has established a permanent REACH unit process changes and preparing the orga­ and it implementing new processes and IT tools. nization CERTIFICATION Stay compliant: Daily execution of the revised work processes and managing Yara aims for all plants to be certified to several international standards: ISO of future changes 9001 Quality Management Systems, ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems, and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Support compliance: Development of IT Systems. This process is progressing rapidly toward completion (see table tools to manage data flow, and continuous updates of work procedures and steering page 24), with certification being carried out by Det Norske Veritas. In addidocuments tion, certification in accordance to other standards is also in place, such as for energy management and food quality systems. Report compliance: Implementation of new product labeling and provision of extended safety data sheets Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 24 Certifications at Yara plants Plant ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Ambès • • • Belle Plaine In progress In progress In progress Brunsbüttel • • • Ferrara • • In progress Glomfjord • • • Harjavalta • • • Kokkola • • • Köping • • • Le Havre • • • Montoir • • • Pardies • In progress In progress Pocklington • In progress In progress Porsgrunn • • • Ravenna • • In progress Rio Grande • • • Rostock • • • Siilinjärvi • • • Sluiskil • • • Tertre • • • Trinidad • • • Uusikaupunki • • • Ethics and compliance In accordance with the CEO’s Leadership Agenda, Yara established an Ethics and Compliance Department in March 2009. Led by the newly appointed Global Head of Compliance, the department is responsible for coordinating and overseeing ethics and compliance work. In February 2010, Yara launched a company-wide Ethics Program, based on the fundamental principles of the company’s Code of Conduct, structured around its core values of ambition, teamwork, trust and accountability. During the year, the program was rolled out throughout the organization and an array of ethics tools were provided to Yara employees, including a handbook, telephone hotline, videos materials and web-based portal. So far approximately 80 percent of Yara employees have participated in ethics training, which will continue in 2011, and there is currently a high level of awareness of the ­Ethics Program within the organization. CORPORATE PROCESSES During 2010, the Yara Ethics Program was implemented. The program includes the Ethics Handbook, which is based upon the fundamental principles of Yara’s Code of Conduct, and structured around Yara’s core values: ambition, teamwork, trust, and accountability. The program, which was ready for roll-out by the end of 2009, provides a comprehensive set of ethical Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 25 guidelines and tools to assist managers and employees in making the right decisions when facing ethical dilemmas. CITIZENSHIP COMMITMENTS During 2010, the Ethics and Compliance Department followed up on several actions related to Yara’s corporate citizenship commitments. Yara has been a signatory to and active supporter of the UN Global Compact since 2006. In 2010, Yara participated in one UN GC Nordic Conference. Yara continues to report according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and is committed to improving the application of this framework. In 2010, an internal process was carried out to improve the quality and completeness of the company’s non-financial reporting. Yara did not identify non-compliance with laws or regulations regarding human rights, anti-competitive behavior, corruption, marketing, customer privacy or the provision and use of products, including their health and safety impacts in 2010. Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 26 Performance review Yara’s Citizenship Review 2010 is the company´s summary on citizenship initiatives, activities and performance. For complete reporting on all of Yara’s performance indicators, please refer to the Citi­ zenship Reporting 2010 online. Reporting is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines and reporting framework, covering Yara’s performance on economy, environment, labor practices and decent work, human rights, society, and product responsibility. See www.yara.com/citizenship securing a profitable existence for farmers around the world. Economic performance A large number of farmers worldwide are still engaged in subsistence agriculture, largely detached from commerYara performed well in 2010, as fertilizer demand and cial markets, which prevents them from generating revprices rose from the year before. The 2010 financial results enues of any significance. Developing subsistence farms were the company´s best ever. into viable small-scale businesses is crucial for generating growth and reducing poverty in agriculturally-driven Financial performance economies. In 2010, Yara recorded revenues and other income of NOK 65.4 billion, up from NOK 61.4 billion in 2009. Net income Yara has demonstrated its willingness to assist the farming after non-controlling interests increased by 131 percent community in becoming more profitable and sustainable, to NOK 8,729 million. Corresponding earnings per share through a number of projects. For years, the company were a record high NOK 30.24, mainly reflecting higher has supported development programs in Africa, with the margins for the majority of the company´s products. This in novel Agricultural Growth Corridor concept (see page turn was largely a result of significant improvements in the 16) being a prime example of the manner in which Yara world fertilizer market, which rebounded from the global employs its knowledge and engages with other stakeholdfinancial crises in 2008/2009. As prices for most agricultural ers to create shared value. Another is example is the “New commodities soared, demand for plant nutrients increased, Vision for Agriculture” roadmap (see page 19) presented resulting in higher demand and prices for Yara´s fertilizer early 2011. products. Meanwhile, the market for environmental applications gained momentum, and production picked up in the Yara´s worldwide operations support and engage in a variprocess industry, strengthening demand for Yara´s environety of community projects and local activities, largely for mental solutions and nitrogen chemicals. the benefit of the public. In 2010, Yara’s local operations reported spending of approximately NOK 15 million on Economic impacts community involvement programs. As the world´s leading producer of mineral fertilizers, Yara is a key player in improving agricultural productivity and Economic performance aspects covered online: • Value creation and economic Yara´s Financial Report 2010 provides To see more of the company´s impacts a full account of the company´s economic performance data, see • Risks and opportunities due to financial performance in 2010. Citizenship Reporting 2010 online: climate change www.yara.com/citizenship • Local impacts and infrastructure investments Yara Citizenship Review 2010 management discussion & analysis / 27 environmental performance overview this section presents a summary of Yara´s environmental performance in 2010. To see more of the company´s environmental performance data, see Citizenship Reporting 2010 online: www.yara.com/citizenship GHG ENERGY 25 250 125 EMISSIONS CONSUMTION VS TARGETS Target 2009: 25% down Energy consumption (PJ) Million ton of 20 200 100 Eco-efficiency index Target 2013: 45% CO2 equivalents, down vs 2004 adjusted for new plants and market 15 150 75 conditions 2009 (energy/production) 10 100 50 Target Adjusted to 50 25 full production 5 Consumtion PJ Actual Eco-efficiency 0 2004 2009 2010 2013 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 EMISSIONS 20000 125 EMISSIONS TO AIR CON5000 125 Emission (tonnes SO2-equivalents) TO WATER Emission (tonnes PO4 equivalents) TRIBUTING TO CONTRIBUTING ACIDIFICATION 16000 100 TO EUTROPHI4000 100 Eco-efficiency index Eco-efficiency index CATION 12000 75 3000 75 (emission/production) (emission/production) F 8000 50 P 2000 50 SO2 N NH3 NH3 4000 25 1000 25 NOX NOX Eco efficiency Eco efficiency 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 envIronmentAl performAnCe ASpeCtS Covered onlIne: • Energy consumption and efﬁciency Individual Health, safety & environwww.yara.com/sustainability/reports_ • Greenhouse gas emissons ment facts sheets are available for and_tools/reports/index.aspx • Other emissions to air and water each plant in the Sustainability • Water withdrawals section on Yara’s website: • Materials, packaging and waste • Biodiversity • Compliance Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 28 system. This segment implemented its Systematic Energy Environmental performance Management initiative in 2008, targeting energy savings through improved management, reporting and analysis In 2010, Yara reached its ambitious GHG emission target of of energy consumption. Local Energy Hunters have been reducing emissions by 45 percent. Although total energy appointed at all Yara’s major production plants, to drive consumption rose, driven by growth in production levels, improvements and establish energy saving projects. Two Yara continued to increase its energy efficiency. of Yara´s plants have been certified according to the DIN EN 16001 standard on energy management, and certifiGHG emissions cation is being planned for several other plants. Yara also In 2010, Yara continued its efforts to reduce the carbon pays great attention to plant reliability. Apart from being footprint of its production plants worldwide. Yara reached a smart investment in productivity, high plant reliability its 2013 target for GHG emissions well ahead of time, contributes to energy efficiency and reduced emissions recording a 45 percent reduction between 2004 and 2010 from production. after adjusting for plants acquired and closed within the period. A new target for GHG reductions will be estabYara has initiated a number of energy saving projects, lished during 2011. some with governmental support. Two projects of this type are underway, targeting energy savings at the Yara’s In 2010, Yara´s GHG emissions totaled 13.1 million tons of Glomfjord and Porsgrunn production sites in Norway. CO2 equivalents, up from 12.5 million tons in 2009. The Yara cooperates with the Norwegian public enterprise 2010 result includes emissions from the JV plant in Libya, Enova on these projects, in what is the largest agreement which had previously not been included in the reporting. In of its kind to date. The project at Yara Porsgrunn aims terms of emissions per ton of finished product, the carbon to reduce the plant’s annual energy consumption by 300 footprint has been reduced from 1.6 tons of CO2 equivalents GWh by 2011. in 2004, to 0.9 tons in 2010. In the Netherlands, Yara Sluiskil continued deliveries Yara´s most significant contribution by far to cutting GHG of surplus heat and CO2 to local greenhouses in the emissions has been the company´s N2O catalyst technology WarmCO2 project (see page 21). During 2010, Yara Slu(see page 17), which can reduce emissions of N2O from nitric iskil deliveries are estimated to have reduced GHG emisacid plants by up to 90 percent. By the end of 2010, this techsions from the greenhouse complexes by 25,500 tons of nology had been in installed in 22 of Yara´s 24 nitric acid CO2 equivalents. In S­ weden, Yara Köping delivered 126 plants. The two remaining plants have other cleaning techGWh of surplus heat to the local district heating system. nologies installed that result in very low emissions of N2O. Yara Glomfjord, Norway delivered roughly 240 GWh of Most of Yara´s nitric acid plants are now covered by the EU surplus heat to local fish farming activities. ETS or by the UN Joint Implementation Mechanism. Other impacts Energy consumption In 2010, Yara saw an increase in emissions to air and In 2010, Yara´s total energy consumption in production water, largely due to increased production volumes. was 223 million GJ. This is a seven percent increase from Total emissions to air amounted to 18,960 tons of SO2 2009, reflecting a higher production volume in 2010. equivalents, while emissions to water totaled 4,154 tons However, the increase in production levels meant that of PO4 equivalents. Yara´s plants ran at a more optimal level energy-wise in 2010. This resulted in a four percent drop in energy All hazardous waste is managed by waste management consumption per unit of finished product, from 15.2 GJ specialists. Yara recorded no significant spills or matein 2009 to 14.6 GJ in 2010. rial permit breaches in 2010. In cases where emissions exceeded permitted levels, Yara has agreed on improveEnergy efficiency has high priority in the Upstream segment plans with local authorities. ment, which is the backbone of Yara’s manufacturing Yara Citizenship Review 2010 management discussion & analysis / 29 social performance overview this section presents a summary of Yara´s social performance in 2010. To see more of the company´s social performance data, see Citizenship Reporting 2010 online: www.yara.com/citizenship LTI RATE TRI RATE Graph text Graph text 2.5 5 Number of Total recordable lost-time injuries per injuries per 2.0 million hours 4 million hours worked, worked, 2006–2010 2006–2010 1.5 3 1.0 2 Graph text 0.5 Graph text 1 Graph text Graph text 0.0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Yara´s workforce africa asia Brazil europa latin america n. america/trinidad all regions Permanent employees 115 247 984 5101 387 514 7348 Temporary contracts 0 0 447 282 33 34 796 Consultants 0 3 87 403 5 14 512 Contractors 2 0 0 367 13 17 399 YARAS WORKFORCE Africa 115 Asia 247 Latin America 387 Permanent employees, 2010 North America / Trinidad 514 Brazil 984 Europe 5101 SoCIAl performAnCe ASpeCtS Covered onlIne: • Labor practices and decent work Individual Health, safety & environwww.yara.com/sustainability/reports_ • Human rights ment facts sheets are available for and_tools/reports/index.aspx • Society each plant in the Sustainability • Product responsibility section on Yara’s website: Yara Citizenship Review 2010 Management discussion & analysis / 30 Social performance and finding solutions. At the current implementation level, Yara´s BBS program facilitates more than 30,000 observaDespite its strong safety commitment and track record, tions and feedback situations each year. In 2010, Yara also Yara experienced three fatal accidents in 2010. The comintroduced regular safety-focused Toolbox meetings for pany continued its systematic and focused safety program. shifts and team, strengthened skills and training requirements for operators, engineers and leaders, and established Health and safety stronger follow-up procedures for the downstream activiYara views all accidents as preventable and has impleties. The company continued to instill and strictly enforce mented a focused safety program to follow up on this belief. its Golden Rules, which were established in 2009 and cover In 2010, Yara achieved an LTI rate (lost-time injuries per the most accident-prone activities. million hours worked) of 1.6 for employees and contractors combined, a slight increase from the rate of 1.5 in 2009. Human resources 2010 was the eighth consecutive year with accident LTI At the end of 2010, Yara had 7,348 employees worldwide. rates below two, placing Yara among the industry leaders This represents a net reduction of 281 from the 7,629 in worker safety. The company’s accident rate is a third of employees in 2009, despite the company´s continued the average LTI rate for European fertilizer producers. global growth. The reduction was largely due to the closure of the retail business in South Africa, and synergies The TRI rate (total recordable injuries per million hour in Brazil, Finland and France. Staff turnover continued to worked) for Yara employees and contractors combined decrease, from 14 percent in 2009 to about 10 percent in was 3.8 in 2010. Apart from lost-time injuries, the TRI rate 2010. As was the case in previous years, staff turnover was also includes restricted work case where the employee was highest in Brazil. About 23 percent of Yara´s employees allowed to carry out work different from his or her normal were female, which reflects the industry´s historical male duties, and medical treatment cases. Yara is increasingly dominance. In addition to its permanent employees, Yara using the TRI rate as a key measure of safety performance, also had 1,707 contractors, consultants and temporary as it provides a broader picture of the company´s safety employees working for the company in 2010. performance and allows for easier comparison to industry peers. Absence due to sickness at Yara´s production plants In 2010, Yara implemented a new human resources (HR) was 3.5 percent in 2010, down from 4.3 percent in 2009. strategy, transformed the company´s HR organization into a global function, and launched a Talent ManageRegrettably, and despite its continued efforts in safety, ment Framework (see page 18). The latter was created to Yara experienced three fatal accidents in 2010, resulting get the right talent for the right positions, while guiding in four fatalities. Two contractors died following an exploand encouraging employees who seek rewarding work and sion during the turnaround of an ammonia tank at the personal development. In 2010, nearly 90 percent of Yara´s joint venture Lifeco, in Libya. In South Africa, a superviemployees received performance appraisals and close to sor died after being hit by a truck at the feed phosphate 40 percent participated in programs for skills and career plant. In Ghana, a contractor died from electrocution at management. Globally, Yara spent approximately NOK a Yara warehouse. Yara recognizes both the severity of 24 million on external training, equaling about NOK such incidents and the fact that they should not occur. The 3,360 per employee. On the internal front, a standardized three incidents have been investigated to prevent similar training program for the Ethics program (see page 24) was accidents in the future. rolled out throughout the organization. All employees are required to complete at least 1.5 hours of ethics training These and previous incidents have further strengthened and review ten video programs focusing on ethics trainYara´s focus on worker safety. In 2010, the company contining. About 83 percent of all employees received training ued to implement its Behavior Based Safety (BBS) program in this program in 2010. in newly acquired plants and expand it across all production sites. The BBS program is a driver of safety awareness, as it involves employees in observation, identifications of risks Yara Citizenship Review 2010 About Yara / 31 UN Global Compact: Yara has decided FTSE4Good: FTSE Group confirms that to embrace, support and enact the United Yara International ASA has been indeNations Global Compact initiative. The pendently assessed according to the UNGC is a strategic policy initiative for FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the businesses committed to ten universally requirements to become a constituent of accepted principles on human rights, the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by labor environment and anti-corruption. the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that For more information, please visit is designed to facilitate investment in www.unglobalcompact.org companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards. Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social and environmental criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice. For more information, please visit www.ftse4good.com Text: Yara, Styrkr Design: Creuna Photo: Yara Oslo, April 2011 yara international asa Bygdøy allé 2 P. O. Box 2464, Solli NO–0202 Oslo Norway www.yara.com citizensHiP RePoRts: This is the fourth consecutive year Yara has reported upon its Corporate Citizenship performance, principles and initiatives. Citizenship reporting is an integral part of Yara’s annual reporting. www.yara.com/citizenship gloBal cHallenges – gloBal oPPoRtunities – gloBal contRiButions
