2011 Environmental and Social Report (Previous issue: August 2010) Issued August 2011 (Next issue: scheduled for August 2012) Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 6-1, Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/ For further information regarding this report, please contact the Public Relations Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. Phone: +81-3-3246-5091 Fax: +81-3-3246-5096 E-mail: sec-pr@shinetsu.jp Your opinions, inquiries, and request regarding this report are welcomed at our website: URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/kankyo.shtml Table of Contents Corporate Mission Statement The year 2011 is The International Chemistry Year established by United Nations. The Group strictly complies with all laws and regulations, conducts fair business practices and contributes to people’s daily lives as well as to Editorial Policy 1 Corporate Mission Statement/Basic CSR Policy The Environmental and Social Report provides information on the advance of industry and society by providing key materials and technologies. environmental, safety and quality control programs and CSR initiatives 2 Editorial Policy/Table of Contents carried out by the Shin-Etsu Group. The Report also describes 3 Message from Management Responsible Care programs1 at the Shin-Etsu Group. The Report has 5 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group been compiled in accordance with the 2005 Environmental Accounting 7 TOPICS 1 Guidelines and FY2007 Environmental Reporting Guidelines released Shin-Etsu Group Products and Technologies that by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan, and the GRI Sustainability Contribute to Energy and Resource Conservation Basic Reporting Guidelines. 9 TOPICS 2 CSR Policy Period Covered by the Report (indicated where otherwise) Worldwide Network of Shin-Etsu Group Japan: April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011 Manufacturing and Sales Bases Overseas: January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 Organizations Covered by the Report The Shin-Etsu Group: The report covers Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd., and all Group Management Structures 1 companies except the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group.2 The range of 11 CSR Promotion Structure/Environmental entities from which data were collected is in principle as stated Will do our best to increase the Group’s corporate value through sustained below. Where otherwise, this is indicated in a separate note. Management Promotion Structure growth and make multifaceted contributions to society. (1) Environmental Activity Report 13 Corporate Governance The report includes data from the business bases of the 97 17 Compliance with Laws and Regulations 2 subsidiaries and affiliates of Shin-Etsu Chemical and the Shin18 Material Procurement Etsu Group (an increase of 66). Compared to the coverage of Will carry out all of our company activities by making safety always our the 2010 report, there is thus a substantial increase in scope and 19 Initiatives for Business Continuity Plan utmost priority. a difference in content. 20 Report on Response to the Great East 50 domestic manufacturing bases (increase of 17) Japan Earthquake 3 93 domestic non-manufacturing bases (increase of 93) Will constantly pursue energy-saving, resources-saving and the reduction of 34 overseas manufacturing bases (increase of 7) Environmental, Safety and 37 overseas non-manufacturing bases (increase of 37) the environmental burden, and seek to help create a sustainable future world (2) Environmental Accounting Quality-related Initiatives in which we all live in harmony with the Earth. Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 21 Challenges and Results of Shin-Etsu (3) Social Contribution 4 Chemical in Fiscal 2010 Will endeavor to contribute to the prevention of global warming and the Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries 23 Reducing the Environmental Impact both in Japan and overseas conservation of biodiversity by means of our cutting-edge technologies of Business Activities and products. 1 Responsible Care program Input/Output A campaign encouraging enterprises that handle chemical 5 25 Environmental Initiatives substances to voluntarily ensure protection of the environment, Will strive to respect human dignity, assure equality in employment safety and health in all processes, from the development of 31 Safety Measures chemical substances through manufacture, distribution and 33 Product Safety and Quality-related Initiatives opportunities and support the self-fulfillment of our employees. utilization to final consumption, disposal or recycling, to publish the results of their activity, and to engage in dialog Social Activities 6 and communication with society. 35 Relations with Employees Will appropriately disclose information in a timely manner. 2 For reporting on the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group, please refer to 39 Communication with Local Communities the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group Environment and Sustainability Report 2011, issued at the end of September, 2011. 41 History of Activities 7 Will carry out trustworthy corporate activities that are based on the integrity 42 RC Audits of the Group’s ethical values. *CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) The idea that enterprises, rather than concentrating solely on profit, need to value their relationships with a wide range of stakeholders in the conduct of their business. GRI Guidelines Comparison Table http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/kankyo.shtml 1 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 2 Mesasage from Management Dedicated to management that places utmost priorities on safety and fairness while aiming to be a company that Reducing the environmental burden supervision from the broad insights and advice these external in manufacturing processes directors and external auditors offer from an independent In the 1960s, Shin-Etsu Chemical, ahead of other companies perspective. Furthermore, by establishing the Auditing continues to grow in harmony with society in the world, developed manufacturing technologies that led to the reduction of the environmental burden in the Department as an independent organization, we have implemented a system for stricter internal controls and manufacturing processes of PVC, and we have globally licensed supervision. Shin-Etsu has established a basic internal control these technologies to overseas manufacturers and they have policy that includes procedures to strictly meet the requirements received a high evaluation for their excellence from these of the Reporting System on Internal Control Over Financial customers around the world. Since then, in all product fields, Reporting stipulated in the Financial Instruments and Exchange we have consistently promoted the development and Act, which went into effect from March 2009. improvement of manufacturing technologies from the pointof-view of environmental performance. At the same time, by Participation in the United Nations horizontally disseminating these superior manufacturing Global Compact technologies within the Group, we are continuing to enhance The Shin-Etsu Group became a participant in the United the technological level of the entire Group. Going forward, the Nations Global Compact in November 2010. With the aim Shin-Etsu Group will continue to diligently strive to research of promoting better global corporate citizenship, the UN and develop even higher levels of manufacturing technologies, Global Compact asks businesses on their own initiative to to enhance designs for manufacturing facilities and make embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, improvements in construction and engineering methods. We a set of 10 universally accepted core values in the four areas will continue to strenuously work to contribute to the reduction of human rights, labour standards, the environment and of the environmental burden in regions all around the world. anti-corruption. These principles are in line with corporate mission Chihiro Kanagawa Shunzo Mori Contributing to protect the environment statement that the Shin-Etsu Group has consistently been Chairman President through products and technologies following, and by joining in this UN initiative, the world’s One of our Group’s main businesses is PVC. About 60% of largest corporate responsibility and sustainability initiative, The Shin-Etsu Group’s mission is “strictly comply with all laws Nurturing a corporate culture PVC’s raw materials consist of salt, and compared to other we will further clearly make widely known to the world and regulations, conduct fair business practices and that is committed to safety-first plastics, PVC is a product that depends less on petroleum our Group’s fundamental corporate social responsibility contribute to people’s daily lives as well as to the advance of A key management objective of the Shin-Etsu Group is to resources. Furthermore, among plastics, the recycling system of standpoint and aim to deepen understanding of our view of industry and society by providing key materials and place an utmost priority on safety-first at all times. We are PVC is the most advanced. In addition, PVC window frames are corporate citizenship. technologies.” We are carrying out our global business striving to instill a deeper sense of safety consciousness among a product using PVC that is greatly contributing to energy-saving operations while responding flexibly to the changing social all of our board members as well as the employees of the Shinin homes and buildings because of its superior thermal-insulation Aiming to be a company that is greatly and economic environment. Etsu Group. In this way, we are endeavoring to nurture a properties. Moreover, other Shin-Etsu Group products such as trusted around the world corporate culture in which each and every person working for semiconductor silicon wafers, rare earth magnets and silicone The Shin-Etsu Group, which extensively conducts business Report on Shin-Etsu the Shin-Etsu Group considers safety as his or her personal encapsulating material for LED products are contributing to operations around the world, is carrying out many different of the Great East Japan Earthquake responsibility when carrying out his or her daily work. energy-saving in a wide range of application fields. kinds of social contribution activities in order to further build We wish to express our heartfelt sympathies to all those close relationships of trust with the communities in people who were suffered by the Great East Japan Earthquake Assuring safety in manufacturing processes Contributing to the development of renewable energy each region in which we operate. In the aftermath of the that occurred on March 11, 2011. We pray for the earliest As concrete measures for assuring safety by eliminating latent The Shin-Etsu Group is proactively working on the development disastrous Great East Japan Earthquake, we have contributed recovery of the affected areas. risks in facilities and manufacturing processes before an of products and materials that are essential to the practical reconstruction funds to local governments in the areas that The Shin-Etsu Group was forced to stop its operations at incident might occur, we are continuously making strenuous commercial realization of renewable energy such as solar were affected by the disaster, and at the same time, each Shin-Etsu Chemical’s Kashima Plant and Shin-Etsu Handotai’s efforts to implement the most appropriate design and photovoltaic power generation and wind power generation. company in our Group has held a wide range of fund-raising Shirakawa Plant due to damage that was incurred as a result improvements of our facilities. In addition, we are working to By research and development these kinds of products and activities and made monetary donations to such organizations of the Great Earthquake. To all our shareholders, customers, ensure that during plant operations our operation manuals are materials, we are contributing to the realization of a lowas the Japan Red Cross. In this manner, not only our Group clients and the people in the region, we would like to say that fully complied with, and we constantly review them to carbon society in which limited natural resources can be used companies, but also each and everyone is individually putting we deeply appreciate all the messages of concern and warm determine how we can improve safety and then proceed to without worry. his or her strong efforts into activities that contribute to support that we have received. As a result of moving forward implement further improvements. These improvements were society. Going forward, the Shin-Etsu Group will continue to with the speedy restoration of operations at the affected put to good use in the restoration measures that were carried Practicing fair and highly transparent work hard to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities. We plants in carrying out the needed work while always making out after the disastrous Great Earthquake. management will assiduously work to contribute to the solution of the safety an utmost priority, both plants resumed partial By means of creating a strict internal control system, important issues that society is facing and will endeavor to operations in April. By the end of June, they were both able Taking initiatives to protect the environment strengthening its auditing system and appropriately disclosing grow in harmony with society. to achieve full restoration of operations. In addition, at the information, the Shin-Etsu Group is proactively working to We would like to sincerely ask for your further understanding same time as the restoration work was being carried out, we In the aftermath of Great East Japan Earthquake disaster carrying out fair and highly transparent management. In and support. made great efforts to supply our products to customers by and the accident at the Fukushima nuclear power station, addition, with regard to corporate governance, we have August 2011 increasing production at other production bases in Japan and taking initiatives to achieve resource-saving and energy-saving appointed five external directors who are distinguished leaders overseas. Consequently, we were able to keep the effects of have become even more important. The Shin-Etsu Group will in their respective fields of expertise and who are widely the earthquake disaster to a minimum. take further comprehensive measures to mitigate global recognized in the business world for their deep insight. environmental problems and effectively deal with social issues Moreover, to enhance the auditing function, we have in all phases of our business operations, such as manufacturing appointed people with high professional expertise, such as processes, manufacturing technologies and products. attorneys and certified public accountants, as external auditors. Chihiro Kanagawa, Ph. D. Shunzo Mori We are benefitting in the areas of management and operational Chairman President 3 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 4 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group We aim to become an enterprise group that is trusted by society. To this end, we strive to achieve world-leading standard of technology, quality and cost-competitiveness and engage actively in CSR initiatives As of March 31, 2011, the Shin-Etsu Group comprises Shinshare, with the world’s top share in polyvinyl chloride (PVC), Etsu Chemical and its 102 subsidiary companies and 17 semiconductor silicons, photomask substrates for LCDs and Corporate Overview affiliates, which share responsibility for sales, manufacturing rare earth magnets for hard disks, and the top domestic share Overview of Operations Number of employees (Persons) and other operations and cooperate to develop their respective for silicones. 25,000 ■■ Consolidated ■■ Non-consolidated Trading name Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. business activities. Shin-Etsu products are a familiar part of our everyday Location 6-1, Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan 20,241 These business activities are divided into six business lives. Indeed, the Shin-Etsu Group plays an essential role in 20,000 19,177 19,170 Established September 16, 1926 16,955 fields: PVC/Chlor-Alkali Business; Silicones Business; Specialty the modern information society. 16,302 Capital 119,419 million yen 15,000 Chemicals Business; Semiconductor Silicon Business; Electronics *The information on pages 5 and 6 includes the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group. Representative Shunzo Mori, President and Functional Materials Business; and Diversified Business. Number of employees 16,302 (consolidated), 2,656 (non-consolidated) 10,000 In each of these fields, we have products with strong market Business activities Manufacture and sales of polyvinyl chloride, semiconductor silicons, 5,000 silicones, rare earth magnets, synthetic quartz, cellulose derivatives 2,522 2,590 2,609 2,647 2,656 and other products 0 Product Information 2007/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 Principal Shin-Etsu Group Companies ● Japanese Domestic Group Semiconductor materials Environmentally friendly materials Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Polymer Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Engineering Co., Ltd., Nagano Electronics Industrial Co., Ltd., Naoetsu Electronics Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Astech Co., Ltd., Mimasu Semiconductor Industry Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Quartz Products As an all-round supplier of semiconductor-related materials, we provide a Polyvinyl chloride, silicones, rare earth magnets, synthetic pheromones and Co., Ltd., Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer Co., Ltd., and others diverse range of items that are indispensable to the manufacture of silicon other Shin-Etsu Group products contribute to resource and energy ● Overseas Group wafers and semiconductors. conservation, environmental Shintech Inc., Shin-Etsu Handotai America Inc., S.E.H. Malaysia SDN. BHD., Shin-Etsu PVC B.V., SE Tylose GmbH & Co. KG, Shin-Etsu Handotai We also deal in the synthetic burden reduction. Europe Ltd., Shin-Etsu Handotai Taiwan Co., Ltd., and others quartz photomask substrates, gases, chemicals and jigs Full details of Shin-Etsu Group companies: used in their manufacture. http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/group.shtml Financial Highlights Guide to Materials Net Sales (Billion yen) Operating Income (Billion yen) Net Income (Billion yen) Electronic materials Automobile-related materials 1,500 ■■ Consolidated 300 287.1 ■■ Consolidated 200 ■■ Consolidated 1,376.4 183.6 1,304.7 ■■ Non-consolidated ■■ Non-consolidated ■■ Non-consolidated Through a wide range of products including silicones, rare earth magnets With their wide variety characteristics, Shin-Etsu Group products are expected 1,200.8 250 241.0 232.9 154.7 1,200 154.0 1,058.3 150 and liquid fluoroelastomers, we contribute to the improved performance, to provide the key to the evolution of automotive technology in areas such as 916.8 200 function and reliability of such improved safety and reliability, 900 697.2 708.6 149.2 100.1 devices as electrical home miniaturization and reduced 150 100 83.8 606.7 553.9 602.8 117.2 600 64.0 appliances, communication weight and environmental 100 81.2 81.9 78.4 70.7 76.8 51.1 50.2 51.9 44.5 equipment and computers. responsiveness. 50 300 50 0 0 0 2007/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2007/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2007/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 Net Sales by Segment (Fiscal year ended March 2011) Net Sales by Region (Fiscal year ended March 2011) Diversified business 123.0 (11.6%) Optical materials Architectural/civil engineering materials PVC/Chlor-alkali Japan 283.5 (26.8%) Asia/Oceania Electronics and 386.1 (36.5%) Using both natural and synthetic quartz as a base, we develop a diversified We respond to a wide range of needs in the architecture and civil functional materials 305.5 (28.9%) range of optical materials, including synthetic quartz preform for optical engineering fields by providing such building/civil engineering items as 141.4 (13.4%) Consolidated net sales Consolidated net sales fibers preform and assorted sealing materials, coating 1,058.3 1,058.3 Overseas optical parts. We supply a materials and admixtures for billion yen billion yen United States Silicones wide range of items, from building materials. 153.1 (14.5%) 143.1 (13.5%) raw materials to processed Semiconductor silicon Other Europe 283.8 (26.8%) 90.8 (8.5%) products. Specialty chemicals 122.8 (11.6%) 83.5 (7.9%) Financial and IR information http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/ir/index.shtml 5 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 6 TOPICS 1 Shin-Etsu Group Products and Technologies that Contribute to Energy and Resource Conservation Shin-Etsu Group, Vision 2050, and 25% Reduction in Greenhouse Gases Rare earth Magnets In order to realize the Vision 2050 advocated by Dr. Hiroshi Komiyama, one of our external directors, and the associated 25% Rare earth magnets contribute to energy conservation in automobiles, air conditioners and other environments. reduction in greenhouse gases, the Shin-Etsu Group is working to develop highly energy-efficient products and technologies. Dr. Hiroshi Komiyama, external director of Shin-Etsu Chemical and former president of The Due to their strong magnetic force, rare earth magnets contributions to conserving energy, reducing CO2 emissions University of Tokyo, released Vision 2050 in 1997 as a roadmap to a low-carbon, recyclingcontribute to achieving smaller dimensions, lighter weight and preventing global warming. based society. By suggesting a concrete breakdown for the 25% greenhouse gas reduction and higher output in motors and other machines. The range proposed by the Japanese government in 2009, he also details a specific path to reduction. of applications where these outstanding characteristics can The point he makes clear is that strategically promoting increased energy efficiency in the be used is wide and includes energy-saving air conditioners proposed areas is essential for Japan’s growth and for raising energy self-sufficiency. and various types of automotive motor. In the automotive field, they are used for instance in the drive parts of a range of motors for hybrid, electric and other vehicle types and in electric power generators and Dr. Hiroshi Komiyama External director, Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. sensors. They help to realize parts with smaller dimensions (Former president of The University of Tokyo; and lighter weight as well as energy conservation and clean Chairman, Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc.) energy. In the field of air conditioning, use of rare earth magnets in compressor motors improves energy efficiency by 5 to ■ About Vision 2050 10%, reduces electricity consumption and makes other A vision stating that, to create a sustainable the earth, we need to establish a low-carbon, recycling-based society by 2050 by assembling a range of technologies that are workable in practice. ■ To realize Vision 2050 Compared to 1997: Triple energy efficiency → reduce energy consumption by 2/3 Establish material recycling system → promote recycling Double renewable energy sources → Double use of solar cells, biomass*, wind power, hydroelectric power and other natural energies *Biomass: renewable organic resource of biological origin (other than fossil fuel) Photo provided by NISSAN MOTOR CO., LTD. Photo provided by Daikin Industries, Ltd. ■ Toward a 25% reduction in greenhouse gases Our rare earth magnets are used in the motors of the Nissan Leaf Our rare earth magnets are used in the compressor motors of room Concrete breakdown of the 25% reduction as proposed by Dr. Hiroshi Komiyama and Shin-Etsu Group products and technologies electric vehicle, where they contribute to lighter weight and energy air conditioners, where they improve the energy conservation effect conservation. of the air conditioner. that contribute to greater energy efficiency in various fields. 5％ Conservation of natural We are working round the clock to refine the characteristics of rare earth magnets 12％ Hajime Nakamura environment such as General Manager, Dept. no. 2, Magnetic Materials Research Center forest protection The Magnetic Materials Research Center undertakes research and development of rare earth magnets. Recently, it developed ■ Synthetic pheromones (harmful insects control agents) a new manufacturing process for rare earth magnets known as the grain boundary diffusion process. This is a revolutionary Everyday life 25% process which greatly reduces the use of dysprosium, which is one of the rarest of the rare earth elements used as raw (households, offices, transportation) materials, and also effects a vast improvement in magnetic characteristics. At present we are working on mass production 5％ ■ Polyvinyl chloride (PVC window frames) and expansion of scale. ■ Monocrystal silicon, abrasives, As this was a new manufacturing process, in the period immediately after mass production began, manufacturing was reduction silane gas, etc. (solar cells) carried out not at a plant but at the research center. There are many issues which only become apparent at the mass ■ Silicone-based LED-related materials Power generation production stage, and these had to be overcome while at the same time sticking to deadlines and handling large volumes of ■ Rare earth magnets product. This was no easy task for the researchers, but proved highly instructive. ■ Rare earth magnets (high-efficiency motors) 3％ (electric power generators) ■ Silicones (eco-tires) Widespread use of Shin-Etsu rare earth magnets can be expected to make further contributions to achieving cleaner energy and preventing global warming. Going forward, we will continue to work to refine the characteristics of rare earth magnets. Manufacturing ■ Technology for high efficiency in manufacturing processes Shin-Etsu rare earth magnets ■ Resource-recycling technology http://www.shinetsu-rare-earth-magnet.jp/e/ 7 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 8 TOPICS 2 Worldwide Network of Shin-Etsu Group Manufacturing and Sales Bases Completed the Second Plant to Produce PVC Raw Materials Establishment of Joint Venture to Produce Synthetic Quartz Preforms for Optical Fibers Shintech Inc. Shin-Etsu (Jiangsu) Optical Preform Co., Ltd. In mid-2011, Shintech Inc. (United States), our main base Shin-Etsu Chemical has joined with two other companies, fibers from Japan, but in future it will be possible to carry on for polyvinyl chloride (PVC) production, completed Jiangsu Fasten Hongsheng Group Co., Ltd.(China) and TKH production close to the source of demand. In today’s China, Plaquemine Plant-2, at Plaquemine, Louisiana, which Group N.V. (Netherlands), to establish in the city of Jiangyin, demand for optical fiber is undergoing major expansion, manufactures the PVC monomer which is the main raw Jiangsu Province, China, a joint venture producing synthetic reflecting an increase in the volume of data transmission as material for PVC. The Plaquemine Plant-1, which integrates quartz preforms for optical fibers: Shin-Etsu (Jiangsu) Optical the social infrastructure is upgraded. We expect that PVC manufacturing, has been in operation since October Preform Co., Ltd. by the end of FY2012, the company plans establishing a system of production close to the source of 2008. Until then, Shintech had sourced PVC monomer to begin operation of a plant to produce enough preform demand will stimulate further sales expansion. externally. Now, to meet the world demand for PVC, which annually to make 8 million km of optical fiber. is expected to continue to expand, it will be able to expand Up till now, Shin-Etsu Chemical has supplied the Chinese its raw material supply by increasing in-house production. market by exporting synthetic quartz preforms for optical Shintech began operations in 1974 with an annual production capacity of 100,000 tonnes. As a result of expansion of facilities and construction of the new plant, the company’s current annual PVC production capacity has increased to 2.64 million tonnes, or around 26 times the initial level. The company is the world’s largest manufacturer of PVC and forms the core of the Shin-Etsu Group’s worldwide strategy in the PVC business. Going forward, Shintech will continue to strengthen its production system and steadily enhance its business base. Shintech Inc. Plaquemine Plant Company name: Shin-Etsu (Jiangsu) Optical Preform Co., Ltd. Company name: Shintech Inc. Corporate Corporate Location: Jiangyin City, Jiangsu Province, China Head office location: Houston, Texas, United States Overview Overview Business activities: m  anufacture of synthetic quartz Business activities: Manufacture and sales of polyvinyl chloride preforms for optical fibers Contributing to local communities by providing employment and training Establishment of Company to Produce Silicone Products Shintech carries out its business while proactively being committed to the local communities in which it operates. In south Shin-Etsu Silicone (Nantong) Co., Ltd. Louisiana, we value our strong working relationship with the Iberville Parish and West Baton Rouge Parish communities. The focus on community is embodied in our motto: “Live Locally, Hire Locally, Buy Locally.” Shintech Plaquemine Plant-2, a $900 million investment to manufacture additional chlor-alkali and vinyl chloride monomer products, has expanded our base of Shin-Etsu Chemical has established a company to esablishing a sales company in Shanghai which sold silicone operations in Iberville Parish. A project of this size generates thousands of construction jobs as well as the “ripple effect” of manufacture silicone products in Nantong City, Jiangsu products exported from Japan. However, as demand has various purchases from local vendors and suppliers. Regarding direct employment, our approach in Louisiana has always Province, China: Shin-Etsu Silicone (Nantong) Co., Ltd. To expanded greatly and strong growth is expected to continue, been to employ as many qualified local residents as possible to run our plants. As in our previous Louisiana projects, we start with, the company will manufacture mainly generalthe decision was made to begin local production. Given our joined with the state and local employment agencies to host job fairs for interest applicants for SPP-2. In addition, we use rubber, but it will gradually expand its range to ultimately experience in the Japanese market, which has resulted in conducted job training classes for many interested workers, allowing even those who were not selected for employment an include all product groups. The new plant, which will have advantages such as superior quality and a diverse product opportunity to improve their skills and training. As a result, a culture characterizes the company in which the motivation and annual capacity for 25,000 tons of rubber products such as range developed in response to customer requirements, capability of people in their work are strengthened and a belief in growing together with the company is nurtured. silicone rubber for use in molds, is due for completion by combined with speedy technology support, we are confident Six years ago, the State of Louisiana incurred tremendous damage from Hurricane the end of FY2012. of being able to meet customer expectations and achieve Katrina, one of the strongest such storms ever to hit the U.S. Gulf Coast. Our company Up till now, we had handled the Chinese market by expansion of our silicones business in the Chinese market. has plants in two Gulf Coast states, and by proactively employing people living in this area and purchasing from local vendors and suppliers, we have contributed to the restoration and vitalization of this region. In the future as well, we will continue to contribute to local communities in all these important aspects. Company name: Shin-Etsu Silicone (Nantong) Co., Ltd. David Wise Corporate Location: Nantong City, Jiangsu Province, China Plant Manager of Addis Plant and Plaquemine Plant Overview Shintech Inc. Business activities: manufacture of silicone rubber for molds, RTV rubber and other elastomer products 9 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 10 CSR Promotion Structure/ Management Structures Environmental Management Promotion Structure CSR Promotion Structure/Environmental Management Promotion Structure Returning to the basic principles of corporate social responsibility, we promote CSR activities with a new outlook ■ Stakeholder Relations Diagram CSR Promotion Structure Environmental Management Promotion Structure The mission of the Shin-Etsu Group is “strictly to comply with The Shin-Etsu Group incorporates environmental considerations all laws and regulations, to conduct fair business practices into all aspects of corporate activity, with the aim of helping and to contribute to people’s daily lives as well as to the to prevent global warming and working towards the Customers Shareholders advance of society by providing key materials and technologies”. establishment of a sustainable society. and Suppliers We believe we have a social responsibility to contribute many We are striving to reduce greenhouse gases and other stakeholders starting our shareholders by realizing this vision. environmental impacts associated with production processes In order to promote the Basic CSR Policy in line with the by setting out ambitious targets and working towards clean Investor Relations General Shareholders’ Meeting Sales Activity corporate mission of the Shin-Etsu Group in an effective and production processes through structured and continuous Shin-Etsu Group Material Procurement appropriate manner at a company-wide level in all aspects of programs. As a key materials manufacturer, we are highly corporate activity, we have set up a CSR Promotion Committee committed to the development and expansion of products comprising managers from the relevant divisions and and technologies designed to reduce environmental impact Shin-Etsu departments, and have appointed an officer responsible for as a means of contributing to the conservation of the global Chemical CSR. In this way, the Shin-Etsu Group endeavors to maintain environment. Labor-Management Consultation the trust and respect of all. To this end, we conduct joint programs and activities Communication with Training involving research, production and sales departments, which Surrounding Communities Boss-Subordinate Interview are coordinated by a committee across multiple departments and overseen by the officer responsible for technology. Furthermore, we are working at responding appropriately to all environmental regulations and standard in our product Local Employees development and manufacture. The officer responsible for Communities environmental control and safety has overall company responsibility for this area and is dedicated to earning our customers’ trust. ■ Shin-Etsu Group CSR/Environmental Management Promotion Structure and Associated Activities Participant in UN Global Compact Board of Directors CSR Promotion In November 2010, the Shin-Etsu Group has joined to the Global Compact Ten Principles Chairman (CSR Promotion Committee) UN Global Compact. As life in society has become more The Global Compact asks that buiness should: complex and more diverse in recent years, the social Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally responsibilities of enterprises have grown. Against this proclaimed human rights background, the Shin-Etsu Group remains firmly committed Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Product development and expansion to contribute to the environment to its corporate mission statement, which calls for it to Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective (Each division and R&D Department) “strictly comply with all laws and regulation, conduct fair recognition of the right to collective bargaining business practices and contribute to people’s daily lives as Principle 4: Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and well as to the advance of industry and society by providing compulsory labour President key materials and technologies”. At the same time we Principle 5: Uphold the effective abolition of child labour Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts ensure a flexible response to changes in the social and Principle 6: Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of as well as energy consumption in production processes economic environment. employment and occupation (Technology Department and various committees) In April 2005, we established a CSR Promotion Committee Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental which has since addressed CSR issues across the Group. challenges In 2006, we additionally expressed our commitment Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environmental and safety initiatives undertaken by committees to supporting and implementing the Responsible Care responsibility (Safety Health and Hygiene Committee, Environmental Management Committee, Global Charter of the International Council of Chemical Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion Safety Review Board) Associations (ICCA). Having now also joined to the UN of environmentally friendly technologies Global Compact, we will further enhance the range of our Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, CSR activities by aligning our business activities with the including extortion and bribery ten principles of the Global Compact. 11 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 12 Management Structures Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The enhancement of corporate governance is our most important management task Board of Directors Basic Principles of Corporate Governance Statutory Auditors External Directors and Statutory Auditors and Managing Directors’ Meeting Shin-Etsu Chemical has a fundamental policy of continually Shin-Etsu Chemical adopts a statutory auditor system. The system whereby the execution of operations by the Shin-Etsu Chemical emphasizes the importance of advisory enhancing corporate value and put importance on Two organs discuss and decide on the execution of directors is audited by statutory auditors is set by the and supervisory functions based on an independent shareholders as a top priority. To this end, the Company has operations: the Board of Directors and the Managing Companies Act. Of our five statutory auditors, three are external perspective. instituted an efficient structural framework and systems and Directors’ Meeting, which held on a monthly basis to statutory auditors with a high degree of independence, which The external directors and external statutory auditors of procedures designed to enable a more flexible response to deliberate and make decisions on important matters. enhances and strengthens auditing functions. As well as Shin-Etsu Chemical are not former employees of the parent changes in the business environment. Shin-Etsu Chemical is The Board of Directors consist of 22 members, of whom attending the Board of Directors meetings, Managing company or sister companies, nor of companies associated proactively committed to accurate and timely information five are external directors with extensive management Directors’ Meetings and other important internal meetings, with major shareholders, or any of the Company’s main disclosure to shareholders and investors as a means of experience and a high level of expertise. By minimizing the the statutory auditors inspect important documents and business partners. enhancing management transparency and strengthening the number of members, Shin-Etsu is working to establish an carry out other checks in order to audit the execution of Shin-Etsu Chemical appoints external directors in order to integrity of audit systems. operating system capable of faster decision-making and operations by the directors. The statutory auditors also hold benefit from advice across the full range of management flexible management. monthly meetings with the Auditing Department where they operations based on their previous experience. Similarly, the The Board of Directors sets out the fundamental policies receive progress reports on all activities and internal auditing appointment of external statutory auditors is designed to of the Company and deliberates and makes decisions results, provide advice and recommendations on corporate ensure auditing based on high levels of specialist knowledge, regarding key aspects of Company operations in accordance activities and key auditing topics and request investigation experience and insights. Since their appointment, the external with the Companies Act and the Shin-Etsu articles of when necessary. directors and external statutory auditors have provided incorporation. Meanwhile, the Managing Directors’ Meeting adequate supervision and advice from an independent makes deliberations and decisions regarding a variety of perspective. other operational issues. ■ List of external directors and external statutory auditors ■ Corporate Governance Structure at Shin-Etsu Chemical Position Name Significant other positions held General Shareholders’ Meeting External directors Frank Peter Popoff Former CEO, The Dow Chemical Company (US) Election/Dismissal Former Director and Chairman of the Executive Board, Election/Dismissal Masashi Kaneko former Nikko Cordial Corporation Director and Chairman of the Board, Ikyu Corporation Election/Dismissal Committee Report Officers’ Remuneration Committee Auditing Board of Statutory Auditors Tsuyoshi Miyazaki Former Representative Director (currently Advisor), Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Board of Directors Five statutory auditors of whom three Chairman: External director Election/Dismissal 22 directors, including 5 external directors are external statutory auditors Former Governor, Bank of Japan Consent to Election Toshihiko Fukui External Director, Kikkoman Corporation Supervision, Election/Dismissal Judgment of Accounting President, The Canon Institute for Global Studies Audit Adequacy Auditing Representative Directors Accounting Auditors Former President, The University of Tokyo Reporting Chairman, Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. Hiroshi Komiyama External Director, JX Holdings, Inc. External Statutory Auditor, The Tokyo Electric Power Company, Incorporated Managing Directors’ Meeting Instruction Deliberation on operational issues, etc. Lawyer External statutory Taku Fukui Managing Partner, Kashiwagi Sogo Law Offices Auditing Department auditors Reporting Reporting Professor, Keio Law School Auditing Committees for each main management task Instruction/Supervision Certified Public Accountant, Certified Public Tax Accountant (such as Risk Management Committee) Yoshihito Kosaka Partner, Grant Thornton Taiyo ASG Representative Partner, HIYU Certified Tax Accountants’ Corporation Investigation/Guidance Former Representative Director, Chairman and President, former JASDAQ Securities Marketing, Manufacturing, Research & Development and Management Departments Kiyoshi Nagano Exchange, Inc. External Director, SBI Holdings, Inc. As of June 29, 2011 As of June 29, 2011 13 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 14 Corporate Governance Independence The external directors and external statutory auditors all meet Directors’ Remuneration Internal Control Reporting System Management of Group Companies the stock exchange criteria for independent directors,* as which the following four are registered: Toshihiko Fukui, The Officers’ Remuneration Committee, chaired by external With respect to the Internal Control Report System for In a spirit of respect for the autonomy of Group companies, Hiroshi Komiyama, Tsuyoshi Miyazaki and Masashi Kaneko. director Frank Peter Popoff with three other directors as Financial Reporting applicable since the fiscal year ended the Shin-Etsu Group works for their growth and development These four directors also serve on the Independent Committee, committee members, meets regularly twice a year and March 2009 under the Financial Instruments and Exchange so as to promote mutual benefit in the interest of the business an organ set up to ensure the fairness of decisions by the otherwise as necessary to discuss and assess directors’ Law, the Company fully recognizes the importance of prosperity of the Group as a whole. Board of Directors regarding The Handling Policy (Antiremuneration and make recommendations to the Board of maintaining the reliability and transparency of the Company’s Group companies are managed on the basis of the takeover Defensive Plan) toward a Large-scale Purchase of the Directors in accordance with the Regulation of the Officers’ financial reporting. The Company’s Internal Control Promotion Shin-Etsu Chemical Group Company Operational Regulation. Company’s Shares and Other Securities and to exclude any Remuneration Committee. Team takes a leading role in implementing the internal control Companies with strong ties to Shin-Etsu Chemical in terms of arbitrary decisions. Shin-Etsu Chemical discloses the total amount of directors’ system. capital, personnel, or materials are required to undertake remuneration in financial statements and its business report. prior consultation and submit reports to the parent company Support system in respect of important items such as capital increase or Although there is no dedicated support staff serving the Risk Management Committee decrease, merger, liquidation, amendent of articles of external directors and external statutory auditors, the Office Internal Control System and Operational Audit incorporation, proposal of finanacial statements and budgets, of the Secretariat provides them with the appropriate services. The Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by a planning of new businesses or facilities, business performance When a meeting of the Board of Directors or other important Shin-Etsu Chemical has formulated a Basic Policy on Internal managing director, is responsible for designing risk and business results. internal meeting is to be held, external directors are informed Controls to help put in place “structures to ensure that the management structures and associated rules and regulation Furthermore, by holding three yearly meetings attended in advance of the agenda and provided with an explanation execution of duties by the directors is fully compliant with and working to identify and prevent potential risks arising in by the presidents of our main Group companies, we actively of the content, in response to which they express opinions as relevant legislation and the articles of incorporation and that connection with the operations of the Company. The Risk promote sharing and exchange of information among Group appropriate. other duties are performed appropriately”, as stipulated in Management Committee also promotes broad-based companies. The staff of the Auditing Department and Legal Department, Article 362, Paragraph 4, Item 6 of the Companies Act and programs in the risk management area such as providing as the staff serving statutory auditor assist the external statutory other relevant statutes. information and training. The Committee reports directly to Internal System for Timely Disclosure auditors with their duties. The establishment and implementation of an internal the Board of Directors, the Board of Statutory Auditors and of Corporate Information External directors and external statutory auditors who control system is recognized as an important management the Managing Directors’ Meeting on major issues. In this have been unable to attend a Board of Directors meeting responsibility at Shin-Etsu Chemical. Accordingly, the internal way, the Risk Management Committee works to ensure Regarding the collection, control and timely disclosure of receive a report on the proceedings, for instance in the form control system is structured and implemented in accordance appropriate risk management. corporate information, Shin-Etsu Chemical has formulated of a copy of the minutes. with the above policy and subjected to constant review to internal regulation including the Regulation on Timely make the system more appropriate and efficient. Disclosure of Corporate Information and the Rules on *Independent directors Internal operation audits and assessment of internal Regulation of Insider Trading, which are informed to all External directors and external statutory auditors who present no controls over financial reporting are handled by the Auditing Shin-Etsu Chemical departments and Group companies risk of a conflict of interest with general shareholders. The Tokyo Department. The results of these audits and assessments are to promote smooth operations. Stock Exchange and other stock exchanges require listed companies to appoint such directors. reported to managers, external directors and statutory auditors, and other relevant personnel to strengthen coordination between internal audit departments and ■ Internal system for timely disclosure external directors and statutory auditors. Collection and management of corporate information Timely disclosure of corporate information Decision on necessity and timing of disclosure Reporting Instruction Office of Contact Public Relations Finance & Timely Each Department the President Department Accounting Department disclosure Person in charge of Consultation Consultation handling information Subsidiaries Relevant Directors, statutory auditors Reporting departments and Board of Directors Reporting 15 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 16 Compliance with Laws and Regulations Management Structures Procurement of Materials Compliance with Laws and Regulations Material Procurement Company and employees work together to ensure compliance The Shin-Etsu Group is committed to fair and equitable procurement practices with laws and regulation and to incorporating environmental considerations into the supply chain The Shin-Etsu Group regards compliance with laws and Control of Chemical Substances Used regulations as a natural obligation of corporate activities. Export Control Basic Procurement Policy as Raw Materials Compliance is incorporated into the periodical management objectives as a means of working to ensure compliance. The Security Export Control Committee at Shin-Etsu Chemical A Basic Procurement Policy has been formulated for the The Shin-Etsu Group checks the ISO14001 status of suppliers provides an export control structure designed to ensure purchasing of supplies needed for production activities, and considers preferential business transactions with suppliers proper standard of international peace and safety in relation including raw materials, secondary materials such as that have ISO certification so as to purchase materials of Ensuring Full Compliance Awareness to exporting, supply and associated agency transactions of transportation packaging, and machinery and equipment. lower environmental burden. goods and technology in categories subject to regulation The Basic Procurement Policy, which governs all procurement When contracting specifications on supply of raw In the event of promulgation of or amendments to legislation under export-related legislation such as the Foreign Exchange activities by the Company, is communicated to all personnel materials, we investigate the supplier’s use in products and pertaining to corporate activities, the Legal Department issues and Foreign Trade Act. The Internal Control Program on and posted on the website. packaging of chemical substances with high environmental internal bulletins and holds presentations as appropriate. Security Export Control has been established to classify impact, their environmental management systems, their To raise awareness of legal compliance, internal bulletins are categories of goods requiring export clearance and implement handling of prohibited substances as stipulated in the RoHS issued to flag issues up in the event of a violation of laws or screening procedures for customers and transactions. The Compliance with the Subcontractors Act directive1, and their Green Partner certification status. regulation. Company also conducts internal audits and provides training The Shin-Etsu Group is also committed to compliance and guidance for executives and employees as well as To ensure full compliance with the Subcontractors Act (actual with REACH2 registration requirements by working with instruction to Group companies. title: The Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract production and sales departments to obtain confirmation Compliance Pledge Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors), the Shin-Etsu Group from raw material suppliers of the REACH registration status maintains close lines of communication with its business of raw materials. In this way, we are building an environmentCorporate officers and employees make a Compliance Pledge Information Management System partners in order to avoid any abuse of the Company’s friendly supply chain with our business partners. to the company which represents their commitment as position of superiority relative to subcontractors. For all individuals to practice compliance in their daily work. For the The Company has developed a fundamental policy concerning business partners subject to the provisions of the 1 R oHS Directive An EU directive, formally known as the Restriction of the Use of Certain eventuality of inappropriate action occurring, disciplinary information security to ensure the confidentiality, safety and Subcontractors Act, the Shin-Etsu Group makes periodical Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulation. measures are available. integrity of its information assets and prevent the leakage of checks using a special checklist in combination with reporting 2 REACH important information concerning our customers and of new transactions to ensure full compliance. Staffs in An EU regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction business partners. We are constructing an information asset charge of purchasing and procurement frequently attend of Chemicals. Compliance Consultation Office management system, have appointed an officer responsible external seminars and presentations as well as internal for information control, and manage corporate information training sessions to discuss specific examples of conduct. In To support each of Shin-Etsu Group employees in ensuring in accordance with established information asset management this way, the Company works to boost awareness of that their work activities comply at all times with relevant regulation and standard. compliance with the Subcontractors Act. laws and regulation as well as internal rules, we have set up In addition, the Company requests that raw material a Compliance Consultation Office , which is available whenever suppliers to comply thoroughly with the Subcontractors Act. required to provide consultation or accept notifications. Protection of Personal Information In accordance with the Compliance Consultation and Notification Regulation, the Compliance Consultation Office In order to properly protect personal information in Procurement Audit maintains strict confidentiality to ensure that no employee accordance with the Act on the Protection of Personal consulting the office suffers disadvantage. The office then Information, we have established a personal information The Basic Procurement Policy applies to the selection of carries out investigations in response to the information protection policy, which is available on our website (Japanese suppliers and the development of business relationships. received and takes corrective action where necessary. No only). Moreover, we hold explanatory meetings within Suppliers are expected to understand the Basic Procurement employee suffers any form of disadvantage on the grounds the Group on compliance with all relevant laws and are Policy and instructed to incorporate the contents of the Policy of having made a consultation or notification. making exhaustive efforts in the appropriate handling and into their supply contracts. protection of the personal information of business partners Before and after supply begins, the supplier is asked to and other contacts. complete a procurement audit checklist, the results of which are used for evaluation and assessment. Additionally, staff in charge of purchase and procurement visit suppliers in Japan and overseas whenever necessary to carry out audit. Basic Procurement Policy http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/purchasing/kihon.shtml 17 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 18 Initiatives for Business Continuity Plan Management Structures Report on Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Initiatives for Business Continuity Plan Our Business Continuity Plan has been formulated to allow us to continue fulfilling our product supply responsibilities in the event of a major disaster Report on Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Here we report on the situation of the Shin-Etsu Group’s plants impacted by the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011, the progress of recovery after the earthquake and the main response measures. Earthquake, to improve the efficacy and practicality of Situation of Damage and Recovery Aim of Business Continuity Plan Business Continuity Plans. Situation of damage Status of recovery Product supply during recovery Shin-Etsu Chemical considers supply of high-quality materials Polyvinyl chloride plant Business Continuity Management System in based on superior technologies to be an important the Event of Emergency ●Restarted operations in a part of the facility on ●Shipments from inventory stockpile contribution to society and regards ensuring continuity of April 28 using the plant’s inventory of raw ●Support shipments from Shintech supply as a major corporate responsibility. In the event of an emergency, a Company-Wide Headquarters Damage to some facilities, materials Inc.(US) Shin-Etsu Chemical Many of Shin-Etsu’s products have high market share not for Countermeasures headed by the company president on-site roadways, ●Restarted full-scale operations from end of May Co., Ltd., Kashima Plant port facilities, etc. only in Japan but also globally, and our products are often will be set up immediately in line with the Emergency Synthetic quartz preform for optical fibers plant used for highly specialized applications in cutting-edge Response Regulation. Below this will be set up a Response ●Restarted partial operations from April 18 ●Shipments from inventory stockpile industries. An interruption of the supply of these products Headquarters in each of the head office supervisory ●Restarted full-scale operations from mid-June would therefore have a major social impact. In response, the departments, which will be headed by the relevant divisional aim of our Business Continuity Plan is to allow us to continue general manager and attached to the Company-Wide ●Restarted operations in a part of the facility ●Shipments from inventory stockpile Shin-Etsu Handotai Damage to facilities but from April 20 ●Increase of operating capacity at fulfilling our responsibility for vital product supply in the event Headquarters for Countermeasures, and Plant Headquarters Co., Ltd., Shirakawa Plant no damage to buildings ●Restarted full-scale operations from end of June other global production bases of a major earthquake, an explosion or fire, or other disaster for Countermeasures headed by the relevant plant manager. or risk situation. Under this system, each countermeasure headquarters In terms of risk avoidance, the Shin-Etsu Group has longstanding diversified the production base. Following the recent earthquake damage to the above-named and organization is responsible for implementing emergency plants, we were faced with stop of temporary operations and other issues. In response, we used a system of mutual support by non-affected plants in order to action procedures in accordance with pre-defined operational ensure stable supply of products. Overview of Business Continuity Plan criteria and for taking measures to ensure continuity of operations. Setting up Disaster Response Headquarters Shin-Etsu Chemical has formulated Business Continuity Immediately after the earthquake struck on March 11, Disaster Response Headquarters Management Standard in line with the aims of the Business ■ Outline of Business Continuity Plan Shin-Etsu Chemical set up a task force headed by Head: President Shunzo Mori Vice-heads: Executive Vice President Fumio Akiya, Managing Director Kiichi Habata Continuity Plan. Below the level of the Continuity Risk scenarios: major earthquake, fire, explosion or other President Shunzo Mori. This was based on company Management Standard, which cover all aspects of the serious risk. standards for response in the event of a “typhoon, Secretariat operational management of the Business Continuity Plan, Major objective: to ensure continuity of high-priority business earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster causing Officers: (1) General Manager of General Affairs Department (2) General Manager of Personnel & Labor Relations Department (3) General Manager of Environment Control & Safety Department (4) General Manager of Office of the President there exist division-specific and production plant-specific operation and product supply damage to business sites resulting in major impact on business continuity plans. production or sales activities”. Meetings to discuss Administrative Departments of Head Office Task Force of Subsidiaries and Affiliates The division-specific business continuity plans are ■ Business Continuity Structure in the Event of Emergency response measures were held as necessary. General Affairs Department Head: President of eash subsidiary and affiliate Personnel & Labor Relations Department predicated on the damage that could be caused by a major Office of the President Company-wide Headquarters for Countermeasures Task Force of Sales Divisions earthquake, fire or explosion, and set out the procedures for Public Relations Department Head: Company President Technology Department Head: General manager of each sales division each business unit. Their concrete content can be summed Environmental Control & Safety Department Purchasing Department up in the five following points: Finance & Accounting Department Disaster Task Force of Plants Head Office Supervisory Departments attached to Legal Department Head: General manager of each plant (1) Projection of disaster scenarios Company-Wide Headquarters for Countermeasures (2) Identification of priority businesses and products Company-Wide emergency response Electricity Saving Measures (3) Setting of target recovery period Business continuity response In response to the nuclear power plant accident which followed the earthquake, Office effort (4) Formulation of alternative plans to enable business electric power supply shortages have become a pressing problem. The Shin-Etsu ●In offices with windows, no use of lighting during daytime as a general rule continuation Headquarters for Countermeasures of Relevant Division Group has a longstanding policy of electricity saving, moreover has stepped up ●Redusing the lights in elevator hall and corridors (5) Formulation of advance risk reduction action plans relevant measures. ●Change of air conditioner setting from 26 to 28 degrees Celsius in summer Head: Divisional general manager Group-wide effort ●Extension of Cool Biz campaign period Our priority businesses and products include items for Divisional emergency response ●Alteration of company holidays ●Setting of computers to energy-saving mode and screen displays to low which a substitute product or supplier is not readily available, Business continuity response Company holidays scheduled between October and December have been brightness levels such as pharmaceutical and medical products, custom-made moved to August in 2011, the peak period for electric power demand ●Switch to energy-saving computers items, and products which enjoy a high market share. Given Headquarters for Countermeasures of relevant plant Plants effort our social responsibility for the supply of these products, we ●Increasing efficiency of machinery operation through improvement of production Head: Plant Manager ●Improvement in an operating rate of steam energy generator Support for Disaster Areas are committed to continuing this supply even in the event of Plant emergency response ●Operation of emergency diesel generator The Shin-Etsu Group was itself impacted by the earthquake and received a disaster. Business continuity response ●Use of plant water for refrigeration system much kind support from customers, suppliers and business partners. At the The production plant-specific business continuity plans are coordinated with the division-specific business continuity ●Production of cooling water by heat pump system same time, in addition to company donations to local governments in the ●Control of maximum demand by electric power prediction disaster areas, fundraising activities were implemented in the Shin-Etsu plans and contain a response plan for the individual plant in ●Switching of plant shutdown period of periodical repair to July and August in 2011 Group and the proceeds donated to disaster areas and the Japanese Red the event of a major earthquake, explosion, fire, etc. ●Switching of work hours to night-time or company holidays Cross Society. We will continue in future to carry out review, taking The above informations is as of June 30, 2011. account of the situation in the recent Great East Japan 19 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 20 Environmental, Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Challenges and Results of Shin-Etsu Chemical in Fiscal 2010 Challenges and Results of Shin-Etsu Chemical in Fiscal 2010 Shin-Etsu Chemical achieved its mid-term environmental goal of reducing 2010 unit greenhouse gas emissions to 66% of the 1990 level Shin-Etsu Chemical worked toward the two mid-term environmental goals it had announced for 2010: reducing unit greenhouse As for the zero emissions target, landfill waste as a proportion of total industrial waste came to 1.09% in fiscal 2010, which means gas emissions1 to 66% of the 1990 level; and realizing zero emissions (landfill waste 1% or less of all waste disposal). that we did not achieve the zero emissions target value of 1.00%, but a reduction of 0.12% from fiscal 2009 was achieved. This Unit greenhouse gas emissions fell to 64%2 of the 1990 level during fiscal 2010, meaning that the mid-term environmental goals result was due to investment in hydrochloric acid recovery, cellulose recycling, waste treatment facilities and other areas and effective for fiscal 2010 were reached. use for cement raw material. We will continue with efforts to reduce so as to drop below the 1.00% barrier in fiscal 2011. This outcome was achieved through a variety of initiatives including introduction of co-generation systems and steam turbines, Our new mid-term environmental goal is to bring Shin-Etsu Chemical’s 2015 unit greenhouse gas emissions down to 50% of the energy-saving investment such as absorption refrigeration, and other initiatives such as switch of fuels from heavy oil to natural gas. 1990 level, and each of our plants and departments is working steadily toward the goal by strengthening efforts for energy The reduction target for unit greenhouse gas emissions applied only to Shin-Etsu Chemical, but similar efforts elsewhere in the Shinconservation and operational efficiency. Etsu Group during fiscal 2010 produced a decrease in overall unit greenhouse gas emissions to 65%2 of the 1990 level. 1 The unit values shown are calculated using production figures converted from standard product units. 2 In the 2010 report, greenhouse gas figures for CO2 included only emissions from energy, but the present report also covers non-energy-derived emissions, including for past years. ■ Unit greenhouse gas emissions relative to fiscal 1990 levels for the Shin-Etsu Group ■ Percentage of total waste material sent to landfill (Shin-Etsu Chemical only) Reduction of steam consumption by Absorption refrigeration systems Installation of LNG-fueled Thermal treatment facility for Thermal oxidation of waste gas Hydrochloric acid recovery system improvement of reaction processes (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Kashima) through-flow boiler distillation column (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Kashima) (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Gunma) (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Gunma) (Nissin Chemical Industry) (Japan VAM & POVAL) Shin-Etsu Chemical (% unit emissions) (% sent to landfill) Shin-Etsu Group 110 6.0 5.56 100 5.0 90 4.0 3.51 2.96 80 3.0 2.69 2.06 2.15 70 2.0 1.81 1.69 1.21 60 Shin-Etsu Chemical’s target: 66% 1.0 1.09 2010 goal 50 0 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) (FY) Thermal boiler that uses thermal energy Steam turbines, co-generation Installation of turbo refrigerator Waste processing line Recycling line for by-product generated from waste processing (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Kashima) （Shin-Etsu Handotai, Isobe） (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Naoetsu) generated during cellulose production (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Gunma) (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Naoetsu) 21 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 22 Environmental, Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities Input/Output Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities Input/Output As a key materials manufacturer, we aim to reduce environmental impact not only for our own benefit, but also for that of society as a whole, by developing advanced technologies Resources/Energy Raw materials Environmental Accounting Energy Consumption Water Usage • Methanol • Vinyl chlovide monomer In fiscal 2010, Shin-Etsu Chemical applied the Environmental Major investments (crude oil equivalent) 183 million m3 • Pulp • Polycrystalline silicon Accounting Guidelines 2005 prepared by the Ministry of the • Installation of an energy-recovering facility 1,991 million liters (5 million m3 decrease • Industrial salt • Acetic acid Environment, Japan, to calculate the investments and expenditures (110 million liter increase from previous fiscal year) • Energy-Saving through increased productivity from previous fiscal year) • Metalic silicon Others involved in reduction of the environmental impact of air pollution, • Strengthening of energy loss prevention water pollution, environmental release of chemical substances, • Build up and reruwal of wastewater treatment equipment etc.; energy-saving measures to conserve the global environment; • Installation of equipment to recycle raw materials, and equipment and waste reduction and recycling to improving reuse of resources. to treat and recover waste INPUT • Improvement of industrial waste disposal facility • Environmental improvement, etc., of plants and surrounding areas Shin-Etsu Group By promoting the reduction of environmental impact at all stages from product design through raw material procurement to the establishment of an efficient manufacturing system, we are limiting increases in the amount of energy, water and raw materials needed to match the rising Environmental Conservation Costs in Fiscal 2010 (Millions of Yen) volume of products manufactured. Category Details Investment Expenditure Business area costs: Amount of Water Recycled: (1) Pollution prevention costs Prevention measures for air, water, noise and other types of pollution 1,276 3,616 1,791million m3 Development Procurement Production (12 million m3 increase from previous fiscal year) (2) Global environmental conservation costs Energy conservation and global warming mitigation measures 207 1,255 We are promoting product The procurement of materials Improved manufacturing systems Water Recycling Ratio: (3) Resource recycling costs Waste reduction, recycling and other measures 51 1,803 design and development that on a global basis is another are being established with less 90.7% Upstream and downstream costs Green purchasing and container and packaging measures 0 33 emphasize the importance of method being used to reduce environmental impact due to the (0.3% increase from previous fiscal year) reducing environmental impact. environmental impact. promotion of energy conservation, Administration costs Environmental management, environmental impact monitoring and environmental education measures 0 438 recycling and the reuse of resources. Research and development costs Research and development of environmentally conscious products and processes 0 1,867 Social engagement costs Donations and contributions to environmental protection 0 37 OUTPUT Environmental remediation costs Assessment, handling and other costs related to environmental degradation 0 287 Total 1,534 9,336 To the Environment Waste To Society Gases Emitted Amount of Waste Generated: Products CO2: 3,790,000 CO2-ton 184,000 tons • PVC (190,000 CO2-ton increase (14,200 ton increase from previous fiscal year) ■ Economic Benefits of Environmental Accounting in Fiscal 2010 ■ Cost of Environmental Conservation (millions of yen) • Silicone resins from previous fiscal year) Amount of Waste Recycled: 37 287 • Silicon wafers Soot: 43 tons 68,900 tons Details of benefits Economic benefit (Millions of Yen) ■ Pollution prevention 1,867 3,616 (9 ton increase from previous fiscal year) • Cellulose derivatives (6,900 ton increase from previous fiscal year) ■ Global environmental conservation NOx: 1,694 tons • Rare earth magnets Energy savings 310 Waste Recycling Ratio: ■ Resource recycling (170 ton increase from previous fiscal year) • Synthetic quartz photomask Improved production efficiency 1,010 2010(FY) 37.4% ■ Upstream and downstream SOx: 349 tons (1.0% increase from previous fiscal year) substrates Reduction in waste costs −422 ■ Administration 438 9,336 (70 ton decrease from previous fiscal year) • Optical fiber preforms 33 (Millions of Yen) Amount Waste for Landfill: Profit from sale of valuable resources 118 ■ Research and development 180 302 • POVAL Wastewater Discharge 3,400 tons ■ Social engagement 707 (300 ton increase from previous fiscal year) • Hot-melt adhesives Total 1,016 Total Wastewater: 161million m3 ■ Environmental 1,803 (10 million m3 decrease from previous fiscal year) Final Disposal Ratio: •Silicon carbide remediation 406 2005(FY) 1,255 COD: 5,033 tons 1.84% Others 132 6,838 (0.02% increase from previous fiscal year) (Millions of Yen) (42 ton decrease from previous fiscal year) 250 76 BOD: 313 tons 312 3,032 (31 ton increase from previous fiscal year) 336 1,320 7 759 * As the standard applied vary from country to country, statistics for waste cover only the Japanese domestic operations of the Shin-Etsu Group. 2002(FY) * Water Recycling ratio indicates amount recycled as a proportion of total water used. 5,186 * Waste Recycling ratio indicates amount recycled as a proportion of total waste generated. (Millions of Yen) * Final disposal ratio indicates amount waste for landfill as a proportion of total waste generated. 2,544 1,272 For environmental statistics on Shin-Etsu Group companies, please visit the Shin-Etsu Chemical website at 389 http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/kankyo.shtml 23 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 24 Environmental, Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Environmental Initiatives Environmental Initiatives The Group is addressing all issues that are relevant to realizing energy conservation and mitigating global warming, including reducing environmental impact, protecting the environment and recycling resources Mitigation of Global Warming Water Usage by Source Unit: million m3 Reduction of Environmental Impact The Shin-Etsu Group works to reduce greenhouse gases to Examples of our approach Category 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 mitigate global warming. •Improvement and expansion of wastewater treatment Reducing Energy Consumption Although CO 2 emissions have risen as our energy Groundwater 28 23 24 24 23 21 23 facilities The Shin-Etsu Group manufactures a variety of products consumption increases, each company and plant is making Industrial Water 35 39 41 41 38 38 38 •Even distribution of wastewater quality and volume handling a range of energy sources, including electricity, fuel efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. •Recycling and reuse of cooling water Tap Water 10 10 11 11 10 7 9 oil, kerosene, diesel oil, liquefied petroleum gas, liquefied Fiscal 2010 CO2 emissions totaled 3,790 thousand CO2River Water 116 125 115 122 106 117 105 natural gas and steam. We select the most suitable energies tons, an increase of 190 thousand CO2-tons from fiscal 2009 Other 1 7 4 4 4 5 8 for the manufacturing facilities and utilities used in such due to an increase in production, but emissions per unit sales Fiscal 2010 COD discharge totaled 5,033 tons, a 42 ton processes as reaction, refining, synthesis and processing. decreased by around 11%. Small quantities of greenhouse Total 190 204 195 202 181 188 183 decrease from fiscal 2009. Fiscal 2010 BOD discharge totaled Although overall energy consumption is growing due to gases other than carbon dioxide, including methane and 313 tons, a 31 ton increase from fiscal 2009. Where there are increased Group-wide production, each company and plant sulfur hexafluoride, are emitted. regulation values for discharge into inland riverwater, BOD works to save energy. Amount of Water Recycled discharge are also shown, with a uniform standard applied to The Shin-Etsu Group consumed 110 million liters more CO2 Emissions Amount of Water Recycled Recycling Water Ratio（%） all companies. (million m3) energy in fiscal 2010 than the previous fiscal year, increasing Emissions 2,500 95 1 pH total consumption to 1,991 million liters (crude oil equivalent). Unit Sales Index Compared to Fiscal 2004 (%) Index of hydrogen ion concentration (-log [H+]) indicating acidity (<pH7), 90.4 90.7 89.9 Looking at the different forms of energy used, as we have 119 2,000 90 neutrality (=pH7) or alkalinity(>pH7) of water solution. 87.9 88.0 1,791 108 (Thousands of CO2-tons) been progressing with fuel switch from heavy oil to natural 86.8 87.0 2 BOD 5,000 100 Abbreviation of Biochemical Oxygen Demand: indicates the amount of gas, which generates lower CO2 emissions, the share of 92 1,500 1,779 85 81 85 1,625 oxygen required for water-borne organisms to break down contaminants natural gas in fuel use is very high under the SCOPE 1* 79 3,790 1,482 4,000 1,410 in water and is a measure of the degree of water pollution. 1,358 measurement. Under the SCOPE 2* measurement, electric 1,000 1,246 80 3 SS 3,495 3,588 3,600 Suspended Solids (SS): index of organic and mineral particles suspended power accounts for around 85%. 3,000 3,410 3,372 3,195 in water reflecting level of turbidity. 500 75 *A term for the breakdown of greenhouse gas emissions by energy type as 4 COD defined under the the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative, a set of guidelines 2,000 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD): amount of oxygen required to degrade under the Global Agreement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions. SCOPE 1 0 70 the organic compounds of wastewater. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 covers direct emissions of greenhouse gases by the enterprise itself, while 1,000 SCOPE 2 covers indirect emissions through external energy supply. 0 Amount of Wastewater Discharged Example of Wastewater Quality Monitoring: Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (million m3) (Naoetsu Plant) Consumption 200 Unit Sales Index Compared to Fiscal 2004 (%) 177 181 Regulation 172 171 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Million liters) Water Resource Initiatives 165 163 161 value 3,000 126 5.8 〜 7.0 〜 6.7 〜 6.9 〜 6.4 〜 6.9 〜 7.1 〜 7.0 〜 116 To ensure efficient use of limited water resources, the Shin150 pH 8.6 7.6 7.5 7.5 7.3 7.5 7.7 7.4 2,500 100 Etsu Group is using cooling water recycling systems to 92 89 BOD ≦ 60 34 41 50 − − − − 81 1,991 increase the proportion of water reused. Fiscal 2010 water 2,000 79 (mg/L) ≦ 40 − − − 31 23 23 32 100 usage totaled 183 million m3, a 5 million m3 decrease from SS 1,500 1,776 1,881 ≦ 50 34 30 42 26 24 29 40 1,684 1,718 1,735 fiscal 2009. The majority of the river water we use is used by (mg/L) 1,574 1,000 our European Group companies. This river water is used for 50 Note 1) p  H values are the minimum and maximum values from multiple 500 cooling and can be returned to the river untreated without measurements. 0 causing pollution. The amount of water recycled came to 0 Note 2) BOD and SS values are maximum values from multiple measurements. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Note 3) T he BOD regulation value was 60mg/L until 2006 but was upgraded 1,791 million m3, a 12 million m3 increase from fiscal 2009. to 40mg/L from 2007. To coincide with this, we enhanced our The amount of wastewater discharged totaled 161 million wastewater treatment facilities and achieved a large decrease in Detailed Chart of Energy Consumption by Energy Type m3, a 10 million m3 decrease from fiscal 2009. The fiscal Prevention of Water Pollution BOD discharge. (Calorific Equivalent) Unit: peta joule 2010 water recycling ratio reached 90.7%. The increases in The Shin-Etsu Group uses large quantities of industrial water, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 water usage and amount of wastewater discharged are due groundwater and tap water to manufacture and clean Natural Gas 6.6 9.0 9.5 10.4 13.2 16.0 17.9 to an increase in production. products and to maintain and manage facilities. Wastewater Heavy Oil A + Heavy Oil C 3.4 3.0 2.9 2.1 0.7 0.2 0.3 is discharged into rivers after being checked for compliance SCOPE 1 with limits specified under laws and regulation. pH1, BOD2, LPG+LNG 4.6 4.8 4.7 4.9 3.8 4.5 4.0 SS3, COD4 and other items are measured regularly to monitor Other 1.5 1.6 1.3 1.0 0.9 0.9 0.9 impact on water quality. We are also working to reduce the Purchased Electric Power 37.9 39.7 41.1 42.8 41.6 44.6 47.1 amount of wastewater discharged. SCOPE 2 Purchased Steam 6.8 7.0 6.9 7.4 6.8 6.5 6.7 Total 60.8 65.1 66.4 68.6 67.0 72.7 76.9 25 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 26 Environmental, Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Environmental Initiatives COD Discharge Sample of Emission Gas Monitoring Result: NOx Emissions The amount of waste recycled in fiscal 2010 totaled 68.9 (tons) Boiler (Shin-etsu chemical Naoetsu) (tons) thousand tons, a 6.9 thousand ton increase from fiscal 2009. 8,000 Regulation 2004 2,000 The fiscal 2010 recycling ratio was 37.4%. The amount of waste 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 value 1,694 for landfill in fiscal 2010 totaled 3.4 thousand tons, a 0.3 1,584 1,622 Soot 1,490 1,537 1,524 6,000 5,553 5,512 ≦0.25 0.02 0.03 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 1,500 1,408 thousand ton increase from fiscal 2009. The final disposal ratio 5,119 5,075 (g/Nm3) 4,980 4,879 5,033 increased by 0.02% from fiscal 2009. These increases were due NOx ≦150 83 110 99 88 98 98 92 to an increase in production. As the industrial waste standard (ppm) 4,000 1,000 SOx applied vary from country to country, the figures shown ≦11.5 1.16 0.45 <0.025 <0.025 <0.025 <0.025 <0.11 (k value) represent the aggregated data from the Shin-Etsu Group’s 2,000 Note 1) T he figures shown are the maximum values from multiple 500 Japanese domestic operations only. measurements throughout the year. Note 2) T he sign“<“ indicates a value below the detectable limit. Amount of Waste Recycled 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Note 3) S Ox values are converted to the unit value (k value) as per the 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Amount of Waste Recycled Waste Recycling Ratio (%) reporting standard stipulated in the Air Pollution Control Act. (thousand tons) BOD Discharge SOx Emissions 100 50 Sample of Emission Gas Monitoring Result: 41.9 39.6 (tons) (tons) 500 Incinerator (Shin-etsu chemical Gunma) 2,500 80 37.4 36.4 37.4 40 449 30.8 73.3 76.2 71.9 68.9 400 Regulation 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 60 28.3 30 value 2,000 1,823 1,794 62.0 336 308 307 313 Soot ≦0.15 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 54.1 0.041 1,514 300 275 282 (g/Nm3) 1,500 40 46.2 20 NOx ≦250 100 110 62 55 92 82 71 1,086 200 (ppm) 20 10 1,000 SOx ≦17.5 0.55 0.51 0.47 1.03 1.87 0.66 1.25 687 (k value) 100 500 419 349 0 0 Hydrogen chloride 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ≦700 28 18 24 51 27 23 29 (mg/Nm3) 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Dioxins 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Amount of Waste for Landfill ≦5 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 (ng/Nm3) Amount of Waste for Landfill Final Disposal Ratio (%) Prevention of Air Pollution Note 1) T he figures shown are the maximum values from multiple Prevention of Soil Pollution (thousand tons) measurements throughout the year. 10 5 The Shin-Etsu Group is endeavoring to reduce emissions of Note 2) T he sign“<“ indicates a value below the detectable limit. Each plant carries out groundwater and soil monitoring in air pollutants. We use no specified CFCs. Some Group accordance with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures 3.97 8 4 companies use HCFC-22, HCFC-123 and other HCFCs as Act to check on groundwater conditions. From November refrigerant, but these are subject to appropriate management Soot Emissions 2009, the list of environmental monitoring items was to prevent leakage into the atmosphere. At the same time, expanded to include Vinyl chloride monomer, dioxane, etc. 6 2.58 2.60 3 6.5 2.48 (tons) 80 2.36 switch to CFC substitutes such as HFC-32 and HFC-134a is 68 4 4.8 1.82 1.84 2 being actively progressed. A large reduction in sulfur oxides Reduction of Waste Output and Recycling 4.5 4.5 4.5 3.4 (SOx) was achieved by fuel switch from heavy oil to natural 60 The different production processes generate various types of 3.1 50 51 2 1 gas. All of these emissions were within Japanese regulatory waste such as unreacted materials, by-products, defective 41 43 limits for air pollutants from boilers and incinerators. The 40 products and damaged or unused parts. The Shin-Etsu Group 40 34 0 0 Shin-Etsu Group complies with all regulation and also promotes the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle) to ensure 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 monitors emissions regularly to ascertain the impact on air. effective use of the Earth’s limited resources. We also Fiscal 2010 soot emissions totaled 43 tons, a 9 ton 20 periodically check outside contractors at their sites so as to Initiatives for Biodiversity Preservation increase from fiscal 2009. Fiscal 2010 NOx emissions came to ensure proper handling of waste consigned to them. The Shin-Etsu Group undertakes environmentally considerate 1,694 tons, a 170 ton increase from fiscal 2009. Soot and 0 product design starting from the product development stage. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 NOx both saw an increase in emissions from fiscal 2009 due At the same time, we are also meeting our responsibility as a to an increase in production. Fiscal 2010 SOx emissions Examples of our approach chemical company by working actively to stringently enforce •Utilization of inorganic sludge as a raw material for cement/steel totaled 349 tons, a 70 ton decrease from fiscal 2009. chemical substance management, mitigate global warming, •Utilization of organic sludge as a fertilizer reduce energy consumption, reduce the amount of waste •Reuse of acids and alkalis through separate recovery generated, prevent water pollution, and make other •Thermal recycling of waste oil and waste solvent •In-house incineration, in-house disposal environmental contributions. We are also engaged in activities •Separate recycling of valuable metals such as scenic improvement and tree-planting in areas •Recycling of cellulose by-products neighboring our plants. 27 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 28 Environmental, Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Environmental Initiatives Practical Examples of CO2 Emissions Reduction Promotion of Modal Shift At Shin-Etsu Chemical, our Technology Department takes switching to sea freight, we have realized a saving in freight the lead in initiatives at each plant to promote modal shift1. costs and a reduction in CO2 emissions. At the Kashima Plant, we began in 1995 to switch from As modal shift lengthens lead time, its introduction Responding to Chemical Substances Control Law PRTR System 1,2-dichloroethane Emissions tanker trucks to rail containers for the shipment of PVC must be preceded by negotiation with the customer. Using the PRTR system as stipulated under the Chemical (tons) to the Chukyo and Kansai regions. Currently, 25% of the We are working to expand modal shift through united Substances Control Law*, the Shin-Etsu Group reports on 50 total freight volume of the Kashima Plant has undergone efforts by sales, manufacturing, and the amount of chemical substances that it emits into the modal shift, corresponding to a yearly CO2 reduction of adminstrative departments. environment and works to reduce this amount. 40 34.1 3,600 tons. 33.3 Fiscal 2010 total emissions amounted to 185 tons, a 26 Similarly at our Gunma Complex, we have been working 1 Modal shift 30 27.6 28.3 Freight transfer from truck, aircraft, etc., ton increase from fiscal 2009. The increase in emissions was on modal shift since 2002. Already, 80% of silicone oil 23.6 22.5 to sea and rail freight, which can handle due to an increase in production. The total transferred in 20.0 freight has underone modal shift, corresponding to a yearly larger volumes. 20 fiscal 2010 came to 833 tons, a 365 ton increase from fiscal CO2 reduction of 800 tons. At our Naoetsu Plant too, 2 Lead time 2009. The large increase in total transferred was due to a initiatives have been ongoing since 2009. Time required from product order to 10 delivery. switch from in-house thermal recycling to outsourced At the Takefu Plant, meanwhile, we had been using Jun Sato Shin-Etsu Chemical material recycling. airfreight for overseas destinations to shorten lead time2. By Technology Department 0 As the Chemical Substances Control Law applies only to 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Japanese domestic enterprises, the transfer and emissions Typical examples of modal shift amounts for overseas Group companies are not included. PRTR System Polyvinyl Chloride Emissions *Chemical Substances Control Law (tons) Dispatch Destination Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical 30 Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the station station Management Thereof 25 PRTR System Total Emissions 20 (tons) 15.0 15 13.8 500 12.2 457 11.7 9.8 10 8.7 Freight dispatch Transfer using top lifter Freight by railway company’s container Transfer using top lifter Freight arrival 400 5.8 308 5 300 268 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Shin-Etsu Quartz, Koriyama Plant: Committee Chairperson’s Award from the Committee for Promotion 197 200 162 159 185 of Electricity Utilization in the Seven Tohoku Prefectures PRTR System Total Transferred 100 At an Energy Symposium held on February 16, 2011, in the facilities The measures to reduce the heat loss of rotary kilns (tons) 1,000 Tohoku region, the Koriyama Plant of Shin-Etsu Quartz made a particularly large contribution to energy conservation 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 received the Committee Chairperson’s Award from the and achieved a CO2 reduction of around 19%. The use of a 833 800 739 Committee for Promotion of Electricity Utilization in the PC server to manage facility 642 Seven Tohoku Prefectures for outstanding plant energy operating schedules was PRTR System Methyl Chloride Emissions 624 595 600 558 management. This award was granted in recognition of the also very useful in limiting (tons) 468 record of achievement over many years as a result of joint demand. Looking ahead, 500 400 efforts by the Koriyama Plant and the company’s Quartz we will continue studying 400 Technology Research Center. The main achievements are as measures in all production 200 follows: processes to reduce CO2 301 300 (1) P rogress in energy conservation through measures to emissions. 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 reduce heat loss from rotary kilns *Demand Shin-Etsu Quartz, Koriyama Plant: Front row from left: Plant General Manager Akira Fujinoki; Hiroo Kawaguchi, 200 166 (2) Efficient electricity demand* management using PC server peak electricity consumption Environment Control and Safety Section; Back row from left: 140 to adjust the operation of large electricity-consuming Noboru Suzuki, Engineering Section, Ryohei Shiotani, 109 Environment Control and Safety Section. 91 83 100 75 Shin-Etsu Quartz, Koriyama area energy conservation strategy and demand limitation strategy 0 (1) Promotion of energy conservation through measures to reduce heat (2) Efficient demand management through use of PC server to adjust 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 loss of rotary kilns operation of large electricity-consuming facilities Before improvement measures Main measures Benefits after improvement measures Before improvement measures Main measures Benefits after improvement measures A combined schedule chart Rotary kiln • Reinforced insulation of Large electricityon the PC server is used to Large electricityImproved rotary kiln consuming facilities control the operation of a consuming facilities (Electricity consumption before heater sections (Electricity consumption after number of electric facilities, improvement measures) (Demand of large electric furnaces (Demand after presetting of • Reinforced insulation of improvement measures) enabling advance 100％ 81％ and other facilties) facility operation) 100％ 80％ kiln outlet adjustment of electricity consumption and better Around monitoring of demand. 29 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 30 Environmental, Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Safety Measures Safety Measures By putting in place highly reliable safety measures and devoting efforts to everyday education and training, we ensure the ability to respond to any situation Additionally, in order to provide for the event of an accident Number of Near-miss Reports of Close Calls and Safety Concerns Process Safety and Disaster Prevention during transportation of hazardous substances, high-pressure (Shin-Etsu Chemical) Environmental Control and Safety Audits gas, or similar, we have put in place an emergency contact (Number) Number of Reports Safety Measures for Facilities system, created a mutual support system linking plants and 5,000 To check that reliable progress is being made toward the At the installation and facility design stage, in addition to business sites, and laid on appropriate equipment and 4,128 goal of ’Safety and Environment First’ in environmental 3,956 ensuring compliance with legal regulation and technical materials. These emergency drills, conducted where necessary 4,000 3,712 control, accident prevention and other areas of environmental 3,594 standard, each Shin-Etsu Group plant carries out advance with the cooperation of local firefighting and police units and 3,003 conservation and occupational health and safety, comprehensive 3,000 evaluations of safety strategy (risk assessment) and holds other official agencies, are open to the public. 2,595 environmental safety audits and special audits on selected 2,393 discussions and confirmation through the Safety Inspection themes are carried out regularly. On these occasions, we 2,000 Committee and Preventative Safety Committee. Meanwhile, invite participation by external experts, who provide advice HAZOP1, FMEA2, What-if3 and other analysis techniques are and recommendations. 1,000 used appropriately to identify risk in facilities and take In the audits of recent years, to strengthen and enhance corrective action. management systems, we have identified and then followed 0 For existing facilities and processes which are the source 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 up key tasks: setting of numerical targets, raising the level of of potential serious accidents or disaster, review has been internal audit, ensuring that manuals are improved constantly completed and corrective measures are in place. Going Number of Lost Time Incidents and complied with, ensuring the safety of construction forward, we will continue with ongoing efforts to identify (Shin-Etsu Group Japanese domestic operations) operations, and assessment of plant risk and the adequacy of risk in facilities and take corrective action so as to raise the Number of Lost Time Incidents Frequency of Lost Time Incidents response measures. In fiscal 2010, the number of people level of facility safety measures. (Number) (Frequency) involved in lost time incidents increased, but almost all were due 24 0.80 1 HAZOP (Hazard and Operability Study) Firefighting drill with local community cooperation, 0.73 to human error. This is a main theme of audit in fiscal 2011. A method of checking safety measures by comprehensively investigating March 2010 CIRES (Portugal) the causes of operational irregularities in chemical processes. 18 0.60 2 FMEA (Failure Mode and Effects Analysis) 0.49 0.51 0.50 0.42 Method of checking safety measures by analyzing the effect on the system as a whole of malfunction in the individual machines that make up Occupational Health and Safety 0.39 12 0.40 13 the plant. 8 3 What-if Action on Health and Safety 9 10 10 Technique that repeatedly asks “what if?” to evaluate safety measures We carry out risk assessment of operational procedures to 6 8 0.10 0.20 and identify overand under-provision. promote safety in the workplace. Our efforts to prevent accidents and malfunctions at the contact points between 2 0 0.00 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Number of HAZOP Analyses Performed humans and facilities that arise in the process of facility (Number) automation are based on foolproof1 measures such as *The data in the two above graphs are calendar year as stipulated under 250 installation of safety covers and safety barriers, and safetythe Industrial Safety and Health Act. Spring environmental safety audit 212 type limit switches, and failsafe systems that continue to (May 2010, Gunma Complex） 200 guarantee safety in the event of malfunction, such as safety Education and Training devices, interlocks, and warning systems.2 To improve the abilities and competence of individual 150 We also emphazize action on safety by employees employees, the necessary education and training is carried Accident and Disaster Reporting 118 103 themselves and intangible safety activities such as provision on systematically at all plants and workplaces. 100 and compliance with manuals. In particular, the zero-accident As well as skills training in operations and procedures, we In fiscal 2010, the Shin-Etsu Group experienced no serious program is designed to raise the ability of individuals to provide safety education for accident prevention, hands-on accidents or disasters. There were also no accidents which 50 38 27 recognize dangerous situations, and includes activities such training using simulated danger situations, education in impacted the environment of the surrounding locality. 17 14 as hazard prediction training, reporting of close-call incidents environmental conservation, training in handling of chemical 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 and safety concerns, pointing-and–calling safety procedures, substances, and drills for the event of electricity outages and and hands-on hazard awareness training. other irregular situations. We also provide regular training for Emergency Response 1 Fool-proof: employees of different grades and in different fields of work To prepare for the eventuality of fire, explosion or other Refers to safety measures built in at the design stage so that even if and offer study programs for legal qualifications to raise staff serious accident or a disaster such as earthquake or typhoon, operatives fail to follow the correct procedure, they will not be exposed to competence. danger. we have formulated emergency response regulation, put in 2 Fail-safe: place a company-wide emergency response system and laid Refers to equipment and systems designed to revert to safe operating down response procedures. Moreover, each plant and mode in the event of improper user operation or machine fault. business site regularly carries out emergency drills based on a range of scenarios including explosion, fire, hazardous substance leakage, and major earthquake to test the Examples of near miss effectiveness of response procedures. http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/kankyo.shtml 31 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 32 Environmental, Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Product Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Product Safety and Quality-related Initiatives The Shin-Etsu Group is committed to the safe use of products at our customers 1 MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) ■ Quality Management System Product Safety MSDS stands for Materials Safety Data Sheet, which lists the physical and chemical properties of the chemical substance together with Establishment of Policy P harmfulness and emergency response procedures. Designed to promote Product Safety Promotion safer use of chemical substances and prevent accidents and incidents, Plan Based on the basic company policy of respect for human MSDS are supplied by manufacturers, importers and distributors to dignity, the Shin-Etsu Group puts the highest priority on customers at the point of sales or shipment. 2 Yellow Cards product safety as well as plant safety and environmental The yellow cards on which all relevant information on treatment required A conservation, and implements necessary measures throughout D in case of an accident during transportation of chemical substances is the Group. described. The cards are handed to the transport contractor to be Review Act Continuous Do Implementation FMEA and other analyses are carried out at every process brought by tanker lorry or other means at the time of transportation. Improvement 3 Container Yellow Cards from product development to product commercialization to The standard yellow card system is not suitable for use with mixed identify potential issues for system performance and/or cargoes and small-lot deliveries. Instead, each container carries a label C product safety. Qualitative analysis is undertaken to evaluate displaying safety information such as UN number of chemical name and Check issues identified in order to improve product design and emergency response procedure number. Quality audit (October 2010, Naoetsu Plant) 4 G HS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling manufacturing processes. of Chemicals) Auditing Internationally standardized system of classification and labeling of Providing Information on Products and Responding to Rollout of Shin-Etsu Six Sigma Program chemicals. Associated Legislation 5 Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Response to Complaints The Shin-Etsu Group provides MSDS1 for each product to Manufacture, etc. Quality complaints are dealt with as a rule by each individual A law concerning examination and regulation of manufacture and other customers. Customers are encouraged to take appropriate aspects of chemical substances. Group companies and sales divisions through a process of safety precautions for understanding hazardous and complaint response, identification of causes, and prevention harmful characteristics of the product, undertaking all of recurrence. Particularly in cases involving product recall or required legal procedures whenever necessary, installing product liability, where the impact on society may be safety systems and/or equipment to eliminate harm, and Quality Control significant, the complaint is ranked as a serious complaint wearing protective gear. and receives focused attention in a separate category from Yoshio Tomita Shin-Etsu Chemical As a safety measure during transportation, the Shin-Etsu Quality Control System other complaints. In the event of a serious complaint, senior Technology Department Group issues a Yellow Card2 and/or Container Yellow Cards3 The structure of the Shin-Etsu Group is essentially a divisional management is informed immediately so that a companyShin-Etsu Six Sigma Office that are affixed to containers. A 2006 amendment to the organization, where each division (including associated wide response can be mounted. The various production bases of the Shin-Etsu Group are the Japanese Industrial Safety and Health Law introduced the Group companies) operates on an independent and selfShin-Etsu makes it an absolute rule to make an initial focus for rollout of the Shin-Etsu Six Sigma Program, a way of GHS4 system of hazardous and toxicity warning labeling, and contained basis and takes responsibility for quality assurance response to all quality complaints from customers within 48 improving product quality which applies the Six Sigma DMAIC the Shin-Etsu Group complies with these and other relevant for its own products. hours of receipt. Steps* and the Logical Thinking method. This program marks legal requirements. Requests and suggestions from customers are channeled its eleventh year in 2010. Once every year, senior corporate Within Japan, the Shin-Etsu Group implements appropriate immediately by the sales related departments that are in Auditing and Support for Quality Improvement management and plant managers are among those who management from research and development to commercial direct contact with customers to the appropriate sales Quality audits are implemented to learn from complaints and participate in the Shin-Etsu Six Sigma Benefits Presentation production by confirming the safety of new chemical divisions or Group company departments such as the research improve quality and customer service with the target of Meeting, which provides an opportunity for engineers to share substances and submitting manufacturing permit applications and development, quality assurance and manufacturing reducing quality issues to zero. Quality audits provide information. in accordance with the requirements of the Act on the departments. This feedback is incorporated into new product customer-oriented and cost-based evaluations of quality The Shin-Etsu Six Sigma Program combines the Six Sigma Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their research and development and also used to improve existing programs in each division. This information is used to identify Method as practiced in Europe and America with the unique Manufacture5, etc. and other applicable legislation such as products. The internal feedback system helps to strengthen and remedy weak points in quality control activities and quality management expertise that Shin-Etsu Chemical has the Industrial Safety and Health Law. The Shin-Etsu Group reliable relationship with customers. systems. The aim is to learn from past complaints and identify built up over many years. This program has enabled us to achieve a 100% level in product pass rate, which had long has completed preliminary registration under the REACH All Shin-Etsu Chemical plants and nearly all Group the root cause of quality issues in order to build a stronger been a challenge, and has made contributions to quality regulation and is working to comply strictly with the company production plants, including those located overseas, basis for the future prevention. The PDCA cycle is applied to improvement and cost reduction in specific instances. appropriate transmission of information along the supply have obtained certification of quality management standards problems pointed out by customers for improvement and Going forward, we aim to further enhance and expand the chain and other aspects of the regulation. The Shin-Etsu such as ISO 9001 and ISO/TS 16949. follow-up. The Six Sigma program* is also deployed on a program as we work to improve our quality level. Group is also committed to developing new manufacturing So that we can supply products and services that generate company-wide basis as a means of improving quality levels. *DMAIC Steps technologies designed to totally eliminate the use of RoHScustomer satisfaction, each of our plants has its own quality *Six Sigma program A management innovation method in five steps: Define, Measure, designated specified toxic substances as required under the management policy. At the same time, by implementing the Quality improvement method developed by Motorola in the 1980s. Analyze, Improve, Control. RoHS directive. PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle, we work to raise the Focused on processes where quality variation appears, it is designed to minimize variation within the processes thereby reduce the incidence of effectiveness of the quality control system, enhance product quality defects. This approach has been adopted across the Shin-Etsu quality, and improve service. Group. List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 9001 certification http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/quality.shtml 33 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 34 Social Activities Relations with Employees Relations with Employees People create and support technology We aim to provide ideal working conditions so they can The Shin-Etsu Group respects fundamental human rights promotes measures to protect employees from danger raise staff awareness of human rights. and implements a variety of approaches that create a workand damage to health, investigates the cause of work Education/Training and Personal Development friendly environment where employees can fulfill their accidents and devises measures to prevent recurrence, takes Performance-based personnel evaluation systems potential and build a career and that help them realize a full measures to improve the work environment, and generally and equal opportunities Auditing student system and healthy lifestyle. works to maintain and improve employee health. We introduce an abilityand performance-based personnel In 1962, we established an auditing student system designed We have also established Health Committees at head evaluation system for wages, promotions, transfers, etc. to help mid-level employees upgrade their skills. Under the office and branch offices which undertake activities around This system proves useful for increasing employee’s system, about ten employees each year are chosen from plant Health Considerations improvement of the workplace environment and promotion motivation, as their treatment reflects the way in which manufacturing sites and sent to study at university for one of healthy lifestyles, for instance formulating relevant plans, they meet their challenges to achieve higher goals. year. In the 50 years since the system was introduced, 495 Employee health programs undertaking inspection tours to check on workplace health To operate the personnel evaluation system in a fair and employees have completed the program and now function as To further decrease the number of sick, we focus on and providing information from industrial physicians on appropriate manner, the evaluation standard are made leaders in the workplace. activities that promote fitness and developing physical healthy living. available to all employees and evaluation training is provided strength, and by improving the regular health consultation for all managers. All possible steps are taken to ensure that all Training for international adaptation service, health guidance for lifestyle related diseases evaluation is carried out according to the uniform standard. The Shin-Etsu Group is expanding its business activities and mental health treatment. Company nurses provide Respect for Human Rights Communication between the evaluator and the person being throughout the world and competency in foreign languages is consultation and guidance to employees working long evaluated is ensured by holding two interviews per year. therefore an essential skill for smooth operations. To this end, hours, while those working within statutory working Human Rights Enlightenment Promotion Committee A Communication Sheet is also prepared between each the Group provides English language classes to teach meeting hours are offered consultation and conduct interviews We fully recognize our corporate social responsibility to the staff member and his/her immediate superior. This sheet and presentation skills as well as intercultural communication and provide guidance by industrial physicians within the respect human rights. Respecting the human rights of each is utilized to ensure mutual awareness of the superior’s courses to promote awareness and understanding of cultural framework of in-house rules. individual is fundamental in deepening our understanding of expectations and the subordinate’s ambitions, to set targets differences commonly encountered overseas. Recently, in light In addition, Fitness and Physical Strength Development human rights issues. To help accomplish this, the Human for the next six months, and to provide feedback on of the Company’s business expansion in China, a Chinese Promotion Committees have been established and work Rights Enlightenment Promotion Committee implements progress, serving in this way to promote further development language course has also been launched. together with Medical Treatment Rooms to organize initiatives to ensure that work environments are free of all of abilities. physical strength monitoring, hold seminars and events racial, gender and other forms of discrimination and are for physical strength improvement in cooperation. A Family places where all employees can work together in a spirit of Health Consultation Desk has also been set up under mutual trust. the corporate health insurance society to provide health In addition, Shin-Etsu belongs to both the Industrial Taking advantage of the auditing student system support to employees’ families. Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo, and the Industrial 1 CEO Meanwhile, each plant has a Safety and Health Federation for Anti-Discrimination, Osaka. Our employees Chief Executive Officer. Officer with the best decision-making authority It was such an exciting year that it marked in the management judgement Committee which formulates safety and health regulations, participate in training sessions held by both federations to a turning point in my life 2 QC Quality Control. Or, activities in manufacturing industry which encourage In the year from April 2010 in which I took advantage of the employees to make a proactive contribution to workplace management ■ Training System and improvement, leading to improvements in quality system, I was not only busy with lectures at the university, training at head office, study visits to plants, and product Training for different staff grades Specialized education General education Special education Environment and safety education Quality control education Six Sigma education exhibitions, but there were also a lot of exciting developments in my life in Tokyo, so that it felt like a turning point in my life. Advanced I had ten years’ experience working in the field since joining General ● Patent training management S/M job family traing the company, and that gave me a certain amount of confidence, manager level Black belt training training but the experience as an auditing student of looking at and ● Training for adaptation to considering things from different angles has really made me internationalization realize how narrow my outlook had been until then. From now Course for future Specialized education on I want to maintain a broad outlook and approach research Section Middle management training English language training, CEOs1 in environmental QC2 master course and learning from many different angles to keep on widening Green belt training manager level Mental health seminar meeting, (external training) control and safety the breadth of my knowledge. Job family change training skills courseⅠ/Ⅱ Human rights English language training, awareness training Line management Staff management Junior training training presentation, QC intermediate Supervisor education manager level skills courseⅠ/Ⅱ course Leader training Chinese conversation classes Auditing student Safety education system (1 year) Special education Junior leader training Intercultural communication Basic education Hiroyuki Sasagawa Regular training Shin-Etsu Chemical New employee second-phase training QC basic course employees Takefu Plant New employee introduction training New recruit education Manufacturing Section, Manufacturing Department 1 35 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 36 Social Activities Relations with Employees Employee Hotline Participation in Chinese conversation classe Labor-management Relations As a counseling service for employees who has trouble with Taking the Childcare System work or other issues, we have set up Dial Shin-Etsu, which is I hope that understanding the customer’s Shin-Etsu Chemical holds council with the Shin-Etsu Chemical staffed by experienced and qualified specialist counselors from We have a number of childcare leave options language will help me build a closer relationship Labor Union to promote communication between labor and out of house. for worry-free parenting management. Consultations are received anonymously and treated with I took one year and eight months’ leave starting before my child I am involved in sales of PP (polypropylene) film for capacitor Meetings of the Central Staff Council are held approximately strict confidentiality, but if requested the counselor will contact was born, then went back to work. I had planned to go back applications. Around 90% of our customers are overseas, so nearly all of our interaction by e-mail, telephone and so on is monthly at head office and are attended by senior management the Personnel Department to discuss possible solutions. when my child was one year old, but I extended the leave period in English, but I think that using the local language would help themselves, who discuss with staff subects such as management due to family circumstances. Having the option to extend the policy and the personnel system. Meanwhile, each business Other systems leave was a really big help. Looking back to that time, it went by us form a closer relationship with the customer, so I have site holds a monthly Local Labor meeting with the local branch In the event of the death of a Shin-Etsu Group employee, we in a flash, but being able to be there to watch my child grow day dabbled in a few languages. of the Shin-Etsu Chemical Labor Union. offer a scholarship system to support surviving children and by day made it a very happy time for me. Since I came back to I had done some Chinese on my own, but when I heard work, I have taken advantage of the shorter working hours that the company was starting a conversation class, it was Repeated dialog and discussion between labor and family members. Because the Company has group long-term system so that I can take my child to nursery every morning before perfect timing for me and I joined up. The pronunciation of management deepen mutual understanding and trust and accident and indemnity insurance, workers may still receive a going to work. tone languages such as Chinese is difficult for me, and even facilitate business operations in which staff and management portion of their salaries, should they be unable to work due to It’s not easy to balance career and child-raising, but I have had after I went to China, it was hard for me to make myself can come together to present a speedy response to the long-term illness or injury. In addition, we have established the understanding and cooperation of people at home and at understood with my idiosyncratic pronunciation. It’s a great changing business environment. asset-building schemes, a shareholding system, and a mutual work, which I am very grateful for. I am looking forward to many help to me that the company backs me up by continuing the aid society to provide support for weddings, childbirth and more challenges at work and the thought of that my child’s smile conversation class. sudden hospitalization of family members. face gives me extra energy to face them every day. It’s also an advantage being able to exchange information Welfare and Benefits in class with staff from other divisions who deal with China. I intend to carry on with the course so that I can further BAKER-KANAGAWA Japan-U.S. scholarship program Leave Support Systems improve my conversation skills and grammar. This new scholarship program was set up to provide assistance for the children of Japanese employees of the Shin-Etsu Group Childcare and nursing care systems to attend university in the United States and for the children of Our childcare leave system permits employees to take leave Yukiko Ishida Shin-Etsu Chemical American employees to attend university in Japan. The till their children have reached the age of three in cases Naoetsu Plant program is the brainchild of Mr. Robert Baker, founder and the where they are unable to secure a nursery school, and many Administration Department first president of Dow Chemical Japan Ltd. and a former employees take advantage of the system. Meanwhile, Yukiko Ishida (right) and colleague Mitsumi Suzuki chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, employees raising children up to the age of grade 3 of and Mr. Chihiro Kanagawa, chairman of Shin-Etsu Chemical. elementary school are permitted to shorten their working Mitsuhiro Kawashima I have been able to spend precious and Their shared idea for this program was to foster internationally hours by up to 2 hours a day. Shin-Etsu Film meaningful time with my son Tokyo Sales Office active human resources and deepen exchange between Japan As for nursing care leave, under certain conditions, and the United States. employees can take up to one year of leave per eligible Combining maternity leave with childcare leave gave me around family member. No employees took advantage of the system two years off work. I really appreciate the system as it allowed me to concentrate on childcare during that time. After going back to Bullet train commuting benefits in fiscal 2010. work, the amount of time I could spend with my son decreased, Since 1989, Shin-Etsu has allowed commuting by bullet train but those two years were a very precious time for me. As the time (Shinkansen) at company expense. This option has allowed ■N  umber of employees who have taken childcare to return to work approached, I became anxious, but thanks to more employees to own houses and enables personnel who leave (Fiscal 2010) the support of my managers and other colleagues, I have been are reassigned to headquarters from business locations in able to start back at work without any problems. Gunma and Fukushima prefectures to transfer jobs without Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 7 (Male: 0; Female 7) Combining child-raising and job is really tough. I don’t think I (non-consolidated) changing their lifestyles. As of June 2011, 70 employees were could manage without the help of everyone at work and my taking advantage of this Company offer. husband and parents. I am grateful for their support and am Consolidated companies in Japan 48 (Male: 1; Female 47) determined to carry on with my son’s smiles to keep me going. Accumulated holidays Consolidated companies total* 100 (Male: 28; Female 72) Employees are granted a certain number of annual paid holidays in accordance with labor regulation. If those holidays *The length of childcare leave differs from country to country, as the program are not taken, they are treated as accumulated holidays, which is based on local law. are then carried over to the next year and may be utilized as Kazuyo Muto family-care leave days or as days off for injury or illness or as Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd. Isobe Plant volunteers in disaster ares or donors for organ or bone marrow General Affairs Department transplants. (Purchasing Group) Kazuyo Muto (front row, center) and work colleagues 37 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 38 Social Activities Communication with Local Communities Communication with Local Communities We maintain communications with local communities through our plants and business sites The Shin-Etsu Group continues its efforts to deepen Collaborating in the external teaching program of the Vinyl Environmental Council mutual understanding by promoting an array of ics top Former Shin-Etsu Chemical employee Kiyotaka Kinoshita collaborates in the external communications aimed at building trust-based Cooperating for “Ansei Gunma Complex environmental teaching program run by the Vinyl Environmental Council, of which relationships with a variety of stakeholders in society Tooashi Samurai Marathon” Shin-Etsu Chemical is a corporate member. From 2004, Mr. Kinoshita started giving environmental lectures at Keio University, Hosei University, Doshisha University, and and successfully realizing the Group’s mission to ensure This marathon, famous for the fancy dress of the runners, other institutions. Subsequently, his activities expanded to cover senior high schools, was held for the 36th year in 2010. Disguised Shin-Etsu junior high schools and elementary schools throughout Japan and he has now given that its global customers are satisfied with its business Group employees took part in the event and pumped up it. over 50 external lectures. activities. The Vinyl Environmental Council and Shin-Etsu Chemical disseminate information to ensure a correct understanding of polyvinyl chloride. The Annual Summer Naoetsu Plant Japanese elementary school Simcoa Operations School in its 36th year Contributing to medicine All plants pupils visited Simcoa Operations The Naoetsu Plant held a summer school, organized mainly through regular blood donations In November 2010, 16 elementary school pupils and four by new employees assigned to the plant, who helped local All plants hold regular blood donations as part of their social supervising teachers from Setagaya Ward, Tokyo, visited Simcoa children in the elder-grades elementary school with their contribution activities. In May 2010, 81 employees of Operations (Australia), where they made study visits to a silicon summer holiday homework. Shin-Etsu Magnetics Philippines were among those taking metal manufacturing plant and other sites. part. Staff in matching Naoetsu Plant summerkimonos at the Naoetsu Gion Festival Every year, the town of Naoetsu celebrates the traditional Naoetsu Gion Festival. The Naoetsu Plant joined in “Minyo Nagashi” with a group of 155 employees dressed in summer kimonos bearing the Shin-Etsu logo. Participation in Shin-Etsu Silicones Thailand Local clean-up All plants Extenal lecture on rare Magnetic Materials Research Center planting of mangrove forest activities earth magnets at elementary schools In August 2010, a group of 35 employees and family members from Shin-Etsu Silicones Thailand took part in tree-planting All plants carry out clean-ups as an important component of In response to a request activity carried out along the coastline near the company’s local beautification activities. In June 2010, Naoetsu Electronics from the Board of Rayong Plant. pick up litter in the surrounding area. Education of Echizen City, Fukui Prefecture, four researchers of the Magnetic Materials Research Center presented an external lecture about rare earth magnets at two elementary schools in the city. 39 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 40 History of Activities RC Audits Measures taken by the Shin-Etsu Group Awards in the Fields of Safety, the Environment and Industrial Health Responsible Care (RC) Audits enhance the credibility of RC activities by publishing the Aiming to further improve its RC activities, Shin-Etsu results and ensuring accountability. 1926 • Founded as Shin-Etsu Nitrogen Fertilizer Co., Ltd. (name changed to ShinChemical carries out RC audits. These audits involve the Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. in 1940) 1926 verification of all Group activities and reports by the Japan * Responsible Care Codes: codes setting basic conditions for implementation of Responsible Care in six areas: environmental preservation, process 1990 • Global Environment Issues Countermeasures Committee established Responsible Care Council (JRCC). 1992 • I nternational Trade and Industry Minister’s Award for Excellent Green safety (and disaster prevention), occupational health and safety, distribution 1992 • Installation of equipment to reduce steam consumption by improvement in Factory (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Shirakawa) RC audits are based on the basic safety and environment methyl chloride reaction processes at Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex 1990 1993 • Osaka Prefectural Governor’s Award for Excellent Manufacturer Related to policy of the Japan Chemical Industry Association (amended safety, chemical and product safety, and social dialog (with the public). Alongside conditions in these areas, a Management System Code to 1995 • Participation in Responsible Care (RC) promotion High-Pressure Gases (JAPAN VAM & POVAL) 1996 • ISO 14001 certification obtained for Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex 1994 • A chieved 13,300,000 disaster-free hours, a 3rd class disaster free record (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Shirakawa) in 2005) and the Responsible Care Code*. The objective operate all the above is required. 1997 • ISO 14001 certification obtained for all production plants of Shin-Etsu Handotai 1996 • P rime Minister’s Commendations for Outstanding Contribution to the verification process aims to improve the quality of RC 1997 • Introduction of thermal boiler that uses thermal energy generated from National Greening Campaign (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Shirakawa) waste processing at Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex 1996 • S uperior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Minister of activities implemented by JRCC members, and serves to 1998 • Environmental Charter adopted International Trade and Industry (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma ) 1998 • First Environmental Report issued 1997 • F ire Defense Agency Director General’s Prize for superior handling of 1999 • ISO 14001 certification obtained for JAPAN VAM & POVAL Co., Ltd. hazardous materials (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 1999 • Implementation of special audit on environmental issues for all Group 1998 • S uperior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Head of Kinki companies in Japan Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Takefu) 1999 • S uperior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Head of Kanto Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 1999 • S uperior Prize for Safety, Head of Niigata Prefecture Labour Standard Bureau (Naoetsu Precision) 2000 • ISO 14001 certification obtained for all domestic production plants of Shin2000 • F ire Defense Agency Director General’s Prize for superior handling of Etsu Chemical 2000 hazardous materials (JAPAN VAM & POVAL) 2000 • ISO 14001 certification obtained for Nissin Chemical Industry 2000 • Superior Prize, Minister of Labour (Nissin Chemical Industry) 2000 • Final waste disposal facility completed at Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex 2000 • Superior Prize, Minister of Labour (Naoetsu Electronics) 2001 • Waste disposal facility completed at Shin-Etsu Chemical Naoetsu Plant 2000 • S uperior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Head of Kinki 2001 • Introduction of absorption refrigeration system at Shin-Etsu Chemical Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Takefu) Kashima Plant 2001 • Commendation for Industrial Hygiene Activities, Minister of Health, Labour 2001 • Introduction of thermal recovery system for distillation process at Shin-Etsu and Welfare (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Takefu) Chemical Kashima Plant 2001 • S uperior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Minister for 2002 • Introduction of co-generation system at Shin-Etsu Chemical Kashima Plant Economy, Trade and Industry (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2003 • Participation at First International Conference on GSC Tokyo 2003 2002 • Thirty-Year Disaster-free Special Achievement Award, Japan Soda Industry 2005 • Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Promotion Committee established Association (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2005 • Waste recycling system begins full-scale operation at Shin-Etsu Chemical 2002 • S uperior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Head of Kinki Naoetsu Plant Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry (Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz) 2005 • Environmental Charter revised 2003 • S uperior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Head of Kanto 2005 • C  o-generation system further expanded at Shin-Etsu Chemical Kashima Plant Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry (Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer) 2006 • Hydrochloric acid recovery system installed on silica production line at 2003 • Achieved 7,000,000 disaster-free hours, a 1st class disaster free record (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Isobe) Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex 2003 • 5th Class Disaster-free Certificate (Naoetsu Electronics) 2006 • Signed up to Responsible Care Global Charter 2005 • Excellent Safety and Hygiene Workplace Award, Minister of Health, Labour 2006 • Fuel for boiler facilities switched at Nagano Electronics, Chikuma Plant and Welfare (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2007 • Introduction of equipment to reduce steam usage by improvement of 2005 • S.E.H. (Shah Alam) Sdn. Bhd. becomes one of only five companies to distillation process at Shin-Etsu Chemical Kashima Plant receive Commendation of Malaysian Ministry of Human Resources 2008 • Introduction of natural gas fuel conversion equipment at Shin-Etsu (counterpart of the Japanese Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry) for Chemical Gunma Complex Excellence in Safety and Occupational Health Management 2008 • Thermal recovery facility for distillation column installed at Japan VAM & 2006 • Superior Prize for Hygiene, Head of Niigata Prefecture Labour Standard POVAL Co., Ltd. Bureau (Naoetsu Precision Engineering) 2008 • Introduction of gas turbines at Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex 2006 • 5th Class Disaster-free Certificate (Shin-Etsu Film: disaster-free record maintained to date) 2008 • Installation of LNG-fueled through-flow boiler at Nissin Chemical Industry 2007 • Superior Prize, Head of Nagano Labour Bureau (Nagano Electronics) 2008 • Thermal recovery system installed on silica production line at Shin-Etsu 2008 • Superior Prize for Industrial Safety and Health, Head of Fukui Prefecture Chemical Gunma Complex Labour Bureau (Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz) 2008 • Introduction of cellulose wastewater recovery system at Shin-Etsu Chemical 2009 • S pecial award from Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare for one million consecutive Naoetsu Plant hours of Lost-Time Incident (LTI)-free operation (Shin-Etsu Silicones (Thailand)) 2009 • Installation of turbo refrigerator at Shin-Etsu Handotai Isobe Plant 2009 • High-pressure gas safety award, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry 2009 • Installation of air conditioning facilities using process based on free cooling (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Takefu) at Shin-Etsu Handotai Takefu Plant 2009 • S uperior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, (Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer) 2010 • Fuel for boiler facilities switched at Nagano Electronics Plants II and III 2010 • C ommittee Chairperson’s Award from Committee for Promotion of Electricity 2010 • Participation to UN Global Compact 2010 Utilization in Seven Tohoku Prefectures (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products, Koriyama) 2010 • S uperior Prize for Environmental Preservation, Niigata Prefecture (Naoetsu Precision) 2010 • High-Pressure Gas Safety Award, Head of Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (Nissin Chemical Industry) External Assessments FTSE4 Good Rating Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. has classified Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd.’s long-term debts as AA3 Membership Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) Japan Chemical Industry Association Vinyl Environmental Council Plastic Waste Management Institute The International Friendship Exchange Council The Japan Committee for UNICEF, etc. As of March 31, 2011 List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 14001 certification Responsible Care http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/kankyo.shtml Global Charter Certification 41 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2011 42
