Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Driven By Responsibility Driven By Responsibility 6 12 30 Introduction – About this Report Section 1: Our Way Section 2: Marketplace Interviews with the Chairperson and Diversity Product Responsibility President & CEO of Strauss Group Corporate Governance Promoting a Healthy Lifestyle Strauss Group – At A Glance Ethics Customer Service Managing Corporate Responsibility Responsible Marketing Impact on our Stakeholders Suppliers and Ethical Sourcing Contents 42 58 66 Section 3: Workplace Section 4: Community Involvement Section 5: Environment Diversity and Inclusion Our Vision of Community Involvement Environmental Management Fair Employment Our Community Investment Strategy Waste Management Employee Career and Skills Development Community Investment Scope Hazardous Materials Employee Benefits and Wellbeing Community Involvement Programs Energy Consumption Dialog with Employees and Internal Greenhouse Gas Emissions Communications Carbon Footprint Health and Safety in the Workplace Water Conservation Wastewater Purification Reduction of Air Pollution Transportation About This Report We are proud to present Strauss Group’s fourth annual Corporate Responsibility Additional information appears in full on the CR website, including expanded Report, written in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. reports on our performance in 2010, our performance in previous years and As in the past, this report meets the requirements of GRI Application Level A, the other information. most transparent level of corporate responsibility reporting within the GRI framework. Sector Reporting for the Food Processing Sector Defining the Report Content The Food Processing Sector has several sector-specific issues which are material for At Strauss Group, we follow an established process, adopted for the development of sustainability impacts. The GRI has developed a Food Processing Sector Supplement our first report four years ago, for defining our report content. This process follows for reporting by companies in this sector which will become mandatory to meet the the GRI ‘Guidance on Defining Report Content’ and entails detailed mapping requirements of Application Level A transparency from 2012. Strauss, recognizing of issues that reflect Strauss's significant economic, environmental, and social the value of transparency on specific relevant issues, has applied the Food Sector impacts and prioritizing them according to the level of their importance to different Supplement in the writing of this 2010 report and is among the first companies in stakeholder groups. the world to use the Food Processing Sector Supplement. In order to understand which issues are most material to Strauss's business, we The Content of this Report engage in ongoing dialog with our stakeholders and learn from their feedback, Unless otherwise stated, the content of this report relates to all the activities of benchmark our activities against global best practices in Corporate Responsibility Strauss Group all over the world and presents performance indicators and data and maintain wide-ranging cross-functional discussion within the Group. collected for performance in 2010, along with 2009 comparisons, where available. 6 This Year – Ongoing Online Reporting Due to structural changes in Strauss Group resulting from acquisitions, mergers, This year, for the first time, we present our report in digital format to make it more new partnerships etc., it has been challenging to present prior year comparative dynamic, interactive and accessible in a fully dedicated Corporate Responsibility data. However, we are constantly working to improve (CR) website which will house Strauss Group's annual Corporate Responsibility the reporting processes of Strauss Group’s business Report and other relevant and timely CR information. We believe this provides units and aim to present multi-year comparisons an improved platform for transparency and enhanced dialog with stakeholders, in the future. allowing for continuous reporting updates and real-time discussion. Unless otherwise stated, data in this report is correct In addition to the information included in the annual report, the new CR website as of December 31, 2010. Financial data presented contains a wealth of information about Strauss Group’s ongoing CR activities, as in US$ has been converted using exchange rates well as videos, interactive feedback mechanisms, contact points to Strauss staff applying at December 31, 2010 from New Israeli with responsibility for CR issues and links to all Strauss social media activities. Shekels (NIS) or other local currencies. In this way, we offer internet users the maximum number of ways to obtain information about Corporate Responsibility at Strauss and interact with us, Please note: Data in this report has not been audited or subject to an independent external review. If there because we genuinely want to hear from readers. The CR website will be updated is any conflict between the data in this Report and data regularly to ensure that that news about Strauss’s Corporate Responsibility provided in the Company's audited financial statements, activities is available all year round. the data provided in the latter prevails. The printed version of our 2010 report is a summary version of the full Corporate Responsibility Report, which focuses mainly on progress made during 2010. 7 Because we are influential, we must accept the fact that without scrutiny that is transparent and communicated in terms of how we run our business, it is not only us who are liable to be harmed – the whole world is liable to be harmed. Ofra Strauss, Chairperson, Strauss Group AN INTERVIEW WITH OFRA STRAUSS, CHAIRPERSON, AND GADI LESIN, PRESIDENT & CEO OF STRAUSS GROUP Interview with Strauss Group's senior management How would you describe Strauss Group's attitude to corporate Which of the areas of corporate responsibility do you consider responsibility? the most challenging? Gadi Lesin: Ofra Strauss: Corporate responsibility is part of Strauss Group's business strategy, and we manage Due to the nature of our business we touch directly on a broad variety of fascinating it just as we manage the rest of our business activities – consistently, to the most and challenging subjects, of which I can say the most important are the issues of advanced standards and subject to binding objectives and measurement tools. recycling and sustainability, health and quality of life, and the prevention of obesity As a food company, we touch people and the food they eat and serve to their children. – particularly among children. I consider the subject of communicating nutrition We are partners in people's family life and social life. We influence their health and life information to our consumers especially interesting and challenging, in order for expectancy, use agricultural crops, water and energy, run production lines, employ them to be able to make informed choices and in order for us be able to help them people – all of this imposes a great deal of responsibility on us. to improve their quality of life. And, of course, the subject that is the closest to my In fact, in today's world, the burden of proof has shifted to the corporations, and they heart personally is diversity and inclusion, and diversified employment as a part of this. are put on public trial every day, in every aspect of their conduct. The subject of diversity and inclusion expresses our belief that the greater the variety Therefore, as a global company, we manage our social and environmental influence of people from different places, different cultures and faiths, with different ways of thinking and diverse capabilities in all levels in the company, the more we will be a …The field has been given to the management of professionals, fairer, more humane company. Obviously, as a diverse company we will also enjoy in every unit in the company. Progress and gaps are measured greater business success, because in this way we can also better reflect the entire using professional tools, and the reporting level and scope of spectrum of the groups we target. subjects included in the Corporate Responsibility Report are As one cannot talk about human diversity without beginning with gender diversification, 8 rising from one year to the next. we have joined forces with the international Catalyst organization and initiated its activity in Israel. Only a few months ago, together we launched in Israel, in collaboration with in every site and in every market in which we are active, and always try to take our the Israel Women's Network, a special census that examined the leading companies responsibility another step forward, and in this way, to be leaders in the field. in the market and the connection between business success and the presence of It is clear to me that the impact of this policy is evident in our business results and our women in senior positions. public image. I believe that there is a direct connection between our inner motivation To drive a real and profound change in the areas of diversity and inclusion close to do good and the professional level of our management of the field, and the fact cooperation is necessary between government, business and social elements, and that we really are perceived as a more responsible, better company. we are very active in building these partnerships. For the past three years, the Group has published a Corporate Responsibility Report each year. We embarked on this process based on our perception that first you have to What are the business drivers of corporate responsibility act responsibly and only then, to communicate, but the existence of the measurement at Strauss? and reporting process in itself drives us to improve and to be a better company. Gadi Lesin: What we are doing this year is actually taking the field another step forward. We First of all, responsibility and caring are part of our DNA. chose to launch a digital channel that will enable us to conduct a daily dialog on the And besides, doing good is good for business. This isn't just a slogan. It has proved aspects of our business responsibility, rather than just to report on it once a year. itself daily, in all our activities: Our digital Corporate Responsibility Report allows for a dialog with a greater variety It directly influences the satisfaction and loyalty of our consumers and customers, who of groups. The report is only the start of additional moves we will be launching in the get high-quality products that are subjected to the strictest quality processes, both out digital arena in the belief that Strauss must include its stakeholders in the range of of professionalism and out of genuine caring. They expect us to be a successful business its impacts, and that Strauss desires their involvement and partnership in advancing while raising a real contribution to the environment, society and the community, and their quality of life, and the quality of life of others . we are living up to their expectations. It has an effect on our employees – employees who enjoy a fair, stimulating work In 2007 Strauss Group published its first Corporate environment that encourages diversity and variance are better employees. Responsibility Report. How has corporate responsibility The considerable resources we invest in minimizing our harmful impact on the developed at Strauss since? environment reduce our carbon footprint, but also lead to huge savings in our Gadi Lesin: operating costs. Within a few years corporate responsibility has progressed from a new concept in Our beyond compliance policy also enables us to reduce risks and to foresee them our organization to becoming part of the way we do business. In 2005, we announced through proactive steps in various regulatory areas. corporate responsibility for the first time as one of our six visionary goals – the major pillars of the company. This year, we approved and included it as a leading visionary In which of the fields of corporate responsibility has the Group goal for the next seven years as well. succeeded in making significant progress in the past year? During those years the field has been given to the management of professionals, in Gadi Lesin: every unit in the company. Progress and gaps are measured using professional tools, We are continuing to progress with determination on the way to realizing our environmental objectives. First of all, I would like to mention the fact that for the first The Report expresses Strauss Group's genuine desire to be a company time, cross-company environmental goals were set in Strauss Israel, and we are on that is close to people, a company that is driven by caring and by the way to setting goals on the Group level. a commitment to improve the quality of life. Another thing I would like to mention is the way we are accomplishing our environmental and the reporting level and scope of subjects included in the Corporate Responsibility Report are rising from one year to the next. The level of responsibility practiced by Strauss has earned considerable public 9 Being active in different parts of the recognition in Israel and worldwide, and we continue to learn, to specialize in the globe enables us to be active partners in subject and are joining more and more international organizations that are active the international business community in its advancement. and to connect to the global social and How is the fact that we are a global company expressed in environmental agenda. our corporate responsibility? Ofra Strauss: On the one hand, as a global company we have both the obligation and the opportunity to be active in different places and in different and diverse communities, and to develop goals: to improve our environmental achievements we included the subject of meeting different forms of involvement and competencies on the basis of the human and social these goals as a criterion in the personal measurement and assessment process of needs in each place. On the other, being active in different parts of the globe enables our managers and employees. This had an immediate and direct effect on the level us to be an active partner in the international business community and to connect of management of the field, and one of the achievements we can already be proud to the global social and environmental agenda. I represent Strauss Group with great of is the reduction of our carbon footprint by 15%. pride in more than a few international conferences, forums, multinational think tanks In the field of diversity and inclusion too, progress has been made by laying a crossand action teams on issues related to corporate responsibility. I feel that we have a lot organizational infrastructure for the implementation of the subject on the Group level. to learn from the world practices that are being accumulated in the different fields, Targets have been defined for the inclusion of diverse populations, and the issue is but also that we are making a genuine, important contribution to the issues that are given expression in our recruitment processes. In addition to intra-organizational humanity's top priority. Our entry to the water business, for example, is definitely a activities the subject also defines our community relations activity. business step with extremely broad humane and environmental implications. Strauss Group – At a Glance 14,000 Strauss Group is the second largest 1.93 Strauss Group has delivered 5 Strauss Group has 5 core areas food and beverages company consistent growth for the past of business focus: in Israel and an international 6 years. The Group's revenues in Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, company employing nearly 2010 were $1.93 billion, of which Strauss Water, Sabra and Max 10 14,000 employees, operating 46% is generated by sales outside Brenner. from 22 production sites and of Israel. serving consumers in 21 countries. 5 Strauss Coffee is the fifth 1.72 Strauss Group's market AA+ Strauss Group trades on the largest coffee company in the capitalization was $ 1.72 billion Tel Aviv 25 Index (TA25), which world based on green coffee in 2010. includes the largest public purchases. companies in Israel. Strauss Group has a credit rating of AA+ from Standard & Poor's Strauss Group maintains Maalot credit ratings provider strategic partnerships with large and a rating of Aa1 on bonds global companies in the food in circulation from the Midroog and beverages industry (Danone Ltd, a credit rating agency and Pepsico). accredited by the State of Israel. 11 Our Way 14 The Strauss Way – one path, many destinations Israel Strauss around the World Ukraine Poland Russia Macedonia Netherlands 15 Switzerland Albania Montenegro Belarus Brazil Romania Singapore Philippines Australia Lithuania Serbia United Kindgom Moldova United States China Our V ision Creat ing W Out o onders : f Bas ics 16 Our core Values: Daring & caring, Passion & responsibility, Team. Straus s Creat Coffee – i Straus ng Wond s Coff ers Ou in the w ee is the t of Co and h orld in term fifth larges ffee Bea n comp become on of green c offee comp s as s tc anies e o f the o f f ee pu any In Nov in t embe he world d fastest gro rchasing growt r 2010 uring w Strau hs ,a the pa ing food s the Ru trategy, Stra s part of S st 8 ye Creat s Israel – ss u place ian Le Café ss Coffee in auss Coffee . tr ars i n g Wo d c Ru 's Strau ss nd instan Strauss Co ompany. Th ssia acquire 54% Israel is t ers At H t coff ee co ffee a is acq u d of he om e mpan s the third isition brand the Gro home ba y in R l s u mark are leade p’s glob e of the G s ussia. argest e rs a ro (Data t share of in the Isra l turnove up, delive suppl in the eli foo r. Str ring ied by re d au Store tail food market, w ss Israel Next: a i www nd bevera th 11.2% .store g next. e sector. Max B Sabra – co.il). A Uni renner – Creat q By en ue Conc Sabra ing Won cha d 201 0, th ept of a with a as becom ers Out h d in ere Ch 17 mark e the of Ini and t in Israel, were 33 b ocolate Group e ti h e Philip U S A ran Bar . In O t share of arket lea ative m Choc o l a pines , Australia ches of th refrig ctobe 47% der in te B . In ,S e rly 20 ar was ope 2010, a M ingapore er r ba f in ea the U ated fresh 2010, Sabr sed on da resh salad i n 1 1 n ed ax B n s a ta s Bosto , ano Food ited States alsa and d signed an from the in the US n. ther b in Las Ve renner s. in the ips bu agree Symp A ranch gas a In Ma fresh sin me ho was o nd y salsa ess of the nt to acqu ny IRI pene produ 2010, Sab categ larges ire the Strau d c r ory – t ss Wa The p tion facil a inaugura Califo company Creat t lant, it which y, located ed a refrig t rnia C reativ in S ing W er – is the i n e rated e trauss o nd first Colonial spre for th Water foc ers Out o is am green pla Heights, ads and d e pur ificati ses on the f Nature u ong t nt in Virgin ips drinki o de h t i n g n in the e on h eS food ly manuf trauss Gr SA. a ,U In 201 water and , filtration, velopmen 0 i s h to a Silv ind ac ou Strau a partners active in I eating and f systems , er Aw ustry tha turing pla p, ss Wa h ip ag sr ael, cool th ter an Build a ing C rd under ave achie ts n Haier a n d d the reement w Britain and ing of in Ene ounc the U ved Strau a Chi as Ch il’s .S ss Wa joint comp nese home signed bet ina. Ratin rgy and En LEED (Le . Green h ome w t e r, a n y el e w ee g Sys tem. vironmen adership i s ater so whose pu was estab ctronics gia n tal De the fi lution r pose lished nt sign) globa rst miles s to the Ch is to provi , Haierl com tone inese p d e qua in the pa in S o lit home ny provid trauss’s p pulation. T y and f ing d r o mis his or th ri e gen nking wat e to be a eral p er ublic solutions . 18 Our Brands Diversity Strauss Group has undertaken to lead awareness of the benefits of diversity, borne of a strong belief that a culture of inclusion and diversity practices constitutes an engine for growth and for continued innovation. Valuing diversity is embedded in Strauss's both in the way we operate internally and in our dealings with external stakeholders. Internally, Strauss Group has adopted a strategic plan to increase the diversity among Strauss's employee population. Externally, Strauss's community investment program supports organizations and associations that promote diverse populations. Strauss Group's expansion increases the exposure of its brands to new consumer communities. After learning local culture and consumer preferences, Strauss Group develops a range of products which improve the quality of life for consumers everywhere. 19 Corporate Governance Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Continue to improve, Risk management: We conducted a risk mapping process to support new policy and develop and renew, in practices on risk management. order to create constant shareholder value. Strauss adopted the recommendations of the Goshen Committee, the Code for Corporate Governance in Israel. Continue to cultivate Ofra Strauss, Chairperson of the Strauss Group, was appointed chairperson of Maala, 20 professional relationships an Israeli member-based NGO promoting corporate responsibility practices based on the advancement of joint interests with government authorities and public bodies. Operate fairly and with Michael Avner, the Senior Management member of Strauss Group responsible for integrity in all our markets. Corporate Responsibility, was appointed Chairman of the Bribery Prevention Forum of the Israeli Manufacturers’ Association. ‫מקרא‬ KEY Target Met Significant Progress In Progress Commenced Strauss Group’s Board of Directors and Board Committees Our Commitment Strauss Group’s strategy and business operations are under the Strauss Group views supervision of the Group’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors maintains six committees: Audit, Finance, compliance with the highest Human Resources and Compensation, Corporate Responsibility, standards of corporate Budget, and Investments, Mergers and Acquisitions. governance as one of its Compensation of Senior Managers guiding principles. Annual compensation for senior managers is linked to the financial performance of the Group based on defined targets and indices and personal performance targets. Risk Management Strauss Group has undertaken to manage risk in a structured way at globally at corporate level. This includes a dedicated plan to minimize risks in areas identified 21 as high-risk, impacting the achievement of the Group’s targets. This is a long-term process in which each department manager will take responsibility for managing the role-related risks and for updating risk analyses and reporting on risk. Compliance Strauss Group maintains compliance programs in the following fields: ethics, prevention of sexual harassment, employee, environmental quality, workplace safety and hygiene, information security, and anti-trust regulations. For more information – please see the chapter on Aspects of Corporate Governance in the Board of Directors' Report. TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL Membership in the global coalition against corruption Organizations and Partnerships ‫בעצמי הביטוח הלאומי המרכז להכשרה‬ ‫ושיקום מקצועי טק קריירה מטה מאבק הנכים‬ ‫ערבי‬-‫ ישראל המרכז היהודי‬Manpower 2000 ‫לפיתוח כלכלי עולים ביחד ציונות‬ UJA-Federation of New York ‫קו משווה תבת‬ ‫ ג'וינט ישראל‬,‫מיסודה של תבת‬ Ethics Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Implement Strauss Group’s The Group’s Ethics Trustees expanded their responsibility to include Corporate Responsibility Code of Ethics as a part of our in business decisions in Israel and abroad. responsibility and commitment to an ethical and fair work Ethics refreshers were conducted for most of the Group’s employees, providing the basis environment in all of our business for training demanded by our organizational ethics program with emphasis on: units, with maximum compatibility specific dilemmas from the day-to-day activities of each division; with day-to-day work and specific providing a program of training solutions using different training methodologies to meet dilemmas relating to each Division the needs of different target audiences in the Group; Reinforced internal communications via several channels to assist in resolving ethical and operating location. dilemmas. 22 KEY Target Met Significant Progress In Progress Commenced % According to the Global Employee Opinion Survey conducted in Strauss Group in 2010: 84 84% of employees believe that the company is managed ethically, compared with 75% of employees who responded similarly in the 2008 survey. Embedding the Code of Ethics In 2010, the ethics refresher training sessions continued regularly in our business units in Israel and throughout the world according to an annual work plan. New employees and executives who joined the Group were familiarized with the Code in a greater depth as part of their company orientation. The Ethics and Corporate Responsibility Trustees in the various units Ethics and Corporate Responsibility Trustees With the launch of the Code of Ethics in 2007, an Ethics Trustee was appointed in each of our business units, acting as the first point of contact for employee questions, dilemmas or complaints regarding ethics and adhering to the Code of Ethics. The Ethics Trustees are also responsible for embedding the content of the Code of Ethics in the business units, adapting the training and refresher programs to the specific needs of the division and for the implementation of the annual ethics work plan. In 2010, we expanded the roles of the Ethics Trustees and their position was redefined as Corporate Responsibility Trustees. The Trustees serve as ambassadors of Corporate Responsibility in the business divisions in Israel and throughout the world, entrusted with embedding key aspects of Corporate Responsibility in the 23 business unit. The Corporate Responsibility Manager responsible for training the Trustees and for ongoing provision of professional materials at corporate level. A forum of the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Trustees convenes once a year globally and twice a year locally Ethics Hotline The ethics hotline constitutes another channel that is available to the Group’s employees for the purpose of reporting of any suspected breach of the Company's Code of Ethics. The ethics hotline is available to the employees 24 hours a day in several local languages. In 2010, the ethics hotline operated in Israel, Romania and Poland, and will be expanded to other countries in 2011. In 2010, Strauss’s ethics hotline received 16 calls from employees and suppliers, dealing with discrimination, harassment, inappropriate behavior and breach of procedure. Access to the ethics hotline is by phone at: 1-800-949-4949 or at straussgroup.ethicspoint.com. Ethical Behavior toward Suppliers In 2010, we continued the process of engaging our our suppliers in signing a Corporate Responsibility Charter. We asked suppliers to avoid providing gifts to Strauss employees, other than small gifts for office use office, in accordance with the Strauss Code of Ethics. Managing Corporate KEY Responsibility Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Commenced Manage Corporate Commencing in 2010, a report on Corporate Responsibility performance is sent to the Board Responsibility as an of Directors and managers integral part of Strauss In Progress Group’s core business and A new, full-time Group Corporate Responsibility Manager was appointed at the beginning strategy. of 2010. Behave responsibly and In 2010, we held our internal Corporate Responsibility Forum Conference, which focused on Significant with due care in all of strategy and compliance. Progress 24 our activities toward all internal and external We received awards in recognition of our Corporate Responsibility activities, including: A stakeholders. Platinum ranking in the Maala Corporate Responsibility Index, a Transparency Index Award for the transparency of CR information on the Group’s internet site, the Ministry for the Protection Target Met of the Environment’s Prize for Environmental Excellence and more. Managing Corporate Responsibility Awards Received in 2010 for Corporate Responsibility Maala award for membership in UN Global Impact. as Part of Strauss's Visionary Goals Platinum ranking in the Maala Corporate Responsibility Index Strauss's visionary goals, which we redefine every One of the ten leading companies in the ranking of the best companies to work for, and the leader five years, complement the values of Strauss. One in the food and beverage industry as part of the the annual review by “The Marker” and BDI-Coface. of our visionary goals is to manage the Group’s Ministry for the Protection of the Environment Environmental Excellence Award (Israel) – awarded in Corporate Responsibility as an inseparable part of the presence of the President of Israel. the core business and strategy of the Group. We Third place in the Transparency Index of Israeli businesses for 2010 published by Beyond Business manage this through a system of performance Ltd, Israel. The Transparency Index reflects the contents of the company website in areas connected with social and environmental accountability as well as dimensions of user friendliness, navigation targets and metrics. and accessibility of the website. The following chart shows Corporate Responsibility the management structure Committee of the Board of Directors of Corporate Responsibility in the Strauss Group: Head of Corporate Responsibility, a member of the Strauss Management team Corporate Responsibility Director Corporate Responsibility Trustees Forum Workplace Safety Forum Environmental Forum Community Leaders in the Safety Officers in Environmental Trustees business units the business units in the business units 25 te Responsibility Forum Global Corpora Strauss Group's Global Corporate Responsibility Forum convenes on an annual basis. Members of the Forum, representatives of the business units from around the world, gathered in 2010 for a joint session of learning, enrichment and mutual sharing of the successes and challenges in Corporate Responsibility practices. Each year, the Forum focuses on key sustainability topics. In 2010, the focus was on strategy and compliance . Impacts on Our Stakeholders Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Deepen the dialog with our We have established a platform for more active use of in social media channels to deepen stakeholders our dialog with stakeholders. Increase the economic value to our stakeholders In 2010, our operations grew by 8%. KEY 26 Target Met Significant Progress In Progress Commenced Dialogue Dialogue a log with our various s n going di take an o hol ing der c t s du ut con We are meticulous abo 27 Stakeholder Relations We believe that management of our stakeholder relationships based on trust, accountability, communication and transparency is the key to our success and long-term sustainability. We are meticulous about conducting an ongoing dialog with our various stakeholders. In 2010, we established a platform for expanding our activities in digital communication channels and social media. This will enable us to reinforce our dialog with our employees, consumers, business partners, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Our Stakeholder Dialogue Economic Impact Our Employees In 2010, the “Colors of Strauss” portal was launched, a global In 2010, $0.37 billion was paid to our 12,350 employees We directly employ over 12,350 website that gives employees access to knowledge about the throughout the world (not including 1,535 temporary employees throughout the world (not Group, invites them to share thoughts, provides updates on employees and agency employees). This sum includes including 1,535 temporary employees events in the Group provides access to the Group’s telephone list salary, social security, pension and severance pay and annual calendar. In 2010, we conducted a comprehensive contributions, insurance, other social benefits and welfare and agency employees). opinion survey among employees of the Strauss Group (with payments. Out of this amount, over $30 million covered the exception of employees in Brazil). The main findings of the social benefits and pension plans for our employees. survey are reflected in this Corporate Responsibility Report. Our Consumers We invest resources in operating service centers in Israel and In 2010, the Strauss Group’s overall revenue from sales We attribute special importance to throughout the world, which are always available to receive stood at $1.94 billion. A breakdown of the Group’s revenue maintaining the highest standards feedback from our consumers. We conduct satisfaction by geographical region is presented below: of product quality and safety based surveys among consumers to gain a profound knowledge of on consideration for the health and their needs, and to assess how we can improve In 2010, we Europe 21% nutritional wellbeing of our consumers. established a platform for more active use of in social media 28 channels to deepen our dialog with stakeholders. Social media channels will enable us to reinforce our connection Brazil 20% with consumers, strengthen our commitment to them, provide them with news from the Group, include them in the product development process, and provide them with a platform to react and express their opinions. United States 5% Israel 54% Our Suppliers and Service Providers In 2010, Strauss Group paid $1.35 billion shekels to its We consider our suppliers a very suppliers throughout the world for various goods, services, significant stakeholder group. In 2010, We conduct meetings with our key suppliers as well as and operational costs. we purchased products, services and holding an annual suppliers conference to to provide raw materials from 17,000 suppliers an additional platform for dialog with our suppliers. worldwide. We encourage sustainability, social responsibility and ethical business practices among our suppliers. We maintain constant contact with our customers Our Customers and Business Partners by assisting in the development of their business. In our business activities, we create revenue and profits for We strive to conduct business with our We conduct surveys to receive feedback from our our customers and business partners and indirectly assist customers and business partners in a customers and provide a service hotline for customers in the creation of additional jobs and diverse opportunities. fair and ethical way and maintain ethical to enable them to contact us. behavior throughout our supply chain. Our Stakeholder Dialogue Economic Impact Shareholders In 2010, a dividend was distributed to the Group’s shareholders We invest maximum efforts in being totaling over $56 million. Our credit providers received over We fully update our investors and shareholders on the best at what we do and we strive to $24 million in 2010, paid to banks and other lenders in company developments and enable them access improve, to develop, and to launch new respect of interest on our loans. to information that will help them make decisions. initiatives in order to continue creating value for our shareholders, so that they can be proud to hold the Group’s shares. Government Authorities In 2010, we paid over $41 million in taxes to the local We attribute tremendous importance to maintaining authorities around the world. We also received economic We strive to demonstrate good constant contact with the authorities and update them assistance from governments in the form of grants totaling citizenship, comply with all relevant with all relevant information concerning mergers, approximately $0.5 million, and corporate tax and value legislation and cooperate with all acquisitions, tax issues and important operational issues. added tax discounts in tax-relief areas. government authorities. The Communities in which In 2010, we donated $2.8 million in cash and products to 29 we Operate non-profit organizations and community groups. as part of We do our best to behave fairly and our activities in the countries where we are active. Each of the Group’s sites maintains ongoing contact responsibly and to maintain good with non-profit community partners through whom relations with the communities that we learn about the unique needs of the community. we serve. We donate money, products and resources with the aim of assisting local communities. The Environmentֿ Strauss Israel maintains dialog with environmental organizations, In 2010, Strauss Group invested, both in Israel and abroad, close We are constantly aware of our impact on including Citizens for the Environment in the Galilee and the to $3 million in infrastructure to improve the environmental the environment and strive to minimize Israel Union for Environmental Defense (“Adam, Teva V’Din”). aspects of the Group’s manufacturing plants and to minimize our negative impacts through improving Strauss provides information for reports published by these the environmental risks of its activities. Strauss invested an our environmental performance in all organizations and is a partner in environmental projects. additional $3 million in ongoing environmental management our business units. We care about the Strauss Coffee Romania is a member of the Romanian Association systems and staff time. world in which we live and act to create a for the Environment and Packaging (ARAM) and holds discussions better world, for ourselves and for future on the subject of waste generated from packaging and recycling. generations. Strauss Coffee Poland cooperates with various companies to promote environmental issues such as waste management, natural gas, water treatment, recycling, and more. 30 Marketplace 31 Product Responsibility KEY Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Continue improving the We have continued to develop products with optimal nutritional value such as the nutritional value of our Activia probiotic yogurt whole grain series, tehina from whole sesame seeds and Commenced products and increase the hummus with tehina from whole sesame seeds. variety of products we offer our to consumers, while The Strauss Institute supports the advancement of knowledge and research in emphasizing products with the field of healthy lifestyle. In Progress the optimal nutritional We maintain our longstanding avoidance of use of trans fats and artificial food value. coloring in Strauss products. Significant Improve labeling on product We raise awareness of proper nutrition by emphasizing nutritional values on Progress packages. packaging and through marketing. In 2010, we updated our packs for pasta meals 32 and led campaigns for cottage and soft white cheeses. We continue to update the “Strauss Packaging Guide”, outlining the detailed criteria for designing each pack, often exceeding legal requirements. Target Met Expand our water business We have established Haier – Strauss Water in order to enter the Chinese market, in order to provide a and in Britain we re-launched the T6 device. response to the basic need for clean and safe water. The Strauss Group’s Health Policy Expansion of Marketing Reinforcing the portfolio with an transparency and The three mainstays of our of products emphasis more prominent and with improved on health. clearer presentation health policy are: nutritional values of nutritional and in a wider variety of health messages on categories. the products. Our Products’ Contribution to a Healthy Lifestyle Strauss’s continuing strategy is to develop products with added health value that are exciting and taste good while maintaining high quality. In 2010, we continued to operate at two levels: 33 .1 Product development and improvement: We have worked diligently on the development of .2 Marketing: We have emphasized the nutritional values and health aspects of products through new products that are rich in the packaging and our marketing best nutritional elements in a wider campaigns, in the recognition variety of categories and on the of our consumers’ increasing improvement of the nutritional awareness of the importance of composition of existing products. maintaining a healthy lifestyle. s d u c ts urt that wa . y Pro ic yo g estio n Dair e is a probi r to assist d iregularis ot ig n d Mi lk a yD anon ly in orde du s Act ar b io c t i via b especial ment, Bifi e r egul on, A h d lope ’s develo p n to t gniti sam e deve ditio l reco ge n Se lads v ia d a a i s Ac ti d in a ati o n Ad A . a m Whole G ed hummu e r Du r in g ad d e in t e r n ted b y de l a S e r i a were h a s won a s s elec f t h e deca l a Ach ehina fro d introduc rain sesam e bact ctivia 10, it w oducts o rain cere T with , we add e hole g who l e r i a. A 2 0 p r e g e om w alad from 009 bac t ar y te n ho l in h t 0 1 0 e fr Janu o f the tivia w ers to w In 2 d a ma h tehina s he 2 and i n e as on ch of the A c h te i tehin e d t salads e o nsum in the w it h a ri c l l o w a z i n u n b y c e w hed This fo chla mag he la cted r priz aunc all A 0 saw t was sele he Yea and l esame. o i l i n 20 1 ich s, wh duct o ft grai ns e nt o f soy serie Pr o ce m il. repla nola o 2011t category. ies c a with ti v r of Our Ac ities at r yogu t eg o l e c tion Stra uss Israel in Various C a A Se t ence a r t men a baked dulg ts are mad n e ep ks is d I n cks D c in g, an c i a Potato Sti l food color nal n rod u rally n of Fu uss Group’s not occur na factured S p tu 34 Salty hips Kids out artificia or additio ieved Wo r l d l Stra h do anu c Tapu nack wit h tam ate has ach the The nt years, al y acids whic oducts are m oloring. in ota t o s m g l u o d u c t l i e s with a In re ce rans fatt pr oup’s ial foo turally co dc nta p osod iu is pr omp w i d e a s t t G r c s . T h nd also c u s artifi of the oils n o s a mon v e rld lty with Strau s e r va t i c e ss a s i C o Wo mong sa ds *. All s i n g out u pr e c p a o e nt su f P e ic h , ent. fo d som sign ifica t e g ory o oduct wh chievem ct with oducts an ca ”p r nt a du stric test r F o r You d a significa o sticks pro mers * Mil k pr tty a cids. e “Bett s, is conside ps Kids pot ted by cons 10. re at u s f a tran k h i le c 20 snac apuC as se ward for 2 0 10, T ed and w r A In lop e Yea at deve uct of th g th was noti n he P rod l bol not for t ea a sy m oes oved And in the rest of the world… sta M dded Pa 10, we a al me s. We rem eries al d e Sabra In 2 0 a s t a M ervative asta Meals s al on P es in pr ves from ou balanced m rP e the In 2010, Sabra n t a a c q u i r e d t h e l a r g e st co eservati eating a r the p phasized natural salsa company in and em . ging the USA, California Creative Foods. e p acka th CCF’s salsa is natural, refrigerated and contains nutritious ingredients without preservatives. Programs to Promote a Healthy Lifestyle Strauss leads a variety of activities that support a healthy lifestyle. The main programs operated by Strauss are described below: Strauss Institute The Strauss Institute supports the promotion of information and research into the healthy lifestyles field through support for research grants for projects that advance healthy lifestyle message, holding scientific conferences for thought leaders on matters of health (such as doctors, dieticians, and others). Cooperation with Professionals in the Fields of Health, Nutrition, and Lifestyle In 2010, Strauss Israel participated in major conferences in the field of health and hosted professional forums. Additionally, Strauss has held regular meetings with key opinion leaders on health, such as nutritional scientists, dieticians and senior physicians, and meetings with hospital staff. The aim of the meetings is to discuss Strauss’s health policy and significant issues as part of a dialogue with this central stakeholder group. 35 Programs Promoting a Healthy Lifestyle among Children “The Strauss Plate”: As part of our efforts to promote a healthy lifestyle and a proper diet, the Strauss Group has developed a unique and simple tool that enables the consumer to build a healthy meal with balanced portions. The Strauss Plate has been distributed to many groups and is used as a work tool for dieticians and physicians. The cardboard plate presents the way to build a nutritious and enjoyable meal in three stages. More information about this project can be found in the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report. KEY Customer Service Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Provide our customers and In a satisfaction survey that was conducted among consumers in 2010, the consumers with the best service. consumers scored their general satisfaction with Strauss customer service Commenced at 4.5 (out of 5). In 2010, the information management system that assists service representatives when responding to consumers was upgraded, in terms of both technology In Progress and content. Reduce the number of consumer We are attentive to the calls from our consumers, and where necessary, we make complaints and incidents of changes in order to satisfy them. In 2010, we places products for sales after dissatisfaction delisting in response to consumer demand, we dealt with a product technical Significant Progress problems and highlighted expiration dates where they were difficult to read. 36 Target Met Strauss Israel Customer Service Center Our Service Center is a major communications channel with our consumers, and we invest significant resources in its operation. In 2010, 161,806 calls reached our consumer service center. 75% of the calls related to product quality or points of sale problems and 25% of the calls were questions about the products or labels, requests, suggestions, questions regarding sales promotions and more. In 2011, we launched digital channels for communication with our consumers, including the My Strauss website, Facebook page, direct chat through the website, and more. We expect that this will increase the number of approaches by consumers and will facilitate direct communications with them. Service Accessibility And around the world… In 2010, we developed a plan to improve the accessibility of Strauss Israel’s Sabra United States customer service to those with disabilities. Strauss is improving the Group’s In 2010, Sabra’s Customer Service Center was outsourced to Frito Lay. This Internet site accessibility for people with disabilities the ability to transfer the professional service allows Sabra to analyze questions and calls from consumers content that appears on the site by sound and easier mobility between pages and handle them rapidly through the Company’s quality control systems. on the site without the use of a mouse (our website already has increasing font In 2010*, 5,370 calls were received from consumers on various matters. A chart functionality). Further, we plan to improve accessibility at Strauss Israel Visitors chart presenting the breakdown of issues appears below: Centers in consultation with experts such as the “Access Israel” organization and Breakdown of customer calls by subject – Sabra 2010 the Director of Safety, Health and Hazardous Materials at Strauss Israel. General information ** Upgrade of Information Management System Nutrition and ingredients 15% In 2010, the Information Management System that assists service representatives Responses to promotions and advertisements when responding to consumers was upgraded for technology and content. 2% Where to buy? Satisfaction Surveys 9% 44% We conduct satisfaction surveys on a regular basis among consumers who contact our customer service center. In the customer satisfaction survey that was Praise 7% conducted in 2010, consumers rated their attitude toward Strauss Israel at the 4% Lack of satisfaction with first use level of 4.7 (out of 5) on average and their general satisfaction, responsiveness 37 and understanding of Strauss customer service at 4.5. Product quality 19% * The data relates to the months of May – December 2010, although calls that Sabra received before this date and which were handled in the new system are also included. ** Calls regarding “general information” include shelf life, questions regarding refrigeration and freezing, requests / responses to coupons, information about the company, requests for details of associations, jobseekers, etc. Strauss Coffee Romania Satisfaction A satisfaction survey conducted among Strauss Coffee Romania consumers showed that the average satisfaction score in 2010 was 4.53 (on a scale of 0-5). Três Corações, Brazil 4.5 In 2010, a satisfaction survey was carried out among consumers, the results of which have not yet been published. We will publish the results in the next update of the Strauss Group Corporate Responsibility Report. Strauss Water There are 100 representatives at the Strauss Water Customer Service Center who respond to calls from customers. Strauss managers analyze the trends and translate the information into improvements in service and sales processes, and changes in the company’s products and new service plans. In addition, the service center staff initiates phone contact to renew service plans. Responsible Marketing KEY Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Be meticulous about marketing, During 2010, we were meticulous about informing consumers in an ethical advertising and informing and responsible way, especially in our expanding use of social media. Commenced consumers in a responsible way. In Progress 38 Significant Progress Target Met Our C omm As p art o itmen advert f th e m arke t ising o ting f our p and roduct give pro s, we a found co lways nsiderat ion to th co m m u n it y th a t e is e xp o se d to th e messages we send and ensure that our 39 marketing communications do not include harmful, illegal, immoral, ading content. irresponsible or misle ted th at th e c o nte nt communica We insist ia te fo r t heir age, pr su m e rs be appro sitivity to con th e s e n g e a nd all them . g u a i t h , lan ions w needs i c a t o m mun n c ired i requ Suppliers and Ethical Sourcing KEY Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Increase the scope of sustainable In 2010, Strauss purchased 2,788 tons of sustainable coffee through the coffee purchasing through the 4C 4C organization. We met our target that and even surpassed it by 24%. Commenced organization by 50% each year. Develop ways of evaluating During 2010, 50 suppliers, twice more than prior year, participated in a In Progress the social and environmental supplier evaluation process, including aspects of Corporate Responsibility. performance of our suppliers and influence them to adhere to social Close to 400 (totaling 500 to date) Strauss suppliers have signed the and environmental responsibility the Social Charter for suppliers, which includes sections on fair trade, Significant practices. employee rights, product responsibility, environmental quality and more. Progress 40 Support suppliers and service We purchase from suppliers who operate in peripheral areas and providers from peripheral areas. development areas and we work with companies who employ people with special needs. Target Met Engagement with Local Suppliers the supplier evaluation process, we constantly monitor quality assurance. The We make efforts to implement a policy and targets to increase the scope of vast majority of the suppliers with whom we do business are required to adopt our work with local suppliers wherever we operate. 80% of all of Strauss Israel’s the most stringent quality and safety standards, such as ISO 22000, ISO 14000, suppliers are Israeli suppliers. Strauss Coffee purchases green coffee beans ISO 9001 and HACCP packaging standards and food safety methodologies that which are produced in more than 60 countries and purchased from some 50 manage and monitor all of the critical control points in the production process. different suppliers. We give preference to suppliers who provide certification or who declare that Other than the purchase of coffee, we engage with local suppliers. Sabra has they act pursuant to the principles of fair trade. significant contracts with a number of local suppliers. At Strauss Israel, we continually evaluate our suppliers as part of our strategy, and assess a number of parameters including ethical practices, human rights, The Supplier Evaluation Process quality, service, cost, transparency and other aspects of supply. During 2010, Ethical behavior throughout our supply chain constitutes the basis for sustainability, 50 suppliers underwent the full supplier evaluation process in addition to the quality and safety in the production process of our products. We expect our 23 suppliers who were evaluated in 2009. suppliers to meet the highest quality, safety and health standards. As part of Strauss Group Companies around the World At Sabra, the main corrugated cardboard supplier – the International Paper Company –is approved by the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI). PNW, the sole supplier of hummus, reports that all of their towers operate pursuant to the instructions of the Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS). In addition, 5-10% of the suppliers are approved by the Food Alliance Certified (FAC). At Três Corações, Brazil, supplier evaluation is conducted relating to compliance with labor laws by obtaining relevant documents each month. At Strauss Coffee Adriatic, inspections were conducted as part of the supplier evaluation process by an external party, including an inspection to assess supplier compliance with labor laws, workplace health and safety and aspects of environmental protection. The Social Responsibility Charter for Suppliers The Social Responsibility Charter for suppliers includes the rules of behavior that Strauss Israel requires its suppliers to comply with in various ethical aspects of business conduct. This includes: compliance with the law, fair trade, employee rights, work environment, fair pay, human rights, product guarantee and employee health and safety, environmental quality, and integrity in business 41 Engagement with a new supplier is conditional on signature of the Strauss Israel Social Responsibility Charter almost all suppliers have now signed the Charter. In Meeting the Target and Beyond 2010, 400 suppliers signed the Social Responsibility Charter which makes 500 We established a target to purchase 2,250 tons of sustainable coffee in 2010 suppliers which have signed to date. through 4C. In practice, Strauss purchased 2,788 tons of sustainable coffee in 2010 , which is equivalent to approximately 4.36% of Strauss’ total coffee Ethical Purchasing and Fair Trade Coffee purchases which is approximately 60,230 tons (excluding coffee purchases in We believe that the production of coffee can be sustainable only if it allows for Brazil). We thus successfully met our target and exceeded it by 24%. the respect of human rights and fair employment and sustenance to farmers, their families and their employees. Purchasing from suppliers who insist on Social-environmental responsibility in the supply chain sustainable production is also an expression of our commitment to protecting – the proper care of animals in milk production the environment and conserving energy. As a company that is active in the production of milk and milk products, one Coffee Purchasing Through the 4C Organization of the important aspects of responsibility and ethics in our supply chain is Strauss cooperates with the 4C organization (Common Code for the Coffee how animals are treated. In our case, this refers to dairy cows in dairy farms Community Association) thought which Strauss purchases sustainable coffee. throughout Israel who supply milk for our manufacturing processes. The dairy 4C is a global association that connects producers, trade organizations, industry farms are not owned by the Strauss Group, but they are under the supervision and civil society. The aim of the organization is to cultivate sustainability in the of both the Ministry of Agriculture and Strauss. green coffee supply chain and to increase the amount of coffee that meets the For more information, please see Strauss Corporate Responsibility website. basic criteria of sustainability in fair employment, human rights, environmental protection, and economic feasibility. Workplace Workplace KEY Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Continue to be a preferred place In the global opinion survey conducted by the Strauss Group among its of work for our employees and employees in 2010, 84% of employees said that their job satisfaction provide them with a positive and at Strauss is “high” or “very high”, compared to 79% of employees who Commenced challenging work environment. said this in the previous survey. 87% of employees said that they are proud to work at Strauss, compared to 83% in the previous survey. Strauss maintained its ranking as one of the top ten “the best companies to work for” in the rankings conducted in Israel by the BDI business In Progress information company in conjunction with The Marker newspaper. Recruit, reward and promote Strauss Israel employs a majority of 52.6% women, which is higher fairly and equally. than the rate of women in the workforce in Israel. 44 Significant In 2010, 2,208 women were recruited to the Strauss Group, compared Progress with 1,911 women recruited in 2009. Promote the values of diversity We have expanded our existing cooperation with non-profit and inclusion in the employee organizations, with the aim of integrating a diverse population into Target Met recruitment process. the Strauss’s workforce. Assist in the personal growth Strauss Israel employees participated in professional training totaling and career development of our more than 2,000 hours, alongside on-the-job training. employees. The majority of the Strauss employees participated in an annual performance evaluation and feedback conversation. 87% of employees said that they are proud to work at Strauss According to the Global Opinion Survey conducted in Strauss in 2010: 80% of Strauss employees believe that the organization treats its employees equitably, regardless of gender, age, origin, etc., compared to 72% of the employees in the previous survey. 80% of women employees of Strauss Group subscribe to this view, compared to 68% in the previous survey. 85% of Strauss employees believe that the company understands and respects the differences between employees (gender, origin, religion, age, nationality, etc.). 85% of the women who work at the Strauss Group believe this. 45 Our Commitment Applicability At Strauss, we view our employees as our most Unless otherwise indicated, the data in this Section relates important asset and attribute a major part of the to all of the Group’s business units: Group Corporate Company’s success to them. We act to create a fruitful, Center, Strauss Israel, Sabra, Strauss Coffee in Israel rewarding and empowering work environment. and around the world, Max Brenner (Israel and the United States) and Strauss Water, totaling over 12,350 Group employees (not including agency employees). Diversity and Inclusion in the Strauss Group Tools for Implementing Diversity and In recent years, the Strauss Group has formulated a social Inclusion in the Group vision that focuses on diversity and inclusion. We strive to We continue to develop programs, tools and processes that maintain a tolerant work environment which respects and create a more diverse workplace at Strauss, whereby each appreciates differences, provides equal opportunity and business unit will embed diversity and inclusion practices in enables every person and group to contribute their unique line with the local culture. We integrate communication about expertise in order to realize our values and goals and to diversity issues into internal magazines, announcements improve the Company’s policy, products and service. and other channels of interaction. Women at Strauss Female executives inStrauss Group’s governing bodies – 2009-2010 Governing Body The overall number of managers The number of female managers The rate of female managers 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 4 including the 4 including the Board of Directors 11 11 36% 36% Chairperson Chairperson Management Team 8 9 1 1 12.5% 11% (including the CEO) The rate of women among all employees The Rate of Women Employed by Strauss Group 80% In the Strauss Group overall, we employed 43.9% women in 2010. Strauss Group 2010 compared to 2009* The Rate of Women at Various Ranks in the Group’s Units 46% This chart outlines the rate of women in management compared to the 45% 33% 32% rate of women employees in business units included in this Section of the 46 40% report. As we can see from the chart, in 2010, women constitute 45% of employees and 33% of managers. 2009 * 2009 data is different to data in the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report for the employees 2010 0 as an error was made in gathering gender data in one of our business units last year. Management Employees Employees according to level and gender As we can see from the two charts, the rate of women falls as their level in Strauss Israel 2010 the organization increases. 73% 80% 66% 55% 40% 45% 34% Rate of women Rate of men Total employees 27% Senior Management Middle Management Employees Rank 0 43.9%women Average Wage Differentials between Women and Men The charts below outline the wage differentials between women and men at different levels of the organization. We We were not able to complete data for Elite Coffee, Strauss Coffee in Russia and Ukraine or senior management data at Strauss Adriatic. (The data relates to total salary cost. All amounts are shown in US$.) 25% Percentage of the differential in average annual salary 12% In 2010, women’s average salary cost was lower than men’s salary 8% cost at all levels. between men and women 5% 0 Senior Management Middle Management Employees 47 Rank % difference Women’s average annual salary cost Men’s average annual salary cost top a i n s i t s the ss m ain t of “ list ” S t r a u i n k for r a n k i n g s t o w o r y the ten nie el b t c o m p a ucted in Isra any be s in g c ond t i o n comp r nk a e In a ra ness inform T h e M a r k b u s i w i t h n ies BDI j u n ction s t 5 0 compa in n e i n c o er, of “The b nked p a p s s was ra r st ne w s o r ” , St r au , a n d in fi rk f 01 0 age to wo a c e in 2 d and bever p l eighth ong the foo ilar to 200 9. e a m e l , sim plac in Isra o m panies c Employment of Diverse Populations at Strauss Age Groups Strauss Group proactively promotes the integration of minorities, The following chart outlines the age distribution of employees in Strauss Group. people with special needs and women in management positions The largest age group in the Strauss Group is employees up to the age of 30, as part of its program to advance diversity and inclusion. which constitutes 38% of employees. The next largest group is the 30 – 40 age As part of the Strauss Group’s efforts to integrate diverse populations, we group, which constitutes 32% of employees. cooperate with non-profit organizations for assistance in locating suitable candidates, training employees and managers and raising awareness. Age Groups As a result of the cooperation with the various organizations, Strauss Group has hired employees who are mentally challenged or have physical disabilities. 38% Up to 30 In addition, a training course was held assist employees from disadvantaged populations, which included learning reading and writing, computer skills, etc. The Employment of Employees with Special Needs 3% Over 60 We do our best to offer equal employment opportunities to people with special needs and gladly accept them into the Strauss family. We are 9% 50-60 committed to making the necessary adjustments at our sites to enable them to integrate into the organization 18% 40-50 48 and their roles with ease. In 2010, 120 employees with 32% 30-40 of fe r eq ua l st to special needs were employed W e do ou r be it ie s to p p o rt u n in Strauss Group. This number em p lo ym en t o an d gl ad ly ial ne ed s is a rough estimate as we The following chart presents the breakdown of employees by level in the Strauss people with spec s fa m ily . the Straus respect the privacy of our Group’s business units in this Section by age group. For instance, as we can see in accept them into ak in g th e ted to m employees Regulation 15 the chart, 32% of the employees, 47% of the middle managers, and 26% of the We are commit ou r si te s ments at of the Equal Opportunity senior managers are between the ages of 30 and 40. In the senior management necessary adjust th e integrate into Labor Law, forbids active group, 44% are between the ages of 40 and 50. to enable them to w ith ea se . collection of data of this kind. th eir roles organization and 60% Breakdown of employees by age group – Strauss Group 2010 Percentage of all employees 40% Workplace Accessibility at the Strauss Group 20% We make every effort to enable our employees with special needs to enjoy optimal working conditions. We take measures 0% Senior Management Middle Management Employees to facilitate their access and mobility in the workplace. Over 60 50-60 40-50 30-40 Up to 30 Employee Recruitment from the Local Strauss Coffee in Max Brenner Communities Strauss Israel Israel and Strauss Water Sabra (Israel and the Total As a matter of policy, in all of the locations where we operate, Around the United States) we employ local employees at all levels and in all positions. World The percentage of managers who are not local (expats) Total 302 628 74 89 67 1160 shown in the table below. Of a total 1,160 managers, nine are managers non-local employees, not hired from the local community, Non-local 0 7 2 2 1 12 constituting 1.03% of all of the managers in the Group. managers Percentage of managers who 0.0% 1.1% 2.7% 2.2% 1.5% 1.03% Minimum Wage are not local The following chart presents a comparison between the minimum wage level and the lowest salary paid to employees Comparison of the lowest salary in the Strauss Group to the min in the respective business units. As we can see from the chart, imum wage in the country – 2010 other than in Brazil, the lowest salary paid to employees in any of our units is not lower than the minimum wage in effect Salary in that country. In Brazil, 2.1% of employees earn below the minimum wage, but these employees are student interns Ukraine Russia Poland 49 and salary levels are within the law. In most cases, the lowest Romania Sabra Strauss Brazil Max Brenner Max Brenner Strau Lowest salary in business Adriatic ss Israel salary we pay exceeds the minimum wage in that country. unit Minimum wage in country Israel USA Water Full and Part Time Employees Temporary and Permanent Employees The chart below shows the percentage of full time employees The following chart shows the percentage of permanent employees and of temporary employees in and part time employees in the Strauss Group for 2010. our business units in Israel and abroad. The rate of temporary employees in Strauss Group in 2010 was 1%. Strauss Israel employs agency employees whose salaries are paid by the contractors And are not included in this data. Data on agency employees is available later in this Report. Part-time 91% Part-time 1% Full-time 9% Full-time 99% 65% Agency Employees This data shows a relatively high employee turnover rate. In general, we minimize the number of contractor employees Some of our businesses are characterized by a high turnover employed by Strauss Israel and aim to hire agency employees rate such as Max Brenner, Elite Coffee and Strauss Water. as permanent employees as far as possible. We have created Also, in 2010, the Group underwent many changes in an internal procedure that defines that agency employees different business units. uss via 65% of employees who worked at Stra should not be hired for period exceeding six months and 9 were hire d as manpower contractors in 200 preventing rehire of the same employee within nine months Policy and Practice against Harassment Strauss employees. of termination of the agency contract. In 2010, 65% of As stated in our Code of Ethics, we do not tolerate employees who worked at Strauss via manpower contractors discriminatory behavior of any type or any form of in 2009 were hired as Strauss employees. harassment, including sexual, physical or emotional We do our best to ensure that contractor employees are harassment, or oppression of any kind. paid in accordance with the law. We require each manpower Strauss has a clear policy against harassment and we hold contractor to sign a contract ensuring compliance with training sessions and workshops to educate our employees employment laws for all of its employees. Strauss employs an about the behavior that is expected of them and how average of 1,026 agency employees per month in business to cope with all forms of discrimination or harassment units around the world situations. In 2010, 85% of managers at Strauss Israel participated in training sessions on the issue of preventing 50 Freedom of Association sexual harassment. Those who could not attend training Strauss recognizes employees’ right of association and sessions in person took online training via Strauss's intranet respects their right to join professional associations portal. New employees and managers in the organization and to participate in collective bargaining. Most Strauss receive training on prevention of sexual harassment during Israel employees and all employees at Três Corações in their orientation. Brazil are part of collective labor agreements and Strauss Group protects the rights of its employees to unionize and respects its agreements and commitments toward professional associations. Employee Turnover In 2010, 85 During 2010, 5,505 new employees joined Strauss Group of % of mana Israel partic gers at Stra ipated in tra uss whom 2,208 were women, 3,925 were aged below 30, 901 ining sessio o n th e is su ns were between the ages of 30 and 40, and 362 were over 40. e o f p re v e h a ra s s m e n n ti n g s e x u During the year, 50 employees with disabilities were hired. t. T h o s e w al attend train h o c o u ld n ing sessions o t This information was gathered during implementation of in person to online train o k Strausss' internal diversity program. ing via Stra portal. New uss's intran employees et In 2010, 5,092 (42%) employees left the company, of and manag in the organ e rs whom 2,228 (44%) were women and 3,355 aged below 30. ization rece prevention o ive training f sexual hara on their orienta ssment duri tion. ng Employee Career and Skills Development And around the world We invest in the professional development of our employees in order to retain Our employees in the Group’s units abroad receive social benefits in accordance with them over the long term and to enable them contribute in an optimal way. We local law and in some cases, beyond the requirements of the law. provide professional training in line with the personal and professional needs of the • Sabra United States –health insurance, life insurance, disability insurance, subsidized employee (including vocational training and academic qualifications if required). education, retirement programs. In 2010, Strauss Coffee launched a training program for the company’s marketing • Max Brenner United States –health and disability insurance. managers from around the world in order to implement standards, provide tools • Três Corações, Brazil – Life insurance, subsidized meals, healthcare, and preferred and enhance skills that will enable them to address the strategic changes and terms for dental insurance. challenges in the coffee industry. The Marketing Capabilities Development (MCD) Healthy Lifestyle Activities for Our Employees program set a target to create a network of peers throughout the company’s As a food company, we consider providing employees with awareness of proper nutrition regions of operations and to develop an online global information center. and a healthy lifestyle is important. As part of improving our employees’ quality of life, Strauss Group upgraded employee dining rooms at different sites in 2010 including Employee Benefits and Wellbeing air conditioning, safety flooring and decoration of the dining rooms in order to make Strauss Israel provides its employees with benefits and welfare support. We provide the employees’ time as pleasant as possible. Meals were upgraded in order to expand pension funds, life insurance, health insurance and severance pay provisions the variety of fresh items on the menu prepared in situ formulated with Strauss’s chief for all employees, as well as tax-relief savings funds in line with Israeli law. In dietician and other professionals. addition, we provide annual family vacations together with the Group, clothing allowances, gifts for holidays, and special events, as well as tuition support for Dialog with Employees and Internal Communications 51 children, summer camp and kindergarten funding in some business units. We consider it important to hear the different points of view and opinions of our We maintain active dialog with employees through several channels: • The “Colors of Strauss” portal: an upgraded global Internet site that was launched in March 2010. The portal allows employees access to Strauss know-how, industry news, ees t iv it ie s f or Employ de: updates on Strauss events and business news, information on Strauss brands, blogs Ac 2010 inclu yees and their Wellbeing s Is r a e l in on various business issues, and useful tools such as an information archive and more. by Straus ice for Stra uss emplo Promoted nseling serv • The “Heart of the Matter”: An internal communications portal in Israel, which logical cou pany ed • Psycho by the com ial, subsidiz communicates information on Company to employees. In 2010, the portal was upgraded m il ie s, su b si d iz e d olog ist o r clinical soc fa h and re-launched, providing many more tools for holding dialog with the employees with a psyc ce sessions ttention • Guidan y. b ilities and a through an innovative response system and improved information accessibility. o m p a n in g d is a by the c ments for le arn • Feedback: At Strauss Israel, most employees participate in competency assessment a tio n of assess • Su b si d iz mployees discussions once a year which includes career development planning. d is o rd e rs . y c a r: S tr a uss offers e deficit mpan vehicle • Global opinion survey: Opinion surveys among all employees are conducted once every y in th e c hoice of a co th e c h o ice of a small it in t • Flexibil r flexibility supplemen two years. The 2010 survey includes all Strauss Group employees (with the exception of tl ed to a c ompany ca n o r in ta x value) and enti a reductio Três Corações, Brazil. The survey is distributed to the employees in meetings or by email y can enjoy so that the ployees in which or face to face, in local languages. All of the employees are informed of the results of ry . tr a u s s e m their sala hops for S on and too ls the survey and some participate in discussions to discuss the results. The key results of ent works l informati • Retirem , e ss e n ti a e support the survey are noted throughout this Corporate Responsibility Report. they receiv for the for retirem ent. r h ig h e r education • Dialog with employee representatives: At Strauss Israel, ongoing dialog is maintained fo rship fund between management and employee representatives through the Employees’ Committee • Schola y e e s f emplo at every site where relevant. children o Health and Safety in the Workplace KEY Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Improve safety conditions During 2010, a corporate training program in safety and hazardous materials was conducted in all facilities and to for managers and employees. increase employee training Commenced and awareness of safety issues. During 2010, the Sales Division undertook a new Safety Program. A safety supervisor was appointed in and a work plan developed for embedding safety awareness and practices. In Progress Minimize the number As a result of our continued activities to improve safety, we have reduced the number of of work accidents and work accidents that caused more than 3 lost workdays at Strauss Israel by 22% in 2010 increase preventive versus 2009. 52 Significant measures and incident Progress analysis. Improve our safety We have implemented safety in our “Operational Excellence” program in Strauss Israel measurement and and have met the target that was set for implementation of control panel safety meters monitoring processes and in 50% of the control panels. Target Met create maximum corporate alignment for safety In 2010, we carried out audits of safety issues, resolving 72% of cases of non-compliance management. in the field of safety and hazardous materials in all plants (versus a target of 60%). Our Commitment Organizational Activities Workplace Health and Safety in 2010 At Strauss Group, we are committed to providing our employees with a safe and During 2010, cross-functional activities were conducted in the healthy work environment. Among other things, maintenance and improvement fields of safety, health, and hazardous materials. activities are routinely carried out in all of the companies’ business units to • Activities based on voluntary international standards in the protect the safety and health of our employees. We regularly hold activities to field of workplace health and safety. The implementation of implement safety and health measures for employees in all of the Group’s units. OHSAS 18001 safety system standard began at Strauss Coffee The Workplace Health and Safety Structure at Strauss Group Romania and at Strauss Coffee Poland. The standard was implemented Health, Safety and Hazardous Materials Manager a number of years ago at the dairy in Ahihud, Israel. We intend to implement this safety The responsibility of the Health, Safety and Hazardous Materials Manager is standard in all of the business units at Strauss Israel. Três Corações in Brazil is a member of the to develop and improve the health and safety management system, while Brazilian Association of Occupational Hygienists – ABHO, the Brazilian Association of Technical implementing evaluation and control mechanisms for health and safety Standards – ABNT, the Brazilian Standardization Forum, and other organizations. performance and to raise employee awareness of safety practices to prevent • Inspections – We conducted audits at plants in Israel enforce safety and hazardous materials work accidents and occupational disease. laws and procedures, safety audits to locate risks, noise and light audits, workplace environment audits regarding exposure to hazardous dust and materials. As a result of these audits, work plans Health and Safety Officers at Strauss manufacturing plants were prepared for improvement. At each of Strauss plants in Israel and throughout the world to a qualified Safety • Activities regarding emergency preparedness, including the preparation of an emergency Officer is appointed to manage health and safety issues. The plant Safety Officers procedure and conducting emergency drills. 53 receive professional direction from the the Safety, Health and Hazardous Materials • Reporting and control mechanisms – Every plant or logistics site reports once a month on a Manager (Quality Assurance Department) while reporting directly to the local number of safety metrics: number of work accidents, frequency of work accidents, loss of workdays Plant Managers. In business units abroad where there are no manufacturing due to work accidents. Periodically, a statistical analysis is conducted and a corporate safety report facilities, Health and Safety is managed by a senior manager. is produced. In addition, the Management and Safety Committees of each business unit reports on For more information – please see Strauss Corporate Responsibility website. work accidents and injuries, near-miss accidents, noise audits, training follow-up and equipment inspections. The safety metrics reports are produced at the corporate or unit level and serve as the basis for decisions on safety improvements. • Professional Forum of Safety Officers. 3 % • Professional tours of other plants for learning purposes. 8 • Investment in the purchase of equipment and machinery protective measures. • Training and instruction: In recognition of the importance of employee awareness of workplace l Globa s health and safety laws regulations, we conduct regular training activities on safety, health and o t h e ding t hat wa hazardous materials and regularly monitor our practices. The training activities are carried out ion Accor n Survey t Group e o r g anizat according to a corporate training program and are tailored to each business unit.. During 2010, Opinio cted in the h that t b elieve focused safety activities began in the Sales Division and a Sales Safety Officer was appointed and condu 0: ro u p uss G 0 1 t h e Stra ironment. a work plan developed. in 2 mploy ees a t y work env • Programs to prevent sickness: At Strauss Israel, training programs include employee health and f the e health 83% o a safe and the workplace environment, personal hygiene, and medical consultation by a physician employed es provid at a number of plants. Work related Accidents and Injuries As a result of our continued activities to improve the level of safety, there was a decrease of 22% in work accidents in Strauss Israel in 2010. The following table presents the workplace accidents and lost workdays in 2010 and 2009: Number of work accident Total number of days of Business / occupational disease Number of employees absence as a result of work Fatalities Unit incidents that caused more accidents than 3 days absence Year 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Strauss 2,160 2100 76 59 Israel – (Operations (Operations (65 in (46 in Operations and and Operations, Operations, 1,025 1,241 0 0 and Logistics Logistics 11 in 13 in Logistics employees) employees) Logistics) Logistics) Strauss 54 Coffee 431 421 4 9 107 360 0 0 Poland Strauss Coffee 365 318 0 3 0 112 0 0 Romania Strauss 265 239 2 6 26 31 0 0 Adriatic Três 3570 3898 76 94 3,788 3900 0 0 Corações Sabra 350 538 12 5 326 No data 0 No data Strauss 815 No data 31 No data 687 No data Water Integratin g Safety in Operation to Safety was a l E xc e llence included in the Opera program a tional Exce t Strauss Is llence of ways, in rael in 201 cluding th 0 in a num e building ber llence for the beh of safety m Operational Exce er at ion s m an agement undertook to implement inclusion a avior of ma nagers and employees etrics s Israe l op firm. nd involve In 2009, the Straus m a USA consulting ment of th and Exce llenc e pr og ra m with support fro by the writing safe ty procedu e employe e an Operational ted in 20 10 s in er at io na l Ex ce llence was conduc res etc. Implementation of Op menta n tio log ist ics an d ot he r work teams. Imple nance, food production, mainte obal leader in the lo gy wi ll po sit io n Strauss as the gl of the methodo industry. m e O p er at io n al Excellence progra eating of Goals of th llenc e program include : cr e Operational Exce t, proactive The objectives of th nc e: em plo yee empowermen Emp lture of ex ce lle an organizational cu operations to impr ove o an ding of production com w e r i n g un de rst mitm ent t e m p l oy e ov ed nt ag e, culture and impr ali ty , building a competit ive adva • The pr ov ed qu o saf e s, im consistent Safet production metric operatio ns . Th e pr oj ec t strives to create man y Offi cers, ety s a n d i 55 and streamlining n and to increase ager s and who ncre es fo r th e entire organizatio prou the P are se asin work processes an d pr ac tic d of their la nt Sa le cte d at t g thei ess units. as we r and between busin ll as t cont r fety M he re cooperation within ss he sa i b ution a nage c o mme menting the proce the production line. next f ety m t o r , f nd eel li le s o f im p le to th e pro etrics he plant. t ke pa ation of th Pri n ci p wn – all the way to • The displ duct i , a p p Haza rtner e s-functional, top-do ay of on lin ear o rds a s and • The process is cros uction trans n a pyramid: The prod t he da e s . n the c d ontro breakdow r e d on th e co ncept of a reverse and emp pare nc ta an • The process is ba se rt in formulating the work pl an loyee y, trust an d metrics l boa rd loc ns, ay a m aj or pa and p s con d dir on th ated line employees pl derstan ng di cern ect d e con g so lu tio ns du e to their in-depth un • On ossib le wa i n g saf i alogu trol b linin suggesting stream e of t ys to ety b ehav e bet ween oard prom of production. amon he chara impr i o otes of the complex iti es e production line o v e. r prob m a n m et ric s, su cc es ses and failures of th to th g the empl cteri stics lems , a gers a nd • Discussions abou t th e themselves. o of s afety en t ro om s to th e production lines • In 2 e Saf ety O yees is the raising a haza r agem des ware ds move from the man l board that inclu 010, fficer alerts ness n lin es , there is a contro and the sa fe s reg a r raise d o f Next to the pr od uc tio tstanding sks ta all m ty anag incidents d i ng sa b y em s afety , qu ali ty , sa fe ty , breakdowns, ou Mana ers a inves fety i p ncide loyees th issue s ng metrics for planni the r ger, a re inv n d Safet t ig at ion m n t s . em selves an ce sta tus. easo olved y Offi ethod and perform e dairy in Ahihud ns fo in an cers, olo a pi lo t on th e pr oduction lines at th r the incid a l y zing a n d som gy was imp as its. The process began it to all business un ents the r oot c etim roved an t in Isr ae l. W e expect to expand and d iscus ause es th e P and at the pl sions of th e inc lant with ident emp s, loyee s. 56 Community Involvement 57 Community Involvement Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Continue implementation A Corporate Responsibility Day took place this year on the theme of diversity of a focused community and inclusion, in which 2000 employees participated at all Strauss sites investment strategy based around the world, in 60 diverse activities. on our core business and social vision. Cooperation between the Catalyst organization, the women’s Lobby in Israel and Strauss Group was initiated regarding gender diversity and the promotion of women in business. Leverage our influence to 17,000 employee volunteer hours in 2010, versus 8,459 volunteer hours improve the world around us in 2009 – an increase of close to 100%. 58 and the lives of the people who live in it, based on our activities and expertise. We have had tremendous success in realizing the five-year goal of our Supply Chain in the “100 Ambassadors” project: Within three years, there are 105 managers and employees in the Supply Chain who are regularly active in community involvement projects. Establish mechanisms to In 2010 we cooperated in Israel with the “Zionism 2000” organization better manage, evaluate and which specializes in guiding organizations in their community involvement, measure the influence of our to provide professional guidance at Strauss’s sites throughout Israel on activities and investment in improving collaboration with our community partners. We began formulating the community. a program to implement mechanisms to evaluate and measure the social effects of our community investment strategy throughout the world. KEY Commenced In Progress Significant Progress Target Met e variety a re sp o n se to a wid site and pro vide t need. lly b y e a c h u ra l a n d e mploymen ed loca cial, and cu lt nity togethe r are manag e d u cational, so fo r the commu c lu d in g ed a ct iv itie s thro u g h of needs in old organiz nteering or it y In v o lv ement o n the G roup sites h h th rough volu n e u ss u g of Commu ve infl u e n c Most S tra ners th ro ving a positi munity part Our Visionsees itself as committed to ha mitment to the community es with regular comth. in up te. Our com irit that surg or bo 59 Strauss Gro ic h we opera n into the sp donations h io onations an overall total of $2.7 millio ie s in w tr a d it lvem e n t in n in communit ed from a fa mily rn and invo in d D tu rn n c e In K Cash and e Strauss Group invested product donations. o rk h a s n ca ri n g , c o o f o u r which we w ss, based o e are aware e n tire busine b a l company, w c io 0, th d throu g h th e a larg e , g lo sent, a s a so During 201 , in kind an m u n it y. T oday, being s in w h ic h we are pre to fo c u s m u n it y, in cluding cash the com communit ie nd we choo se the com fluence the ncement a significantly ability to in io n al platfo rm fo r a d va n e c essary. e V o lu n t e ering em ployees rose Employe lunteer hours in by Strauss r. Employees volunteered 17,00of n d re g m o st G ro u p 0 economic a p la ces where th ey are s in th e r of vo a lue our activitie egy The numbe e previous ye 009. The va n t S t r a t o f co mpared to th e r hours in 2 ted at y In v e s tm e sed on th e a re a by close to 1 0 0 % mploye e vo lu n te 10 is est im a u n it fo c u ,4 5 9 e s in 2 0 Our Comm unity investment strategy indiverse core business of Strau d hours in 2010 vewe invested in community ac by Strauss. 2 0 1 0 ss rsu s 8 tivi ti e o m m ith th e me rs a n o u rs n c e d Strauss’s c alignment w in our consu the work h are fully fin a it y a n d inclusion, in ct s, in o u r business, d iv e rs e . Our ,0 0 0 . V o lu nteer hours div e rs our prod u als o $50 0 perate are s Group: we a re diverse in m u n it ie s in which we o lve m e n t in p artnership d In c lu s io n Program ent strategy on promoting o m vo n Diversity acused our community investizations that promote diversnt and th e c n it y in ons m e employees iate commu ons, donati o liz e s d iv e rsity. We init a k e m o n e tary donati s. e fo rg a n ym e logo symb organizatio ns m r diverse ca use In 2010, w y supportin go rough emp lo d iv e rs e non-profit lu n te e r activities fo rs it y a n d inclusion b n g th e m in to society th wit h mployee vo div e in integra ti maintain e s and assist in kind and population meworks. m e n t S c o pe th roughout d u cational fra y Invest e l a n d a n d e jects in Isra Communit s dozens of programs and propopulations. These program s e ra te of lo c a l Strauss op e wellbeing w o rl d to improve th the Diversity and Inclusion in Employment – Examples of Projects in Israel A Window To the Future, in collaboration with the Youth Empowerment Unit, Nazareth Ilit Municipality, Israel: ֿ This is a social enterprise employment program that leverages Strauss’s primary asset, its human capital, to benefit social action. As part of the project, which began as a pilot at the confectionery plant in Nazareth Ilit and which we are now striving to scale, the plant cooperates with the “Youth Empowerment” unit, which helps at risk. As part of the project, teenagers from low socio-economic backgrounds or with difficulties in educational frameworks are selected for work at the plant. The teenagers are accepted as Strauss employees and receive monthly pay. At the same time, they required to remain in an educational framework. Employment Incubator program: The project, which takes place at Strauss’s “Tafnit” logistics center in Tzrifin, Israel, in collaboration with the “Momentum in Employment” (MIE) organization (a joint 60 organization of the Joint Israel and the Government of Israel), is an example of realizing the value of diversity and inclusion in the most practical sense. The project assists populations with a high motivation to work, but which have difficulty integrating into the labor market (in this case, immigrants from Ethiopia), to obtain tools and training that will enable them to find stable and quality employment with the potential for promotion in the long term, through short and focused theoretical and practical training. The Rehabilitated Prisoner Employment program: Strauss employs rehabilitated prisoners at the “Tafnit” logistics center in Tzrifin, Israel, enabling them to receive professional training, a salary for their work, and various rights that will serve them as a basis for employment in normative social lives. 50 Plus Minus: This organization was established in 2000 in response to the ever-increasing problem of age discrimination against employees, excluding them from the workforce. The aims of the organization are to counter discrimination that prevents people from finding work over age 40, enlist government support, the business sector and the public to enable any person with the desire and ability to exercise his right to work. The Strauss Group supports the organization and assists in promoting its goals. Programs in the Area of Diversity and the Advancement of Women At Strauss, we believe in personal empowerment and self-help and in the ability of every person to take responsibility and to act for his future. We strive to create platforms in order to support ways that will help people from disadvantaged backgrounds build their self-esteem and obtain skills that will help them find stable employment, obtain independence and longterm support. Hilde Strauss scholerships for the advacment of women ceremony The Fidel Organization: An organization for the education and social integration of Ethiopian 61 immigrants in Israel. The Jasmine Organization for the Promotion of Women Programs in the field of Health in Employment: “Jasmine”, an association that represents and promotes Strauss Institute: As a food company, we ascribe tremendous importance economic leadership of businesswomen from both the Jewish and Arab to the promotion of a healthy lifestyle, as well as to our duty to encourage sectors. Strauss Group, through an organization that specializes in consulting science, education and research in health. to non-profit organizations, provides ongoing management consulting to the organization and its leaders in order to assist in the promotion of the Community Wellbeing Programs organization’s target population and assistance in fundraising. Strauss operates dozens of programs and projects throughout Israel and the world to improve the wellbeing of local populations living. The programs, The Organization for the Economic Empowerment of which focus on the advancement of diverse populations, provide a response Women: to a wide variety of needs, including food contributions. The organization focuses its efforts on women from disadvantaged groups in Israeli society, most of them from the geographic and economic periphery Contributions of Food Products In ten years of its activity, the organization has developed tools and expertise We view food contributions as a natural commitment, required by our in the promotion of entrepreneurial activities by women. Strauss supports very business, and we continue contributions of near expiry products on a the Organization for the Economic Empowerment of Women with cash regular basis throughout the year to two non-profit organizations “Latet” resources including management resources, hosting events at Strauss offices and “Leket IsraelIsrael's National Food Bank” which provide food to and factories and ongoing support for projects. dozens of organizations and needy people throughout Israel. In addition, Community Involvement around the World in 2010 Sabra Russia and Ukraine • In 2010 – 70 Sabra employees and their families participated in the Susan G. • Focus on assistance to children and youth at risk from a diverse social Komen race, which was held in May to raise funds for breast cancer treatment. background. • In 2010, Sabra encouraged its employees to contribute food products and • Contributions and volunteering at a daycare center for needy children, matched their contributions with a monetary donation to the Virginia Food including materials for renovating the daycare center, clothing, toys, food, Bank. Sabra also contributed food products to other organizations that organizing educational events, and more. gather food for the poor in 2010. In 2011, Sabra plans to focus its monetary Strauss Coffee Adriatic contributions and volunteer activities related to health. • Volunteering and contributions to an orphanage. Três Corações, Brazil • Contributions of money and food to humanitarian organizations. • A variety of activities for the community in conjunction with a wide variety Strauss Coffee Poland of institutions in the fields of health, education, culture, assistance to the • Gathering donations of toys and books for an orphanage. elderly, and others. • Renovating kindergartens. Strauss Water • Employees joined a bone marrow registry and held lectures to raise awareness • Contributions of water devices and bottles. of the issue. • Volunteering at a children’s hospital.. Strauss Coffee Romania 62 • Contributions of products to various organizations. • Contributions to finance eye surgery for children from poor families. 100 Ambassadors 100 Accomplishing the Five-Year Target in the Strauss Israel Supply Chain in the Field of Community Involvement “100 Ambassadors” is a program that began in 2008 and set a five-year goal that by the end of 2012 there would be no less than 100 managers 50 and employees in the Strauss Israel Supply Chain involved on a regular basis in activities for the community. Today, just three years after the launch of the program, we have achieved our goal: There are 105 managers and employees in the Strauss Israel Supply Chain who are regularly active in various community involvement 0 projects, running volunteer and activity groups. 2008 2009 2010 Corporate Responsibility Day 2010 around the World on the Theme of Diversity and Inclusion 63 Continuing the Group’s annual tradition, as part of our commitment to promote and assimilate issues of Corporate Responsibility throughout the organization, a company-wide Corporate Responsibility Day was held again in 2010. A CR day is held on an annual basis, alongside continuing ongoing activities, to reinforce the fact that social responsibility is an inseparable part of our daily behavior at work and to ensure our employees are updated and can be involved in a range of activities. The Corporate Responsibility Day at Strauss in 2010 was held with the theme “Diversity and Inclusion”. At the company’s sites in all of the countries in which Strauss operates, 60 different activities took place on the same day –18th November 2010, with the aim of contributing to local communities in which we operate, getting acquainted with communities with different and diverse characteristics and increasing the awareness and involvement of our employees in those communities. The Corporate Responsibility Day, in which 2,000 employees took part, succeeded in its aim of strengthening the spirit of volunteerism in the Group. 64 Environment 65 Environment Goals Our main achievements in 2010 Progress Strauss Israel – reduce the quantities of Reducing the weight of waste per ton product by 25% from 2009 to 2010 (due waste and increasing the rate of waste to a change in our waste treatment process). sent for reuse. Raising the rate of waste from the Strauss Israel that is sent for reuse from 62% to 68%. Strauss Israel – reduce the quantity of Reducing the weight of waste generated by ton of product by 22% from 2009 waste per ton of product by 15% between to 2010. 2008 and 2015 Strauss Israel – reduce greenhouse gas Reducing greenhouse gas emissions per ton product by 16% versus 2008 – emissions per ton of product by 15% reduction of emissions ahead of the overall strategic goal for 2015. between 2008 and 2015 Reduce energy consumption (electricity A reduction of 2% in energy consumption at Strauss Israel per ton product in and fuel consumption per ton of product) 2010 versus 2009. in the business units and at the Group’s 66 sites. The overall amount of energy created from coffee bean waste at the Group’s KEY plant in Tzfat in 2010 was 86,520 gigajoules, a significant quantity for a project of this type. Reduce water consumption per ton of Water consumption per ton of product at Strauss Israel decreased by 6% in Commenced product by 20% between 2008 and 2015 2010 versus 5.5% in 2009. This means we have now met half of the multi-year at Strauss Israel. strategic target (10%) since 2008. The salty snacks plant in Sderot, Israel has decreased its water usage per ton of In Progress product by 16% in 2010. Over a period of two years, the Plant has decreased around 54% of its water usage. Reduce pollutants in the waste water at Despite the growth in production in the last year to reduce pollutants in the Significant Strauss Group sites. sites’ wastewater, in 2010 there was an absolute reduction in all values of Progress sewage pollution. Floating solids values (TSS) fell by some 191 tons per year, and organic pollutant load values (COD and BOD) in the sewage of the Group’s sites fell by some 1,221 tons and 787 tons per year correspondingly. Target Met Build “green” production and distribution In May 2010, Sabra’s innovative new salad production site was dedicated in sites. Virginia, USA – one of the only food production sites in the world that has received the “Silver” award from the American LEED administration. Our Commitment The Strauss Group has established a goal of advancement of environmental quality issues in all its activities. Strauss's quality system, in Israel and throughout the world, maintains many processes to reduce the negative environmental effects of Strauss's operations by proactive action and environmental management. In recent years, an Environmental Management System has been implemented at Strauss's headquarters and in different business units. At the sites, Environment Officers were appointed Green Teams were established to implement energy and water conservation programs. In addition, Strauss is active in promoting Operational Excellence through the implementation of Lean Production values, which lead to proper resource management and savings in water and energy consumption and in the production of waste. Applicability This Section contains data regarding the environmental performance of Strauss Israel and of our activities at Strauss sites around the world. 67 In 2010, data was also gathered for the first time regarding the environmental performance of “Strauss Water” and of “Elite Coffee”. Since these companies have a different type of operation from the other companies in the Group (Strauss Water – production of water purification devices, and Elite Coffee – a food and beverage sales company), Strauss includes quantitative data regarding these companies normalized by per ton product. This data is not included in the data presented for “Strauss Israel”. Monetary Investment For the purpose of ongoing handling of environmental quality issues, more than $2.8 Strauss Group invested millionwas invested in Strauss sites in Israel in 2010, and $426,000 sites around theworld. Ongoing management includes monitoring and measurement audits of more than $2.75 million air quality, handling waste treatment and waste handling, maintenance of the environmental quality system in the Group, and employee training. In 2010, Strauss Group invested more than $2.75 million in environmental quality projects at Strauss in Israel and more than $704,000 in environmental projects at Strauss sites around the world. Most of these projects focused on energy conservation and reducing greenhouse in environmental quality projects gas emissions. A further significant part of the investments in environmental projects covered waste water treatment. Environmental Performance in 2010 Waste treatment 0.35 Waste generation relative to annual production The amount of waste relative to production (ton waste / ton product) One of the leading strategic environmental goals defined at Strauss Group is the 0.30 reduction of operational waste. Strauss Israel has defined a long term strategic 0.25 goal of reducing amount of waste created in production per ton of product by 0.20 15% over the years 2008-2015. 0.15 us s I s r a e l h a s S tr a defi 0.10 ne da 0.05 g o al o f reducing am lo ategic oun t n 0.00 Strauss Israel Group sites outside Israel Total Group str of g in p roduction per to wast te 2009 2010 d n of e re ate pro rm Waste Management c e r t h e y e du % ov ars 20 c In 2010, the amount of waste transferred to approve landfill sites from the 68 1 5 0 by 8201 t Group’s activities in Israel reduced by 250 tons versus 2009, despite the growth This systemic change let Strauss Israel to achieve and 5. in the production volumes in 2010. even surpass its waste reduction goal per ton of product The following chart outlines waste handling in Strauss Group in 2010. (15%) within one year. The change in handling of the The amount of waste that was sent for recycling from Israel (plastic, paper, dairy’s waste in Ahihud requires us Strauss to set a new cardboard, wood, metal and glass) was 2,762 tons in 2010. We note that in strategic goal at Strauss Israel for waste reduction per 2010 as well, most of the waste from the Group’s activities in Israel was directed ton of product. to reuse in the production of energy (coffee grounds from the instant coffee The following chart presents a comparison between plant) and for animal feed (a total of 39,961 tons). the annual amount of waste generated relative to At the Group’s sites outside of Israel, where the annual amount of waste production in 2009 and 2010. The chart shows that is lower, the amount of waste sent to landfill in 2010 totaled 3,357 tons, the Strauss Israel reduced the amount of waste per ton amount of waste sent for recycling was 2,019 tons and the amount of waste of production in 2010 by 22% versus 2009, due to sent for reuse or animal feed was 2,055 tons. increasing reuse of waste via transfer of whey and milk waste at the Ahihud dairy to a sewage treatment facility at the dairy, rather The Sabra plant in Virginia, USA, began using recycled than removing the waste as in previous years. In 2010, 36% waste reduction was recorded relative to product volume versus 2009 at Strauss sites outside of Israel polyethylene (PET 1) in its product packaging in 2010. 80% as well. This reduction also resulted from reduction in the amount of waste sent of the plant’s packaging in 2010 was produced from recycled for reuse and for animal feed. Overall in 2010, Strauss succeeded in reducing the annual waste generation relative to product weight by 25%. plastic remnants (30-45%) from post-consumer waste. Waste handling at Strauss Group in 2010 (tons per year) te, 2 4% fill was L and te, 8 % l e d was c Recy tion) , 68% era rg y gen / ene al feed (anim euse e for r Wast The few cases where hazardous waste is generated result from the use of maintenance and cleaning materials or from the use of chemicals for analysis in quality control and product development laboratories. 69 All hazardous waste is collected in a controlled manner at our sites, including proper storage and labeling in order to prevent pollution. We estimate that, as a result of all of our operations In 2010, for the first time, 1,434 tons of product packaging in 2010, 3.76 tons of hazardous waste was generated and sent by registered waste was sent for recycling from the Strauss's plant in Poland hazardous waste shipment companies to hazardous waste treatment sites and and 50 tons of packaging waste was sent for recycling from landfill authorized by law. Strauss's plant in the Adriatic. Energy Consumption The Strauss Group strives to minimize the consumption of natural resources Hazardous Materials and Hazardous Waste and to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. A main goal is to minimize energy The use of hazardous materials is strictly supervised at all Strauss sites. At each consumption. site there is a poisonous materials control officer and clear company-wide Defined energy consumption reduction targets (kilowatt hours per ton product) procedures. In addition, adherence to maintenance and handling of hazardous have been established for all sites, and greenhouse gas emission reduction targets materials procedures is according to the requirements of the law is monitored were derived from these. through audits by external companies. In 2010, there were no hazardous This year as well Green Teams continued to operate at the Group’s plants, initiating materials or other chemical leakages reported at Strauss Group on a scale operational and training activities and establishing projects to improve energy that could lead to environmental pollution. efficiency and minimize energy consumption. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption at the Strauss Group Energy Consumption per Ton Product at Strauss Group (Gj thousands) (Gj per ton product) 2000 5 4 1500 3 1000 2 500 1 0 0 2009 2010 2010 2009 Indirect energy Direct energy Strauss Israel Strauss activities outside Israel The above chart shows that the consumption of both direct energy (derived from The above chart presents energy consumption per ton of product in 2009 and the burning of fuels at Strauss facilities) and indirect energy 2010 at Strauss Israel and sites around the world. (derived from electricity consumption) at all Strauss As we can see in the chart, in 2010 there was a reduction of 2% in energy 70 facilities in 2010 increased, compared with consumption per ton of product at Strauss Israel. The reduction resulted from energy consumption in 2009 (an overall the implementation of various operational changes and engineering projects increase of 256,000 Gj, constituting for energy conservation. The energy an increase of 18%). The cause The growth in energy consumption per ton of product that is shown in the analysis The burning of generated from of this increase is the growth of data from Strauss outside of Israel is the result of the implementation of an coffee bean waste of the production system, innovative and comprehensive environmental data gathering project that was organic waste at the Group’s plant in as well as improvements completed in 2010. Tzfat in 2010 was 86,520 GJ. in order to and expansions in This energy, which serves to the environmental Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions create energy create steam for the plant’s data collection One of the Strauss Group’s main strategic goals in the area of environmental from sites that quality is the reduction of greenhouse gases produced as a result of Strauss operations, is produced in an were not included operations. Strauss Israel’s multi-year goal is a reduction of greenhouse gas innovative steam boiler that is intended for burning biomass, in Strauss's emissions per ton product by 15% between 2008 and 2015. and which began operating in 2009. The burning of coffee 2009 Corporate bean waste in this innovative boiler mostly replaces the fuel Responsibility oil that had been in use at the plant to create steam. Report (Strauss Some of the coffee bean remains that were burned Water, Elite Coffee, in 2010 originated in remains that were the corporate center collected during the previous two years building and others). (2008-2009). Industrial Environmental Excellence Award In July 2010, the Strauss Group received the Environmental Protection Minister’s Environmental Excellence Award in Industry at a gala ceremony held at the President’s Residence in the presence of the President of Israel and the Minister for Environmental Protection. The recognition was awarded to Strauss for its greenhouse gas emissions management policy, setting measurable multi-year goals and implementing projects worth more than $7 million that contribute to a reduction in Strauss’s greenhouse gas emissions. The continued assimilation of Operational Excellence at Strauss plants alongside the 71 implementation of engineering projects to reduce and conserve energy (minimizing electricity and GHG emissions per ton product at Strauss Group fuel consumption) have led to a reduction in (expressed as ton CO2 equivalent per ton product) greenhouse gas emissions at the Strauss sites. 0.6 These emissions were reduced at Strauss Israel in 0.5 The above chart presents the carbon footprint 2010 by 8% relative to product ton, compared with of the Strauss Group’s sites. As we can see from 2009. This reduction in addition to the reduction 0.4 the chart, the GHG emission per ton of product of 5.8% obtained in 2009 compared with 2008. 0.3 at Strauss Israel was lower in 2010 than in 2009 Meeting the greenhouse gas emissions per Outside Israel, there was significant growth in ton product reduction target by 16% versus 0.2 the emissions value per ton of product due to 2008 is a significant achievement going beyond 0.1 the inclusion of Sabra’s operations in the US the strategic goal that was set for 2015 (15% in emissions data, as this is a company that reduction) within two years. 0 typically has a high carbon footprint per ton 2009 2010 product. In addition, coffee plants in Europe Strauss Israel Strauss activities outside Israel and Brazil began reporting fully on their fuel consumption for transportation in 2010, which also added to the GHG emission level. a in fuel used in prod h em uct ion T at theS tura l gas, which is u ss is na co n sid t ra ere emissions of any o dt site f th e oh ut exis av so sid ti e th e Is ng el rael f os ow Direct and Indirect GHG emissions at Strauss Group sil es tg (expressed as ton CO2 equivalent) fu e ree 200000 ls. nhouse gas 150000 Participation in a pilot project of the 72 Environmental Protection Ministry’s greenhouse 100000 gas emissions reporting mechanism The Strauss Group was one of the first companies in 50000 the Israeli economy, and was the first food company, to 0 voluntarily join the greenhouse gas emissions reporting 2009 2010 mechanism pilot project established by the Ministry of Indirect GHG emissions Direct GHG emissions Environmental Protection in 2010. As a result of joining the pilot project, in 2010 the company also began monitoring greenhouse gas emissions resulting from HFCs emissions Strauss Group's direct GHG emissions is caused mainly by the burning of fuel (condensed hydrocarbon gas, fuel oil, diesel, from the Group’s refrigeration systems. These additional gasoline and more) at Strauss sites and by vehicles. As presented emissions were not included in the total emissions in the above chart, Strauss Group's direct 2010 GHG emissions presentation in the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report, increased in 5,387 CO2e tons versus 2009. The main reason for but are presented separately in order to create a system of this is the growth in Strauss’s production during 2010, which led to an increase in fuel consumption. The Group’s indirect reporting and comparison similar to 2009. GHG emission, which is derived from electricity consumption, The Group total 2010 HFCs GHG emissions (Israeli sites also rose in 2010 for the same reason. and sites out of Israel) were summed at 9,983 CO2e tons. o rt Vo lun to the tary R DP C ep In 2 for 010, t h rep the fir e Str 73 o s a Pro rted t tim uss G j t e r gre ect (C o the volu oup e n (em nhou DP) o Carbo tarily n em ission se gas the S n Disc i l The ssion s, pro emiss trauss osure s je of t Strau , and cts t ions in 's f o Isra he firs ss Gro uture redu 2009 el t t u s c o re three p was trate e por c t gy t to ompa hus o ). the nies ne CD i P. n Water Conservation Water Consumption in the Strauss Group by Geographic Segmentation Water Consumption per Ton of Product at the Strauss Group (thousands of cubic meters) (cubic meters per ton product) * The Group’s operations in Israel include data for Strauss Water and Elite Coffee 6 1500 5 4 1000 3 2 500 1 0 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 The Group’s operations in IsraelThe Group’s operations outside Israel Strauss Israel Strauss activities outside Israel 74 The above chart presents overall water consumption by Strauss Group The Out of our deep concern for the sever water shortage in Israel, Strauss Israel has chart shows that water consumption in Israel grew marginally in 2010 (13 cubic declared a long term reduction goal of 20% of water usage per ton of product, meters) versus 2009, despite the growth in production and inclusion of data between the years 2008-2015. Water usage per ton of product in Strauss Israel from business units that were not included in the 2009 Corporate Responsibility has in fact decreased 6% in 2010 in comparison to 2009 totaling an overall Report (Strauss Water and Elite Coffee). The increase in water consumption at 10% reduction within two years. The significant increase in water consumption the Strauss sites outside Israel is due to more inclusive water consumption data per ton of product Strauss sites outside Israel is due to the addition of water compared to prior year (the inclusion of data from Sabra, which is characterized by consumption data from Sabra and other sites outside Israel. high water consumption per ton of product relative to the other Strauss business and improved data collection from sites in Europe and Brazil), in addition to the growth in production in 2010 at these sites compared with the previous year. 54% the plant reduced 54% of water consumption per ton Reducing Water Consumption at the Salty Snacks Plant in Sderot, Israel In 2009, the plant recorded a reduction of 38% in water consumption per ton of product, and in 2010, the plant reduced a further 16% of water consumption per ton of product. In total, the plant reduced 54% of water consumption per ton of product over two years. of product over two years. Waste Water Purification The above chart shows that despite the growth in production in 2010, an absolute The Strauss Group sends waste water from all of its sites to regional purification reduction was registered in all waste water pollutant values. The value of total facilities, and at most sites, carries out preliminary waste water treatment. suspended solids in waste water (TSS) reduced by 191 tons per year and the values of organic pollutants (COD – chemical oxygen demand, and BOD – biological oxygen In 2010, an anaerobic pre-treatment facility for demand) in waste water sites reduced by 1,221 tons per year and 787 tons per year respectively. The decrease was due to actions taken in the Group to reduce pollutants. waste water, which was built at a cost of $3.4 million, began operating at the Ahihud dairy. The level of Ozone Depleting Materials (ODS) As a group within the food industry, most refrigeration gases at Strauss organic material produced at the facility is 80% are used in large and complex refrigeration systems, in addition to the marginal use of these gases in the air conditioning systems at Strauss offices. lower than the level required by law, alongside Since there are no ozone depleting material emissions in the Group’s production the production of bio-gas to replace 30% of the processes, the measurement of these materials is based on the addition of new gases to the refrigeration and air conditioning systems in maintenance operations. condensed hydrocarbon gas required for heating the In 2009, 14.5 tons of Freon were added to the Group’s refrigeration systems, while in 2010, the total addition of 6 tons of Freon to the Group’s refrigeration 75 steam boilers at the dairy. processes was reported – most of which were R-22, with small amounts of R134 and R410. This is a significant reduction of 60% compared to 2009. The reason for the reduction in Freon emissions is due to a reduction in these gases inventory at Strauss sites and the enforcement of the supervision for this issue. The Amount of Pollutants in Industrial Waste Water (tons per year) Reducing Air Pollution 5000 The use of fuels to operate Strauss facilities (ovens, boilers and others) in 4000 production processes causes the emissions of various pollutants into the air (particulate matter-PM, nitrous oxide NOx and sulfur oxide SOx). These pollutants 3000 are regularly monitored, mostly on a yearly or bi-annual basis, in the facilities’ chimneys in accordance with the requirements of the law and regulations of the 2000 local ministries of environmental protection in the countries in which we operate. Strauss Group ascertains through this monitoring that there are no deviations 1000 from the legal pollutant levels and carries out required improvements to reduce emissions from the facilities where necessary. At most of Strauss sites around 0 the world, the main fuel that is used in the production facilities is natural gas, the COD BOD TSS fuel with the lowest pollutant levels among all of the existing fossil fuels, which contributes significantly to the reduction in air emissions. 2009 2010 The following chart shows that despite the increase in production in 2010, The Environmental Impact of Transportation and despite the expansion of the data included for reporting, a very moderate Strauss invests efforts to minimize the various environmental effects increase was registered in the absolute value of particulate and sulfur oxide SOx of shipping, which is performed mostly by sub-contractors. Strauss emissions (tons of pollutant per year) from Strauss's production facilities versus monitors the mix of fuels that are used in the Group’s vehicles. 2009. On the other hand, in 2010, the total nitrous oxide NOx emissions from the The main environmental impact of Strauss's transportation fleet is air pollutant production facilities reduced by 6 tons compared to the previous year (though emissions as a result fuel consumption. The estimate of air pollutant emissions in this may be due to changes in reporting procedures). the transportation fleet is based on accepted knowledge for pollutant emissions from transportation fuels. Most of the pollutants that are common in transportation emissions are NOx and CO gases. Air Pollution from the Production Plants 76 (tons of pollutant per year) 150 100 50 0 SOX NOX Particulate matterPM 2009 2010 77 Invironmental Impacts Summary Strauss Group operations in Israel Strauss Group operations outside Israel Index 2009 2010 2009 2010 Environmental quality issues Environmental 2,250,000 2,800,000 125,000 426,000 ongoing Monetary handling costs Investments ($ per year) Environmental quality 2,125,000 2,750,000 500,000 704,000 projects costs Waste generation relative to annual production 0.30 0.24 0.07 0.04 (Ton waste perTon product) 3.74 Energy Consumption per Ton The increase in the energy data of Strauss operations 78 Product 4.39 4.25 2.89 outside Israel is the result of the implementation of (GJ per ton product) an innovative and comprehensive environmental data gathering project that was completed in 2010 0.26 The 2010 GHG emissions value per ton product increase in the Group’s operation outside of Israel is due to the GHG emissions per ton product inclusion of Sabra’s operations in the US in the emissions (Ton CO2 equivalent per ton 0.51 0.47 0.17 data, as this is a company that typically has a high carbon product) footprint per ton product. In addition, coffee plants in Europe and Brazil began reporting fully on their fuel consumption for transportation in 2010, which also added to the GHG emission level 1.49 The significant increase in water consumption per ton Water Consumption per Ton of product at Strauss operations outside Israel is due to the Product 5.62 5.29 0.64 addition in 2010 of water consumption data from Sabra (cubic meters per ton product) (as this is a company that typically has a high water consumption per ton product) and other sites outside Israel General environmental activity data for the whole group Index 2009 2010 COD 3,877 2,656 The Amount of Pollutants in Industrial Waste Water BOD 2,276 1,489 (Tons per year) TSS 912 721 SOX 115 138 NOX 98 92 Air Pollution from the Production Plants Particulate (Tons of pollutant per year) Matter 19 28 (PM) ODSOzone Depleting Substances emissions in the group 14.5 6.07 (Tons per year) 3.76 This data 2010 increase is the 79 Annual collected Hazardous Waste result of the Group’s produc(Tons per year) 2.7 tion system growth, as well as improvements and expansions in the environmental data collection from the Group sites In 2010, data was also gathered for the first time regarding the environmental performance of “Strauss Water” and of “Elite Coffee”. Since these companies have a different type of operation from the other companies in the Group (Strauss Water – production of water purification devices, and Elite Coffee – a food and beverage sales company), these specific companies data is not included in the normalized data presented for “Strauss Group operations in Israel” 80 INDEX GRI and UNGC indices can be found on http://cr.strauss-group.com/en Acknowledgments We would like to extend our deepest gratitude to all the people who contributed greatly to the completion of this Report throughout the year. We thank all the employees and managers of Strauss Group in Israel and around the world who assisted with the data collection and by so created a full and credible report. We would like to thank PWC Israel and Sher Consulting for their guidance and assistance with this report, and to Merhav Studio for the design. 81 Finally, we extend our thanks to all of you, our stakeholders and all the readers of this report. We invite you to visit us on www.strauss-group.com in our Corporate Responsibility section, where you will find the full version of the 2010 CR Report – Driven by Responsibility, as well as additional information constantly updated. This new digital hub, was set up as an interactive platform where you can provide feedback, send us your suggestions and comments, and contact us directly with any request. We invite you to explore it! We are certain that this year’s report will continue to improve our dialog with all of you, our stakeholders, as well as contribute to making us a better company. For any questions or comments on this report please contact: Daniela Prusky-Sion, Corporate Responsibility manager 49 Hasivim st. Petach Tikva 49517, Israel Daniela.sion@strauss-group.com +972-3-675-2400 82
