1 Corporate Responsibility at All About Brands 2010 Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact 10 Corporate Responsibility at All About Brands 2010 12 Corporate Responsibility at All About Brands 2010 Our progress Principle 7 Supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our environmental efforts We strive to be green and greener! Our commitment is set out in our Environment Policy. In 2010, we put in place our first sustainable development plan which addressed environmental measures. We have run an active campaign to minimise our environmental impacts, encouraging staff to use IT solutions in preference to face-to-face meetings where practical. We also encourage staff to turn off all electronic equipment. We constantly remind them that turning off computers out of working hours can save up to £35 worth of energy per computer over a year. We also try to minimise printing and the use of paper and operate recycling schemes in our London and Abu Dhabi offices. Our 2010 energy usage Environmental impact CO2 (tonnes) 2010 CO2 (tonnes) 2009 Group-wide air travel † 151.52 146.25 Office energy usage ‡ 21.75 16.26 † Group wide air travel includes all air travel undertaken by AAB staff located in London and Abu Dhabi. It does not include India and Eastern European offices brought into the group at the end of 2010. ‡ Office energy usage covers the London office only. We are in negotiations with our landlords in Abu Dhabi to implement a smart-metering system. This should be implemented in early 2011. It does not include India and Eastern European offices brought into the group at the end of 2010. We monitored energy consumption in our head office in London and saw a disappointing increase in energy usage during the year. We believe this is due to the increase in headcount, especially with the acquisition of FreshBusinessThinking and the co-location of the business at 77 St Martin’s Lane. Clearly, we would like to do better and this is a priority for 2011. We are currently putting in place plans to monitor energy usage in our offices in Eastern Europe, India and the Middle East during 2011 and beyond. We are also committed to offsetting carbon. We offset our carbon emissions relating to energy consumption in London and travel relating to our London and Abu Dhabi offices in 2010. This was certified by Carbon Footprint Ltd, a UK recognised carbon offsetting firm. Our offset was invested in clean and renewable technology projects. We are working on extending carbon offsetting to include all our offices’ energy and travel in 2011. Case study_ Promoting ethics in India At the beginning of 2010, Good Relations India co-sponsored a national conference on media ethics organised by the Kerala Union of Journalists in association with the Press Council of India. The conference, which was aimed at educating and promoting best practice in journalism, was attended by many leading editors of Indian newspapers and senior journalists, including the Chairman of the Press Council of India. 24 Corporate Responsibility at All About Brands 2010
