Communication on Progress 2010 UN Global Compact Utrecht, 4 February 2011 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 Andersson Elffers Felix bv Maliebaan 16 | postbus 85198 | 3508 AD Utrecht | telefoon 030 236 3030 | telefax 030 236 3070 | kvk 30096560 | mail@aef.nl Content 1 Introduction and statement of continued support 3 2 Human Rights 6 3 Labour 9 4 Environment 13 5 Anti-Corruption 19 6 Contribution to Society 21 7 Conclusions: We want more 22 1 Introduction and statement of continued support The UN Global Compact In January 2010 Andersson Elffers Felix (AEF) joined the UN Global Compact and committed to its ten principles concerning human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. These principles are: Human rights 1) Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2) make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4) the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5) the effective abolition of child labour; and 6) The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7) Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8) undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9) encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. This document constitutes our first annual Communication on Progress (COP) in which we will outline our company policy regarding the principles, and report on the measures taken and progress made in the four areas. Furthermore, we will list the challenges that need to be addressed in the future and that we hope to have resolved by the time of publication of the next COP. Who we are and what we do Andersson Elffers Felix (AEF) is a strategy and organizational consultancy firm, established in 1982 in Utrecht, the Netherlands. AEF is one of the leading Dutch consultancy firms in the public and semi-public domains. In addition, AEF is active in the private sector. It prides itself on a combination of a thorough understanding of subject matter and strong functional, organizational expertise. AEF values quality above quantity. A strategy of slow growth has enabled AEF to focus on the quality of work, development of expertise and strengthening a strong client-base. AEF has developed into a mid-sized consultancy firm with a staff of around 55 consultants. We are proud of our ability to develop creative, innovative and tailor-made solutions for strategic issues, rather than offer standard models and methodologies. AEF always aims at working in close collaboration with the client to find solutions for policy and management issues touching upon the strategic positioning of the organisation. In the recent past, we have developed an increasing p3 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 international outlook for public sector clients, ranging from the European Institutions to clients in the Caribbean and Africa. AEF offers both high level functional and content expertise. We have extensive experience in a number of specific sectors within the public domain: public safety including immigration and law enforcement, education, housing, (international) healthcare and international development. Consultancy activities include organisational evaluations and reviews, policy evaluations, impact assessments and management of reorganisation processes. We are particularly experienced in the translation of strategic and policy questions into practical operational solutions. It is the innovation and improvement of the primary processes and the need to shape a supporting organisation that facilitates a successful and effective translation of policy to practice. We recognize that, to be active in the politically-driven public sector, a close involvement of our consultants with the issues at hand is a critical factor in the successful execution of our projects. We therefore actively encourage and facilitate involvement in society. Many of our consultants perform valuable functions in the cultural sector and in voluntary and non-governmental organizations. We want more We are strongly committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact and believe that they form an integral part of our company philosophy. However, we believe that as a mid-sized consulting company mainly operating in developed nations, where most of these principles are enforced by law, it is relatively easy to live up to the minimum requirements of supporting the UN Global Compact. As a provider of consultancy services for governments and other public sector clients our supply chain is very limited, and the possibilities for actions in this field are small. Our main resource is knowledge, our assets are our employees, our reputation and our ability to change. We believe in a pro-active and positive approach to the principles of the UNGC. Instead of merely not violating any of the principles and „checking the boxes‟, we want to actively promote them as a core aspect of our work. Hence, we want to implement and respect the principles not only in our business, but also have an impact on our clients in the public sector. We have thus chosen for a two-tiered approach: On the one hand, we want to support the Global Compact principles by improving our internal work processes and company policies. On the other hand, we try to implement the support of the ten principles externally through our core business, consultancy work. An eleventh principle: Contribution to Society While we fully support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, we believe it is necessary to incorporate another principle in our business: 11) Businesses should contribute to society. AEF has a long tradition of discriminating in its acceptance of regular projects on the basis of a positive answer to the question: „does this project make a difference in society?‟ As far as we are concerned, that is our main aim. And projects – change programmes, innovative policy conception and execution – are our main asset. If AEF wants to contribute to society outside of its mainstream business, this is where the biggest potential lies. p4 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 This is actively reflected in the fact that AEF carries out a number of pro bono projects every year. Projects concern issues in the cultural sector, social arena or even to support principled business enterprise. For example, AEF has developed a business plan for the foundation „De Kamers‟, a private initiative in a newly created neighbourhood in Amersfoort (NL) that organises and promotes activities around arts and culture. AEF associates commonly participate in pro bono activities outside of their regular working hours, often in political parties, on the boards of cultural establishments or volunteer work in a social setting. Businesses differ in their capacities and capabilities to carry out pro bono projects. Not always can a company‟s core expertise be directly used to help other societal organisations. There are other ways of helping, though. Making sure that the core business is actually not detrimental to society, but on the contrary, driven by the goal to contribute to society, is an important step. By committing to this principle, businesses can bring about real change – regardless of the sector they work in. Continued support With this Communication on Progress, we express our continued support and commitment to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. AEF will continue its work for the advancement of human rights, setting of good labour standards, protecting the environment and working against all forms of corruption. We will persist with upholding, promoting and implementing our eleventh principle: Businesses should contribute to society. Yours sincerely, Arend de Jong Managing Partner Utrecht, 04 February 2011 p5 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 2 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our view on human rights Human rights are rights to which all humans are inherently entitled. While the views on what specific human rights constitute occasionally diverge, several declarations of human rights have found wide acceptance internationally. For us, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 and the European Convention on Human Rights (1950) and its five protocols (1952, 1963, 1963, 1963, 1966) are the most relevant and we express our utmost support for them. We believe that by the nature of our business we can actively contribute to supporting the two principles. For example, according to art. 25.1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, “everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.” By delivering good work to the public sector we can increase its capacity to ensure the protection and advancement of human rights. As management consultants, by strengthening and improving the organisational capacities of organisations that work towards these goals, we can have a valuable impact on the human rights situation in the world. Human rights in our markets Despite recent market entries and expansion in the Caribbean and Africa, most of our business takes place in Europe, and specifically the Netherlands. While being a highly developed country, signatory to the relevant conventions on human rights and internationally respected for its high human rights standards, the Netherlands still face some criticism. According to the Human Rights Watch World Report 2010, “Reviews during 2009 by Council of Europe Human Rights Commissioner Thomas Hammarberg and the UN Human Rights Committee identified a range of human rights concerns in the Netherlands, including problematic counterterrorism measures, and the lack of safeguards in and excessive length of asylum procedures.” (Human Rights Watch World Report 2010, p. 408) A large part of our work takes place in the public safety and immigration/integration sector. In the past years, we have carried our several assignments for the improvement of organisational capacities and processes for government agencies in this sector, for example for the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND), the Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers (COA) and the Legal Aid Board. Apart from government agencies we have also carried out several projects for NGOs that work in this field, such as Refugee Services Netherlands. Given that Human Rights Watch still sees human rights concerns in this area, we believe that there is still a lot of work to be done in this sector. By continuing to do projects in this field and keeping human rights concerns in mind, we aim to take these concerns off the list. However, ultimately we are dependent on the political climate in the Netherlands and the willingness of the public authorities to put projects in this area out for tender. p6 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 Being ranked 7th out of 169 on the Human Development Index, The Netherlands have a high standard of living. We nevertheless believe that continuous improvement in the public sector can ensure “the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family” is granted to everyone. We see our task in this country in maintaining and improving the various systems in place that safeguard this basic human right. By advising on health care, housing, education and social services in the Netherlands, we try to do so through our work. Examples in 2010 include: Improving the workflow management for the Council for Child Protection For the Dutch Council of Police Superintendents we conducted an impact assessment of the Salduz judgement of the European Court for Human Rights For the municipality of Schiedam we implemented an innovation programme on civic integration. An important aspect of this project was the development of ways for intense collaboration with key stakeholders within the immigrant population. We carried out a market analysis for an elderly care organisation We carried out several projects to ensure and improve the functioning of health care organisations New markets In recent years we have developed an increasingly international outlook, doing projects in for example Africa and the Caribbean. This is on the one hand an opportunity to promote human rights in these countries – on the other hand, business activities in some of these countries also bear the risk of unwillingly and unknowingly become a complicit in human rights violations. When doing business in these new markets, we kept this issue in mind. European Union While, like the Netherlands, the European Union (EU) enjoys some of the highest human rights standards in the world, there is still room for improvement. For instance, Human Rights Watch criticises the EU for its Common Asylum and Migration Policy and some of its counterterrorism measures. AEF, by doing projects for the EU, tries to overcome these shortcomings For the European Commission we carried out a study on conformity of the transposition of the so-called long-term residents directive of 2003 (2003/109/EC), which introduced a new common residence status in order to approximate the rights of third-country nationals to those of EU citizens. We concluded that the implementation of the directive has improved, but is still insufficient. With this study we hope to give a basis for improving migration policies in the EU and its member states towards respecting the human rights of immigrants and asylum seekers. Victims of crime and accidents are often left alone with their problems. Victim support organisations help them cope with the challenges they are facing and also provide legal support. For Victim Support Europe, the umbrella organisation of national victim support organisations in Europe, we have helped with the development of a business plan. The assignment was carried out pro bono. Nigeria As part of our international ambitions, we are carrying out a project for Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) in Nigeria. AEF is contributing its time pro bono, LUTH covers expenses only. We are developing an Outline Business Case and Business Plan for the establishment of a public-private partnership for the New LUTH Initiative, an ultramodern treatment and diagnostic centre attached to LUTH. Health indicators in Nigeria remain some of the worst worldwide, and the project in Lagos is just a small step for improvement in the p7 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 country. We nevertheless hope that by carrying out that project, we will help the country improve its level of health care. Outside of our projects Apart from carrying out regular projects, we also send some of our consultants to less developed countries to help local non-profit organisations by providing consulting expertise. Not only does this allow us to have a real impact in these regions, we also benefit from exploring a new market and broadening our network. Our consultants benefit as well. Not only do they carry out these projects by their own request, we also believe that this is a unique opportunity for personal development. In 2010, one of our consultants supported a local NGO in Tanzania with writing a long-term strategic plan for 2015. The organisation aims at improving the situation of children in Tanzania by „sowing the seeds of better parenting‟. This is done through capacity building, psychosocial support, counselling, advocacy and lobbying. Our consultant was placed in Tanzania at our own costs. At a glance: measures and progress Regular projects in NL, EU and new markets as part of our core business. Small steps to maintain or increase the human rights situation in our markets. Carried out health-care project in Nigeria with only expenses charged: development of outline business case and business plan Pro bono projects in less developed countries: Established a long-term strategic plan for an NGO in Tanzania to improve parenting in Tanzania Challenges for the future Outside our established markets the human rights situation can be dire. These markets may require strategies to deal with being confronted with human rights violations and strategies to prevent unknowingly and unwillingly becoming complicit in any of such violations. We will utilize our Global Compact Local Network to make use of their experience in these markets and also develop our own strategies over time. Our ambition for the future is also to carry out more projects that specifica lly aim at addressing the human rights situation in less developed countries. p8 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 3 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation General arrangements We fully support the Global Compact principles in the area of labour. Not only are these principles enshrined in Dutch and European law. As a consultancy advising on organisational matters it is also vital for us to be on the forefront of development in this area and serve as a role model for our clients. In order to attract and retain talent, we need to create a work environment that our employees like to work in and that caters to their individual needs. Each employee is assigned a mentor in the company that helps him or her to identify possibilities for professional and personal development and serves as a contact point for any problems the employee might encounter. Requests for sabbaticals or changes in FTE are usually granted and pregnancy (or paternal) leave is never considered a problem. We believe that it is of utmost importance that our employees have a healthy work-life balance, which includes spending enough time with their families. This is facilitated by flexible working hours, flexible work spaces and equipping every consultant with a mobile phone and a notebook, so they can independently choose where to do their work. Training Training forms an essential part of our company culture. We actively encourage our employees at all levels to follow training courses in areas they feel they need to develop. We take pride in investing in the personal and professional development of our staff wherever possible and value personal initiative for self-development. We usually cover all expenses for trainings. Over the past years, we have continuously increased the funds made available for training programmes. The amount has increased by roughly 400% from EUR 68,986 in 2004 to EUR 275,241 in 2010. p9 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 AEF annual training expenses 2004-2010 (in EUR) Freedom of association and works councils Our employees are free to establish and join organisations of their own choice, given these do not violate the law or pursue unethical goals. We actively encourage involvement in political and non-profit organisations. As of 2010, about half of our consultants are active in such organisations, most of them offering their professional expertise free of charge for charitable purposes. Personal involvement ranges from board membership in museums, theatre s, and art foundations over educational and health organisations to organisations promoting the welfare of children. Next to that, many of our consultants are also active in professional associations. We uphold the right to collective bargaining by regularly supporting works councils for contraexpertise assignments. However, there is no need for a works council at AEF as we have a very active, participatory body of consultants. Our partners are clearly the authority, but we work together – in different combinations – every day. We feel that a works council would create relations that are more oppositional and feel that this would not improve communication within the company. It is the hallmark of a firm of professionals that a balance is struck between freedom to operate, good labour conditions and productivity for the firm. If that balance is not right, talent will leave. Hence, this balance is our lifeline. Discrimination and diversity AEF is committed to not discriminating on the grounds of sex (including pregnancy and maternity), marital status (including civil partnership status), gender reassignment, disability, race, age, sexual orientation, religion/belief, trade union membership or non-membership, or status as a fixed-term or part-time worker. Due to the evolution of the company from a small to a medium-sized company over the past 25 years, with most of the employees being recruited from our own network, the employee base has been biased towards being completely Dutch and predominantly male in the top positions. Until 2010, only one of the then ten partners was female. Having recognized the need for change, we have in recent years taken measures to create a more diverse employee base. Arrangements have been made to facilitate part-time work at senior and partner level and the amount of partners has been increased to 13. Now 21% of the partners are female, compared to p 10 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 10% in 2009. As the graph below shows, we are approaching a more and more levelled off male female ratio over the different positions within the company. Our ultimate goal in this area is to approximate a 50/50 ratio across all levels. Percentage of women at AEF, 2008-2010 A further issue that needed to be addressed was age bias among the top positions within the company. Partner positions were held by consultants with an average age of 51 in 2009. With the inclusion of slightly younger but experienced consultants to partner status, the average age in these positions dropped to 48 years. Average age of AEF consultants across the different positions, 2008-2010 We still find the composition of our workforce regarding ethnicity and disability a challenge. Since AEF has a tendency to recruit people from the network of its consultants, the body of employees tends to result in more „of the same‟ people. We are now pursuing ways of attracting p 11 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 a more diverse body of consultants, also to better reflect the mix of people at some of our clients (for example, large cities). At a glance: measures and progress Increased training budget Facilitation of part-time work at partner level Active promotion of women to top positions in the company. Now 21% of the partners are women, compared to 10% in 2009. Caribbean: Made a switch from an entirely Dutch team to a largely Caribbean team Challenges for the future We aim to further increase the percentage of women at the top and approximate a 50/50 ratio of women and men across the different positions within the company. With regards to our subsidiary in the Caribbean, we strive to further nurture the team with local consultants and develop staff so that the Dutch top can be replaced by Caribbean consultants in the long run In the coming years, we will try and create a more diverse body of consultants that better reflects the population of the Netherlands, and larger cities in particular. p 12 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 4 Environment Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses are asked to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses are asked to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. What we can do as a consultancy AEF cares deeply about the environment and is committed to sustainability, the seventh Millennium Development Goal. As we are a service provider whose product is knowledge, our impact on the environment is lower than that of companies in other industries. Nevertheless, there are three areas in which we have a clear impact on the environment. These are: Mobility Purchasing Office infrastructure Mobility The nature of our work requires our employees to travel. While internally a lot of meetings are held through conference calls and meetings „half-way‟, some projects require actual face-to-face meetings with clients. We have made some general arrangements to reduce the amount of kilometres travelled per year and to make travelling more environmentally friendly. In order to reduce the amount of kilometres travelled, working from home is actively stimulate d. All consultants receive a mobile phone and a company notebook with which they can access the interand intranet at any time. Smart allocation of projects aims to reduce travel by taking into account where the consultants work and live, so the amount of unnecessary travel is reduced. Within projects, we try to make use of efficient logistics, including meeting half-way. Several measures have been taken to make travelling that is necessary more environmentally friendly. All consultants are eligible for a year pass for public transport, including trains, trams and buses. For appointments in Utrecht, where out main office is located, we have several company bicycles available. Our employees are also encouraged to make use of rental bikes that are available at most train stations in the Netherlands. We try to keep the amount of lease cars as low as possible. Junior and regular consultants account for only 10% of the (business) car usage at AEF. This concerns in particular jobs at locations with no or very limited public transport accessibility, for which two lease cars are made available. Only from senior level onwards, the provision of personal lease cars is made possible. With a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we have introduced a policy that all new lease cars must bear energy labels A or B. Due to running leasing contracts, improvements in this area are only possible when the old contracts expire. The figure below illustrates the effect of this policy: 37% of our lease cars bore energy label A or B in 2010, compared to 21% and 10% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. p 13 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 Energy labels AEF lease cars 2008-2010 We estimate that with 939,235 km travelled by car in 2010 our CO 2 emissions originating from car travel are 169 tons in that year. That is roughly the same amount as in 2009, when our consultants travelled 947,725 km by car (171 tons CO2). Due to the expansion of our business activities to international markets – especially in the Caribbean and Africa – our air travel has increased drastically. In 2010, our employees have travelled 941,599 km by plane, compared to about 170,000 km in 2009. As a consequence, our CO2 emissions have also increased. We estimate our CO2 emissions caused by air travel for 2010 at 207 tons as opposed to merely 38 tons in 2009. Distances travelled 2009-2010 (km) p 14 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 CO2 emissions 2009-2010 in tons (estimates) In order to reduce our carbon footprint, we decided to work together with the ‘Trees for Travel’ foundation. This foundation, based in Dieren (the Netherlands), gives organisations and individuals the opportunity to compensate for the greenhouse gases that they have emitted as a result of using fossil fuels. Compensation takes place by supporting projects that utilize the CO 2 uptake capacity of sustainable forests. The funds are used for the planting and maintenance of sustainable forest and energy systems. Since 2010, we work together with the foundation and with its help support a project in Bolivia that aims to avoid deforestation. Within this project, local farmers are paid for protecting the existing stock of trees on their territory. The funds made available to these farmers are utilized for measures to protect that tree population and to acquire farming materials to sustain the existence of the farmers. In order to further reduce travelling, we have opened a new office in Curacao, where together with local employees several of our Dutch consultants are based long-term. Additionally, we have purchased new state-of-the art videoconferencing equipment to facilitate long-distance meetings without having to travel. Purchasing Another area in which we can take action to reduce our impact on the environment is purchasing. We choose our equipment on the basis of its operational lifespan and energy label. After depreciation, the lifespan of the equipment is extended by giving it away to social institutions or our employees. An obvious factor in protecting the environment is paper consumption. We only buy FSC certified paper that is bleached with the lowest possible environmental impact. Our goal is to be, where possible, a paperless office. Employees are encouraged to only print if necessary. In 2008, our annual paper consumption was at 1,219,756 sheets. With the introduction of double -sided printing as standard setting of our printers we have managed to reduce the annual paper consumption by half, to 640,796 sheets in 2010. p 15 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 Annual paper consumption 2008-2010: sheets of paper used per year Another factor to consider is energy consumption. In 2009-2010, AEF has used 105,615 kW/h of energy. Compared to the period 2008-2009 (95,406 kW/h), this is a 10% increase. However, this has to be put into relation with the increase in workforce of about 15% in the same period of time and the exceptionally harsh winter of 2009/10. When related to the increase in workforce, the increase in energy consumption goes down to 3.6%. This is nevertheless a point that will require extra attention from our side in the coming year. Annual energy consumption for the periods 2008-2009 and 2009-2010 in kW/h p 16 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 Annual energy consumption (kW/h) per employee (FTE), 2008-2009 and 2009-2010 We aim to reduce our energy consumption by continuing to purchase only products that meet the newest energy standards. Furthermore, we have switched our energy provider in order to use only green energy. Currently we are assessing the possibility of own renewable energy creation, for example through solar panels. We try to reduce emissions by only buying local, organic and seasonal food. In 2010, we have launched a broad consultation of local suppliers, which however did not yield the desired results, as no supplier met the above criteria. We will continue to search for adequate suppliers in 2011. Office infrastructure AEF is based at a city location with optimal public transport accessibility, both for employees and visitors. The current building has been carefully renovated and extended according to the latest sustainability standards. Energy efficient timer-based heating was installed and natural ventilation is applied. Sustainability was the basis for the choice of building materials, and the office has been constructed to innovatively use land without damaging planting on the ground level. The architect has received the Schreuder Prize for underground construction. We use flexible workstations that help exploit the available space efficiently. Only 35 workstations are needed for 60 employees. Furniture is bought based on sustainability principles. For our subsidiary in the Caribbean, AEF Caribbean, we have opened a new office in Curacao. The historic building was renovated according to the latest sustainability standards. At a glance: measures and progress Continuous improvement of lease car energy labels to A and B. Currently 37% of our lease cars bear labels A or B, as opposed to 10% in 2008. CO2 compensation for all travels by car and flight. Opening of new office in Curacao to reduce travel New state-of-the-art videoconferencing equipment to reduce travel Reduction of paper consumption: We introduced double-sided printing as standard settings for all our printers. Paper consumption went down by about 50%. Switch to green energy provider p 17 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 Challenges for the future Several challenges remain for the coming year. In view of the expansion of our international activities, we are likely to further increase the distances travelled. Next to making more use of videoand phone conferencing we will try to find other ways to limit travelling. We will try to reduce our energy consumption. In 2011, we will also conclude on whether or not own renewable energy creation is feasible for us. Sustainable and organic lunch providers. Finding suppliers that offer sustainable and organic lunches in Utrecht proved to be difficult in 2010. Where from our side we have indicated demand, the supply side does not seem to have developed that market yet. We will continue to search for suppliers of organic and sustainable food. p 18 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 5 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our approach to anti-corruption We take integrity very seriously and work against all forms of corruption. We take a two-pronged approach to anti-corruption. Firstly, we make sure not to be involved in corrupt practices ourselves or accidentally facilitate corruption. Secondly, we actively fight corruption in all its forms by carrying out projects aimed at integrity and anti-corruption. Transparency is an important measure to fight corruption. Our consultants are required to disclose any involvement in activities that would constitute a conflict of interest. We are audited every year by an independent auditor and publish our annual results online and in a year book. Furthermore, we are ISO 9001:2000 certified. Reputation is one of our biggest assets, and we cannot afford being involved in scandals, mistrust or fraud. Clients choose us for a large part due to our reputation, and corruption would be a flaw that is not easily excused. We are member of the Dutch Council of Management Consultants (ROA – Raad van Organisatie Adviesbureaus) that is committed to following a strict code of ethics which includes not being involved in any form of corruption. A breach of this code would result expulsion from the council and in serious reputational dama ge, much to the cost of our business. Not only in terms of reputation, but also legally any corruption would be extremely harmful for our business. Some clients, for example the European Commission, before contract signature require evidence that the contractor “has not been the subject of a judgement which has the force of res judicata for fraud, corruption, involvement in a criminal organisation or any other illegal activity detrimental to the European Union’s financial interests”. In other words, being caught engaging in corrupt practices would mean that no business could be done with these clients. We also actively work against corruption. One of our managing partners has written a PhD on fraud in the Dutch construction sector and developed the code of conduct on integrity for that sector and for the Dutch umbrella organisation of housing corporations. For the Dutch market we do not consider it necessary to take additional measures. Since 2006, we are active in Ghana to combat document fraud. For the Ghana Immigration Service we assisted with the introduction of a new process for the disbursement of official travel documents. As a result, the amount of document fraud cases in Ghana has significantly decreased. The Fraud Expertise Centre that was created at the end of the programme serves as a role model in Africa. Currently South Africa is also in the process of establishing such a centre. New markets Additionally, we will continue to actively fight corruption and fraud also in other countries. In Curacao, formerly part of the Netherlands Antilles and now an independent country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, we will carry out a project on integrity within the public sector in 2011. p 19 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 At a glance: measures and progress Awareness-raising for consultants working in new markets Carried out a project in Ghana for the prevention of and fight against document fraud New project on integrity in Curacao Further steps In view of the expansion of our consultancy activities to new markets, it is not always evident how and where corrupt practices are at work. Although we have not yet experienced any (overt) corruption directly, doing business in a country like Nigeria that is ranked 134 th out of 178 on the 2010 Transparency International Corruption Perception Index (CPI) will definitely require different forms of ensuring long-term compliance to this principle than doing business in our largest market, the Netherlands (ranked 7th on the 2010 CPI). Finding new ways of ensuring that our activities are also not indirectly hindering the fight against corruption in our new markets will be a challenge for the coming year. Part of this will be improving our internal procedures for risk assessment in new markets. p 20 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 6 Contribution to Society “Principle 11”: Businesses should contribute to society The eleventh principle As stated in the introduction, we believe there should be an eleventh principle, namely that all businesses should contribute to society. Our core question to be asked before beginning new projects is: “does this make a difference in society?” – only when the answer is positive, we carry out that project. Clearly, there is some overlap with the other principles. Projects – or any business, for that matter – that contribute to one of the ten principles are also covered by the eleventh principle. But there are other ways of contributing to society, outside of the ten principles. Helping to strengthen social cohesion in local communities or supporting organisations with socially responsible goals are but two examples. AEF is pleased to report that all of our regular projects have met the criterion of positive contribution to society this year. In addition, we have carried out projects outside of our main business. In Nigeria we are developing an outline business case and a business plan for a hospital, charging only for the expenses made, but not for our time. In Tanzania, we have developed a multi-annual strategic plan for a local NGO that works towards better parenting. In the Netherlands, we have carried out several assignments free of charge or at reduced rates for the arts and culture sector and organisations in the social arena. This year, we have for example supported the Walter Maas Huis (a foundation for cultural and professional development) in drawing up a strategic plan for their future ambitions and evaluated the management structure of the Dutch Judo Association (Judo Bond Nederland). AEF actively encourages and facilitates personal involvement of its employees in political and non-profit organisations. About half of our consultants have next to their work at AEF filled in functions at such organisations this year. At a glance: measures and progress Continued “contribution to society” test for all projects Carried out several pro bono and reduced rate projects in Africa and the Netherlands Active encouragement and facilitation of personal involvement of employees in society Challenges for the future In the coming years we want to further develop and expand our activities outside of our mainstream business. Considering that our main strengths lie in organisational change programmes and innovative policy conception and execution, we want to increase our positive impact on society by doing exactly what we are good at. This is where we see our biggest potential for change. p 21 UA46/un global compact cop 2010 7 Conclusions: We want more Progress and challenges We are content to have made progress in all four areas the Global Compact addresses. Through our core business we were able to address human rights and anti-corruption issues, and adjustments of our own work processes and company policies have yielded improvements in our labour situation and our impact on the environment. We will continue to pursue our two-tiered approach to the principles of the Global Compact to further advance in these areas. However, new challenges emerge and there is still room for improvement regarding the issues that have already been addressed this year. The expansion to new markets offers great opportunities for improving the situation in all four areas of the Global Compact, but at the same time bears risks for all of them, too. The different standards that prevail in some of these markets require a different approach than we are used to in Europe. Additionally, business in markets that are further away from our main office will inevitably lead to more travel and thus have a negative impact on the environment. High levels of corruption in some of the new markets might also be a risk for conducting business there. On the other hand, we can bring in our expertise to tackle these problems by carrying our projects directed at these issues. We are under the impression that we operate at the upper scale of what is feasible in the national market. In terms of human rights in our established market, much depends on the political climate. While we will continue to work for the advancement of human rights, our actual impact can be limited (or boosted) by the political climate we are acting in. While we still feel the need to proactively pursue policies aimed to encourage female progression and at reflecting the ethnic composition of our society, we have made great improvements in the labour situation at our company. With respect to the environment, we have almost reached the limits of what is feasible in our established market. AEF has a strong, zero-tolerance anti-corruption policy in place and actively carries out projects to promote integrity and develop codes of conduct. We want more. In light of our high standards regarding the ten principles in the national market, we feel that adjusting business processes even more is not enough and not feasible. Considering our strength in organisational questions and the ability to develop, implement and execute change processes and policies, we feel that this is where our additional contribution may lie. Doing projects outside of our regular realm and diving into areas that need further development will be a challenge for the coming years, also with different financial implications. We need to aggregate the work we already do to understand its impact, and on that basis develop new strategies and measures to bring about real change – for our own society as well as others. Next steps We believe we should do what we can do best: give advice to public and semi-public sector organisations to ensure they have the capacity to address the issues that are covered by the ten UN Global Compact principles and our own eleventh principle. Progress in this realm will require aggregation of our current work to understand its impact. Apart from continuing with our work, we aim to do three international projects per year that each address at least two of the UN Global Compact principles. We also aim to more actively engage with stakeholders about the UN Global Compact. Among others, we want to utilize the Global Compact Local Network in the Netherlands to exchange ideas and get insights especially in addressing the challenges in our new markets. p 22 UA46/un global compact cop 2010
