Communication on Progress Year 2011 Statement of continued support Our statement of continued support Particip GmbH – Your Partner in change was The great coherence of our corporate values with founded in 1989 and is now an independent, inthe ten UN Global Compact principles encouraged ternationally-recognised consultancy company, us to become a signatory of the UN Global Comoffering the expertise and the know-how gained in pact on 7 September 2007. This is our third over a thousand assignments worldwide. As a Communication on Progress (COP). multi-cultural company, our services focus on international development and include monitoring In the past 12 months we were able to achieve and evaluation, capacity and organisational desome targets that we set ourselves in the last velopment, technical assistance, policy advice, COP. There are also some targets we did not development of management guidelines at policy, achieve but we will deepen our efforts to do so in programme and project level, and studies, surthe upcoming performance period. veys and analyses – all services covering a broad variety of sectors and themes. For more informaTo express the importance that we put to gender tion about Particip please visit our website at equality we signed the CEO Statement of Support (http://www.particip.de). for the Women's Empowerment Principles. In this context we are glad to have achieved our target to As a consultancy in international development increase the percentage of female senior mancooperation our overall approach focuses on susagement within our company. tainable development in accordance with the UN Millennium Development Goals. Johannes G. Walter Managing Director 1 highest professional standards in development Human Rights consulting and sets a framework for action. Principle 1 The Particip Code of Conduct is issued along with Business should support and reall new work contracts and is published on the spect the protection of internacompany’s website. It is based on internationally tionally proclaimed human rights accepted guidelines and models, such as the UN Global Compact Principles. Regarding the issue of human rights, the Code of Conduct covers the Principle 2 following points: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights 1. We obey the laws and regulations in the abuses countries we operate in, and accept responsibility for our actions worldwide. We openly commit ourselves to comply with internationally proclaimed human rights in accordance with the UN Declaration of Human Rights and to observe the national laws in all countries where services are provided. Equally, we fully Our commitment respect the political, cultural and religious practices prevailing in the country of operaWe openly commit ourselves to complying with tion. internationally proclaimed human rights in accordance with the UN Declaration of Human Rights 2. We fully abide by the principles of equality and to observe the national laws in all countries and nondiscrimination against anyone regardwe work in. We fully abide by the principles of less of gender, skin, colour, religion, culture, non-discrimination against anyone regardless of age, disability or origin. All business partnergender, religion, colour, disability or origin. ships are fair, transparent and based upon mutual respect. We are aware that human rights are less protected in some of the countries we work in than in In order to guarantee adherence to Particip’s ethiGermany, where our headquarters are located. cal principles, an internal person of trust can be We therefore ataddressed confidentially whenever a staff member tach importance to considers that one of Particip’s ethical principles is the fact that our not being complied with. It is guaranteed in the commitment is not Code of Conduct that no employee or expert will only binding for our suffer adverse consequences for reporting any permanent staff in disregard of Particip’s ethical principles. our headquarters in Freiburg and our branch in Brussels, but also for We ensure “equal pay for equal work” by using a all freelance experts contracted by us for shortor transparent remuneration structure for our permalong-term assignments at home or abroad. nent staff directly involved in project work irrespective of any personal circumstances such as Since August 2010 Particip has an official Code of gender. Requirements to be met for achieving Conduct. All staff in our headquarters in Freiburg different salary levels are clearly defined and and our branch in Brussels signed it in order to available to all employees. ensure their assent. The Code of Conduct lays down our ethical principles, provides our internal Regarding gender mainstreaming we are also staff with a practical guideline while working to the glad to have increased the percentage of female senior management in the past 12 months. The gender ratio among our staff has slightly moved to the disadvantage of male staff but is still fairly balanced. Performance GRI Indicator LA 13: Percentage of employees in following categories (based on full-time equivalent) 2009 2010 2011¹ Targets Female % 49% 51% 53% Gender  Ensure the current balanced staff gender Male % 51% 49% 47% ratio. under 30  Ensure the increased percentage of fe40% 27% 26% Age years old male senior management. groups 30 – 50 57% 66% 65% years old Over 50 ¹ Estimates 3% 7% 8% years old GRI Indicator LA 13: Composition of senior management in following categories (based on full-time equivalent) 2009 2010 2011¹ Female % 0% 10% 17% Gender Male % 100% 90% 83% under 30 0% 0% 0% years old Age 30 – 50 84% 82% 67% groups years old Over 50 16% 18% 33% years old GRI Indicator LA 14: Ratio of basic salary of men to women Our remuneration system applies irrespective of gender, hence this ratio is 1:1. 1 Labour and home office possibilities to all employees. In this regard we are glad to have reduced the overPrinciple 3 time worked in 2010 and that the percentage of part-time employees has increased in the last Business should uphold the freeperformance period. dom of association and the effective recognition of the right to colIf suitable and possible, we offer our student aslective bargaining sistants and interns a permanent position in our company after they have finished their studies / Principle 4 internships. In the past performance period the percentage of staff formerly employed as student Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced assistants or interns decreased as two former and compulsory labour student assistants in permanent position left our company at their own request. Principle 5 Besides our transparent remuneration system for Business should support the effecfixed salary levels, a flexible salary based on the tive abolition of child labour company’s profit margin is added to the fixed salary in order to enable employees to participate in the company’s success. At request of the employPrinciple 6 ees the salary system was adjusted in January Business should support the 2011. A shifting of flexible salary in favour of fixed elimination of discrimination in salary implied a salary increase for all employees respect of employment and occudirectly involved in project work. Further, it allows pation a greater planning dependability for the employees. Our commitment Our company’s most valuable asset is our people. We offer our staff long-term professional and personal development perspectives. We therefore favour permanent work contracts and try to avoid fixed-term arrangements. Nevertheless, the percentage of permanent work contracts has very slightly decreased in the last performance period due to a necessary time-limited substitution for an employee’s maternal leave and a slight reduction of the total number of staff. Within our family friendly human resources policy we seek to provide our staff with flexible working structures, allowing all staff members to find their individual work-life balance. Therefore we maintained our offer of flexible working time, part-time 2 Performance GRI Indicator LA 2: Employee turnover in followPercentage of overtime worked ing categories (based on regular working hours) (based on total no. of employees) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011¹ Female % 7% 4% 2% 8.65% 7,41% n.a. Gender Male % 4% 7% 2% under 30 Percentage of permanent staff members formerly years old 9% 4% 0% employed as student assistants or interns 30 – 50 (based on total no. of employees) Age 2% 4% 5% groups years old Over 50 2009 2010 2011¹ 0% 2% 0% years old 11.11% 13.04% 6,82% Percentage of part-time employees (based on total no. of employees) Percentage of permanent work contracts (based on total no. of employees) 2009 2010 2011¹ 2009 2010 2011¹ 11.11% 13.04% 15,91% 97.78% 93.48% 93,18% GRI Indicator LA 3: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Targets to part-time employees FullTempoPart Ensure the good practice standards are mainProvided to time rary time tained. emememploy Benefit ployployees ees ¹ Estimates ees Accident insurance yes yes yes Company pension scheme yes yes yes Allowance for childcare yes yes yes Allowance for homework yes yes yes 3 Environment Further, most employees come to work by bike or by public transport. Only very few come by car. Principle 7 We have installed multiple sockets with switches Business should support a precaufor all computers in our headquarters in Freiburg, tionary approach to environmental in order to reduce energy consumption in standby challenges modus. Furthermore, we have installed clock timers at both printers in our office in Freiburg, which reduce energy consumption over night. NeverthePrinciple 8 less, the estimated energy consumption in 2011 Business should undertake initiawill increase significantly. Therefore, we will tives to promote greater environstrengthen our efforts in order to reduce energy mental responsibility consumption in the next performance period. We support the DHL GoGreen climate protection Principle 9 project by combining our shipments with DHL Business should encourage the GoGreen service whenever possible. DHL calcudevelopment and diffusion of envilates our CO2 emissions generated by transport ronmentally friendly technologies using a method based on the ISO 14064 standard. In accordance with the specifications of the Kyoto Protocol, these emissions are offset by climate protection projects. Our commitment Particip is part of Astrale We actively contribute to environmental awareGEIE, which is a consortium ness and are committed to minimizing the negaof ten companies spread tive environmental impacts of our day-to-day across Europe. Astrale calcuwork. Amongst others the location of our headlates our CO2 emissions quarters in Freiburg in a “plus-energy building” considering means of transshows our environmental commitment. Plusport and distance. We pay the energy calculated amount on a volbuilduntary basis. Particip’s contriings are bution is allocated to an Archaracmenian tree project. terized by on average generating more energy than its inhabitants spend. We kept on our policy, that no employee is provided with an own company car. The company owns one car that is at everyone’s disposal for business purposes. In exchange, PTC provides Bahncard50 a German Rail loyalty card that offers a 50% discount to all travelling employees. Travels within Europe are therefore mainly undertaken by train. For 2011 we estimate a low use of company car similar to 2010. 4 Performance Targets GRI Indicator EN 4: Indirect energy consumption  Strengthen our efforts in order to reduce en2009 2010 2011¹ ergy consumption, e.g. by reminding staff to switch off their computers over night. kWh 25,411 33,559 45,400 Turn¹ Estimates over [€] per mille 9,983,872 12,525,263 14,300,000 kWh / turnover per mille 2.55 2.68 3.17 GRI Indicator EN 1: Materials used 2009 2010 2011¹ Copies 165,640 207,796 232,558 Turnover [€] per mille 9,983,872 12,525,263 14,300,000 Copies / turnover per mille 16.59 16.59 16.26 Company car use 2009 2010 2011¹ km 14,344 5,217 6,932 Turnover [€] per mille 9,983,872 12,525,263 14,300,000 km / turnover per mille 1.44 0.42 0.48 5 Anti-Corruption The Particip Code of Conduct for our internal staff members covers the following points regarding Principle 10 the issue of anti-corruption and transparency, which are highly interrelated in our point of view: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, includ1. We understand corruption as one of the ing extortion and bribery biggest obstacles to development. We therefore do not give or accept any favours, gifts or remuneration from or to any source external to Particip. Equally, Particip will Our Commitment neither tolerate nor accept any abuse of entrusted power for private gain. We are fully As an actor in international development cooperaaware of our corporate responsibility to ention, we are convinced that our company’s longsure that development funds are used reterm success is not feasible at the expense of a sponsibly and taking into account high ethifew individuals or the general public, but solely in cal considerations. a sound, trustful and fair societal environment. 2. We understand transparency as an essenWe therefore attach great importance to the fact tial principle of our work. We therefore see that our staff members know and adhere to Parit as our duty to act visibly, predictably and ticip’s no-tolerance policy regarding corruption. comprehensibly. All contracts with freelance experts clearly refer to In order to guarantee adherence to Particip’s ethithe issue of corruption. By signing his/her contract cal principles, an internal person of trust can be the freelance expert agrees amongst others with addressed confidentially whenever a staff member the following points: considers that one of Particip’s ethical principles is not being complied with. It is guaranteed in the 1. The contractor shall not accept any comCode of Conduct that no employee or expert will mission, discount, allowance, indirect paysuffer adverse consequences for reporting any ment or other consideration in connection disregard of Particip’s ethical principles. with, or in relation to, or in discharge of, his obligations under this contract. 2. In context of services provided by the Contractor he shall not accept or give any favour, gift or remuneration from or to any source external to Particip without obtaining its approval. Otherwise, Particip may, without prejudice to any accrued rights of the Contractor under this contract, terminate this contract 6
