BU SINE S S R E V IE W an d S U S TA IN A BL E DE V E LOP ME N T R E P OR T 2009 SPIE, A PLAYER IN THE GREEN ECONOMY SPIE, sharing a vision for the future THE GREEN P. 68 ECONOMY, PREPARING THE WORLD OF TOMORROW To read QR codes on your mobile phone, download the mobiltag application from www.mobiletag.com SPIE, a player You need to have an autofocus function (I Phone 3 GS…) in the green economy SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 01 Focused on the future and underpinned by shared values, SPIE is committed to developing ever more responsibly, day after day alongside its customers. This commitment is based on a deep respect for our corporate ethics and social environment. Leveraging the extensive skills of our employees, SPIE designs and delivers long-term solutions that respond to the energy and environmental challenges facing communities and businesses while optimising the use of natural resources. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 02 A 40% REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS BY 2030 * According to the McKinsey Report*, curbing climate change by 40% by 2030, compared with 1990 levels. This would is both urgent and possible. In fact, technologies and be enough to limit global warming to less than 2°C, P. 69 production processes that emit fewer greenhouse gases provided that action is taken now. already exist and are as beneficial to the economy as they That’s why at SPIE, we’re gearing up across Europe are to the environment. through our local network, as part of a commitment to If all technological options were deployed, worldwide working closely with all stakeholders to meet this crucial greenhouse gas emissions could effectively be reduced challenge for the future. P. 70 * Pathways to a Low-Carbon Economy, January 2009 – reference report for the Copenhagen Summit, published by the McKinsey Global Institute. ENERGY AND Acquisition of raw materials and energy ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES 5 1 End-of-life THROUGHOUT (recycling, destruction, THE ENTIRE waste storage, reuse, etc.) PROJECT LIFE CYCLE 2 Transport and distribution 4 3 Operations Production SPIE in pictures www.myspie.eu SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 03 The words highlighted in white can be found in the glossary on pages 68-71 USING NATURAL RESOURCES Massive investment in renewable energies and biofuels is expected to reduce CO2 emissions by 12 gigatonnes a year by 2030. Moreover, at a time when natural resources are increasingly scarce, it is crucial to effectively manage fossil energies and develop carbon-free energy sources. Engaged on all energy fronts, SPIE is committed to reducing the carbon footprint and protecting the environment. In the oil and gas industry, for example, we are active in flaring, energy and environmental efficiency initiatives, decontamination of oil-polluted soil and geological carbon storage. IMPROVING THE URBAN LIVING ENVIRONMENT After the publication of Agenda 21 at the Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit in 1992, the EU’s Energy and Climate Package has further strengthened the resolve of communities and businesses to pursue environmentally friendly policies. A “20-20-20” target has been set for 2020 that involves reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, improving energy efficiency by 20% and using renewable sources for 20% of EU energy consumption. At SPIE, we are helping to meet these goals by implementing practical solutions in many urban areas. These range from optimising public lighting systems to improving mass transport and enhancing the energy efficiency of service-sector buildings and manufacturing facilities. SUPPORTING REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT Regional authorities oversee a wide range of infrastructure projects that are managed in compliance with the principles of sustainable development. This infrastructure includes motorways, rail lines, airports, navigable waterways, water treatment plants and waste incineration facilities, aswell as the deployment of broadband networks and the burial of power lines. Alongside local and regional authorities, we deploy managed infrastructure development projects that range from energy and environmental planning to optimised equipment and installation maintenance. Our multitechnical services cover airport facilities as well as rail/road and other multimodal transport solutions. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 04 CONTENTS 01 THE GREEN 05 CORPORATE PROFILE ECONOMY 06 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS PREPARING THE 08 INTERVIEW WITH WORLD OF TOMORROW GAUTHIER LOUETTE, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF SPIE 14 SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM 16 SPIE AROUND THE WORLD 18 THE YEAR’S HIGHLIGHTS 20 BUSINESS 22 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT, COMMITMENTS REAFFIRMING 26 MANAGING RESPONSIBLY OUR RESPONSIBILITY 30 COMMUNICATING RESPONSIBLY 32 OUR BUSINESSES, 34 LOCAL AND REGIONAL DELIVERING LASTING AUTHORITIES SOLUTIONS 40 ENERGY 48 INFRASTRUCTURE 54 COMMERCIAL SECTOR 60 INDUSTRY 66 GREEN GLOSSARY, 72 CORPORATE DIRECTORY SHARING A COMMON LANGUAGE Download this document on your mobile phone. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 05 CORPORATE PROFILE A PARTNER OF LONG-TERM CONFIDENCE As the European leader in electrical, mechanical and HVAC engineering, energy, and communication systems, SPIE improves the quality of our living environment by helping local and regional authorities and businesses to design, build, operate and maintain facilities that are more energy efficient and environmentally friendly. As a partner of long-term confidence, SPIE is committed to being a source of continuous improvement for all stakeholders – customers, employees and shareholders. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 06 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Despite a challenging economic environment, 2009 was a good year for SPIE. Thanks to the concerted efforts of all our teams and our ongoing acquisitions, revenue was maintained at €3.7 billion and EBIT again rose, to €182.5 million. 3.7 BILLION EUROS IN REVENUE 28,500 EMPLOYEES 12.6% SPIE Île-de-France Nord-Ouest 9.8% 7.1% 24% 18% SPIE Est Energy Industry SPIE Matthew Hall 13.1% 13.1% SPIE Oil & Gas Services SPIE Ouest-Centre 7.5% SPIE 12.4% 14% Communications SPIE Sud-Ouest Infrastructure 4% 29% Commercial sector SPIE Nucléaire 11.4% 9% 15% SPIE Sud-Est Local and regional authorities SPIE Benelux Revenue by subsidiary Revenue by market Total: €3,725 M Total: €3,725 M SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 07 Media release: 2009 results up 6% EBIT In 2008 €172.9 M In 2009 €182.5 M In 2009, EBIT rose by 6% to the Group’s target of €182.5 million With EBIT representing 4.9% of revenue, SPIE is positioned among the industry leaders. The balance sheet again improved in 2009. With negative working capital requirement for the fourth year in a row, the Group’s cash ﬂow exceeded targets. Net debt declined sharply for the year, lowering the debt-to-EBITDA ratio to 3.2. European advertising campaign announcing SPIE’s 2009 results. 7.6% 13.2% 6.1% Communication systems and facilities management Rest of the world Mechanical engineering 12% 4.1% Nuclear services 25.4% HVAC engineering Rest of Europe* 8.8% 13% Oil and gas Electronic building security services 4.1% Industrial processes 11.5% and automation External 61.4% networks France 32.8% General electrical installations Revenue by region Revenue by business Total: €3,725 M Total: €3,725 M *Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 08 INTERVIEW WITH GAUTHIER LOUETTE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF SPIE How do you view 2009? in unit sales. The 3% decline in organic growth was It was an unusual year that I would characterise as a year offset by acquisitions financed entirely out of cash flow. of transition for SPIE. After a strong carryover in orders Approximately ten companies were acquired in Europe, from 2008, the second half of 2009 was more chalincluding WHS, a leading British provider of electrical lenging, with performance varying from one market to and instrumentation services to the energy sector. Our another. Projects were cancelled or postponed, espeEBIT margin stood at 4.9% of revenue, ranking us cially in industry, while our businesses made solid among the best in our business. We continued to pay advances in some markets, such as energy. The same down debt, reducing our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio from variances were apparent at regional level. The United 3.5 to 3.2, a level of debt generally found among compaKingdom, for example, was hard hit by the financial crisis nies that have not been acquired by management. while other European countries were relatively spared. In a weakened economic environment, our teams had to How did SPIE perform from one region to another? demonstrate a great deal of initiative and responsiveIn Western Europe, our environmental services business ness to meet their margin objectives. Paradoxically, I turned in a satisfactory performance despite the region’s would say that we emerged from this challenging year recessionary economy. In the Netherlands and France, stronger than before, thanks to adjustment measures we were involved in carbon capture and storage pilot and a more flexible organisation. We now need to move projects for industry customers. In Portugal, we estabbeyond this phase, which will be our challenge in 2010. lished a forefront presence in water treatment, a business that grew by 25% year on year. In the United Many companies in your sector were negatively Kingdom, application of the low-carbon agenda led to impacted in 2009. How were SPIE’s results? substantial order intake in the commercial sector. More We performed relatively well, given the sharp contraction broadly, we took part in major renewable energy projects in our markets and the strong pressure on prices. involving photovoltaic solar energy systems, positive Revenue was maintained at €3.7 billion, down slightly energy buildings, hydroelectric power plants, offshore from 2008, while EBIT again improved despite a decline wind farms, and biomass production systems. In interSPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 09 Being independent allows us to remain open, stable and resilient and to cultivate our core values of local service, responsibility and performance. These values underpin a community of entrepreneurs representing many different cultures and nationalities. Full interview with Gauthier Louette on France Info SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 10 The green economy has become essential for those who shape and manage our living environment. The green economy simply means integrating carbon constraints – or more generally, resource restraints – into the overall economic picture. national markets, where our oil and gas business The effects of the current crisis are more than just accounts for more than 6% of EBIT, we were able to take temporary. They reflect a major disruption in the advantage of operators’ environmental concerns about global economy. How are you planning to adapt to this the need to reduce flaring and make platforms more situation? energy efficient. Global economic problems are due mainly to the shortcomings of the development model in a world of limited How do you explain these results? Is it the solidity of resources. Our planet is threatened and if we wait any your business model or are there other factors to take longer we’ll jeopardise the quality of life of future generainto consideration? tions. Given this situation, the green economy has Our business model is especially well suited to the become essential for those who shape and manage our current period of uncertainty. We have a broad portfolio living environment. The green economy simply means of relatively non-cyclical, non-capital intensive busiintegrating carbon constraints – or more generally nesses. Nonetheless, we’re also faced with a fluctuating resource restraints – into the overall economic picture. economic situation, shaped by a recalibration of That’s precisely the direction in which we’ve been customer strategies and significant changes in publicmoving in recent years, working with customers to sector policies. I’m thinking, for example, of France’s develop clean or renewable energy solutions and to optiEconomic Modernisation Law (LME), which has led us mise their use of energy and raw material resources. to revise our procurement policies thereby protecting What’s new is an emerging global market that wants us working capital requirement. Other internal initiatives are to align our product and service portfolio with current also essential to withstanding the recession. These priorities, be a source of innovative solutions and more include ensuring management and organisational effectively take into account today’s standards and quality, carefully choosing our tenders, effectively regulations. managing risk and rigorously controlling overheads. In all of these areas, we’ve launched improvement processes and will continue to be highly vigilant, deploying appropriate measures. P. 68 SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 11 INTERVIEW WITH GAUTHIER LOUETTE, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF SPIE SPIE isn’t the only company in your industry that is focusing on the green economy. In the end, isn’t it a In 2009, SPIE grew through question of time-to-market? acquisitions It’s hard to improvise in this area. In 2003, SPIE signed the United Nations Global Compact and in 2007, we became FRANCE SPIE Ouest-Centre the first company in France to be awarded an energy-effiSPIE Île-de-France • Angot and Atec Energie – Nord-Ouest Energy Electrical installations ciency label by the National Association of Electrical and Environmental Engineering Companies (SERCE). In addi• MOUTY – Electrical SPIE Sud-Est installations for industrial tion to more broadly extending our environmental manage• GTEC – Electrical installations and commercial facilities ment system, for the past three years we’ve been calculating • FPEE – Utility distribution the carbon footprint of our operations. Today, our efforts and plumbing services UNITED KINGDOM focus on the green value chain, from sustainable purchasing for exhibition centres SPIE UK SPIE Sud-Ouest practices and improved working procedures to staff • WHS – Electrical and training initiatives and the integration of environmental • EMCS – HVAC engineering instrumentation installations • Thermi Automation – HVAC protection measures into our operations. These measures engineering include eco-managing vehicle fleets, recycling waste, • FICA – Industrial reducing energy and resource consumption and printing refrigeration processes documents on request. Aligning our products and services • BEA – Industrial power • SOMINTEL – Installation 2009 revenue from acquisitions with environmental challenges is just one part of our of telecommunication (pro forma) commitment. First and foremost, we need to view our busiequipment nesses differently. That’s why new indicators have been 68% SPIE Est UK: €67 M introduced. Thanks to our initial carbon footprints, we’ve learned, for example, that SPIE emits 190 grams of carbon • ARM-IRM – Automated electromechanical systems dioxide for ever euro of revenue generated. P. 71 32 % P. 69 France: €32 M SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 12 Your company operates in around 30 countries and is to technical issues, it involves a deep-seated transforalso one of the few in the industry that has affirmed its mation of our actions and attitudes. We’re constantly independence. What challenges are you faced with confronting this challenge at all levels of the organisation and what are your strategic priorities? – from technicians on the frontline to the senior manageSPIE has been strongly rooted in Europe for more than a ment team. We’ve already launched a number of ambicentury yet has developed in the international markettious projects in this area. place through its energy business. Being independent allows us to remain open, stable and resilient and to Are your customers ready to accompany you in this cultivate our core values of local service, responsibility adventure? and performance. These values underpin a community Our customers are no different from us. They have taken of entrepreneurs representing many different cultures a realistic look at what’s happening and are attempting to and nationalities. We’re committed to pursuing our reconcile their profitability goals with the challenges of development with pragmatism and determination. This sustainable development. In today’s world, we all know implies adapting to the emergence of a new resource that business performance is necessary but not suffieconomy, which represents a major change. We have to cient in itself. We need to give meaning to our actions and clear up a misunderstanding about “green” growth: to engage ourselves fully in a process of economic and growth necessarily means using more natural resources. social transformation that we can neither ignore nor Our businesses will help to develop a green economy in avoid. We want to share our entrepreneurial spirit by which growth is still possible. leveraging our expertise to ensure that customers’ projects are successful. We’re fortunate in that we know Are your teams ready for this change? their businesses inside and out. It’s up to us to provide I fully believe that our teams are ready to meet this them with exemplary service and effective support in exciting challenge. For example, safety has been one of meeting their energy and environmental challenges. our top priorities for many years and our accident rate is We’re pursuing this commitment forcefully and fervently one of the lowest in the business. The transition toward by delivering solutions that can be immediately applied a green economy is just as important for us. In addition in all business sectors. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 13 INTERVIEW WITH GAUTHIER LOUETTE, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF SPIE 2009 / 2008 REVENUE (PRO FORMA) BY STRATEGIC SEGMENT: AN OVERALL DECLINE OF 3% EXCLUDING ACQUISITIONS €M 60 +14% 30 -3% -7% -23%* +9% -1% -3% 0 +12 -4 +59 -30 -60 -45 -56 -55 -90 -120 -91 -123 -150 Multitechnical EU excl. UK Nuclear Communications Oil & Gas Total services UK Services *-14% excluding the currency effect In a weakened A DYNAMIC ACQUISITIONS STRATEGY REVENUE OF ACQUIRED COMPANIES (FULL YEAR IN €MILLIONS) economic environment, 2004 7* 54 our teams had 2005 7* 97 to demonstrate a great 2006 5* 36 2007 11* 625 deal of initiative 2008 17* 215 and responsiveness 2009 11* 99 to meet their margin *Number of companies acquired objectives. RESILIENT MARGINS 3,747 3,725 REVENUE (€M) 3,460 3,500 EBIT (€M) 3,000 200 182.5 2,691 172.9 2,500 2,353 137.5 150 2,174 2,000 96.9 100 76.8 1,500 49.9 50 SPIE Shareholding 2.3% 3.3% 3.6% 4.0% 4.6% 4.9% 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 14 SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM WORKING TRANSPARENTLY WITH THE ENTIRE ORGANISATION 2 1 4 3 5 1 Gauthier Louette 3 Yves Compañy 5 Pascal Poncet Chairman and Chief Executive Managing Director, Managing Director, Officer, SPIE SA SPIE Oil & Gas Services SPIE Est (France) and Germany 2 Thierry Baussart 4 Alfredo Zarowsky Managing Director, Strategy and Development Director, SPIE Sud-Est SPIE SA SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 15 7 8 6 9 13 11 12 10 14 6 Pierre Vanstoflegatte 9 Thierry Smagghe 12 Gilles Brazey Managing Director, SPIE Sud-Ouest Human Resources Director, Managing Director, (France), Portugal and Spain SPIE SA SPIE Communications 7 Denis Chêne 10 Francis Butel 13 Philippe Cosson Finance and Administration Managing Director, Managing Director, Director, SPIE SA SPIE Nucléaire SPIE Île-de-France Nord-Ouest 8 Grahame Ludlow 11 Patrick Waterkeyn 14 Jean-Louis Voillot Chairman, SPIE UK Managing Director, Managing Director, SPIE Ouest-Centre SPIE Benelux (France) and Morocco SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 16 EUROPE Belgium France Netherlands United Kingdom Germany Spain Portugal Switzerland SPIE, EUROPEAN OBJECTIVES… 75 NATIONALITIES, 400 LOCATIONS, SPIE locations 31 COUNTRIES, 28,500 EMPLOYEES SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 17 AFRICA ASIA & PACIFIC Nigeria Libya Thailand Vietnam China Morocco Congo Brunei Malaysia Algeria Indonesia Gabon Angola MIDDLE EAST SOUTH AMERICA Kuwait Iraq Iran Venezuela Kazakhstan Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates Yemen Qatar Sultanate of Oman … A FOREFRONT PLAYER IN OIL AND GAS SERVICES SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 18 SPIE, a recognised expert in green energy ///// RENEWABLE ENERGIES In Gang, in northern Belgium, solar energy specialist Ikaros contracted with SPIE Belgium to install 36,000 sq.m of panels on the roofs of buildings belonging to Van Hoorebeke Timber, a wood importer. The project involved evenly distributing some 6,700 photovoltaic panels since the roof, which is made of Eternit®, can support a weight of only 100 kg/sq.m. SPIE and the Green Office® project ///// POSITIVE ENERGY SPIE Île-de-France Nord-Ouest is taking part in the Green Office® project, the first large-scale positive energy building programme in France, located in Meudon near Paris. This forward-looking project managed by Bouygues Immobilier aims to sharply reduce consumption, produce energy on site and ensure eco-friendly building management. SPIE provides a range of services, including energy production from three biomass cogeneration power plants, the ventilation network and air processing units; the installation of ceiling coverings with integrated heater tarps and fans. THE YEAR’S HIGHLIGHTS A NEW STAGE IN OUR COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT SPIE news on your mobile SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 19 SPIE outfits a biodiesel plant ///// NEW ENERGIES In Spain’s Andalusia region, SPIE Ibérica teams assembled mechanical systems, including piping, equipment and metal structures, for Biosur’s biodiesel plant in the port of Huelva. The project required considerable human and technical resources to meet high quality and safety standards. Remote management of lighting systems SPIE synergy ///// ENERGY EFFICIENCY The city of Sisteron has received two ///// GREEN ENERGY PRODUCTION awards for the lighting system that Industrial power and control systems illuminates the Citadelle and the were installed by TechnoSPIE Baume mountain. It shared first prize and SPIE Sud-Ouest teams for a in the 2009 Lighting Competition biomethanation plant built by VALORGA organised by the National Association International in Abrunheira, Portugal. of Electrical and Environmental The project involved assembling, testing Engineering Companies (SERCE) and and commissioning the installation. also received a local award presented Every year, the facility will process by the French Building Federation (FFB), 120,000 tonnes of organic waste the Association of French Mayors, collected through waste-sorting Dexia and France’s Cultural Heritage programmes in four communities Foundation (FP). Designed by to produce biogas that will generate SPIE Sud-Est teams, the lighting system 4,200 MWh of electrical power. complies with very strict environmental constraints as well as energy-reduction objectives. SPIE wins another Grand Prize for Safety ///// SAFETY For the second year in a row, SPIE Sud-Ouest won the Grand Prize for Safety awarded by the National Association of Electrical and Environmental Engineering Companies (SERCE) and the Public Works Prevention Trade Organisation (OPPBTP). The award recognises the subsidiary’s lost-time injury rate, which is among the lowest in the industry at 2.8 for 4.5 million hours worked. In competition for the first time, SPIE Nucléaire won the top prize for its temporary worker safety programmes. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 20 BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, REAFFIRMING OUR RESPONSIBILITY SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 21 P. 22 Social and environmental commitments Safety excellence award for SPIE Belgium. P. 26 Managing responsibly SPIE and sustainable development The green economy represents a unique opportunity to reconcile the development of Signing of the Agefiph SPIE Sud-ouest agreement. human activity with resource depletion and P. 30 Communicating responsibly global warming. Thanks to its extensive local presence, operations that improve the living environment, and the recurring nature of its businesses, SPIE leverages a business model that is fully aligned with this challenge facing Accessibility of publications in PDF format our planet. Innovation and responsibility. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 22 EMBRACING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In 2009, in an environment shaped by the redeployment of the economy to integrate environmental challenges, SPIE pursued its sustainable development initiatives, which are fully aligned with its business model. Committed to responsible development for many years, • Eco-managing processes, from sustainable purchases SPIE intends to fully integrate energy and climate to electrical waste recycling and reductions in the carbon concerns into its operations by activating a number of footprint. levers: • Reaffirming its corporate values, with support mea• Optimising management of its energy and environsures to help customers achieve lasting change. mental assets, backed by a full range of expert capabilities in energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. • Adjusting its skills clusters to take into account the APPLYING AN ECO-RESPONSIBLE challenges of the green economy, through services BUSINESS MODEL tailored to each business sector. Over the years, SPIE subsidiaries have been engaged in initiatives as part of their ISO 14001 environmental P. 70 management systems. To spearhead SPIE’s development, these measures were intensified in 2009 in such P. 68 areas as work-related travel, waste sorting, energy audits and monitoring of regulations and standards. SPIE Sud-Est, for example, has embarked on the Ginkgo Expertise in new project to integrate social and environmental responsibility into all aspects of its business. Deploying a collaboregulatory requirements rative approach in which each individual becomes a SPIE has joined with APAVE, the French risk control sustainable development enabler, the project covers agency, to create an intelligence unit that diligently tracks carpooling and alternative transportation systems, as regulatory documents in order to stay attuned with well as environmentally friendly actions, eco-driving the latest changes in safety and environmental techniques and sustainable purchasing practices that requirements. A hotline has been set up to answer can be applied every day. questions from the frontline. The system’s efficiency At corporate level, SPIE continued to calculate the has led a number of customers, including France’s Atomic carbon footprint of its operations, with the goal of and Alternative Energies Commission and Totalgaz, to contract with SPIE to manage regulatory developments reducing CO2 emissions. It also pursued its commitment for equipment installed or maintained on their sites. to sustainable purchasing. Initiatives in this area are designed to reduce packaging, enhance the environP. 69 SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 23 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management Committee Acquisitions and The Ethics Committee The Management Committee, which Disposals Committee The Ethics Committee is comprised meets once a month, is comprised The Acquisitions and Disposals of the Chairman and Chief Executive of the Chairman and Chief Executive Committee studies proposed acquisitions Officer, the Human Resources Director Officer, the Finance and Administration or disposals totalling more than and the Sustainable Development Director, the Human Resources Director, €5 million and representing revenue Director. It meets periodically to analyse the Strategy and Development Director, of over €15 million. It then submits reported data and decides, when and the subsidiary Managing Directors. a written report to the Board of Directors. necessary on appropriate actions It defines and deploys the company’s to enhance employee commitment to the Group’s guiding principles and operating strategy and coordinates initiatives. The Compensation Committee to upgrade processes as part of The Compensation Committee makes a continuous improvement programme. recommendations to the Board Audit Committee of Directors on the compensation The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s of Gauthier Louette, Denis Chêne internal procedures with regard and other executives, and on any to financial commitments, gives significant changes in collective an opinion on draft financial statements agreements or the Group’s employee and accounting policies, and shortlists relations strategy. It also informs candidates for appointment as the Board of decisions concerning the statutory auditors. managers other than officers. The Risk Assessment Committee The Risk Assessment Committee authorises project feasibility studies, capital projects and legal proceedings, and ensures compliance with internal competitive bid procedures. It meets at least twice a year. P. 69 mental quality of materials used, and improve recycling backed by a decentralised approach involving skills of electrical equipment. In France, the partnership with clusters and specialised committees. This approach Récylum has increased the amount of recycled fluoresenables the development of capabilities adapted to each cent tubes and light bulbs from 17 tonnes to 40 tonnes business sector and the transfer of skills throughout in three years. In second-half 2009, SPIE helped to set Europe. It is also supported by the wholehearted involveup a new channel for processing special equipment, ment of employees, who want to improve their jobsuch as emergency light fittings, video surveillance equipment and traffic lights. This experiment proved so successful that it will be extended in 2010. DESIGNING INNOVATIVE, LASTING SOLUTIONS Technological innovation has enormous potential to improve environmental performance. In the commercial A major advance in low-carbon vehicles ehicles sector, SPIE is a major player in low-energy and energyplus buildings. It was also the first French company in its In Strasbourg, SPIE is involved in an experimental low-carbon sector to receive the HQE Exploitation environmental vehicle project alongside French power utility EDF and Toyota. In this project backed by municipal authorities, the Agency label for its sustainable asset maintenance programmes. for Environment and Energy Management (ADEME) and For local and regional authorities, SPIELUM® offers an the French government, SPIE is among the test users chosen array of solutions to ensure environmentally friendly to conduct experiments with plug-in hybrids and vehicle urban management programmes. These solutions range recharging systems. More broadly, SPIE is a member from public lighting systems to the installation of photoof a group of companies commissioned by the French voltaic panels, for example on school buildings. For government to develop specifications for an EV intended industry customers, SPIE has built a reputation as an for business use. The goal is to support the emergence of a expert in variable speed systems for rotating machines, manufacturing channel to meet demand for this type of vehicle. which account for up to one-third of energy consumpAlready, SPIE has pledged to purchase 750 EVs by 2015. tion in the sector. SPIE’s commitment to innovation is P. 69 SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 24 The Quality, Safety and Environment network’s sustainable development forum, during which employees tested best frontline practices. specific competencies. Every year, an innovation contest is held to identify new approaches, not only with regard to technologies but also in the areas of services, organiThe green economy: at the heart sational structures and methods. of our commitments and convictions ENSURING SAFETY AND WELL-BEING Developed by the Management Committee in 2009, Day after day, SPIE is committed to creating a work envia project entitled “SPIE, a player in the green economy” ronment that is safe and adapted to the requirements of will be deployed in subsidiary operating units in 2010 each business. In this regard, safety is the company’s with the goal of achieving three main objectives: fully integrating environmental challenges into corporate most important obligation. Three-quarters of employees strategy, pursuing opportunities to develop work under safety management systems that have been the businesses and improve operating procedures, certified to OHSAS 18001 or equivalent standards, with and involving team members in a motivating, federating a lost-time injury rate that is among the lowest in the projects aligned with our corporate values. industry. This rate was reduced to 5.1 in 2009, thanks to ongoing efforts that were recognised by a number of awards received during the year. These include the SERCE-OPPBT Grand Prize for Safety in France; the Excellence in Safety award from Belgium’s High Council for Workplace Prevention; the Occupational Health and Safety Gold Award in the United Kingdom; and an award for outstanding contributions to workplace health and Units with environmental management systems certiﬁed to ISO safety in Portugal. SPIE is also committed to fostering 14001 standards (% of total employees) employee well-being on the job. In a recessionary economic environment, stress is an increasingly preva2009 65 lent job risk. In 2009, without waiting for new regulations to be adopted, SPIE launched prevention measures – 2008 62 defining indicators, introducing 360° reviews and stress2007 58 management training programmes for managers, publishing a booklet on ways of coping to raise aware2006 44 ness among employees, and conducting interviews and 2005 37 audits on the front line. In the area of health prevention, procedures for managing job-related illnesses were improved with initiatives to build awareness of musculoskeletal disorders based on ergonomic improvements in France, a work/study programme for electrical network hand-held electrical equipment. installers was created in partnership with a number of building trade associations and disability employment REAFFIRMING OUR CORPORATE VALUES services. In international markets, SPIE is also committed A sense of corporate responsibility, respect for others to respecting the principles of sustainable development and a spirit of solidarity are indispensable for people in its operations. In the oil and gas services sector, living in a community. Following the launch of the national framework agreements have been signed for Diversity Charter in 2008, the first diversity committee training local operators and technicians. After Yemen, meetings were held in 2009 to coordinate initiatives in Angola and Congo, new training centres were opened in such areas as gender parity and hiring the disabled. In Oman and Iran. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 25 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENTS THE GLOBAL COMPACT: AN INTERNATIONAL COMMITMENT SPIE joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2003, thereby committing to apply its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti corruption. PRINCIPLES EXAMPLES AT SPIE HUMAN RIGHTS • Businesses should support and respect the protection • OHSAS 18001 workplace prevention/safety management system. of internationally proclaimed human rights, within their sphere • National agreements in Africa and the Middle East to employ locals. of influence. • Ethics alert system. • Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association • A social dialogue organisation within the European Works Council. and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Agreement on health care expenses. • The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Diversity Charter. • The effective abolition of child labour. • Creation of a Diversity Committee. • The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment • Corporate social responsibility audit performed by Vigeo and occupation. at SPIE’s request. • Work-related stress prevention measures. • SPIE, partner of AcceDe project ENVIRONMENT • Business should support a precautionary approach • ISO 14001 environmental standard. to environmental challenges. • Extension of the carbon footprint programme. • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • Ico-management of the corporate fleet and instruction in responsibility. eco-driving techniques. • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally • Tests of low-carbon vehicles and a commitment to support their wider use. friendly technologies. • Energy efficiency label awarded by SERCE. • Energy audits. • A virtual library and printing on request of corporate publications. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Businesses are encouraged to combat all forms of corruption, • Handbook on ethical business practices. including extortion and bribery. • Participation in a leaflet on corruption prepared by the French Employers Association (MEDEF). • Strengthening of the services agreement procedure. More information on the Global Compact LOST-TIME INJURY RATE* INTEGRATED INTO FUTURE PROJECTS A key player in regional development, SPIE works with 2009 5.1 local and regional authorities, companies, and local organisations on an array of initiatives, ranging from 13.8 actions involving economic excellence centres to youth 2008 5.8 support programmes. In France, we support the annual Creativ’Est contest that awards prizes for innovative 15.0 projects and Lille’s “second-chance” school to help 2007 6.5 unemployed drop-outs find stable jobs and return to 15.9 mainstream society. Other projects are designed to improve practices at 2006 8.2 national or European level by more fully integrating the 17.8 economic and social challenges of sustainable development. We support several organisations involved in 2005 6.9 social responsibility initiatives, among them Vigeo, the 19.2 socially responsible rating agency, and ANVIE, a French association that encourages companies to view social SPIE Industry (source: SERCE**) * Number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked. sciences as a strategic resource. **France’s Association of Electrical and Environmental Engineering Companies. P. 68 SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 26 PROACTIVELY PLANNING FOR THE WORLD OF TOMORROW With many employment pools hard hit by the recession in 2009, SPIE chose to reaffirm its values of local service, responsibility and performance, motivating team members to find solutions and prepare for the future. Following a period of intensive hiring at SPIE, the recesDEVELOPING TRAINING AND APPRENTICESHIP sion affected our workforce in some sectors, such as PROGRAMMES heavy industry and manufacturing, with the impact Despite a reduction in overheads, training expenditure varying from one region of Europe to another. In response was maintained at 3.5% of payroll, amounting to around to this situation, human resources management teams €30 million, reflecting the Group’s commitment to focused on protecting jobs in the most severely threatenhancing employee skills, especially in businesses with ened regions by developing internal mobility opportunistrategic importance for the future, such as energy effities, creating gateways between businesses and ciency. Our Technology Institute pursued its training implementing voluntary separation support measures. initiatives, with around 15 customised modules, espeClose cooperation between and within subsidiaries and cially in innovation-driven fields like intelligent lighting with employee representatives made it possible to deal and radio-relay systems. with individual situations case by case and limit the number of dismissals. Apprenticeship programmes were also maintained. At the same time, 2009 was a year of contrasts. Jobs Apprentices accounted for more than 5% of the workwere created in dynamic markets like transportation, force in France and nearly 6% in fast-growing sectors energy and health care, as well as in maintenance like nuclear services. This dynamic was supported by services. Overall, the year saw a slight contraction in the the development of tutoring initiatives, which involved workforce to 28,468 at 31 December 2009, 3% lower not only training and skills transfers but also measures to than one year earlier. Nonetheless, 1,500 employees enhance perception of tutors within the company. Invited were hired during the year. This figure excludes acquisiby President Sarkozy to a reception at the Elysée Palace tions, which added more than 600 people to the workalong with around 50 other leading French companies, force, in particular WHS employees in the United SPIE pledged to pursue its work/study programmes, Kingdom. The number of temporary employees declined setting a target of 1,000 additional contracts by year-end from 15% to 10% of the total. 2010. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 27 MANAGING RESPONSIBLY Sharing expertise through apprenticeships 1 The work/study programme deployed for many years by SPIE Nederland is intended for both new recruits and more experienced employees. Training sessions are conducted on the work site (80%) and at school (20%). In 2009, 63 employees took part in work/study initiatives in the Netherlands. 2 On 15 July, President Nicolas Sarkozy hosted a reception for around 50 French CEOs who support apprenticeship policies and some 500 young people enrolled in work/study programmes. Ten young apprentices representing the different SPIE subsidiaries accepted the invitation. They were accompanied by Jean Monville, whose term as SPIE Chairman ended on 31 December 2009. 1 2 SUPPORTING RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT Local management plays an important role in organising skills on work sites, especially in times of crisis when maintaining team alignment and motivation is primordial. In the Île-de-France Nord-Ouest region, a programme on management techniques and competencies was launched. Among the topics covered were delegating authority, listening to team members and rewarding initiative and achievement. The same approach was taken in the Ouest-Centre region, where the programme focused on developing managerial attitudes with the Team spirit to overcome the crisis support of front-line contacts. A management training In response to problems in the industry sector, job protection course that pursued similar goals was deployed in measures were the priority. At Port de Bouc, near Marseille, Portugal. SPIE Sud-Est enacted an action plan jointly with employee representatives designed to avoid direct dismissals. The plan In other European countries, the focus was on the included redeployments to other positions through an intra-subsidiary changing role of project leaders, who serve as key local mobility plan, transfers to other subsidiaries in the region like SPIE Nucléaire, and voluntary separation plans. In Dunkirk, where players within the organisation. In the Netherlands, for the metallurgy industry was hard hit, SPIE Île-de-France Nord-Ouest example, an original approach was introduced. Instead was able to reassign employees to other jobs thanks to geographic of the traditional method of developing a theoretical mobility measures and gateways between businesses. model of the perfect manager, experienced project These reassignments were carried out on a case-by-case basis, leaders with strong results were identified and their once each employee’s skills and ability to take on new responsibilities practices were analysed with the goal of enhancing had been clearly ascertained. organisational efficiency. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 28 SPIE recently expanded its Ambassadors network with schools whose curricula are aligned with the Group’s current businesses and its future development paths. Including both operational and support staff members, the Ambassadors return to their school for forums or specially organised meetings to motivate and attract young talent and build awareness of SPIE, its values and businesses. More specifically, Ambassadors describe their skills and responsibilities, hold classes, organise worksite tours, present opportunities for advancement within the organisation, and launch or take part in partnerships or special events. Deployment of the Ambition Manager programme • SPIE Nucléaire received a first award for its work/study continued in 2009, with an international leadership policies and programmes for older employees. training module for high-level managers that was • A jobs, skills and diversity agreement was signed with dispensed to 15 employees representing seven different SPIE Sud-Ouest trade union representatives. The agreenationalities. ment covered personnel planning and development, disability hiring measures, gender parity, older IMPROVING EMPLOYEE RELATIONS AND BENEFITS employees and telecommuting. Significant progress was made during the year in various • SPIE Oil & Gas Services extended its human resources diversity initiatives: management procedures to include all local people • Following the drafting of the Diversity Charter in 2008, working for SPIE. the first Diversity Committee meetings were held with representatives from the different subsidiaries. In the area of employee relations, an agreement was signed on union representation that is aligned with recent French legislation. The purpose is to clarify the procedure for determining which unions will be authorised to negotiate Group-level agreements. Based on SPIE’s prior-year earnings, €19 million was paid in 2009 to employees in France through profitsharing and incentive bonus programmes. An incentive bonus was also paid to SPIE Nederland employees. DEPLOYING THE SPIE BRAND Web-based hiring initiatives At a time when hiring is down, it’s important to keep promoting the company to prepare for the future. That’s Launched in 2009, our online human resources website why the school Ambassadors network was continued. – spie-job com – was designed to make the hiring process The programme brings together former students and as efficient as possible through partnerships with specialised human resources managers. In France, SPIE employment sites like Keljob and Monster. Depending Communications has forged close ties with the INSA on their capabilities and interests, site visitors can view job engineering school in Lyon, developing training modules offers from around the world that are updated in real time. and sponsoring students who may be hired in the future. The site includes an extensive selection of video testimonials so that they can also learn about each trade in more detail. In the UK, a partnership was created with the Townley Fully aligned with our values, the site is handicappedGrammar School for Girls in Bexleyheath. The partneraccessible, in particular for the sight and hearing impaired, ship is intended not only to provide internships for and is the first human resources website to be awarded France’s possible future job applicants but also to familiarise official AccessiWeb label. pupils with the different types of jobs available within our organisation. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 29 MANAGING RESPONSIBLY A Diversity Charter to “Combine our differences” Total employees at year-end As part of our commitment to responsible management, a Diversity Charter was published 29,318 in 2008, followed by an array of practical initiatives 27,352 28,468 in 2009. One of them was a film entitled Combine our differences that illustrates our improvement targets in four key areas: gender parity, generational harmony, diversity of origins, and hiring the disabled. In particular, a large number of initiatives to hire and support the disabled were pursued during the year. These included agreements with employee representatives, information guides, hire-the-handicapped forums and the “SPIE, Handi’engagée” (SPIE, Handi-commited) communication campaign. All of these initiatives were closely monitored by the Diversity Committee. 2007 2008 2009 Employees by country 62% 1% France Other 1.8% Asia 5.7% Middle East 7.5% Africa 22% Europe Employees by business 73.9% Multitechnical regional subsidiaries 5.5% SPIE Nucléaire 13.4% SPIE Oil & Gas Services 7.2% SPIE Communications SPIE diversity charter SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 30 ACCESSIBLE, ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY INFORMATION In an information society concerned about the challenges of sustainable development, corporate communication has a special responsibility. It must ensure environmentally friendly editorial policies while facilitating communication with a full range of stakeholders, including the disabled. Publishing brochures, reports, guides and other corpomarketing documents. It includes an online print-onrate documents and organising seminars, conferences, demand service that can meet requests for corporate trade shows and other events have an impact on the documents within 48 hours. The complete POD process, environment. These activities consume energy, paper, involving high-definition digital printing on 100% recypackaging and other natural resources, use inks, cled paper, complies with all environment-related standsolvents and other hazardous products, and produce ards currently applicable to the printing industry and waste and transport-related pollution. Despite the reduces consumption of paper, energy and chemicals to improvements in “green” printing technologies and envia strict minimum. ronmentally friendly forest management practices, reducing greenhouse gases remains a major challenge Digital accessibility is another key area of responsible for corporate publication teams. SPIE has chosen to communication. A number of innovations have made it meet that challenge through its e-communication easier for the sight-impaired to access our corporate policies. documents. These include full speech-synthesis versions of e-hyperdocuments – an electronic format CHANGING CORPORATE PUBLICATION PRACTICES with enhanced content – that are available in both French SPIE was the first company to publish a “responsible and English and stored in the SPIE virtual library. annual report,” which recently received the Grand Prize Alongside Atalan, a company committed to making the from the French Association for Corporate Journalists Internet more disability-friendly, SPIE is a founding and Company Publications (UJJEF). For several years, partner in the AcceDe project, which has two purposes: we have been committed to reducing the impact of our to create and freely distribute practical information to publications through innovative communication tools companies that want to make PDF documents handicap and techniques. In 2009, this environmentally friendly accessible while also raising awareness of these issues approach was extended to cover all corporate and among communication professionals. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 31 COMMUNICATING RESPONSIBLY Supporting the spread of culture and the arts For ten years, SPIE has Weber and Liszt, an supported the Royaumont annotated score Foundation in carrying out of Debussy’s Pelléas et its outstanding artistic Melisande, and original projects. The recently sheet music by major figures opened François Lang music of the French Baroque library provides artists period, like Couperin and musicologists with and Rameau, and the a work environment that German romantic movement, is unique in Europe. from Beethoven to Schubert In 2006, we extended and Schumann. our corporate patronage At the library’s inauguration, programme with the decision SPIE successfully tested to finance operations an application developed of the library that houses for its virtual library the François Lang music that enables the public collection. Assembled just to sample online musical before the Second World works whose scores are SPIE, a founding partner of the AcceDe project War, this important private kept in the Royaumont music collection comprises Foundation collection. and a pioneer in accessible virtual documents nearly 1,300 handwritten On the screen, users can Today, it’s possible to “tag” documents in PDF format and printed documents turn the pages of the scores, to make them more widely accessible. Screen readers used extending from the 16th to which are synchronised by the blind and sight-impaired include functions for reading the 20th century. It includes with one or more recordings and searching tagged PDF files. However, the technique of musical manuscripts of the work and enhanced tagging is not widely known and quality information explaining and letters from Fauré, with informative multimedia how to tag files is inexistent. Launched in 2009 by Atalan, Debussy, Berlioz, content. the AcceDe project is designed to provide tagging instructions and raise awareness of document-accessibility issues among communication professionals. The project represents a new phase in our strategy of communicating more effectively with all stakeholders by always providing them with enhanced user value. The 2009 annual report and Rencontres, our in-house newsletter, were used ou as a test for the project to integrate accessibility recommendations into the very With the support of Atalan, access to the corporate first stages of publication design. intranet and SPIE websites has also been improved. The Already available in a tagged new human resources website was awarded an PDF version, the 2008 annual AccessiWeb silver label by the BrailleNet association. report is pointing the way more accessible virtual to m documents. The initial doc prototype was developed pr w with Bee Buzziness. SPIE awarded the AccessiWeb silver label SPIE was awarded the AccessiWeb silver label for its spie-job.com website, the first human resources site posting online job vacancies to receive this recognition. A measure of site accessibility for disabled Web users, the label is fully in line with our digital access initiatives. www.spie-job.com SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 32 OUR BUSINESSES, DELIVERING LASTING SOLUTIONS Every day, tens of thousands of customers throughout Europe and around the world put their trust in SPIE to support them closely in their projects, providing solutions that are technically efficient, cost effective and socially responsible. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 33 34 LOCAL AND REGIONAL AUTHORITIES Support for “green” policies, improvements in the urban living environment, and sustainable regional development solutions. 40 ENERGY Urban eco-mobility solutions, innovative services for energy system operators, sustainable management of transport and telecommunications infrastructure. 48 INFRASTRUCTURE Project support for infrastructure operators, safety and security installations, environmental stewardship. 54 COMMERCIAL SECTOR Development of buildings and their operations, eco-management of property assets, high value-added services. 60 INDUSTRY Utilities and process management, energy use monitoring, environmental initiatives. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 34 LOCAL AND REGIONAL AUTHORITIES, INNOVATING FOR COMMUNITIES Find our services for local and regional authorities on www.myspie.eu and on MySPIE. TOTAL €559 M SPIE and local authorities SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 35 Urban development Treatment plants WiFi terminals Urban video surveillance Public lighting Urban transportation Traffic lights Luminance measurement 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 Real-time user information for bus and tramway arrival, departure and waiting times in Lijn, Belgium. Information is also relayed via an audio system and a Braille button for the sight-impaired. 2 Support for the Pays de la Loire Regional Council in its ambitious project to equip secondary schools with computers and develop IT use in teaching. 3 Christmas lighting in Toulouse using LED lamps that reduce energy use by 40%. 4 Video surveillance system in the Geneva Cathedral for the Swiss Federal Council. 5 Electrical power supply and supervision of a residual water treatment plant in Portugal’s Algarve region. 6 According to a 2009 Arcet Notation®* study, the Sénart intercommunity council near Paris considerably improved its sustainable development performance, thanks in part to a public-private partnership with SPIE for municipal lighting systems. With the development of eco-labels, responsible purchasing policies, carbon footprint analyses and insertion programmes for the underprivileged, local and regional authorities are more committed than ever to enacting economic and social programmes aligned with the principles of sustainable development. Moreover, they are also deeply involved in inventing a new urban and regional living environment, with the support of all key stakeholders. *A public sector social and environmental ratings agency SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 36 SHARING A VISION FOR THE SUSTAINABLE CITY Managing today’s cities means reconciling a range of economic, technical, social and environmental issues. Working with public officials, SPIE is helping to create a new vision of urban and regional development based on existing solutions already deployed in urban areas throughout Europe. OUR OBJECTIVES PROMOTE ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE POLICIES IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF CITY LIFE SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT While the recession and budget restrictions resources backed by a deep-rooted local prescontinued to weigh on local and regional tax ence and solid experience in urban planning and revenue in 2009, the year was also shaped by the regional development. adoption of the EU’s Energy and Climate Package and more environmentally responsible policies in COMBATING GLOBAL WARMING all areas of urban management. In response to The first French company to receive an energy this dual challenge, the priority was given to efficiency label from the National Association of energy and environmental efficiency, a sector that Electrical and Environmental Engineering offers substantial economic opportunities espeCompanies (SERCE), SPIE devises solutions that cially in the commercial, urban transport and combine personalised consulting services, legal, public lighting markets. At the same time, local financial and administrative engineering, equipand regional authorities want to respond more ment reconfiguration and the optimisation of effectively to the challenges of responsible citienergy sources. To more effectively manage zenship. These include unified communication energy use in primary and secondary schools, solutions that facilitate exchanges, the use of communities are increasingly turning to photorenewable energies in public buildings and initiavoltaic-generated electricity. In 2009, for example, tives to promote alternative modes of transportaSPIE covered the roofs of two secondary schools P. 68 tion. A committed stakeholder to these changes, in France’s southwestern Charente district with SPIE delivers an array of skills, methods and state-of-the-art solar panels. The system will SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 37 LOCAL AND REGIONAL AUTHORITIES 1 2 1 In Lyon, multitechnical maintenance services are provided for 600 public buildings, including municipal government facilities as well as historic structures like the Opera House and the Fine Arts Museum. 2 Electrical, mechanical, sanitary and specialty installations for the Liverpool National Museum. Our environmental friendly systems deploy sustainable technical solutions, including building energy and metre management, thermal imaging and co-generation facilities. 3 The city of Angers opted for an intelligent system to manage its car park facilities. The solution centralises data and controls needed to manage and supervise all of the installations. These include video surveillance and digital recording systems, intercoms, car park pay terminals and space counters, fire detectors, elevator alarms, ventilation controls and energy management systems. Real-time indicators help to optimise the deployment of resources for maintenance and system operations. 3 generate 300,000 kWh of electrical power a year Total Local and Regional Authorities: €559 M while reducing carbon emissions by 450 tonnes. Tailored to meet sustainable development criteria, Breakdown by segment these solutions are supported by a comprehensive energy and environmental performance 24% management system. The system involves clasCommunication systems and facilities management sifying sites by type and by energy performance (as measured in kWh per square metre), deter4% mining energy savings objectives, recommending Mechanical capital projects and calculating return on investengineering 15% ment timeframes, and defining the number of Public lighting energy savings certificates that will be delivered. 17% HVAC engineering Every aspect is rigorously analysed with the goal and fluids of signing an energy performance contract that includes a long-term commitment to reducing 6% 34% energy use and CO2 emissions. Electronic building General electrical security installations SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 38 A variable-intensity lighting system aligned with traffic flows In France, the Île de Ré bridge has been equipped with three kilometres of self-cleaning light fixtures and a system that modulates light intensity depending on traffic flows. This SPIE solution has cut power use by half (or 103,000 kWh, thereby reducing carbon emissions by 11.24 tonnes a year) while improving user satisfaction, as lighting conditions are regularly adapted to driver needs. Moreover, light intensity can be adjusted remotely in the event of an accident. CITIES WHERE LIVING IS GOOD AND TRAVEL IS public transport traffic conditions in real time, EASY consult weather forecasts and take advantage of Whether renovating neighbourhoods, enhancing other innovative services including audio and the value of property assets or burying power Braille information systems for the sight-impaired. lines, SPIE deploys an integrated approach to SPIE has also developed innovative video protecurban development projects that comprises a tion solutions designed to make cities safer and range of technical, human and environmental urban lighting systems that showcase public factors. In the area of transportation, our solutions places. We also enhance the quality of city life by are designed to speed the movement of buses deploying IT solutions that make it easier for and tramways through traffic light management people to interact and communicate. From WiFi systems while also improving traveller service. In terminals in public places to broadband networks Lijn, Belgium, for example, residents can monitor that facilitate telecommuting and electronic exchanges, SPIE is helping to reduce the need for urban travel and promoting an interactive city An operational approach to change the quality of urban life environment. In northern France, municipal From the UN’s Agenda 21 programme to regional climate plans, environmental authorities in Roubaix renovated the city’s quality measures and carbon balance analyses, the sustainable development communications infrastructure in 2009 to improve criteria integrated into local and regional government policies are often difficult relations with constituents. Based on the principle to put into action. To support these policies, we provide a comprehensive of unified communications, this type of costapproach covering all aspects of a programme, whether technical, administrative, effective, high-return project has proven very financial or legal. Backed by extensive references from across Europe, popular in today’s cities as it promotes the develSPIE ensures the alignment and efficiency of action plans over the long term opment of new ways of working and by leveraging a broad range of skills in renovating neighbourhoods, developing communicating. public buildings, improving transport systems, managing environmental infrastructure and enhancing urban safety. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 39 LOCAL AND REGIONAL AUTHORITIES 1 2 3 1 As part of its commitment to reducing energy use, the town of Ay-sur-Moselle contracted with SPIE to deploy the City Networks solution, which allows remote management and measurement of streetlamps and lighting control panels. 2 The Nord-Pas de Calais Regional Council enlisted our support to optimise energy use in some 200 secondary schools. Co-contracting with Vizelia, SPIE was in charge of installing and commissioning equipment that enables real-time tracking of water, gas and electricity consumption. Using metres and remote collection systems, the software developed by Vizelia gathered data that is sent via the Internet to a secure platform. The goal is to identify possible malfunctions in order to more effectively control energy bills. 3 SPIE’s stand at the 2009 Exhibition for Mayors and Local Authorities, held in Paris at the Porte de Versailles on 17-19 November. MANAGING URBAN AND NEAR-URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE Optimising the management of public lighting systems is a good way to reduce both energy budgets and pollution. In eastern France, the town of Ay-sur-Moselle chose our City Networks solution. The system varies light intensity depending on the period and season and provides permanent Internet access to data so that savings can be monitored and incidents or breakdowns verified. As a result, this community of 1,550 people has already reduced its energy use by 30% to 35%. SPIE at the Mayors Exhibition in Paris Efforts to preserve the natural surroundings are Nearly 900 people visited SPIE’s stand at the 2009 supported by technical infrastructure designed to Exhibition for Mayors and Local Authorities in Paris. protect the environment. These include water This year’s event was dedicated mainly to energy efficiency, treatment and incineration plants, a field in which renewable energies and sustainable urban development. SPIE has recognised expertise throughout Two innovations were presented: Luxitronic, an onboard Europe. In Portugal, for example, a major wastevehicle system for measuring light intensity in a given water treatment project has been launched in community, and the Thermobât drone, which takes Algarve, one of the countries leading tourist infrared aerial photos of buildings for thermographic regions. The project involves the construction of a analysis. A lottery was held to select three communities treatment plant that complies with the latest envito receive free energy audits that use these innovations. ronmental standards. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 40 ENERGY, RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR PLANET Find our energy services on www.myspie.eu eu and on MySPIE. TOTAL €894 M SPIE and energy SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 41 Oil & gas Nuclear Renewable energies 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 Commissioning of a gas field and treatment plant in Sichuan Province, China for Sinopec. 2 Training in mechanical maintenance techniques for local workers in Angola. 3 Electrical and instrumentation upgrades related to the third ten-year inspections of 900 MW nuclear power plants, a total of 28 reactors, for Areva NP. 4 Design, equipment supply, assembly and commissioning of access control and site protection installations for the Flamanville 3 European Pressurised Reactor (EPR). 5 In Rotterdam, outfitting of a biomass energy plant that uses wood residue collected from businesses and households. The project involved the installation of equipment, piping, instruments and HVAC engineering systems. 6 Installation of a photovoltaic power plant on the roofs of three buildings at the Moulins de Kérollet farm cooperative in Arzal, Brittany. The system can produce 272,000 KWh of electrical power and reduce carbon emissions by 460 tonnes over a 20-year period. In response to the challenges of climate change and resource depletion, direct action needs to be taken to protect our fragile planet. Solutions already exist and will be deployed with the support of all energy stakeholders. The goal is ambitious – to reduce carbon emissions to one-quarter of current levels by 2050. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 42 MORE EFFECTIVELY MANAGING OUR NATURAL RESOURCES From exploration projects to oil field operations, SPIE is active around the world, responding to the technical, financial and environmental challenges that face oil and gas industry operators with services covering every phase of their investment’s life cycle. quality and project delivery objectives. This OUR OBJECTIVES mission is backed not only by a broad range of skills but also by an ability to rapidly deploy the SUPPORT OPERATORS’ PROJECTS necessary resources and competencies for any ENSURE INTEGRATED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT type of project. In 2009, as part of the broadbased Angola LNG project, our teams leveraged MANAGE ENVIRONMENTAL RISK their capabilities in electrical power, instrumentation and telecommunications to help Exxon, the operator, upgrade its gas pumping and treatment system. The project was especially complex since Despite a temporary slowdown in growth in 2009, offshore work had to be carried out in simultawhen oil prices averaged $50 a barrel, energy neous operations (SIMOPS) mode, which demand is expected to recover quickly, requiring required meticulous, precise planning to limit risks production capacity increases in the coming and minimise downtime. years. This situation is favourable to SPIE’s develMore broadly, SPIE continued to specialise its opment in fast-growing markets. In response, services. In Kuwait, for example, SPIE GULF was we’ve expanded our operations around the world, created to manufacture and repair tubular equipespecially in the Middle East where offices were ment and accessories for oil wells, drill rods and opened in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Libya. crossovers. The company operates a 1,000-sq.m machine shop that is equipped with the latest DELIVERING THE BEST SERVICE lathes and other tools. Working with operators, engineers and contractors, SPIE continued to develop its services for MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL RISK exploring and studying new fields, building and Aware of the impact of its operations on the operating installations, and optimising production natural surroundings, the oil and gas industry is processes while complying with safety, cost, seeking to more fully integrate situational assessSPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 43 OIL & GAS 1 2 1 Design, supply, installation, and commissioning of remote surveillance, anti-intrusion and access control systems on the Djebel Bissa/Hassi R’Mel, In Salah and Sbaa sites in Algeria, for Sonatrach. 2 Clean-up of a Total Gabon oil facility. Petroleum waste was burned in an incinerator equipped with filters for processing flue gas, in compliance with existing European regulatory standards. 3 Contract with Total E&P to operate oil and gas production facilities in southern France’s Pyrenees region. The site’s three fields – Vic Bilh, Pechorade and Lagrave – produce 1,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day while complying with the EU’s Seveso II Directive. 3 ment and environmental impact criteria for every Lumut gas processing plant on the island of stage of the project lifecycle. In this area, our Borneo, this commitment is supported by wellteams provide cutting-edge expertise that established expertise in employee training. In complies with ISO 14001, QHSE and other bench2009, a Total subsidiary contracted with SPIE to mark international standards. Our solutions range improve operator training and skills validation from reducing gas flaring to enhancing the energy procedures on three sites. The year-long mission efficiency of buildings and installations by limiting was assigned to around a dozen specialists who compressed air leaks and shortening utility operaudited and analysed practices, prepared jobating time. We’re also involved in innovative specific training documents, updated skills projects in such areas as geological carbon and enhancement programmes and curricula, and storage. To protect oil equipment and installaformalised start-up and shutdown procedures. tions, our solutions – which range from fire protection systems to production area safety services – are adapted to the specific needs of each site. In Algeria, SPIE was the first company to be awarded a contract for site security and systems integraSupporting the oil and gas industry tion from Sonatrach Amont. The contract covers the design, supply, installation and commisSPIE’s oil and gas business meets the needs of a diversified global portfolio sioning of remote surveillance, anti-intrusion and of customers, including oil industry “majors” and national oil companies as well as engineering, procurement and construction contractors. These operations access control systems. are led by SPIE Oil & Gas Services, which employs 4,000 people in 23 countries in five core businesses: well services, systems integration, expertise and HIGH LEVEL TRAINING project support, recruitment and training, and operational support. As part All services comply strictly with procedures and of its long-standing commitment to the principles of sustainable development, make safety the top priority. Recognised during SPIE has signed national framework agreements to train local operators the year when the Brunei Ministry of Energy celeand technicians. brated ten years of accident-free operations at the SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 44 DEVELOPING LOW-CARBON ENERGY SOURCES Nuclear energy represents a proven alternative to fossil fuels that helps P. 68 to reduce the impact of global warming. Alongside operators, SPIE supports the sector’s development by providing advanced solutions at every stage of the fuel cycle. OUR OBJECTIVES that will enable them to focus on their core business. SPIE is rising to this challenge by focusing SUPPORT PROJECT RELAUNCHES increasingly on engineering services, in particular ENSURE INSTALLATION SAFETY for European Pressurised Reactor (EPR) projects. Thanks to their understanding of the nuclear MANAGE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT process environment, our teams can provide a range of services, from piping, HVAC and electrical engineering studies to worksite supervision and electrical installations. At the Flamanville 3 2009 was shaped by ongoing project relaunches European Pressurised Reactor, SPIE was in in France and opportunities created by EDF’s charge of designing, supplying parts, assembling entry into the UK market following the acquisition and commissioning all access control and site of British Energy and its eight nuclear power protection installations. stations. A new structure is being created with Enabling aging nuclear facilities to remain in operSPIE Matthew Hall to support future large-scale ation longer is another challenge. SPIE teams are projects in the country. Development continued involved every day in various operations, from elsewhere in Europe as well. From mechanical keeping installations in good working order to engineering service provision in Spain to valve analysing feedback. In its project to support EDF maintenance at the Sizewell plant in the United and the power utility’s Fessenheim nuclear power Kingdom and programmes to extend the useful plant in Alsace, SPIE was awarded high marks by life of reactors in Belgium, these current and a group of around 15 experts from around the future projects fully reflect SPIE’s growth dynamic. world who conducted a three-week benchmark study of the facility’s organisation and practices. MEETING OPERATOR CHALLENGES With nuclear reactor construction projects once MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT again on the rise in several European countries, Operating across the entire fuel cycle, from operators are looking for a development partner production to waste storage, SPIE has a key role SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 45 NUCLEAR 1 2 1 Renovation of the auxiliary steam production 4 Integrated maintenance of high voltage installations and overall system at the Gravelines electrical power process management at the Georges Besse II facility. plant. The system ensures that installations can be restarted in the event of simultaneous unit shutdowns. 2 Worksite organisation and installation cleaning as part of a comprehensive services contract for the Fessenheim power plant. The contract was largely responsible for the positive report filed by the Operational Safety Review Team following an audit of the site organised by the International Atomic Energy Agency. 3 Preventive and corrective maintenance of electromechanical and hydraulic equipment, maintenance of electrical installations, measurements and regulation for the Phénix reactor, and preventive and corrective maintenance of safety and physical protection equipment at the Atomic and Alternative Energies Commission centre in Marcoule. 3 4 to play in protecting the environment. Our energy plants, a total of 28 reactors, mainly to improve efficiency solutions are deployed in plant lighting control system reliability. In 2009, a five-year systems, as well as in installation maintenance maintenance contract for safety and physical services for power distribution, instrumentation protection services was signed with the Atomic and industrial control systems, measurements, and Alternative Energies Commission centre in adjustment control and power electronics. Our Marcoule. The agreement calls for an array of teams are also actively involved in plant dismansolutions ranging from fire detectors to anti-intrutling projects where they deploy innovative envision systems. ronmental protection procedures. The methods used can, for example, reduce waste volumes, while waste characterisation studies are also carried out to help define the most appropriate storage solution. More generally, dismantling projects call for meticulous preparation that requires a full understanding of environmental impacts. For the Chinon A3 nuclear reactor, for Carbon audits to preserve the environment example, SPIE was chosen to build preliminary Based on 41 individual audits, SPIE Nucléaire’s total carbon emissions ventilation and control installations before dismanwere calculated at 20,115 tonnes. This audit has made it easier to understand tling of the heat exchangers began. SPIE’s aggregate greenhouse gas emissions and its across-the-board efforts to reduce those emissions through changes in equipment, organisations and actions. The goal is to integrate these concerns into solutions that enable ENSURING SITE SAFETY customers to produce energy that is both safe and environmentally friendly. From installation safety to operational manageIn the UK, for example, SPIE helped to build an innovative electrical power ment in a hostile environment and employee plant with EDF during the year. The plant is designed to reduce carbon protection programmes, SPIE is committed to emissions by half and nitrous oxide emissions by two-thirds while totally providing maximum safety at all times. Areva NP eliminating sulphur oxide emissions. awarded SPIE a ten-year contract to carry out electrical upgrades of its 900 MW nuclear power SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 46 INCREASING NEW ENERGIES’ SHARE OF THE MIX According to the European Union, renewable energy sources are expected to account for 20% of the total energy mix by 2020. To meet this goal, our teams are working with public and private sector partners, providing a full range of solutions – from financing and investment counselling to optimised installation maintenance services. OUR OBJECTIVES Germany. In France, installed capacity more than doubled in one year, from 105 MW to 250 MW. DELIVER THE BEST EXPERTISE Through its local European network, SPIE is DEVELOP CUSTOMISED SOLUTIONS supporting the market’s development, providing customised solutions for every type of configuraPROVIDE LEGAL AND FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS tion – from measuring instruments and apparatus to financing studies. Because each building is In an environment shaped by global warming and different, this approach must be highly innovative. energy resource depletion, the growing use of For Belgian wood importer Van Hoorebeke Timber, P. 68 renewable energies reflects a major change in the SPIE installed 36,000 sq.m of photovoltaic panels primary energy production process. In France, the on a roof capable of supporting only 100 kg per Grenelle environment conference called for a shift sq.m. The solution called for a special structure to towards a totally carbon-free model in which each evenly distribute the weight of the panels. Our home, each business and each community will be teams are also helping to develop new-generation able to produce its own energy. Involving more photovoltaic power plants, such as Les Mées 1 in than just technical issues, this viewpoint means France’s southern Alps, the largest solar energy rethinking today’s buildings and installations by plant currently being built in the country. deploying a combination of renewable energy sources, energy and environmental performance SUPPORTING GROWTH IN RENEWABLE programmes, and legal and financial assistance ENERGIES solutions. For years we have been actively involved in the P. 70 development of most renewable energy sources, EXPERTISE IN SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEMS including wind and hydraulic power, biomass, A driving force behind the global photovoltaic biofuels and photovoltaic solar energy. Having energy market for the past two years, the European installed turbines that generate around one-quarter Union currently accounts for nearly 80% of total of the wind energy produced in France, SPIE is a installed solar power, most of it in Spain and leader in this sector, helping investors get their SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 47 RENEWABLE ENERGIES 1 1 Installation of the entire electrical power network at Les Mées, France’s largest solar power plant. 2 Construction of the Arfons wind farm, whose eleven 2,000 kW turbines generate total output of 22 MW. This represents 58 million kWh of electricity a year, enough to meet the needs (excluding heating) of 20,000 homes. 2 3 Upgrades of sewer and drainage systems for hydroelectric power stations at the Belver dam in Portugal. 3 projects off the ground with services that range industry specificities. The SPIELUM modular from administrative and environmental constraint offering was designed so that services could be studies to energy potential estimates. During the tailored as closely as possible to customer needs. year, SPIE joined a major European project to In solar energy, SPIE can install photovoltaic power develop an offshore wind farm in the North Sea by plants adapted to farm buildings and their opera2015. In the field of hydroelectric power, a green tions. Similarly, special solutions for industry energy that accounts for nearly 15% of installed customers have been developed using photopower in Europe, our teams provide a full range of voltaic steel panels that fit perfectly and guarantee dam and power plant construction and renovation a watertight seal, on both flat and sloped roof services, extending from preliminary studies to buildings. This customised approach chooses and equipment installation and remote management. integrates proven technologies for roofing, shade During the year, France’s EDF utility contracted screens, glass roofs and walls, facades, terraces, with SPIE to renovate 250 large hydroelectric plants photovoltaic membranes and other equipment. and around 100 miniand micro-power stations by 2020. In the area of biofuels, our teams were involved in building Europe’s largest diester production facility. SPIE and renewable energies PROVIDING END-TO-END SUPPORT Historically a contractor and installer in hydraulic dam and power plant We deliver comprehensive project management construction and renovation projects, SPIE has been focused on new energy solutions since 1996. Now a leader in wind power, with such important services comprising feasibility studies, financial references as the Donzère wind farm in France’s Rhône valley, the Group and contractual solutions, consulting services, has gradually extended its expertise to cover all renewable energy sources, negotiations with market operators, administrative including biofuels, solar power and biogas. Through its local European network, requests and authorisations, and integrated faciliSPIE is involved in major green economy projects, such as the construction ties maintenance services aligned with the highest of the Les Mées photovoltaic power station in France’s southern Alps and quality standards. What’s more, thanks to our local the installation of new-generation biomass plants in the Netherlands. network, these solutions can be adapted to local or SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 48 INFRASTRUCTURE, IMPROVING OUR LIVING ENVIRONMENT Find our infrastructure services on www.myspie.eu and on MySPIE. TOTAL BREAKDOWN BY SEGMENT €521 M 35% Telecommunications 38% Energy distribution systems 27% Transport SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 49 Transport Energy distribution systems Telecommunications 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 System for regulating road traffic in the Port of Le Havre, in particular to facilitate the movement of trucks in this important shipping hub. 2 Design, supply and installation of solar and wind-powered video systems to regulate traffic and secure the Autoroutes Paris-Rhin-Rhône motorway network. 3 Support for rural electrification projects to extend, reinforce, renovate and bury power line networks. 4 Burying and reinforcing high-voltage lines for the French electricity distribution network (ERDF). 5 Instrumentation and electrical installations for the Tanger Med oil port. 6 Installation of a Fibre-to-the-Home (FTTH) network in the Leipzig region for German telecom operator HL Komm. The shift to sustainable energy infrastructure as well as to energyefficient and low-carbon mobility solutions, represents a complete break with society’s usual ultra-energy-intensive modes of trade and travel. It’s critically important to offer an alternative to this energy-guzzling model that uses infrastructure more efficiently in order to reduce carbon emissions. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 50 ACTIVELY SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY Intelligent infrastructure is increasingly in demand as a means of improving the quality of travel and transport while also reducing their environmental impact. Through its involvement in sustainable mobility pilot projects, SPIE provides customers with operational solutions in most segments of the transport industry. OUR OBJECTIVES DEVELOP URBAN ECO-MOBILITY SOLUTIONS MAKE ROAD TRAVEL SAFER AND EASIER promote a shift from private cars to public transIMPROVE USER SATISFACTION port but which also address the problem of urban congestion and enhance the quality of urban transport. SPIE is supporting these transport policies through an integrated approach that takes technological, environmental and social issues into consideration. The City of Paris, for example, The ratification of the EU’s Energy and Climate has opted for the new SURF3 information system Package in December 2008 is fully in line with the to manage 1,500 intersection traffic light control Factor Four concept, which aims to reduce greenunits. The goal is to improve inner city transport house gas emissions to one-quarter of current by enabling tramways, buses and bikes to circuP. 70 levels by 2050 and curb urban pollution. Much of late more freely, in line with the Paris Transport the effort deployed to attain this goal will be Plan. This 15-year project aims to improve the focused on the transport sector. At SPIE, we’re quality of air and public health, make the city more helping to meet these challenges with solutions attractive and liveable, and stimulate the urban that seamlessly combine our multitechnical serveconomy. ices with expertise in energy efficiency and enviOther measures are being implemented to make ronmental protection. These solutions involve city travel safer and more enjoyable. In Flanders, systems that improve traffic flows, as well as ecofor example, SPIE is partnering a project to install friendly infrastructure, the development of multi1,000 variable message signs near schools. The modal transport and a commitment to carbon-free Group is also involved in several pilot projects to vehicles. reduce urban pollution. One is an experimental low-emissions vehicle project in Strasbourg, URBAN MOBILITY EXPERTISE where SPIE, alongside French power utility EDF Municipal authorities are looking for mobility soluand Toyota, has been chosen to evaluate plug-in tions that not only reduce carbon emissions and hybrids and vehicle recharging systems. P. 71 SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 51 TRANSPORT 1 Installation of a variable traffic control system on the Saint Nazaire Bridge, to facilitate traffic flows during rush hour while ensuring maximum safety. A dynamic lane assignment system uses button light technology to indicate a directional change, the first time such a solution has been deployed in France. 2 Operations and traveller information systems for tramway and bus lines in the City of Orléans. 1 2 IMPROVING MODES OF TRANSPORT of them – France Station, which dates from the Road transport poses serious problems, not only 1929 International Exhibition – houses the control with regard to pollution and the use of non-renewcentre for all stations in Spain’s Catalonia region. able resources but also in the areas of public Here, our teams can draw on their extensive skills health and safety. At SPIE, our solutions are and capabilities to leverage the full value of this designed to facilitate the flow of traffic while important architectural asset, which still has its protecting the environment and making travel original, gigantic glass roof. safer and more secure. These efforts focus on Sometimes relieving congestion in public areas user behaviour as well as on equipment and necessitates a total reorganisation of their buildinstallations. In France’s longest tunnel, which ings and infrastructure. At Brussels’ Schuman links the Vosges with Alsace, our teams effectuStation, for instance, SPIE has joined a major ated some 15,000 connections to a centralised project to create a multimodal transport platform. technical management system and interfaced a The new underground complex will comprise dozen critical applications, including information three interconnected facilities: the current train and communication networks, surveillance station, the metro station and a new regional systems, fire detectors and ventilation controls. express train station. The project requires a broad From waterways to rail/road systems, SPIE helps array of skills, from electrical wiring and air-condioperators to respond more effectively to an array tioning to the installation of video camera circuits of improvement challenges. At major international and passenger information systems. airports, for example, our teams are helping to improve building energy and environmental efficiency, deploy new air traffic control consoles and install runway lights that allow pilots to land in all Total Transport : €141 M weather conditions. In 2009, SPIE partnered with Thales on air traffic control systems for the new Breakdown by segment Abu Dhabi airport. This contract builds on SPIE’s long-standing cooperation with the Paris Airport Authority (ADP). 23% Airports WELCOMING, WELL-MANAGED 58% Roads and motorways TRANSPORT FACILITIES 2% Optimising mass transit stations and terminals Maritime and inland requires integrated management of technical waterway transport installations. In many European cities, SPIE is working to adapt train stations to the needs of users and railway operators. In Barcelona, for 17% Rail example, SPIE provides multitechnical maintenance services for three stations, the largest of which handles some 25 million people a year. One SPIE and transport SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 52 SUPPORTING CHANGES IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Telecom operators are helping to reduce carbon emissions in many sectors of the economy. As one of France’s leading integrators of telecommunication services and networks, SPIE is supporting this development by pursuing its Green IT commitment. P. 71 OUR OBJECTIVES solutions comprising technical and administrative DEVELOP SUPERIOR SERVICES consulting services as well as comprehensive PURSUE ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES facilities management and maintenance. Our teams can integrate telecom and IP systems, SUPPORT NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS deploy and configure customer premises equipment, and design and implement fibre-optic Despite a slowdown in telecom market expansion networks. For SFR, the French mobile network in 2009, the year saw the emergence of new operator, we’ve been involved for several years in growth drivers with the development of the green developing and installing Nano-BTS stations in economy. According to estimates, information office buildings to enhance mobile phone and communication technologies could reduce coverage. Deployment requires skills in both their own greenhouse gas emissions by up to mobile phone engineering and IP network 75%, notably in the transport and building sectors. interconnection. At the same time, stepping up the deployment of Green IT practices will help to substantially reduce FASTER DEPLOYMENT OF LANDLINE AND the telecom industry’s environmental footprint. MOBILE NETWORKS SPIE is well positioned to support this change, The development of high speed and very high leveraging a portfolio of skills extending from speed broadband services and mobile networks equipment selection to optimised management of continued in 2009. In one year, the number of network infrastructure. active users of third generation (3G) technology in France rose by 6.1 million, a 64.8% increase, with COOPERATING WITH TELECOM OPERATORS more than one-third of the total 20.8 million users With capabilities that range from coverage studies opting for multimedia mobile services. In this to the installation of radio relay antennas and market, our teams helped to increase commutaFTTH networks, SPIE provides telecom operators tion and transmission capacity while ensuring throughout France with a fully aligned package of integrated management of completed works. A SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 53 TELECOMMUNICATIONS / ENERGY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS 2 3 1 1 Multitechnical maintenance services for 3,700 small France Telecom landline network sites and 6,700 Orange mobile network sites. 2 Contract to deploy an FTTH network for Free, the French ISP. 3 Maintenance of large sites and NetCenters, representing a total surface of 60,000 sq.m in 33 locations, for SFR. 4 Renewal of a contract to install and commission optical and microwave transmission equipment at France Telecom’s landline and mobile network sites. 4 leader in the implementation of UMTS networks, cooling data centres and using renewable enerSPIE also provides customers with extensive gies. Once they have integrated these capabilities capabilities in maintenance and technical operin optimising energy use, telecom operators will SPIE and telecommunications ating assistance. Around-the-clock alarm monigo on to play an important future role by helping toring services are deployed for all technical other economic sectors to reduce their own installations on a telecommunications site so that greenhouse gas emissions. SPIE is already any incident detected can be instantly analysed encouraging this approach in many areas through and an appropriate response can be taken, unified communications, paperless technologies, whether a remote solution or an on-site intervenvirtual data centres and new modes of tion. A national operator recently contracted with telecommuting. SPIE to provide multitechnical monitoring of its sites throughout France from a dedicated operations centre. If necessary, specialised technical teams are then dispatched to the site. ACTIVELY SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SPIE, expertise in green energy distribution Although telecoms generate only 0.7% of worldSPIE devises and delivers environmentally friendly solutions in various fields wide carbon emissions, equipment upgrades can of energy distribution, including public electrical power networks, public lighting substantially improve the industry’s environmental and traffic light extension and renovation projects, and gas network development performance. As part of its Green IT approach, programmes. In the Netherlands, a pioneer in the development of the green SPIE is committed to complying with QSE, ISO economy, SPIE helped to reorganise a high voltage distribution network concentrated in a few large production centres. The goal was to create a more 9001, MASE-UIC and ITIL certification requirecapillary, delocalised network throughout the country, capable of obtaining ments and other standards and to enabling the electricity even from the smallest renewable energy sources, such as wind farms, deployment of innovative operational solutions. photovoltaic installations and biomass plants. These include introducing new methods for SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 54 COMMERCIAL SECTOR, ECO-INVESTING IN PROPERTY ASSETS Find our commercial sector services on www.myspie.eu and on MySPIE. TOTAL €1,080 M SPIE and the commercial sector SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 55 Technical building facilities VDI networks Fire protection Access control Video surveillance Technical building management 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 Design and deployment of a project to upgrade voice-data-image networks at the European Parliament in Strasbourg and the European Commission in Luxembourg. 2 Renovation of power and data wiring at Tour Crystal, a high-rise building in Paris’ 15th district. 3 Electrical and mechanical maintenance services in Barclays Capital offices and data centres in Birmingham and London. 4 HVAC, electricity, phone and photovoltaic systems for the Eureka office building, located on the Bellaterra campus in Barcelona. 5 Electrical and environmental engineering and fluids management for the Pierre Oudot Medical Centre in Bourgoin Jallieu in France’s Rhônes-Alpes region. 6 Integrated telecom and interconnection systems in a new training centre for US-based Pride Forasol. Located in Lescar, in France’s western Pyrenees region, this more than 15,000-sq.m building is designed to meet the training needs of global oil companies. The property business is at a turning point as real estate investors and managers are confronted with an array of challenges and opportunities, including highenergy performance labels, sustainable habitat certificates, low-energy and positive-energy buildings, and preparations for the RT2010 heating regulation standard. These developments require a new approach to property management that combines architectural, functional, technical and economic innovations. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 56 ENHANCING PROPERTY PERFORMANCE With experience in office buildings, hospitals, public buildings, shopping centres and exhibition facilities, SPIE provides commercial sector decision-makers with solutions that sustainably improve the technical, financial and environment performance of their assets, whether for single-building or multi-site operations. OUR OBJECTIVES continue in 2010, with SPIE positioned increasingly as a designer, installer and integrator of CAPTURE THE VALUE OF BUILDINGS solutions for property managers and investors. AND BUILDING OPERATIONS MANAGING ENERGY USE PROMOTE ECO-FRIENDLY ASSET Commercial buildings account for around 40% MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS of Europe’s total energy consumption. In France, the Agency for Environment and Energy PROVIDE INNOVATIVE SERVICES Management (ADEME) estimates that the sector represents 46% of all energy supplied to the final consumer and 26% of greenhouse gas emissions. At SPIE, our solutions help to considerably reduce consumption through a combination of approaches. These include energy and environmental efficiency programmes, the use of renewIn a contrasting European market shaped by a able energies and the trend towards high decline in new construction and tighter credit for environmental quality standards. In Meudon, property investors, SPIE held its own in 2009 near Paris, SPIE participated in Bouygues thanks to a selective business strategy and good Immobilier’s Green Office ® project to develop a resilience in certain sectors, such as healthcare. new generation of buildings that produce more Paradoxically, the global recession reinforced energy than they consume. Our teams delivered demand for sustainable development solutions a range of solutions, including energy production requiring innovative approaches that increase from three biomass cogeneration power plants, building value-in-use, limit environmental the ventilation network and air processing units, impacts and ensure cost-effective management and the installation of ceiling coverings with inteover the long term. This trend is expected to grated heater tarps. The goal is to reduce carbon SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 57 COMMERCIAL SECTOR 2 1 1 SPIE teams installed photovoltaic cells on the roof of a just-built 7,000-sq.m building at the new Leclerc shopping centre in Cernay, in France’s Alsace region. The 1,130 panels cover a total surface of 1,800 sq.m and will produce 230,000 kWh of electrical power. 2 Installation of an HVAC system for an extension of the Montpellier regional cancer research and treatment centre. The system reduces energy consumption by 50%. 3 A new visual identity was deployed for 600 former Vediorbis temporary employment agencies in France following their rebranding under the Randstad name. SPIE’s turnkey solution involved preliminary studies, surveys, administrative procedures and paperwork, removal of the old logo and installation of the new banner. emissions by more than 400 tonnes a year. In a recessionary environment, building renovation projects also provide important energy-saving 3 opportunities. Throughout Europe, 2009 saw a growing awareness of the need for improvements in aging complexes with poorly insulated buildings. In Brussels, for example, SPIE undertook a complete renovation of heating, ventilation and air-conditioning installations at the Madou Centre, an office building in the city’s historic centre. To reduce energy consumption, SPIE teams installed a high-efficiency condensing boiler. Combined with a fan-type forced draught system, this solution will allow offices to be heated or cooled as required, thereby providing occupants with comfort and well-being. High-tech services for data centres Designed to centralise and secure databases, data centres A PROACTIVE APPROACH, DAY AFTER DAY must comply with a wide range of standards. They have to ensure Whether renovating an office building or shopmaximum site security, provide redundant hosting as needed, ping centre, helping to build or extend a healthbe modular to facilitate possible extensions and optimise energy use. SPIE’s upstream solutions help to achieve an optimal balance care establishment, outfitting a museum or between energy and environmental efficiency, construction developing an exhibition centre, SPIE is and operating costs, and electrical and HVAC installation committed to being a source of solutions at design with the goal of ensuring high performance operations every stage of a project. Our teams deploy their throughout the year. extensive skills, experience and expertise to SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 58 NATO summit in Strasbourg on 3-4 April 2009 Installation of wiring infrastructure, and telephone sets and systems and provision of related services. The project involved more than ten conference rooms, a 700-seat media centre, 150 TV and radio booths, the delegates’ pavilion and accessory buildings. SPIE also installed high value-added surveillance systems for the site and its surroundings. healthcare, where the well-being of personnel Improving customer service quality and patients alike is an important quality factor. At the Saint-Nicolas de Port Medical Centre near Customer relationship management is a top priority in the commercial sector. Nancy, SPIE designed a sophisticated multiFor a consortium that manages the IT resources of seven regional divisions of the Crédit Agricole bank – a total of 25 administrative offices and media terminal that improves patient comfort 1,700 agencies – SPIE developed a communications solution that ensures while also providing direct access to computerthe convergence of telephone systems with business-specific applications. ised medical records. Leveraging a high-speed Thanks to this centralised system, which allows 24,000 subscribers to be network, the solution enables patients to have connected to the same server, advisors can be reached via a single phone access to television, radio and the Internet to number, a contact person’s availability can be ascertained before the call help them overcome the loneliness of a hospital is transferred, and customers can be called directly from a file or the directory. stay. For care providers, the terminal offers direct access to medical records, thereby improving the quality and traceability of treatment and allowing them to communicate more effectively ensure the highest service quality. For the 2009 with patients. renovation of the ING bank headquarters in Brussels, a HVAC system regulatory issue had to A LEADING PROVIDER OF MAINTENANCE AND be resolved. SPIE set up a full-fledged testing RELATED SERVICES laboratory to accurately assess the expectations The leading provider of maintenance services for of building occupants. Close cooperation with bank agency networks in France, SPIE is also the customer also helped to shorten project the first company to obtain the HQE Exploitation completion time and generate considerable label, in recognition of its ability to ensure envisavings. ronmental high-quality building operations over The same approach is taken in other sectors like the long term. This proven maintenance experP. 69 SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 59 COMMERCIAL SECTOR 1 2 3 1 Design and implementation of mechanical, electrical and sanitation systems for an extension project at the Forest Bank prison in Manchester that will enable the facility to house nearly 300 additional inmates. The contract involved installation of a new electrical power network, security control systems, intercoms, fire alarms, and heating and ventilation systems, as well as facilities management services. 2 HVAC installations for the Brussels Casino. 3 Installation of photovoltaic panels on the facades and roofs of office buildings in Toulouse’s Heliopolis complex. tise enables our teams to provide integrated management solutions for buildings, regardless of their number or complexity. Services range from unified communications to day-to-day management of heating, air-conditioning and lighting installations as well as signage, elevators and building security. BNP Paribas contracted with SPIE for multitechnical maintenance Total Commercial Sector: €1,080 M services at the Grands Moulins de Pantin. A 12-member team ensures smooth operations Breakdown by segment around the clock at this high-profile building complex that dominates the landscape in northeastern Paris. Services include electrical, heating 14% 2% Banking Education 6% and plumbing installations, fire protection and insurance systems, and automatic doors. Commerce In other regions of France, our teams deliver 2% and retail Logistics infrastructure cutting-edge services to meet local needs, 2% especially in the residential housing sector. In 3% Hotels Cultural and sports southwestern France, for example, Mesolia 13% complexes Habitat, a rent-controlled housing management Healthcare company, chose SPIE to build a solar-powered hot water production system under a three-year performance-based contract. 36% 22% Property Other corporate services SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 60 INDUSTRY, THE GREEN REVOLUTION IN INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES Find our industry services on www.myspie.eu and on MySPIE. TOTAL €671 M SPIE and industry SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 61 Aerospace Agribusiness Automotive Steel Manufacturing Shipbuilding Chemicals and pharmaceuticals 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 Replacement of automatic control devices on the lubricant packaging line at the TOTAL Lubrifiants plant in Grand Quevilly, France. 2 Renovation of mechanical lubrication systems on four port cranes at the Brest Naval Shipyard, for France’s Defence Infrastructure Service (SID). 3 Prefabrication, construction, piping and insulation systems, and assembly of equipment that produces energy by burning animal fat, for Electrawinds in Belgium. 4 Installation of a CO2 capture unit for France’s Petroleum Institute (IFP). 5 Mechanical maintenance services for the Monsanto plant in Antwerp, Belgium. 6 Carbon capture test installation for Nuon and CB&I in the Netherlands. With today’s focus on reduced energy use, optimised processes, recycling and waste recovery, the time is right to produce more and more effectively while using less energy and fewer raw materials. This fully-fledged industrial eco-revolution affects all business sectors and signals the emergence of a crucial benchmark for the future: the ISO 14062 environmental management standard. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 62 CREATING INDUSTRIAL VALUE DIFFERENTLY From deploying more energy-efficient production methods to reducing the environmental footprint of manufacturing operations, industry clearly has a key role to play in meeting society’s sustainable development objectives. At SPIE, we’re supporting this commitment through services clearly focused on energy and environmental efficiency. OUR OBJECTIVES IMPROVE UTILITY AND PROCESS MANAGEMENT LIMIT ENERGY USE ENHANCING ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOP ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES EFFICIENCY There are many ways to sustainably reduce or eliminate the environmental impact of an industrial process. This can be achieved, for example, through improvements in facilities management, equipment performance or electrical power networks. The ISO 14001 certification process aims to limit environmental impacts by reducing In markets often hard hit by the recession in 2009, water and energy use by 10% to 15% and raw manufacturing companies are seeing a faster pace material consumption by 5% to 25% while of change in their production methods, with the increasing waste recovery by 20% to 30%. SPIE search for new ways to generate savings, the need helps customers meet these objectives through its to comply with regulations and standards, and the integrated electrical, HVAC and mechanical engidevelopment of optimised utilities and processes. neering skills, which extend from supervision to full These changes call for innovative solutions to integration of customers’ IT systems. capture the value of production facilities by leverThe use of variable-speed drives for pumps, fans aging expertise adapted to each industry segment and motors helps to reduce energy use by 10% to and devising practical responses to environmental 50%, in an area of operations that often represents concerns. The past year saw the wider use of one-third of total consumption. Combined with the energy performance contracts that include longuse of renewable energies and more efficient recyterm commitments to reducing both energy use cling and waste recovery programmes, manufacand carbon emissions. turers can substantially improve their financial and SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 63 INDUSTRY 3 1 1 Facilities management of more than 1,000 computer workstations and a help desk for EADS Sogerma, which produces fuselage parts, cockpit seats and cabin fittings for aircraft in the Airbus range. 2 Installation of pumps, valves and other instruments and devices at both ends of a pipeline that transports bioethanol at a new Total production unit in Feluy, Belgium. 3 Renovation of the supersonic wind tunnel at the French aerospace research centre (ONERA) in Modane-Arvieux, France. 2 environmental performance. In the Netherlands, for example, SPIE managed an ambitious project for Corus, Europe’s second largest steel producer. The project involved replacing a 275-tonne, 90-metre gas pipe in order to produce energy Total Industry: €671 M from gases collected at the end of the pipe. Producing one tonne of steel generates two Breakdown by segment tonnes of CO2 emissions on average, while the goal is to reduce carbon emissions by 50% by 2015, in line with European directives. 9% 11% Agribusiness Aerospace ENABLING EXCELLENCE IN INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS 2% Shipbuilding Every industrial project is unique in its nature, complexity, size, time constraints and chal4% lenges. With the support of its expertise platMining 37% forms and technology institute, SPIE can deploy Chemicals and teams, resources and methods tailored to the 18% pharmaceuticals Manufacturing needs of specific worksites, some of which are exceptional in terms of their size and the capabilities they require. In the agribusiness segment, 9% SPIE participated during the year in a project on Steel 2% and metallurgy 8% Paper and pulp the world’s largest malting plant for a customer Automotive SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 64 Industrial power systems at Urbaser Valorga International’s methanation plant in Fos-sur-Mer, France. The project involved the design and deployment of high voltage and low voltage equipment, as well as instruments and control system wiring. SPIE teams also installed air-conditioning, ventilation and plumbing systems in administrative buildings and production facilities. that specialises in the collection and primary pursued its partnership with DCNS, the French processing of grains. The project involved the naval defence company and Europe’s leading installation of 240 motors, 950 instruments, 90 naval armament manufacturer, by participating in km of wiring and 8 km of processing lines. In the the European Multi-Mission Frigate (FREMM) aerospace segment, a supersonic wind tunnel programme. was renovated in a very challenging operation Present on thousands of industrial sites that involved the handling of a 54-tonne highthroughout Europe, SPIE teams are developing pressure rotor. In the shipbuilding industry, SPIE synergies between different skills platforms through a responsive organisation that is committed to rapidly deploying the necessary capabilities and expertise. In 2009, a state-of-theart production plant in the Czech Republic was Facilities management for manufacturers brought on stream just two years after ground was broken. With initial studies, engineering and To meet their ever-growing need for information and communication systems, procurement managed by SPIE teams in the manufacturers are increasingly looking to outsource IT management. Netherlands, the project required the skills of all For EADS Sogerma, which produces fuselage parts and cabin fittings for civil and military aircraft, SPIE provides onsite management for around building trades, leading to partnerships with 1,000 computers as well as remote user support services from its help desk Czech subcontractors and the hiring of local staff. in Toulouse. This critical service ensures operational reliability of the company’s IT resources, freeing teams from problems related to hardware and software life cycle management. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 65 INDUSTRY 1 2 1 Replacement of a gas pipe for Corus, Europe’s second largest steel producer. Measuring 90 metres long, 65 metres high and 3.2 metres in diameter, the 275-tonne pipe is used to remove gases emitted during 3 steel production. The gases, which are collected at the end of the pipe, are reused by Corus and a local electrical power plant to generate energy. 2 Installation of electrical distribution equipment, low voltage panelboards and automation devices for the malting plant operated by Groupe Soufflet, the world’s leading malt producer, in Nogent-sur-Seine, in eastern France. 3 Automation devices and supervision of the glass container line (for tomato sauce) and the flexible container line (for ketchup) for Conserves de Provence, which markets its products under the Le Cabanon brand. FROM COMPUTER-INTEGRATED using VR-DATA software, the nationwide Telview® MANUFACTURING TO ADVANCED LOGISTICS solution that enables customers to track mainteThe principles of manufacturing and logistical effinance requests in real time, and the installation of ciency can be applied in many fields, including data exchange platforms. In all, SPIE manages quality control, economies of scale, standardisasome 4,000 sq.m of storage space, representing tion, automation, flow management, resource 120,000 logistics flows. optimisation and shared logistics systems and IT applications. In the area of industrial analysis, for CO 2 example, SPIE provides oil and petrochemical CO 2 companies with specialised services to control CO 2 finished product quality and compliance, while CO 2 CO 2 CO ensuring process safety and environmental CO2 2 CO 2 protection. Thanks to automated sample selection, components can be analysed in real time CO2 capture and storage during the production process, which enables Burying carbon dioxide deep in the earth represents a new solution teams to take action more quickly in the event of for reducing the impact of fossil fuels on global warming. SPIE is involved a problem. SPIE has also developed cutting-edge in several European CO2 capture projects. In Belgium, our teams took part in the construction of a test installation for gas and electricity operator Nuon industrial logistics solutions with tools that optiby devising a 3D plant prototype before the operational phase was launched. mise the entire information flow process. These In southwestern France, another pilot project is being carried out with include inventory management (from the factory Total that will enable up to 150,000 tonnes of CO 2 to be injected into a gate to onsite commissioning with full traceability), former natural gas field. optimised travel schedules, service call tracking SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 66 THE ECONOMY GREEN SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 67 GLOSSARY SPIE glossary SHARING A COMMON LANGUAGE SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 68 Green economy Sustainable Development/ atoms such as hydrogen, and fission, An economy that is aware of the Corporate Social which involves heavy atoms like Responsibility uranium. Today, only fission is used scarcity of natural resources – Sustainable development is an for industrial purposes, to produce particularly energy resources – and ethical growth concept that seeks to electricity in nuclear power plants. which takes climate change issues reconcile economic expansion, social Research is currently being into consideration. progress and environmental conducted on fusion as a future preservation. It has been defined as energy source (see for example the ITER project in France or The Culham Non-renewable resources “development that meets the needs of the present without compromising Centre for Fusion Energy in UK). Our planet has many natural the ability of future generations to resources that are used for food, meet their own needs.” heating, travel, manufacturing, Corporate social responsibility refers Primary energy/final energy transportation and other activities. to sustainable development as it Primary energy refers to energy Resources include minerals, gas, oil, applies to companies and other sources found in nature, such as coal, farmable land, water and air. organisations. The company seeks to hydrocarbons, solar, and wind Some of them are not renewed as attain its business objectives while energy, which are used to produce they are used and thus are limited in complying with ethical principles and final energy for the consumer. The quantity. The increase in the world’s protecting the environment in both difference between these two forms population and economic overuse of its internal and external operations. of energy corresponds to energy loss these resources will lead to Maintaining constructive relations during production and transport. shortages in some of them. with employees and integrating Thus primary energy refers to energy societal issues like diversity are before it is transformed. Examples practical applications of corporate include oil, natural gas, coal, heat Peak oil social responsibility, as are energy produced by a nuclear reactor, the Although they exist in substantial efficiency and waste recycling sun’s rays and wind. Final energy is amounts, oil and other hydrocarbons programmes. energy that has been transformed are non-renewable resources. Peak and made available to the end user. oil refers to the moment when world Examples include electricity and fuel. oil production will begin to drop due Renewable energies to the depletion of usable oil Renewable energies come from reserves. Experts predict this peak unlimited natural sources, such as Energy efficiency will occur between 2010 and 2050. the sun (solar, thermal and Energy efficiency refers to a system photovoltaic systems), wind that uses minimum energy while (turbines), water (hydraulic systems), producing maximum yield. Improving Global warming the earth (geothermal power), the energy efficiency is the process of Global warming refers to the gravitational pull of the sun and reducing energy consumption while long-term, worldwide increase in the moon on oceans (tidal power) and obtaining the same performance, for average temperature of the Earth’s plant and other organic residue example, in terms of room oceans and atmosphere. Today, the (biomass). Unlike fossil fuels, these temperature, lighting, production of term is often used to designate are not finite resources. compressed air in a factory and climate change as studied by the vehicle fuel consumption. Energy Intergovernmental Panel on Climate efficiency plays an important role in Change. The IPCC’s work reveals the Fossil energies helping to reduce greenhouse gas human role and responsibility in the emissions. These refer to energy that is acceleration in global warming produced from gas, oil, coal and observed since the mid-20th century. other fossil fuels extracted from the The main causes are greenhouse gas ground and substrata. They are Energy performance emissions, such as carbon dioxide audits (DPE) created by the fossilisation of plant and methane, especially due to the life over millions of years. When An energy performance audit (DPE) use of coal, oil, gas and other fossil burned, they emit greenhouse gases, is a French certification process that fuels, as well as intensive livestock mainly carbon dioxide (CO2). These evaluates a building’s energy use and farming and deforestation. fuels exist in limited quantities. makes technical recommendations on ways to reduce consumption. Nuclear energy Nuclear energy is created by transforming the nucleus of an atom. There are two types of nuclear reactions: fusion, which involves light SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 69 GLOSSARY Low-energy building Thermal regulations Some carbon dioxide emissions are natural while others are caused by A low-energy building uses as much Every European country has its own human activities. When burned, fossil as five times less energy than a minimum thermal insulation fuels like coal, oil and gas emit CO2. conventional building. A building’s requirements for building energy use is measured in kilowattconstruction and renovation projects. hours (kWh) of primary energy France, for example, uses the RT Carbon footprint consumed per year per square metre 2005 standard, which will soon be of usable floor area. The calculation upgraded to RT 2010, followed by RT A carbon footprint is a tool for takes into account heating, hot water, 2012, L1A/B and F1 in the UK, CTE in calculating greenhouse gas air-conditioning, lighting and Spain, etc. emissions. For a company, the auxiliary heating and ventilation purpose of a carbon footprint is to equipment. In France, a low-energy assess all direct emissions or those building is one that consumes no Greenhouse gases (GHG) caused by its business activities, more than 50 kWh of primary energy including building operations, travel The greenhouse effect is a per year per square metre of gross and purchasing, and to identify ways phenomenon that is well known to floor area (for a new construction) to reduce these emissions. gardeners. A greenhouse lets the and 80 kWh of primary energy per sun’s rays enter, which then heat the year per square metre of gross floor air inside. Once heated, the floor of area (for a renovation project). CO2 capture and storage the greenhouse releases the energy as infrared rays, some of which are CO2 capture and storage is one reflected back into the greenhouse solution for reducing CO2 emissions Energy-plus building by the roof. As a result, a high caused by industrial operations. The An energy-plus building produces temperature is maintained inside the principle involves capturing CO2 at more electrical and heat energy than greenhouse. The Earth’s atmosphere the source (refineries, plants, power it consumes on a yearly average. It is functions like a gigantic greenhouse stations, etc.), then concentrating generally well insulated and fitted whose roof is made of gases, some of and transporting it to a geological with solar panels, heat pumps and/or which let the sun’s rays penetrate site for storage. other equipment for storing and and prevent the infrared rays from delivering heat or generating escaping. These gases are called electricity. greenhouse gases (GHG). The CO2 allowance greenhouse effect is a natural allocation plan phenomenon. If it didn’t exist, the To help reduce CO2 emissions, on High environmental average temperature on Earth would 1 January 2005 Europe introduced quality building be approximately -18°C. The problem carbon dioxide allowances for a A high environmental quality building stems from the ever-increasing number of companies in the power is one whose design and energy concentration of greenhouse gases in production, manufacturing and performance comply with France’s the atmosphere resulting from services sectors. An initial plan HQE environmental standards. To human activity. This increase is a (the so-called NAP1 [PNAQ1 obtain HQE® certification, a building major cause of global warming. The in France, PNAD1 in Spain, NAP1 is expected to exceed legal main greenhouse gases produced by in Germany])covered the period requirements in 7 of the 14 targets human activity are carbon dioxide 2005-2007, with a second plan defined by the HQE association, with (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide introduced for the period 2008-2012. a commitment to obtain the highest (N2O) and ozone (O3). rating in at least three of them. The 14 targets fall into two categories: Recovering CO2 costs those that have a limited impact on CO2 emissions Measures exist in a number of the external environment and those Carbon dioxide (CO2) is one of the countries for recovering CO2 costs. that create a satisfactory internal main greenhouse gases. It is used as These fall into two main categories: environment. The potential savings of a reference for: An emissions trading system that an HQE-certified building project are Greenhouse gas emissions, which allocates permits to business and based on overall cost and take into are measured in tonnes of CO2 organisations. Those that reduce account both investment and equivalent. their emissions beyond required operating costs. International agreements on levels can sell their surplus reducing greenhouse gas emissions, allowances to those that haven’t met such as those signed in Kyoto and their targets. Copenhagen. A carbon tax is an environmental Communication about the tax levied on certain products or environmental performance of fuels based on their carbon content certain products, such as automobile and potential CO2 emissions. CO2 emissions. SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 70 Factor Four for guiding sustainable development Agenda 21 around the world. It also adopted In order to limit global warming to One of the texts adopted by the Rio Agenda 21, a programme intended to 2°C (the threshold beyond which dire Conference was Agenda 21, a plan of guide development in the 21st social and environmental action for the 21st century containing century. In addition, the Rio consequences would be more likely), some 2,500 recommendations for Conference produced the Climate it is necessary to cut worldwide CO2 implementing the Rio Declaration Change Convention, an agreement emissions in half by 2050. As the principles. It addresses such issues that underscores the necessity of largest producers of CO2, the as healthcare, housing, air pollution, reducing greenhouse gases. so-called developed countries will protection of the oceans and sea, Kyoto Protocol (1997) need to lower their emissions by a forest management, mountain There are three major international factor of four by that time. Factor development, desertification, treaties dealing with climate change. Four is a broad concept dating back protection of water resources and The United Nations Framework to 1972 when the Club of Rome water quality, farm management and Convention on Climate Change issued a report calling for natural waste management. Today, Agenda (UNFCCC), which came into force on resources to be used four times more 21 continues to be the blueprint for 21 March 1994, has been ratified by efficiently. sustainable development at the 189 countries, including the United regional and local levels. States. Parties to the convention are committed to stabilising greenhouse The 20-20-20 objective gas concentrations in the The European Union has identified an IPCC atmosphere at a level that would ambitious set of targets for 2020, prevent dangerous anthropogenic The Intergovernmental Panel on known as 20-20-20, which calls for a: interference with the climate system. Climate Change is a scientific body 20% reduction of greenhouse gases They must submit inventories of their that evaluates the risks of climate compared to 1990 levels. greenhouse gas emissions and change. It was established in 1988 by 20% reduction in energy use prepare, implement and publish the World Meteorological compared to 1990 levels. national programmes containing Organisation (WMO) and the United 20% share of renewable energy in climate change mitigation measures. Nations Environment Programme overall EU energy consumption. The update to the convention – the (UNEP), following a demand by the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, adopted – came G7 (now G8). The IPCC was awarded into force in February 2005. It has the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 for its The Climate been ratified by 172 countries, with efforts on climate change and and Energy Package the notable exception of the United recommendations on how to avoid a Approved by EU authorities, the States. Going further than its dangerous increase in the average package comprises various pieces of predecessor, the Kyoto Protocol temperature of the planet. An legislation for helping member establishes a timetable for reducing excessive rise in temperature is seen states meet the energy and climate the six greenhouse gases considered as a potential threat to world peace. challenge. to be the main cause of global warming in the last 50 years. It sets binding targets for 38 industrialised ISO 14001 – Grenelle environment countries to reduce their CO2 Environmental management conference emissions to levels 5.2% below those system (EMS) of 1990 by 2012. A new agreement is The ISO 14001 standard is backed by The Grenelle environment conference expected to be adopted when the a commitment to continuous was a roundtable organised by the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012. improvement in environmental French government in 2007 that The Copenhagen Summit performance and compliance with brought together elected officials, Held in December 2009, the applicable legislation through the associations, trade unions, Copenhagen Summit ended with a use of quality management practices businesses and scientists. watered-down agreement that: to reduce the environmental impact Confirmed the objective of limiting of business operations. the global temperature rise to 2°C, Key events (Rio, Kyoto, Copenhagen summits) though without any binding schedule Eco-friendly attitude on when to achieve it Rio Conference (1992) An eco-friendly attitude implies Created a special fund to assist the The Rio Conference was organised by carrying out good environmental most vulnerable countries the United Nations in Rio de Janeiro practices and sustainable No targets were set for reducing in 1992 as a follow-up to the first development activities on a daily greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Earth Summit held in 1972 in basis. These include sorting waste, Another United Nations Climate Stockholm. It adopted the Rio driving economically, turning off Change conference is to be held in Declaration on Environment and lights and reducing water Mexico City in December 2010. Development, a benchmark consumption. document containing 27 principles SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 71 GLOSSARY Sorting/Recycling/Recovery Smart grid By improving the collection of data on usage patterns, smart meters will Waste recycling is a way of offsetting A smart grid uses digital technology make it easier to avoid surges in the over consumption of resources. It to optimise the delivery of electricity demand and outages due to entails the reintroduction of waste from suppliers to consumers. The overloading. Another goal of the into the production cycle from which first step of the smart grid smart grid is to allow the higher it came through the partial or total technological revolution is the penetration of intermittent replacement of virgin resources. deployment of smart meters. In generation sources. Developed by Waste materials are sorted and Europe, power distribution and local producers, renewable energy collected according to type so that transmission systems were sources are difficult to develop due to their raw materials can be traditionally designed according to a their incompatibility with reprocessed. Recovery consists in centralised model. The electricity conventional grid systems. re-using, recycling or otherwise generation and distribution system is Intermittent generation sources are processing waste in order to recover governed by a core principle, which is difficult to integrate in the existing materials or energy. Glass bottles to maintain a balance between supply grid and do not provide power during can be re-melted to make new ones, and demand. Smart grids should peak demand. and plastic bottles, once they have enable utilities to better manage been shredded into pellets, can be power generation and demand. used to manufacture synthetic fibres for the textile industry. Zero/low emissions vehicle A zero/low emissions vehicle is less polluting than a conventional Units gasoline or diesel model. Energy: kWh/TOE Performance is based on CO2 Joule (J) or watt-hour (Wh) are units of work, energy or amount of heat. emissions per km. Zero or low To measure energy – often large amounts – the following system of units emissions technology refers to is used: vehicles that run on electrical power, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) or Term Basic unit multiplied by Symbol biofuel, as well as hybrid vehicles with a combined internal Kilo x 1,000 or 103 K combustion/electric motor system. Mega x 1,000,000 or 106 M Giga x 1,000,000,000 or 109 G Green IT Green IT is the practice of designing Tera x 1,000,000,000,000 or 1012 T and using information and communication technology with minimal impact on the environment, Examples: Owing to oil’s considerable economic barrel but is now the common 1 tonne of methane (CH4) = especially by reducing energy and political importance, the term abbreviation for barrel. Oil production 23 tonnes of CO2 equivalent consumption and greenhouse gas ‘tonne of oil equivalent (toe)’ has is measured in barrels/day or tonnes 1 tonne of nitrous oxide emissions. Green IT responds to two become the standard unit of measure per year. A barrel is equivalent to 159 (N2O) = 296 tonnes of CO2 major challenges, namely to: equivalent for comparing different sources of litres. It takes 7 to 7.5 barrels of oil to Reduce the energy usage of IT This means that the energy. Various conversion factors make one metric tonne, depending on equipment and communications emission of 1 tonne of have been deﬁned based on this unit. the density of the oil. One barrel per nitrous oxide, 13 tonnes systems and increase the recycling of day is roughly equivalent to 50 metric of methane, or 296 tonnes their components 1 electrical MWh = 3.6 billion joules = tonnes per year. of carbon dioxide would Contribute to the development of 3.6 Gj = 0.086 toe basically have the same new practices such as remote impact on global warming The megatoe or Mtoe is a unit of Carbon dioxide equivalent communication to limit travelling, 100 years later. virtualisation to reduce energy measure deployed by the International Greenhouse gas emissions are often consumption and power grid data Energy Agency for comparing expressed relative to CO2 equivalent. management to optimise usage. secondary energies, regardless of The conversion of a GHG to CO2 their mode of production. equivalent is based on its global warming potential ratio (GWP). CO2 Barrel of oil has an assigned GWP of 1 over a The barrel is the standard unit of 100-year period. measure for oil transactions. The symbol bbl originally referred to blue SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report 72 CORPORATE DIRECTORY FRANCE SPIE Oil & Gas Services MOROCCO SPIE SA Parc Saint-Christophe – Pôle Edison ELECAM/MELB FRA-95861 CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX Parc Saint-Christophe Route Malabata, Rue 2, N°34 Tel: +33 (0)1 34 22 59 00 FRA-95863 CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX 90000 TANGER Fax: +33 (0)1 34 22 51 69 Tel: +33 (0)1 34 24 30 00 Tel: (212)39 32 88 60 www.spieogs.com www.spie.com Fax: (212)39 30 12 73 www.myspie.eu SPIE Nucléaire www.elecam.ma SPIE Île-de-France Nord-Ouest Parc Saint-Christophe Pôle Galilée FRA-95865 CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX NETHERLANDS 28 bis, boulevard Ornano Tel: +33 (0)1 34 24 47 93 FRA-93287 SAINT-DENIS CEDEX SPIE Nederland Fax: +33 (0)1 34 24 47 40 Tel: +33 (0)1 48 13 42 42 Huifakkerstraat 15 Fax: +33 (0)1 48 13 45 99 NLD-4815 PN BREDA GERMANY Tel: (31)76 544 54 44 SPIE Est SPIE Deutschland Fax: (31)76 571 04 30 2, route de Lingolsheim System Integration www.spie-nl.com BP 70330 – Geispolsheim Gare FRA-67411 ILLKIRCH CEDEX Ruschgraben 135 Tel: +33 (0)3 88 67 56 00 DEU-76139 KARLSRUHE PORTUGAL Fax: +33 (0)3 88 67 40 33 Tel: (49)721 9632 0 Fax: (49)721 9632 168 TecnoSPIE SPIE Sud-Est www.spie-de.com Estrada do Outeiro de Polima, 4, avenue Jean-Jaurès Lote A – Abóboda BP 19 PRT-2785 – 521 SAO DOMINGOS BELGIUM DE RANA (Lisbonne) FRA-69551 FEYZIN CEDEX Tel: +33 (0)4 72 21 12 00 SPIE Benelux Tel: (351) 21 448 12 00 Fax: +33 (0)4 78 70 60 43 Digue du Canal 112 Vaartdijk Fax: (351) 21 448 12 10 BEL-1070 BRUXELLES – BRUSSEL www.spie-pt.com SPIE Ouest-Centre Tel: (32)2 529 73 00 7, rue Julius et Ethel Rosenberg Fax: (32)2 529 73 71 UNITED KINGDOM BP 90263 www.spie-be.com SPIE Matthew Hall FRA-44818 SAINT-HERBLAIN Tel: +33 (0)2 40 67 06 06 SPIE Belgium 7-14 Great Dover Street Fax: +33 (0)2 40 63 48 78 Digue du canal 112 Vaartdijk GB-LONDON SE1 4YR BEL-1070 BRUXELLES – BRUSSEL Tel: (44) 020 7089 7350 SPIE Sud-Ouest Tel: (32)2 729 61 11 Fax: (44) 020 7089 7351 70, chemin de Payssat Fax: (32)2 729 61 61 www.spiematthewhall.com ZI Montaudran – BP 34056 SPIE WHS FRA-31029 TOULOUSE CEDEX 4 Tel: +33 (0)5 61 36 75 75 SPAIN 21 Allensway Fax: +33 (0)5 61 36 74 70 Thornaby SPIE de Mantenimiento y Montaje, STOCKTON-ON-TEES TS17 9HA S.A. SPIE Communications Tel: (44) 016 4276 9085 HOLDING 53, boulevard Stalingrad www.eiwhs.com Gran Via, 8-10 2na Planta FRA-92240 MALAKOFF CEDEX ESP-08902 HOSPITALET Tel: +33 (0)1 41 46 41 46 SWITZERLAND DE LLOBREGAT Fax: +33 (0)1 41 46 41 47 BARCELONE SPIE Suisse www.spiecom.com Tel: (34)93 508 51 00 3, chemin des Léchères Fax: (34)93 508 51 44 CHE 1217 MEYRIN www.spie-es.com Tel: (41)22 719 88 88 Fax: (41)22 989 08 89 SPIE 2009 Business review and sustainable development report À mettre par l’imprimeur Design and production: Copywriting: VOCEM / Blaise de Obaldia, SPIE / Communication Department Photo credits: SPIE Photo Library, Philippe Bauduin, Xavier Boymond, Yves Chanoit, Muriel Chaulet, Nicolas Dohr, Vincent Jacques. AREVA / Geoffray Yann, EPR / © EDF Media Library-Alexis Morin/March 2010, Media Library CEA, EADS Sogerma Photo Library, Fondation Royaumont /Michel Chassat, © G.P.M.H., GFC Construction Media Library, Éric Thibaud, CHATEAU CYBORG, all rights reserved. 3D illustrations MySPIE: Bee-Buzziness. Document published by the SPIE Communication Department 1,500 copies of this report were printed on Cocoon silk paper (100% recycled) by DSi, a sheltered workshop employing over 250 people, 80% of whom are disabled. Additional copies can be printed on demand (POD) from the virtual version of the document–available online at www.spie.com and www.myspie.eu–using high-deﬁnition, digital printing methods on Cocoon silk 100% recycled paper. This environmentally friendly printing technique limits the use of paper, energy and chemical products to the strict minimum by eliminating inventory and the printing of needless copies. www.spie.com SPIES A Parc Saint-Christophe 95863 CERGY-PONTOISE cedex FRANCE Tel: +33 (0)1 34 24 30 00 www.spie.com www.myspie.eu
