Sustainability Report 2010 n Co tents Introduction and summary Message from the President and the CEO About our reporting Executive summary 2010 performance indicators 4 5 6 9 Managing corporate responsibility and sustainability MCI’s business at a glance 14 Our approach 15 Our progress 22 Additional disclosures UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 44 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index 47 Introduction and summary Message from the President and the CEO 4 About our reporting 5 Executive summary 6 2010 performance indicators 9 Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Message from the President and the CEO Roger Tondeur President Sebastien Tondeur CEO May 2011 As the meetings and events industry’s first signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we remain committed to upholding the Ten UNGC principles and supporting the sustainable development of communities across the world. Recent global financial, environmental and energy crises have underscored the need for business to become more innovative, transparent and responsible. We remain convinced of the value of CSR, its relevance to our business and the need to take action. We have come to recognize that best-run businesses do not simply implement a sustainability strategy. Instead, they make their corporate strategy sustainable. This distinction is profound and resulted in a review of our approach, more dialogue with our stakeholders and a commitment to improving our triple bottom line measurement and reporting. Hence, this report has been produced in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 guidelines. MCI’s journey towards sustainability goes much further than simply complying with documented guidelines. In 2010, our 957 employees, in 45 offices around the world, raised over €74,000 in support of socially responsible causes. Such levels of engagement are clear Sebastien Tondeur CEO Roger Tondeur President evidence that at MCI, we value and feel part of a socially and environmentally responsible culture. We are very proud that leaders for many of the key global sustainability initiatives including the Global Compact, the Climate Group and GRI now place their trust in us to help them create and produce their events. Using our expertise and resources, we can help mainstream sustainability and transform global markets towards a low-carbon, more responsible economy. 4 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Message from the President and the CEO Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures About our Compliance with standards Feedback required reporting We have benchmarked our sustainability reporting against The journey to sustainability is a collaborative one. Your the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 sustainability thoughts about this report as well as any suggestions that reporting guidelines. We assess our application of the GRI might help us to improve the efficiency and impact of our reporting framework to be at level C. An index of conformefforts towards sustainability are most welcome. ance with the guidelines and an explanation of how we comply with the GRI principles is available at the end of Please e-mail your comments to the authors: Scope of report the document. This document serves as the CommuniGuy Bigwood Material Issues cation on Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global The scope and the issues covered in our sustainability Group Sustainability Director Compact. It should be used in conjunction with the guy.bigwood@mci-group.com report were selected based on the GRI G3 guidelines, the MCI Annual Report 2010 GRI boundary protocol, stakeholder input, and on-going Making a Difference which contains a more comprehensive Michael Luehrs trend analysis. Materiality is determined as both challenges review of our financial performance, business strategies and Sustainability Services Manager and opportunities that potentially or actually affect our ability governance. michael.luehrs@mci-group.com to achieve our business and sustainability objectives. Key material issues are identified (page 16) by management and through stakeholder dialog. They are regularly evaluated in Acknowledgements management meetings, stakeholder workshops, and in the We would like to say a particular thank you to all the MCI future via online questionnaires. These material issues drive staff and the following external reporting experts for their the development of our sustainability strategy. time reviewing and providing feedback that improved this The second MCI Sustainability Report (previously known report: Shawna McKinley MeetGreen™, Hugh Kimber the as the Corporate Social Responsibility Report) covers the Carbon Consultancy, Frederick Page – Carbon Impact. Phil period since our last report, from October 2009 until DecemCumming, London Olympics Committee. ber 31st 2010. The information in this report covers all MCI In line with the sustainability principles we respect, this report operations, but does not cover joint ventures. All references is intended to be viewed online. to years are to MCI’s fiscal year, January to December. The key objective of this report is to drive performance of Download ‘Making a Difference’ our sustainability processes and accountability. The conMCI Annual Report 2010 tent, metrics and goals in this report are established by MCI teams responsible for measuring and achieving them in More about the MCI CSR programme consultation with internal and external stakeholders. We bewww.mci-group.com/csr lieve the boundary and scope of this report provide a faithful representation of our sustainability strategies and material, Visit our Sustainability in Action Blog economic, environmental and social impacts of MCI. www.lessconversationmoreaction.com 5 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 About our reporting Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Executive Key successes and actions summary ..18 of our offices became compliant with our internal CSR procedures (up from 5 in 2009); ..27% of all events were assessed for health and safety through a custom design IT tool (up from 8% in 2009); According to the 2010 UN Global ..MCI talent supported 31 charities, investing over 880 hours and raising over €74,086 for Compact Accenture report “New Era community projects; of Sustainability”, 93% of CEOs say ..event management partner for the UN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit, the Global Reporting Initiative Conference and 16 other summits on sustainability and climate change; Sustainability is critical to their success. ..delivered 31 sustainability presentations and training courses to the meetings industry We believe our sustainability is integral with more than 4641 attendees; to the long-term success of MCI’s ..three awards for Sustainability: IMEX-GMIC award for Greening of COP15 UN Climate business. Our strategies and actions Conference, Sweden’s Mayflower Blooming Business Award and Austrian Event Award for around the world aim to transform our Austrian Telekom Dialogue on Climate Conference. business and inspire developments in the meetings industry globally. Through Progress at Integrating CSR Procedures into MCI Offices living our values, we can better align our business goals with our impact 2009 30 2010 on society and the environment. 25 20 15 10 5 Completed Local CSR Plan Measuring & Reporting Impacts 6 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Executive summary Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Carbon footprint In 2010 MCI clients offset 4542 tons, 2010 was our first year of collecting detailed social and environmental data. or 2% of total estimated carbon emissions. The Carbon Footprint for staff travel and office electricity consumption is estimated at 4,237 We need to find a better way to encourage clients to tons CO2, which is equivalent to annual emissions of 847 passenger cars, or the average consider and compensate for their impacts. We calannual emissions of 257 Belgium residents or 3852 residents of Bangladesh. culate that adding an average fee of €5 per event Carbon footprint of all the events we organize for our clients is estimated at 242,027 tons delegate would allow us to become carbon neutral. of CO2. Over 90% of this impact is from aviation. Global CO2 emissions from aviation are Investment to offset MCI internal emissions would equivalent to about 1.9 2.4% of total global CO2 emissions. Source: Committee on Climate need to be approximately €50000. Change International Aviation MCI internal carbon emissions Total metric tons of CO2: 4237 1% Office electricity, 1568 Air travel, 2642 Train travel, 26 37% Emissions from staff commuting to work 62% are not included in the calculation MCI carbon emissions including client events 2% Total metric tons of CO2: 242027 98% Clients events, 242027 Staff travel and offices, 423 98% 7 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Executive summary Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Key learnings Key sustainability objectives for 2011 More simplicity ..improve measurement processes and performance Feedback from our stakeholders helped us realize that we culminating in a Sustainability Report which meets Global need to simplify our CSR processes. To maximize our perforReporting Initiative (GRI) standards; mance, we must ensure our CSR processes and guidelines are easy to understand, simple to implement and relevant to ..integrate sustainability consistently into event operations our talent. by implementing an integrated health safety and sustainability assessment tool in ten offices; Leading the change ..integrate sustainability information and products into 80% Challenged with a lack of client demand for more sustainof event proposals over 80000€; able practices, we must lead the change, and will continue to recommend sustainable event management initiatives to ..develop the sustainability consulting practice to support encourage the engagement of our clients. our advanced clients and the industry shift toward improved sustainability performance. Measuring and managing Sharing our sustainability stories with our stakeholders to improve transparency helps lay the foundation for building trust in our brand. To do this with integrity, we must work to “ develop an improved system to capture and share perforTo reach international climate change targets by mance data, and improve our accountability. 2050, business must reduce its carbon intensity by Transformation through collaboration over 100 times. We need to innovate and find ways to Sustainability requires collaboration. Through the sharing of best practices and by encouraging industry innovation, decouple our growth from our carbon emissions and we are developing specific knowledge that will facilitate the resource usage. Our challenge is to build a business transition to fully sustainable business practices. that does not pollute, but restores the environment, developing communities and an inclusive society. Guy Bigwood Group Sustainability Director 8 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Executive summary Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures 2010 key Economical performance Turnover (CHF) Gross margin (CHF) 270,481,178 107,158,028 indicators EBT (CHF) 5,315,306 Number of events organized 2,857 Investment in sustainability programme (Euros) 115,000 Number of MCI offices (end of year) 45 This table illustrates the data we are collectCompliance ing and will use as performance indicators to monitor our social and environmental perforOffices reporting environmental and social impacts 26 mance. A key goal is to improve and simplify measurement processes across the group. Offices classified as compliant with internal CSR policies and goals 18 Carbon emissions Total internal carbon emissions (tCO2) 4,237 Scope 2 emissions from office electricity (tCO2) 1,568 Scope 3 emissions from air travel (tCO2) 2,642 Scope 3 emissions from train travel (tCO2) 26 Carbon emissions per employee 4.43 Amount of carbon offsets purchased for clients (tCO2) 4,542 Energy and water Usage Total office electricity energy purchased (Kwh) 117,990 Total office electricity energy purchased (Euros) 177,619 Number of offices purchasing renewable energy 4 Water usage (litres) 14,487 Water usage/employee 15 Number offices recycling 22 Continues on next page 9 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 2010 key performance indicators Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures 2010 Key Performance Indicators continued Employment and diversity Total employees in workforce 957 Permanent Staff 79% Trainees and apprentices 6% Average age (year) 34 Average seniority (Year) 4 Employee turnover (%) 13% Percentage of women in company 64% Percentage of women on management board 27% Percentage of women in management 46% Languages spoken 56 Number of nationalities employed 62 Learning and development Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 91% Total learning hours of employee training 5,018 Average hours of training per year per employee 5.24 Community investment Total pro-bono and volunteer hours by MCI Staff for charities 880 Monetary donations by MCI Staff for charities (Euros) 74,086 Charities supported by company and Staff 32 Hours of sustainability training provided pro-bono for meetings industry 4,641 Note: Carbon emissions are calculated using the WRI GHG Protocol. Emissions and environmental impacts are for all 44 offices Emissions and environmental calculations include estimated averages from offices who do not have access to needed data points (electricity consumption, water use) Emissions from aviation includes a 10% buffer to cover errors in our first footprint. 10 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 2010 key performance indicators We thrive and survive on planet earth as a single human family, and one of our main responsibilities is to leave to successor generations a sustainable future. Kofi A. Annan Former United Nations Secretary General 11 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 2010 key performance indicators MCI is serious about sustainability, but we also like to have fun. We believe that many small actions build up to create lasting change. MCI Dublin are a previous winner of the MCI Leadership in CSR award, and a shining example of CSR – the MCI Way. Here the staff have just finished cleaning up rubbish from a community park. 12 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 2010 key performance indicators 2Managing corporate responsibility and sustainability MCI’s business at a glance Our approach Our progress 14 15 22 Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures MCI’s business at a glance MCI is a globally integrated Association, Communication and Event Management Company. Since 1987, MCI has created corporate events, meetings and incentives; association and governmental conventions, congresses, exhibitions; and managed and provided consulting to associations. MCI’s mission is to help companies, governments and associations bring people together to create meaningful connections and win. MCI provides many stand-alone solutions designed for those who only need a specific service to complete their projects such as Destination Management, Sustainability Services, Technical and Creative Production, Event Hospitality, Event Furniture and Decoration and Registration Technology. With offices currently in 45 cities in Europe, the Middle East, Asia-Pacific and South America, MCI is a thought leader in building community around Gross margin breakdown by expertise brands, products and services for companies and institutions. MCI’s 1000 plus employees represent 62 different nationalities and speak 56 different lanDestination Management 12% 9% guages offering local knowledge in a completely international team. In 2010, Association Management & Consulting 10% MCI organized 2857 events and currently has a volume of business of €289 Congress Management Meetings and Events million. Technical & Creative Production MCI is a private company. The Tondeur Family holds 56% of shares with 44% 32% being owned by Management, Employees and equity investors, Iris Capital. 37% For more detailed financial information: Read our Annual Report 14 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 MCI’s business at a glance Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Our approach Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability is a dynamic and continuous process that is becoming a fundamental element of our business strategy. Our approach is based on the UN Global Compact Management Framework. Sustainability: The MCI Way MCI’s sustainability agenda is grounded in the organization’s visions and values, directed by senior leaders, and Commit managed according to recognized standards. Our sustainability agenda is being driven from the top of the company and is part of The Painted Picture. This document outlines MCI’s strategic vision. The UN Global Compact principles provide us with guidance in the implementation and application of our sustainability principles. UN Global Compact Management Framework Our average annual investment in sustainability since 2007 is €115,000. An additional €156,353 gained from MCI Sustainability Services consulting revenues was invested into client and internal sustainability programmes in 2010. COMMIT Leadership commitment to mainstream the Global Compact principles into strategies and operations and to take action in support of broader UN goals, in a transparent way ASSESS Assess Assess risks, opportunities, and impacts across In the initial stages of our sustainability strategy, we have focused on five key stakeholder COMMUNICATE Global Compact issue areas groups. Our other stakeholders, such as governments, media groups, financial institutions Communicate progress and and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) are important to MCI, and we will continue to strategies and engage with engage in dialogue with them and gradually incorporate into our plans and actions. stakeholders for continuous We have engaged these five key stakeholders in over 50 workshops and have organized improvement DEFINE Define over 60 events within the sustainability sector. These sessions have provided us with a betgoals, strategies, and policies ter understanding of the issues involved in creating a more sustainable company. Some of MEASURE the areas where we have had feedback include sustainability challenges and opportuniMeasure and monitor ties, as well as relevant global changes and trends that we must take account of to shape impacts and progress toward goals IMPLEMENT and improve our sustainability strategy. We have shared our learnings through our blog and Implement strategies and policies through the company through public speaking engagements. To ensure constant improvement, we are currently and across the company’s value chain evaluating methods to receive more quantitative feedback from our talent and clients. Developed in partnership with Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Read more 15 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our approach Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Material Issues Key challenges ..increase in cost of petroleum and its effect on aviation and delegate travel; ..carbon emissions from large international congresses; ..waste from exhibitions, stands and large production events; ..sustainability commitment and consistent performance of supply chain (hotels, venues and catering partners); ..inconsistent action from MCI offices to substantiate MCI goals for leadership in sustainability. Key opportunities ..use MCI buying power to accelerate influence and accelerate change in supply chain; ..encourage and support clients to make events more sustainable; ..organize events aimed at creating solutions to global issues (COP15, United Nations Global Compact, etc.); ..develop associations to become agents of global change for sustainable development; ..leverage the potential of virtual technology to add value to client projects and reduce the environmental impacts of travel. “demonstrate We have an exciting opportunity to to our clients that it is an Key Findings Stakeholder Engagement achievable goal to integrate sustainability Key Engagement Insight Gained into their events. Now that we have success Stakeholder Method stories we need to improve on engaging our clients to change their event processes so Talent Meetings and workshops Make CSR simpler and more relevant to MCI business. Have fewer, more meaningful goals and follow up. that, together, we can make a difference. Suppliers Procurement discussions By explaining our definition of sustainability, our suppliers can and meetings better align their programmes to help meet our expectations for performance. Jurriaen Sleijster Clients Proposals received; We can increase marketplace engagement in sustainability if Executive Vice President Meetings and workshops we provide example of returns on the investment. Clients are starting to look for and expect good sustainability performance as part of standard business practice. Meetings industry Participation in association While discussion within the industry has been abundant, few boards, conferences and examples of consistent and mainstream action exist. We are all meetings starting the CSR journey. Community Collaboration projects There is great potential to create both long-term and short-term benefits for clients through community projects. 16 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our approach Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Why sustainability is important to our business Along with environmental protection and sustainable development, we have identified five benefits that our sustainability strategy brings to our core business: ..Competitiveness: customers today are evaluating MCI’s sustainability commitment and performance when making purchasing decisions. Our industry sustainability leadership positively differentiates us from our competition. ..Building trust: the results of our efforts provide evidence of our commitment to being an ethical and responsible company. By openly sharing our results, we lay the foundation for the building of trust with our clients, local governments, NGOs, investors and other stakeholders. “full For MCI to harness the potential of sustainable development, we must see it as ..Operational efficiency: improving social and environmental performance in our offices and improving accountability for our supply increases operational inefficiencies, service levels integral to the entire process. and reduces operational costs. Sustainability should not be ..Employee engagement: the growing public demand for ethical, social and environmental regarded as an expensive action means that our sustainability strategy is an important element for our existing teams afterthought but a filter through and for attracting and retaining top talent. which the best decisions are ..Encouraging innovation: sustainability inspires improvements for how we run our operations, manage our supply chain and develop new services and products. made and from which the best results can be achieved. Michael Luehrs Sustainability Services Manager 17 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our approach Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Define Talent wellbeing Management and scope of sustainability at MCI Ethics and trust The sustainability strategy is developed by MCI Sustainability Services in close collaboration with the executive vice president and with the input from Talent development the CSR Champions. It is reviewed quarterly by the executive vice president, Security and safety the CEO, the executive committee, the management board. It is presented and discussed with staff at sustainability workshops and meetings both at the Diversity and equality annual International Business Meeting and through regular local office interactions. The advisory board chaired by MCI President Roger Tondeur, review the strategy and performance annually. Profit Planet Financial performance Sustainability strategy We have defined five long-term business strategy areas to guide our busiPeople Environmental performance ness towards sustainability: Social performance ..Sustainable operations: we must integrate sustainability principles into the day-to-day management of our offices, operations, suppliers and Business development partnerships. ..People first: our greatest assets are the talent that comprise our teams. Citizenship in community Event operations Our commitment is to create diverse, healthy and safe working environments which align with internationally respected human and labour rights Corporate governance principles. ..Facilitate global change: by using our core skills and expertise in event Office operations management, communication and association management, we support organizations working with sustainability. ..Leadership for change: as a leader in the implementation of responsible business practice, standards and education we encourage meetings industry stakeholders to follow our example. ..Serve the community: we strive to be a responsible corporate citizen by supporting local communities and giving back to society.￼ 18 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our approach Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Implement Our sustainability strategy is being progressively integrated into our standard operating procedures. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, CSR policy and Ethical Code of Conduct are all based on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compacts. Read more at www.mci-group.com/csr The local CSR Champions are responsible for developing a local sustainability action plan with management, engaging and involving staff, communicating new processes and report“ One of our priorities was to make CSR tangible for the staff ing on progress. Currently we have varying levels of sustainability performance across the 45 offices. Our in the Brussels office. We made overriding goal for 2011 is to raise performance of all offices across the group. sure that as a small team we Four key priorities in 2011 are to: were committed to addressing ..improve measurement processes and performance in all offices culminating in a Sustaineach of the MCI strategies in ability Report which meets Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards; a bite-size format, enabling ..integrate sustainability consistently into office and event operations by implementing an people to feel connected to a integrated health safety and sustainability assessment tool in ten offices; project that motivated them, in ..integrate sustainability information and products into 80% of event proposals over 80000€; the time that they had to offer. ..develop the sustainability consulting practice to support our advanced clients and the industry shift toward improved sustainability performance. Bertrand Mbiaffié CSR Champion MCI Brussels 19 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our approach Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Internally, the report is disseminated by email and regular Measure CSR actions are reported monthly in our group newsletters and quarterly in our business practice newsletters, while at To improve our processes it is essential that we capture, the annual International Business Meeting there is a plenary analyse and monitor the performance metrics established section that focuses on CSR. During this session, an award in our strategy. How we do this and what we measure is deis presented to the office that has demonstrated the best fined in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 framework achievement at integrating CSR into the MCI business and guides. Essentially, the necessary data is collected from culture. departments (Human Resources, Procurement, Finance, etc.) located in our headquarters and local offices. This The award nominations are judged by an external panel of information is then assessed based on social, environmental experts from the Green Meeting Industry Council, and so far and financial performance. Over time our collection systems the award has been won by: and procedures will be improved resulting in much greater 2010 MCI Brussels data integrity. 2009 MCI Stockholm and Gothenburg We are aware that it is not enough just for MCI to change 2008 MCI Dublin its practices We want to help develop measurement protocols throughout the industry to make sustainable business the norm. This process involves sharing systems and best practice with other companies through industry forums, and includes participation in the working groups to develop the ISO20121, APEX/ASTM standard and GRI Events Sector Supplement. Communicate The CSR programme, MCI’s Annual Report and this Sustainability Report are communicated externally through the group website and in face-to-face conversations with our clients and partners. Through social media platforms such as Twitter™, LinkedIn™ and our blog CSR Champions Julia Ashton and www.lessconversationmoreaction.com we solicit input Bertrand Mbiaffie from MCI Brusand listen to our stakeholders. This dialogue aims to inspire sels, collecting their MCI Leadership in CSR Award from Guy Bigwood action on sustainable business practices and identify ways (Sustainability Director) and Joëlle to improve our performance. Zumwald (HR Director) 20 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our approach Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Our CSR champions 21 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our CSR champions Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Our progress Results, learning and challenges on the road to sustainability “ We use MCI’s vivacity and innovative spirit to build a strong CSR community among our talent, clients and our partners. It’s a new way to work and a new way to live. Charlotte Moulin Business Development Manager MCI Geneva 22 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our progress Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Operational Sustainability ..Videoconferencing: 3,213 videoconferencing sessions were conducted across the group using our Tandberg and MOC systems. These were all facilitated using in-house systems. Our commitment is to integrate principles of sustainability into the daily work of our teams, The direct impact of this on travel costs and emissions has not been calculated. Greater applying triple bottom line reporting for customers programmes and our own reporting. training can improve usage. What we said we would do ..integrate CSR into our operational processes and influence the supply chain; ..increase operational efficiencies to reduce costs; Monthly video conferencing usage 2010 ..integrate CSR into MCI’s value and sales proposition for clients. 400 How did we perform? 300 Key areas 200 ..Overall: we have noticed an improvement in the integration of CSR into our local offices, 100 especially how CSR Champions have become instrumental in involving their management and staff in sustainability initiatives. Eighteen of our offices are now in compliance with Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec expectations for sustainability planning, community actions, measurement and reporting policies. It should be pointed out that we have focused on working with the larger offices and have not given equal priority to smaller teams (defined as those that consist of less than 15 employees). Progress at Integrating CSR Procedures into MCI Offices ..Procurement: group Purchasing has integrated our CSR code of conduct into all group contracts. This means that all HQ agreements with hotel suppliers and Ovation group 2009 2010 30 partners now include a commitment on their behalf to adhere to this code. ..Event Operations: operational checklists were created to be used at all events, however 25 they were not in mainstream use throughout 2010, due to insufficient engagement with 20 end users and operational management. ..Training: CSR training was provided for our business development and client account 15 10 team at their annual sales meetings. Operational training of staff was lower than in 2009. ..Measurement: group emissions and environmental impacts were measured but unfortu5 nately not in time to be able to provide meaningful data that could be used to set reducCompleted Local CSR Plan Measuring & Reporting Impacts tion targets and strategies. Likewise we need to improve our ability to convert impacts to financial values. 23 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our progress Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Event Year Score Promoting measurement and reporting Through a partnership with MeetGreen, a meetings agency and consultancy internationUN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit 2010 76 ally recognized as a pioneer in sustainability for events, MCI has used the MeetGreen™ UN Climate Change Conf. (COP 15) 2009 69 methodology and calculator in over 20 projects. The MeetGreen™ platform allows our CSR Summit, Singapore 2009 37 project managers to analyse, measure, benchmark and improve nine areas of environmental EU summit, Gothenburg 2009 41 and social impacts within an event. This effort reduces event energy consumption, waste Eular 2009 37 production and water usage, while improving event recycling, delegate wellness and safety, Intnl. Conf. Climate Change, Hong Kong 2009 49 and social equity. World Bioenergy, Stockholm 2009 37 The chart opposite shows the MeetGreen™ performance of MCI internal and high-profile World Business Summit, Copenhagen 2009 50 global events that we have audited measured and assisted to create sustainability reports. World Water Week, Stockholm 2009 54 European Wind Energy Association (EWEA), Stockholm 2009 56 EWEA, Marseilles 2009 42 EWEA, Warsaw 2010 59 EWEA, Brussels 2011 63 Bertlesman Foundation 2010 23 DEGRO 2010 42 GTH, Weisbaden 2011 74 MCI Annual Company Meeting (IBM) 2008 37 MCI Annual Company Meeting (IBM) 2009 54 MCI Annual Company Meeting (IBM) 2010 50 MCI supported the Danish government to organize the COP15 UN Climate Conference and to achieve BS8901 sustainability certification. The event raised the bar on sustainability performance, measurement and reporting of large governmental events. 24 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our progress Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures What we plan to do ..A sustainability risk assessment will be amalgamated into our in-house developed, proprietary Event Safety Tool (EST), enabling all events be assessed for safety and sustainability. In 2011 the tool it is our target to start by assessing 10% of all events for sustainability. ..CSR information and solution packages will be integrated into a minimum of 80% of sales proposals over €100000. ..Our sustainability team will work with the three operations directors to better integrate and embed CSR into existing procedures and tools. ..An updated version of MeetGreen™, will be rolled out, with a training plan aimed to double the number of client events evaluated. “for sustainable We strive to achieve ever improving performance practices. In order to walk the talk managing directors from the seven central European region offices launched a collaborative project to deliver enhanced and consistent actions and accountability for sustainability in operations and sales processes. Less talk, more action! Bosse Magnusson Managing Director MCI Scandinavia 25 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Our progress Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures People first “ We are very proud that our team represents more than 62 nationalities, MCI recognizes that our greatest assets are the people that comprise our teams. Our comspeaks over 56 languages with almost 50% mitment is to create diverse, healthy and safe working environments which align with internationally respected human and labour rights principles. gender balance in our management team. Joëlle Zumwald Diversity as a competitive differentiator Group HR Director Diversity fosters an international mindset that enhances innovation and our ability to work cross-culturally and expand into new markets, giving us a better understanding of the societies in which we operate.We value and actively promote diversity in all its forms which includes culture, race, ethnicity, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and physical ability. Investing in talent development MCI Diversity: Women in Business We believe that our greatest asset is our talent and that it is our responsibility to invest in them. This is why we nurture each and every one of them, encouraging them to grow perWomen on management board 80% Women managers and directors sonally and professionally, enabling them to achieve their full potential. The MCI Institute’s Women in the company 70 portfolio of educational opportunities have been developed to focus on training our people through a blend of face-to-face workshops, certification programmes and online learning. 60 50 Ensuring health and safety The safety and well-being of our staff and clients is a fundamental business priority, and MCI 40 takes its corporate responsibility in these matters very seriously, doing everything possible 30 to address and reduce any potential risks. To ensure that this area is fully addressed our Health and Safety Manager oversees a team of local coordinators who have the responsi20 bility of promoting, training, supporting and developing MCI Health and Safety procedures throughout the company. 20 26 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 People first Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures What we said we would do What we plan to do ..understand and benefit from the diversity of the organization; CSR needs to be better integrated into all three areas. The key priorities we need to focus on are: ..develop our employees’ professional skills; HR and talent management ..reduce the health and safety risks in our offices and during events; ..The performance and career development process will be reviewed to include CSR crite..develop human rights and anti-corruption training modules. ria in talent appraisal. ..IT systems will be improved to provide more detail about diversity in the organization, facilitating greater discussion about equal rights. Health and safety How did we perform? ..75% of all MCI events will be assessed with the Health and Safety tool. Additionally all staff will be retrained every 2 years. HR and talent management ..79% of our workforce have permanent employment contracts; ..Our disaster and crisis management procedures need to be developed and improved. ..91% of all employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews; ..Develop a group wellness programme to help increase awareness of the importance of nutrition, diet and exercise. The group wide wellness programme is based on a health ..Annual staff turnover of 13%. week that was pioneered by MCI Brussels. The MCI Code of Business Ethics based on the UN Global Compact principles was inteLearning and development grated into the induction training for all new hires in 2010. We did not develop Human Rights ..The MCI Institute’s learning programmes will continue to grow, with face-to-face workand Anti-Corruption training as planned and are currently assessing methods to integrate shops, online learning and certification courses being combined to nurture the capabilithis into our learning plan. ties of our talents across the globe. MCI Institute learning and development programme ..Staff initiation will migrate to online webinar format so that the senior management board .. 5,018 hours of learning and development have been undertaken (a 24% increase over can be more involved in talent induction and engagement. This will also expand use of 2009); our virtual training capability, potentially leading to reduced travel for our staff . ..662 people have enrolled in Institute workshops organized at group and regional level (a ..We intend to deliver 6 internal webinars on sustainability to a minimum of 100 MCI talent 20% increase over 2009); total. ..83 individuals have attended the new MCI Institute Academies held in Europe and Asia. Health & Safety .. Appointed local health and safety coordinators at 22 offices ; ..Improved systems, training and processes resulting in 27% of the all events being assessed for health and safety risks, an increase from 8% in 2009. 27 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 People first In November 2010, MCI Brussels organized a health week dedicated to the wellbeing of its talents. The goal was to introduce them to new sports, ideas, lifestyle suggestions and nutritional advice to help maintain peak performance during the working hours. Throughout the week the CSR and HR teams organized gym classes, including Zumba, Pilates and dance, volleyball games, a Wii-FitTM competition, a healthy picnic, workshops on nutrition, Emotional Freedom Techniques (EFT) and stress management. The week culminated with two teams from MCI participating in a marathon with 738 other teams. 28 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 People first Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures ..Facilitated the development of sustainable destination Facilitating What we said we would do strategies for Copenhagen, Gothenburg and the Costa global change ..Become market leader for the organization of meetings del Sol. about sustainability: Sustainability Services and our local offices have been building relationships with many of the What we plan to do The integration of our vision for most important ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) and energy initiatives around the world. By helping We will continue to build on our expertise working with busisustainability into our business model these organizations to communicate more effectively, orness and non-governmental organizations in the sustainand operations will help MCI become ganize more sustainable events and to gain more support ability sector, encouraging and supporting more MCI offices a better corporate citizen. We can from businesses, associations and governments, we help to become engaged with the Global Compact and other them to achieve their goal of making sustainability comkey local initiatives. MCI Sustainability Services and PCO accelerate global change if we mon practice and transforming global markets towards a business development teams will develop relationships with become enablers of the solution and low-carbon, more responsible economy. leading sustainability and energy NGOs and encourage support organizations working with ..Develop MCI Sustainability Services: Since 2008 we have clients to integrate more sustainable event management consistently developed our Sustainability Services, inpractices. sustainability. With our collaborative creasing our consultants’ ability to provide expert advice approach, we can leverage our to our clients and suppliers, who want to become leaders global experience in building and in the field of sustainability to gain a competitive advanMCI Organized Events for the Sustainability and Energy strengthening links to help create tage. Currently the team works globally and consults with Sector since programme launch industry associations, national tourism organizations, relationships that are not only meaningful convention bureaux, congress centres, hotel chains and and lasting, but sustainable too. corporate clients. 20 15 How did we perform? ..Selected as event management partner for the UN Global 10 Compact Leaders Summit, the Global Reporting Initiative Conference and the Climate Group Asian Summit, organ5 izing more than 57 high-level events about sustainability since 2007. 2007 2008 2009 2010 ..Won IMEX-GMIC Green Meetings award for integrating environmentally and socially responsible actions as part of COP15 UN Climate Conference and Austrian Event Award for Austrian Telekom Dialogue on Climate Conference 29 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Facilitating global change “ This year’s summit brought an unprecedented array of leaders from around the world, who were united in their commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact. In many respects, the 1 summit turned a new page in our shared mission to create a more inclusive global economy. Supporting the UN Global Compact Georg Kell Executive Director of the UN Global Compact© MCI has helped the Global Compact organize local network meetings in Singapore, India and Belgium. In June 2010, MCI organized the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit. MCI worked closely with the UN team to design a strategic communication platform that allowed the Global Compact to respond to the high-profile participant group in a fresh, highly creative and dynamic format. Images 1 Georg Kell Executive Director UN Global Compact, Roger Tondeur MCI President, Guy Bigwood MCI Group Sustainability Director 2 Georg Kell Executive Director UN Global Compact (Photo: UN Global Compact/Michael Dames) 2 See more photos at UN Global Compact 30 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Facilitating global change Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Case study: Event sustainability MeetGreen™ Conference Summary Report A number of actions were taken to minimize the environmental footprint of the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit. The Global Compact principles were integrated into the Destination selection 100 100% planning, design and operation of the Summit – for example, Accommodations selection all suppliers signed a Sustainability Code of Conduct. DurMeeting & Venue selection 88 Transportation selection 85 ing development of the event strategy, goals were clearly Food & Beverage selection 80 80 aligned with the Summit’s theme “Building a New Era of SusExposition services 74 Communications & Marketing tainability”, and in doing so, setting a sustainability benchOnsite Office 67 63 60 60 mark for future conferences. 100% of all CO2 emissions produced in relation to the Sum40 mit were offset. International travel and local emissions produced an estimated 2,059 metric tons of CO2 equivalents. These emissions were offset with the Amatitlan Geothermal 20 Project in Guatemala. A UNFCCC Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) certified project, it was selected by MCI based on its combined social, economic and environmental benefits. The Summit was informed by the BS8901 Sustainable Event Management System. MCI performed audits and verifications of the sustainability performance of the hotel, venue, caterers, food and beverage suppliers, and transportation suppliers. Results were tallied and benchmarked against the performance of other events, revealing that the Leader’s Summit exceeded the target MeetGreen score of 65 by achieving a score of 76 (of a possible 100) in the MeetGreen™ database. MCI teams focused on developing a conference experience with sustainable materials and the minimum amount of waste. 31 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Facilitating global change Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Leadership What we said we would do project and the UN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit, we authored event reports which were among the first to for change ..actively engage MCI’s leadership in our CSR strategy; use Global Reporting Initiative criteria.We are working to see how to include sustainability considerations in all our ..be an industry leader in sustainable business; major events. ..set the industry standard for CSR reporting. Representatives of MCI occupy many prominent positions within industry See examples of our consulting projects associations, a fact that has enabled us How did we perform? www.lessconversationmoreaction.com/ourwork to use our vision, expertise and action ..MCI Management participated actively in various highto share our sustainability strategy with level business forums about sustainability, including COP15, the UN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit and the Number of participants of MCI sustainability a much wider audience and contribute Asian Conference on Climate Change. training workshops to education and to the development ..Since 2008 we have given 107 industry training workof best practices within the industry. shops and presentations to 14,793 people. 5000 ..Our opinions and experiences implementing sustainability 4000 have been published on our ‘Less Conversation, More Action’ CSR blog, which attracted 25,792 unique views in 3000 2010. ..Our business leaders co-created and engaged with 2000 some of the most important sustainability initiatives in 1000 the meetings industry. They are involved in the devel2007 2008 2009 2010 opment of industry standards including ISO2012, GRI Event Sector Supplement and APEX/ASTM Environmental Sustainability. ..Our Group Sustainability Director Guy Bigwood was elected as President of the Green Meeting Industry Council (GMIC), and our staff have been involved in creating GMIC chapters in Sweden, Holland and Spain. ..MCI Brussels became a founding partner of the new UN Global Compact Belgium Network. ..Twelve event sustainability reports were created for our client events. For the Danish Foreign Ministry’s COP15 32 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Leadership for change Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures What we plan to do ..become a GRI Organizational Stakeholder and hence become more active in the governance and development of the GRI Protocol; ..participate in the UN Global Compact, Caring for Climate Summit; ..actively participate in the development and rollout of the ISO20121, APEX and GRI Standards; ..increase management participation in the GMIC (Green Meeting Industry Council). “roleMCI is taking an active leadership in the development of the Green Meeting Industry Council around the world. The GMIC is a collaborative forum that brings together leaders in the field of sustainability for meetings and events, and focuses on developing Martin Brezovich, MCI Vienna Managing Director and Dr Elfriede Neuhold, skills, sharing knowledge and defining Telekom Austria winning the Austrian Event Award for the Dialog on Climate Conference tools and actions. Strong collaboration between suppliers, clients and competitors supports the GMIC’s strategy to transform the meetings industry towards sustainability. Tamara Kennedy Executive Director of the GMIC 33 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Leadership for change Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Serve the What we said we would do community ..develop a partnership project with an international NGO. How did we perform? As part of a global community, we want to make the world in which we Power of Action live a better place. This philosophy To help MCI staff implement community projects, our HR and CSR management created the is an integral part of the MCI way, simple Power of Action framework To provide some structure in a simple but meaningful way. which is why we have engaged with The four steps are: Non-governmental Organizations to create community action projects. ..Purpose: identify goals and a clear reason for the project; Our expertise in event organization ..Selection: seek credible NGO partners; can help communities develop ..Engagement: engage NGO, MCI partners and talent in planning of project, forming a virtual team that uses social media to reach out and spread word; and become more sustainable. ..Follow Up: keep telling the story before, during and after the event. Make it live. Celebrate the success. To align actions across the group and strengthen the brand, as well as creating a more meaningful narrative, MCI teams are advised to consider the following three criteria when developing community projects: ..Building Community: does the project create links and relationships that will bring benefit to people and societies by facilitating business, creating networks, offering guidance and providing development assistance and/or infrastructure? ..Education: will the scheme provide enhanced access to information, which, in turn, can stimulate life chances for audiences in need of improved opportunities? ..Fun: is the enterprise engaging and positive, providing participants with buoyancy of spirit, increased optimism, hope and esprit de corps? 34 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Serve the community 1 Local teams showing the way Working with our CSR champions and management teams, it was decided that a group-wide partnership with just one NGO was not the best way to engage our diverse teams. With fewer parameters in place, MCI talent invested over 880 hours in 36 community projects around the world raising more than €74,000. Here are just a few examples of the Power of Action: 2 Developing creative and socially responsible leaders For the 2010 International Business Meeting (IBM) in Istanbul, we partnered The Young Guru Academy (YGA), to support their programme to create more socially responsible and innovative young leaders. MCI offices raised over €6,500 to fund the construction of a new creative learning library for YGA’s Read-Think-Share in Sivas, Turkey. On site MCI created and organized a high-energy, eco-challenge with 177 MCI Staff, YGA students and their teachers to celebrate their graduation and to educate them about environmental issues. Images 1, 3 MCI staff working with YGA students to build cartoon characters from repurposed waste products. 3 2 MCI staff, YGA students and assistants. 35 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Serve the community “ It was a pleasure to work together with MCI. We felt a strong sense of giving not only from MCI, but also from their business partners in Turkey. We are normally used to companies trying to modify socially responsible activities in a manner which only fits their corporate agenda, but lacks the deepness necessary to have a true impact on society. In this case there was very clean communication and understanding between us, which made it an exemplary socially responsible project. It should not only be considered successful because it had a positive effect on its direct beneficiary (Turkish students from disadvantaged primary schools), but also because its structure broadened the spectrum of indirect beneficiaries to include MCI staff and their partners, the Hilton hotel, Meptur 1 DMC and Istanbul Convention Bureau. Ali Yüceulug Programme Director, Young Guru Academy Images 1 MCI Management celebrate with partners and the winning team. 2 Students participating in the YGA program are top per2 3 formers from disadvantaged communities 3 MCI staff raised €6000 to build a creative learning library in Sivas,Turkey. 36 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Serve the community Shoes for Africa In December 2009 for MCI’s International Business Meeting (IBM) in Vienna, we participated in the Kiwi’s Shoes 4 Africa and the Play-4-Africa community campaigns. This involved MCI teams from around the world bringing 850 pairs of shoes with them to the meeting, which were then distributed in Kenya and Namibia as part of the Kiwi campaign. MCI staff also donated enough cash to buy 210 football kits for children in a UN refugee camp in Kenya. Images 1 Donated shoes being distributed in the UN Refugee camp. 2, 3 Play for Africa team distributing MCI sponsored football kits 1 at Kenyan refugee camp. 2 3 37 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Serve the community Serving local communities In July 2010, MCI Brussels forged a relationship with Serve the City, a movement of volunteers serving cities in practical ways and inspiring people to give to those less fortunate that themselves throughout the world. For the Big Volunteer Week, 35 of the talent from our Brussels office volunteered 139 hours of their time so to participate in activities that reached out and benefited the homeless, asylum seekers, the disabled, the elderly, children and victims of abuse. At Christmas they also donated blankets to Serve the City who distributed them to homeless people in Brussels. Community action initiatives as part of our core business The Mayflower Charity Foundation is Sweden’s largest charity for children with goals to improve the situation for the country’s children and to fight child poverty. Every spring, 1 schoolchildren, have a chance to participate in the Mayflower activities by selling Mayflower pins. The revenue from this activity forms the basis for all the charity’s work. MCI Sweden has supported the foundation since 2009, by arranging for children to sell mayflower pins at congresses and. For each large project that they win, MCI Sweden also donates €150 to the charity. In 2010, MCI was awarded Blooming Company of the Year, in recognition of our continuing support and contribution to The Mayflower’s annual fundraising campaign. This award was presented by Queen Silvia of Sweden. Images 1 Blankets donated by MCI staff to Serve the City. 2 2 Schoolchildren selling Mayflower Pins at MCI organized conference. 38 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Serve the community 1 Make a Wish In May 2010, MCI Geneva joined up as a partner with the Make a Wish Foundation, which is dedicated to granting the wishes of children and young adults suffering from life threatening conditions. The team engaged in fundraising activities and found the time to organize the charity’s thirtieth anniversary party celebrating World Wish Day which was attended by 200 children and numerous supporting partners. 3 Making a big difference MCI Dublin’s charity of choice is Irish Autism Action (IAA), and the local team have continually supported them for the past 4 years. This has helped raise over €1.25 million to date through various fundraising events such as the Keith Duffy Masquerade Ball. All funds raised go directly to assisting children and adults affected by autism. Images 1 MCI Geneva staff participanting in the World Wish Day. 2 Keith Duffy, Patron of IAA and mem2 ber of Boyzone at school for Autism. 39 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Serve the community We have come to realize that success is a series of small steps that add together to build a culture of responsible and sustainable business. MCI Hong Kong have become an inspiration through their creative and consistent actions. Here, MCI talent participate in the Pink Revolution Campaign by organizing an office get-together and donating their lunch money towards breast cancer care in Hong Kong. 40 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Serve the community Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Charities supported by MCI in 2010 YGA Chèques du Cœur What we plan to do Shoes 4 Africa Planete Urgente Our goal is that in 2011 all employees will dedicate a miniHaiti Lavi 12-2 Box of Hope Hong Kong mum of 1 hour to a project of their choice, which means that by the end of the year we will have contributed 1,000 hours Serve the City World Cancer Research, HK of community service. Red Cross HK Cancer Fund The CSR team is committed to developing and communicating relevant information about the Power of Action project, Children’s Home Berlin Mitte Rosengrenska sharing best practice and knowledge through webinars, our Aktion Mensch Lottery Mayflower Fund CSR blog and training classes. City Mission Berlin Central Remedial The annual International Business Meeting in December 2011 will again become a focus for bringing MCI talent toMaendences Hjem Catholic Youth Care gether to work on a common community project. Smiling Children Share the Feeling Little Dream’s Foundation Children in Need FFFS Comic Relief Pakistan Flood Relief ICEP Irish Autism Action Phileas Irish Hospice Accion Natura AIM Aktion Mensch Niall Mellon 41 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Serve the community Let everyone sweep in front of his own door and the whole world will be clean. Goethe 42 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Serve the community Additional disclosures UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index 44 47 3 Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures UN Global Compact Communication on Progress The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. It is the largest corporate responsibility initiative in the world with almost 8000 signatories. MCI has been a signatory to The UN Global Compact office provided direct feedback on our first the principles of the UN Global Compact since 2007. “Communication on Progress”. They provided the following suggestions which were included in the development of our sustainability This report serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) strategy and this report: to the United Nations. The following table summarises our • Explain in more detail the business relevance and materiality of 2010 action plan, what was achieved and what we plan to sustainability issues do in 2011. Further information can be found throughout • Offer a more balanced representation of economic, environmenthe report using the page numbers as hyperlinks. tal, and social performance • Provide more information on outcomes and expected outcomes MCI Sustainability Policies and Codes of Conduct are (i.e. future targets) based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. They can be found at www.mci-group.com/csr Feedback from the UN 44 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Principal What it means Relevant policies Actions in 2010 How we performed Page Actions for 2011 or document ..MCI CSR Policy ..Create a ‘train the trainer’ guide for CSR@MCI ..Training documents created ..Include review of 1 Businesses should P23-25, 27, support and respect the ..MCI Supplier Code ..Create online training modules and rolled out Jan 2010 34-41 Code of Conduct as protection of internationally of Conduct ..Create guideline for community action projects ..6 unique training presentations created, part of procurement ..MCI Code of ..Track local actions and support but not delivered until 1stQ 2011 audit of offices proclaimed human rights Business Ethics group wide initiative ..Guidelines for community action .. Track number and impact ..Sustainability Services ..Roll out Supplier code of conduct via created and delivered, Nov 2010 of community action training resources procurement teams for all group contracts ..Created a record of community action initiatives by MCI offices ..Document percentage of suppliers compliant with projects undertaken by MCI offices agreement ..MCI Procurement office includes Code of Conduct in 100% of major purchasing contracts ..100% of major suppliers (over €0.5M in purchases) have signed ..MCI CSR Policy ..Develop online resources and training courses ..Training documents created ..Develop CSR checklist 2 Make sure they are not P23-25, 27 complicit in human ..MCI Supplier Code ..Introduce the Code of Conduct as part and rolled out Jan 2010 for new MCI Offices to rights abuses of Conduct of orientation and training for all staff ..6 unique training presentations created, but support commitment and ..MCI Code of ..Group procurement to integrate Code of Conduct not delivered via MCI Institute until 1stQ 2011 compliance with inclusion Business Ethics into all group purchasing agreements ..MCI Procurement office includes Code of of Code of Conduct in ..Sustainability Services Conduct in 100% of major purchasing contracts supplier contracts training resources ..100% of major suppliers (over €0.5M in purchases) have signed ..MCI CSR Policy ..Include in orientation programme ..New hire orientation includes ..Develop CSR checklist 3 Businesses should P23-25, 27 uphold freedom of ..MCI Supplier Code for new MCI staff Code of Business Ethics for new MCI Offices to association & effective of Conduct ..Update training to include Human rights issues ..Specific training designed to avoid Human support commitment and recognition of the right ..MCI Code of ..Integrate in all major investments and acquisitions Rights abuses not created. Focus instead was compliance with inclusion of Code of Conduct in Business Ethics on sustainable development, which includes the to collective bargaining ..The Painted Picture requirement for people to meet basic needs supplier contracts Sustainability Services .. MCI includes CSR in The Painted Picture, the training resources documented vision for MCI growth to which newly acquired companies show commitment ..MCI CSR Policy ..Include CSR Policy as core ..MCI CSR policy was referenced in ..Develop CSR checklist 4 The elimination of all P23-25, 27 forms of forced and ..MCI Supplier Code element to office training trainings starting Jan 2010. for new MCI Offices to compulsory labour of Conduct ..Introduce Code of Conduct to supply chain. ..Code of Conduct now integrated into support commitment to ..MCI Code of Track number of compliant suppliers procurement system as a standard. integrate CSR training Business Ethics ..Distribute Code of Business Ethics in Number of supply partners who have ..The Painted Picture orientations for all new MCI employees signed has not yet been tracked. Sustainability Services .. Code of Business Ethics distributed training resources during new hire orientations and signatures received by trainer ..MCI CSR Policy ..Include CSR Policy as core ..MCI CSR policy was referenced in ..Develop CSR checklist 5 The effective abolition P23-25, 27 of child labour MCI Supplier Code of element to office training trainings starting Jan 2010. for new MCI Offices to Conduct ..Identify total number of supplier contracts ..Code of Conduct now integrated into support commitment to MCI Code of Business still to sign Code of Conduct and follow up procurement system as a standard. integrate CSR training Ethics The Painted Picture ..Distribute Code of Business Ethics in Number of supply partners who have orientations for all new MCI employees signed has not yet been tracked. Sustainability Services training resources .. Code of Business Ethics distributed during new hire orientations and signatures received by trainer 45 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Communication On Progress continued Principal What it means Relevant policies Actions in 2010 How we performed Page Actions for 2011 or document ..MCI CSR Policy ..Track/document incidents. Create ..Zero incidents reported in 2010 ..Develop CSR checklist 6 Eliminate discrimination P23-25, 27 in respect of employment ..MCI Supplier Code action plan, by region ..Specific training not created. for new MCI Offices to and occupation of Conduct ..Create “Train the trainer” for CSR@MCI Sustainability training was developed support commitment to ..MCI Code of and addresses human rights integrate CSR training Business Ethics .. The Painted Picture underscores the ..The Painted Picture commitment to an ethical and safe workplace Sustainability Services training resources ..MCI CSR Policy ..Implement full office measurement system ..26 of 44 offices completed ..Develop CSR checklist 7 Businesses should support P23-25, 27, a precautionary approach to ..MCI Supplier Code ..Evaluate findings and share best practices measurement template 32 for new MCI Offices to environmental challenges of Conduct ..Develop online training ..Social media platforms and face to face support commitment to ..MCI Code of Integrate CSR products into client meetings organized to share best practices integrate CSR training Business Ethics proposals system wide ..CSR guidelines and templates support the ..The Painted Picture .. Each MCI office trained in initiative to integrate CSR commitments Sustainability Services sustainable actions for events and consultancy deliverables but training resources this is not currently compulsory .. Online and face to face trainings conducted to over 50 MCI talents for sustainable event management practices ..MCI CSR Policy ..Initiate effort to see GMIC expand in Europe. ..MCI active in starting 3 chapters ..Develop CSR checklist 8 Undertake initiatives P23-25, to promote greater ..MCI Supplier Code ..Support MCI development of (Amsterdam, Sweden, Spain) 27-33 for new MCI Offices to environmental of Conduct event measurement tool ..Sustainability Services a leader to develop and support commitment to ..MCI Code of ..Organize regional events to promote market Sustainable Event Measurement Tool integrate CSR training responsibility Business Ethics sustainable practices ..No specific events with a focus of promoting .. Create support materials, ..The Painted Picture ..Create simpler products and integrate into client sustainable events were organized by MCI offices including training, to Sustainability Services proposals. Each MCI office trained to deliver ..CSR product packages developed and released, deliver MCI CSR packages training resources basic sustainable event practices including basic and advanced products ..MCI CSR Policy ..Implement full office measurement system ..26 of 44 offices completed ..Develop training and 9 Encourage the P23-25, development and diffusion ..MCI Supplier Code ..Integrate CO2 emissions calculation measurement template 29-31 deliver webinar on of environmentally of Conduct options in registration pages for events ..CO2 calculations offered for use of measurement friendly technologies ..MCI Code of ..Take learnings to help lead international selected client events only and reporting and ..Event waste statistics for 5 separate events MeetGreen calculator Business Ethics ..The Painted Picture improvement in waste management practices. Share results from GMIC Trash Challenge were tracked and uploaded for review in GMIC .. Increase number database of offices reporting Sustainability Services impacts from 26 to 35 training resources ..MCI Code of ..Include in orientation programme ..Code of Business Ethics included ..Create training and 10 Businesses should P23-25, 27 work against all forms Business Ethics for new MCI staff in new hire orientation conduct company of corruption, including ..Document issues from rollout to ..No issues recorded during new webinar in collaboration new hire orientation sessions hire training sessions with MCI institute: extortion and bribery. Business Ethics at MCI 46 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Introduction and Summary Managing Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Additional Disclosures Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index This report has been prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines. GRI provides the most widely used framework for non-financial reporting in the world. It provides structure, guidance and performance indicators that improve reporting and allow readers to better compare corporate sustainability performance. The index shows which indicators have been reported on and where to find more detail in the document. Read more about CSR www.mci-group.com/csr 47 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Fully reported Partially reported Not covered Application Level C GRI G3.1 Disclosure Profile Description Level Cross-reference/Direct answer Section Disclosure Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. P4 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. P16 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. P14 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. P14 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and P14. More detailed information is published in the MCI joint ventures. Annual Report P11 MCI Annual Report 2010 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. P14 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations P14. We deem all countries relevant to our sustainability or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. strategy 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. P14. More information is published in the MCI Annual Report P24 MCI Annual Report 2010 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). P14. More information is published in the MCI Annual Report P25 MCI Annual Report 2010 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. P14: In 2010 MCI operated in 45 countries with 957 staff. Turnover was CHF271Million with a gross margin of CHF107Million and an EBT of CHF5Million. Total assets were CHF147Million, with total liabilities of CHF114Million and total equity of CHF33Million 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Not covered as included in MCI Annual Report P22 MCI Annual Report 2010 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Sustainability awards covered on P6. Other awards detailed on P38 MCI Annual Report MCI Annual Report 2010 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. P5 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). P5 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) P5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. P5 48 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index continued Fully reported Partially reported Not covered GRI G3.1 Disclosure Profile Description Level Cross-reference/Direct answer Section Disclosure Report Parameters 3.5 Process for defining report content. The scope (p5) and the issues covered in our sustainability continued report were selected based on the GRI G3 guidelines, the GRI boundary protocol, stakeholder input, and on-going trend analysis. Key material issues are listed on P16 and take into account the potential impact on our business and the importance to various stakeholders as identified by MCI Management Board during a workshop session in March, the report prioritizes topics based on findings from this group. During this same session the group engaged in a brainstorming session to identify and prioritize stakeholders Through over 60 meetings and online dialog with these stakeholders (P15) we validated our approach and developed the report to focus on proving information for 5 key stakeholders: Our talent, Suppliers, Clients, the Meetings Industry and the Community where we operate. Our strategy focuses on how MCI can minimizing the risks and maximising the opportunities presented by sustainability not only in our internal business operations but also by providing solutions and benefits to our clients, the meetings industry and the community (P18). 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). P5 See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for P5 explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other P5 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons There are no restatements for such re-statement (e.g. Mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods P5 applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. P47 Governance, Commitments, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body P18 Management and scope of sustainability. More detail and Engagement responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. on MCIs Leadership on P28 of MCI Annual Report. MCI Annual Report 2010 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. The highest governance body is the advisory board chaired by MCI President Roger Tondeur. The next level is the MCI executive board chaired by the CEO Sebastien Tondeur. As MCI is a private company we currently do not see the need for an non-executive chairman of the advisory board. Please see P28 of the MCI Annual report for more information. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the P18 Management and scope of sustainability. More detail highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. on MCIs Leadership on P28 of MCI Annual Report. MCI Annual Report 2010 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest P15 Assess explains process for providing input on governance body. sustainability Strategy. MCI has a very open management style. All staff are encouraged to provide direct and open feedback to any of the management team. 49 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index continued Fully reported Partially reported Not covered GRI G3.1 Disclosure Profile Description Level Cross-reference/Direct answer Section Disclosure Governance, Commitments, 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. P16 and Engagement continued 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. The MCI approach to sustainability and stakeholder engagement is being developed based on the three main principles of the AA1000 APS standard: inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. Inclusivity tests MCIs commitment to be accountable to those on whom it has an impact or who have an impact on it. Materiality refers to MCIs ability to identify and focus action on the issues of most relevance both to the firm and its stakeholders. Responsiveness tests MCIs commitment to take action on the issues raised by stakeholders and communicate this to stakeholders. MCI Management Board during a workshop session in March group engaged in a brainstorming session to identify and prioritize stakeholders Through over 60 meetings and online dialog with these stakeholders (P15) we validated our approach and developed the report to focus on proving information for 5 key stakeholders: Our talent, Suppliers, Clients, the Meetings Industry and the Community where we operate 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder On P16 we identify the 5 stakeholder groups we feel our group. priority at this stage of our sustainability program. We engaged with stakeholders via direct workshops, industry seminar programs and our participation in conferences about sustainability. Our sustainability team have had over 100 contacts points with stakeholders around the world where parts or all of the sustainability strategy have been shared, discussed and worked on. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the P15-19 detail how input has been used to improve organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Sustainability Strategy. Our Progress section 21 to 41 highlights actions and results based on this input. Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee P9, 14. More financial information on P24 of the MCI compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Annual Report providers and governments. MCI Annual Report 2010 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. No significant government assistant was received Environmental Materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. P9. MCI does not produce energy in its offices. Company car impacts are not included in this years report. Planned for 2012. 50 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index GRI G3.1 Disclosure Profile Description Level Cross-reference/Direct answer Section Disclosure Environmental continued EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. P9. MCI consumed 117990Kvh or 424764 MJ of indirect energy. 160000Kvh or 5% of our electricity (in the Berlin & Scandinavia offices) is intentionally purchased from providers who sell a “green” electricity option using a high percentage of renewables in their mix (exact details unknown at this moment) EN8 Total water withdrawal by source, mitigation initiatives and improvement results. P9 details water usage. Mitigation initiatives are included as part of Sustainable office guidelines. Implementation results not currently monitored. Will be improved 2012. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. The GHG protocol was used to measure carbon emissions. Details on P7,9. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. The GHG protocol was used to measure carbon emissions. Details on P7,9. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. P23-24, 29-33 summarizes Sustainable Event Inititiaves and impact of select projects. Focus is on mainstreaming processes in 2011 to 2013, and improving measurement of impact mitigation. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with There were no fines in reporting period environmental laws and regulations. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. P9,15. Group contribution was €115000. 80% is for employee wages to fund 2 staff members, who focus on education and development of management systems. Labour LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. P27 details contract type and gender split. 76% of total MCI staff are in Europe. Of those, 63% are women. Of the remaining 24% of staff located in Asia and the rest of the world, 65% are women. Across all regions, 79% of staff are permanent FTEs. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. P27. In 2010 Total staff increased from 790 to 957. Average Staff turnover is 12.5% and is uniform across globe. There were 218 permanent recruits and a turnover of 126 permanent staff. For non permanent staff we hired 240 talents, and 154 left the company. Average employment is 4.4 years in Europe and 2.5years in Asia. Average employment is 3.47years for women and 4 years for men. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. P10,27. Data on gender not yet specified as majority (65%) of our staff our women. Will review for 2012 report. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. P10,27. Data on gender not yet specified as majority (65%) of our staff our women. Will review for 2012 report LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to P10,27. Minority and age groups not measured yet, as not gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. deemed material at this moment. Will review for 2012. Human Rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. No incidents were registered HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance No incidents were registered mechanisms. 51 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Social SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and 20 offices (44%) implemented community engagement development programmes. programs. Details on P10 & P34-41. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by No contributions were made in reporting period country. SO7 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with No fines were incurred in reporting period laws and regulations. Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety and wellbeing impacts of the event and its products and P26-27 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No incidents were registered concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and No substantiated complaints were registered losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the event and No significant fines were incurred the provision and use of products and services. Sourcing and Legacy EO10 Nature and extent of knowledge transfer of best practice and lessons learned from the event. Draft indicator: P32-33 52 MCI Sustainability Report 2010 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index A huge thank you to all the dedicated and visionary people who have made the change happen that is documented in this report. www.mci-group.com/csr www.lessconversationmoreaction.com
